DRN-4391543
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy Great Lakes Insurance SE declined a claim they made under 
their travel insurance policy. In addition to this, Mr and Mrs C are dissatisfied with the time 
Great Lakes took to progress their claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C purchased a single trip travel insurance policy, covering them for a trip abroad 
between 21 April 2022 and 28 April 2022. The policy provided cover for various pre-
departure and post-departure risks.
Mr and Mrs C have explained that they travelled abroad to pick up a cruise, as planned. But, 
once abroad Mrs C began to feel unwell  and tested positive for Coronavirus. So, the cruise 
company denied them boarding because of the positive test result. Given this, Mr and Mrs C 
were unable to continue their cruise as planned. The cruise company didnt offer them any 
form of refund  so they lost out on the £1,098 they had paid for it.
As Mr and Mrs C couldnt go on their cruise they remained abroad, booking alternative travel 
accommodation and a hire car  and then returned home on the flight originally planned.
On 1 August 2022, after receiving documentation from the cruise company confirming no 
refund was being provided, Mr and Mrs C made a claim under their travel insurance policy, 
for the £1,098 they had lost by not going on the cruise. 
On 2 February 2023 Great Lakes told Mr and Mrs C that their claim was declined. It said that 
Mr and Mrs C had already started their trip when they were denied boarding  as they were 
already abroad. So, cancellation cover didnt apply in this instance. In addition to this, Great 
Lakes said the Covid-19 cover under the policy didnt cover Mr and Mrs C for the curtailment 
of their holiday in this instance.
Mr and Mrs C were unhappy with this decline. Mr and Mrs C said there was specific cover 
under their policy for cutting short a trip because of being unable to continue on a pre-
booked excursion due to Covid-19, and the need to self-isolate. They said this fitted their 
situation perfectly. So, they felt their claim should be covered.
Great Lakes maintained its position on the claim. It did however acknowledge there were 
avoidable delays with the time it had taken to consider Mr and Mrs Cs claim, and it 
apologised for this.
Mr and Mrs C remained dissatisfied with Great Lakes position on the matter. So, they 
referred their complaint to this service for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and considered that Great Lakes should pay 
Mr and Mrs C £100 compensation for the trouble and upset delays in progressing their claim 
had caused them. But our investigator thought Great Lakes had acted fairly in declining 
Mr and Mrs Cs claim. They said the only section of the policy which provided cover for 
issues arising for Covid-19, didnt cover the particular situation Mr and Mrs C had found 
themselves in. So, our investigator said Great Lakes hadnt done anything wrong here.
Neither party responded to our investigators outcome. So, this complaint has been referred 
to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on this case. In this I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending on upholding this complaint, and requiring Great Lakes to 
reassess Mr and Mrs Cs claim, in light of the remaining terms and conditions of the policy  
and pay them £200 compensation.
Ive explained why this is my intended decision below.
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly, and not unreasonably decline it. So, 
Ive thought about whether Great Lakes acted in line with these requirements when it 
declined to settle Mr and Mrs Cs claim. 
Ive also reviewed Mr and Mrs Cs policy documentation  to see what cover it provided. 
Having done so, Im aware Mr and Mrs Cs policy excludes claim arising from Covid-19, 
except for under Section 18: Covid-19 cover. So, Im aware that for Mr and Mrs C to have a 
successful claim, it needs to be covered under that section. No other section is relevant to 
their loss  and Im satisfied this was made clear on the Insurance Product Information 
Document (IPID) sent to Mr and Mrs C when they purchased their policy.
Ive reviewed Section 18: Covid-19 cover. And I can see this explains that it provides cover 
for cancelling or cutting short a trip in certain scenarios. One the listed scenarios is as 
follows:
You are denied boarding on your pre-booked outbound travel due to you contracting 
Covid-19, as certified by a medical practitioner following a medically approved test showing 
a positive result for COVID-19 or having a confirmed temperature above 38 degrees 
Celsius.
Mr and Mrs C were denied boarding by the cruise company because of Covid-19. So, Ive 
thought about whether Great Lakes has acted fairly in noting the above doesnt apply in their 
case. And I dont think it has acted fairly.
The above term says Mr and Mrs C needed to have been denied boarding of their pre-
booked outbound travel. The policy doesnt define what outbound travel is. Given this I think 
it would be fair to read this term in Mr and Mrs Cs favour, with the attempt to board the 
cruise ship, to travel on their cruising holiday, being part of their outbound travel. The sole 
purpose of the trip was to travel on a cruise  and this wasnt realised because of the refusal 
to board them due to Coronavirus  which it seems to me, is what the term is intending to 
cover.
I appreciate Great Lakes may consider that Mr and Mrs C werent on their outbound travel. 
Ive explained why I think it would be fair to say they were, above. But its also important to 
note that my remit is to consider what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. And this 
includes the ability to depart from a strict application of policy terms, where this would lead to 
an unfair result.As above, their sole reason for travelling was for a cruise. And Mr and Mrs C couldnt go on 
their trip as planned, because of Coronavirus. It seems to me that the spirit of this section of 
the policy is to cover where an insured person cant travel on their intended trip due to 
Coronavirus  which is what happened here. So, I think it would be unfair for Great Lakes to 
decline Mr and Mrs Cs claim, simply because they had already had one successful flight, 
before testing positive and being unable to board the ship as planned.
For this reason, I think Great Lakes should reassess Mr and Mrs Cs claim, in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Ive also considered the time taken to progress Mr and Mrs Cs claim. Great Lakes has 
agreed there were unavoidable delays in the claim being progressed. This service asked 
Great Lakes for a timeline of what happened, following the claim being made, in order to see 
what was happening, and when. Great Lakes didnt provide this. So, Ive based my decision 
on the information we do have in this regard.
From the evidence Ive been provided with, Mr and Mrs C made their claim to Great Lakes 
on 1 August 2022. I can see very little action on the claim, until 2 February 2023, when Mr 
and Mrs C were told their claim was declined. This was a six-month period where Mr and 
Mrs C were awaiting a response. And I can appreciate how this would have been distressing 
and inconvenient for them  with the need to chase their claim in January 2023. 
Great Lakes did apologise for this delay. But I think its fair and reasonable for Great Lakes 
to pay Mr and Mrs C compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to them, by 
having to wait for an answer for six months. Ive thought about what a fair and reasonable 
figure in this regard is. And I think it would be fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to pay 
Mr and Mrs C £200 compensation in total. I say this because I think it recognises the 
extended wait time, and Mr and Mrs Cs need to chase for their claim to be progressed.
Mr and Mrs C responded to my provisional decision and confirmed they had nothing further 
to add. Great Lakes didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint.
There hasnt been any further comments or evidence from either party, to alter my findings 
on this complaint, or the reasoning for it. And so, my decision remains the same as that in 
my provisional decision, and for the same reasons.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that Great Lakes Insurance SE should:
Reconsider Mr and Mrs Cs claim, in line with the remaining terms and conditions of 
the policy.
Pay Mr and Mrs C £200 compensation in total, for the distress and inconvenience 
experienced.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman