DRN-3540936
The complaint
Mrs S complained that she got an offer to change her mortgage to a new fixed interest rate 
from Santander UK Plc in February, but when she asked to take up that offer, it said the 
February rate was no longer available. Mrs S wanted Santander to honour its previous offer. 
What happened
Mrs S told us that she was very unhappy Santander wouldnt honour a mortgage interest 
rate offer it had previously made. She wanted us to look into this. 
Santander said Mrs S rang on 10 February 2022, and it had discussed available interest 
rates with her then. But it said the call dropped part way through, and although its agent tried 
to call Mrs S back, the call went to voicemail. It hadnt been able to get back in touch with 
her. 
Santander said no offer was made to Mrs S on 10 February. She didnt call back until 31 
March, and by the time she did that, rates had gone up, reflecting changes in the Bank of 
England base rate. 
Santander sent us recordings of these calls. 
Santander also said Mrs S had previously fixed her interest rate on her mortgage a number 
of times, so she would know to expect a letter which confirmed any offer made. No such 
letter had been sent to her in February 2022. Santander showed us a number of other letters 
that it had previously sent Mrs S to offer her a new mortgage interest deal, and letters 
showing that previous offers had been accepted by her. 
Santander didnt think it had done anything wrong, and it wouldnt offer Mrs S the same rates 
now that she could have had in February.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that when Mrs S spoke 
to Santander on 10 February, she was discussing the options available to her, then the call 
dropped. But importantly, nothing had been agreed with Santander on that call. He noted 
that Santander did try to call back, but didnt get through to Mrs S. 
When Mrs S called some time later, the available mortgage interest rates had changed. 
Because she hadnt reached any agreement with Santander in February, our investigator 
said Santander hadnt done anything wrong by only offering Mrs S its new rates in March. 
Mrs S said she was very disappointed, shed been hoping we would see that Santander 
should have honoured its offer, because she said she was about to take that up when the 
call cut off. Mrs S said it wasnt her fault the call cut off, and she said she had a hearing 
problem which meant she couldnt hear the phone ring. 
Mrs S wanted an ombudsman to consider her complaint, so it was passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
Santander explained to Mrs S when she called at the end of March, that its available 
mortgage interest rates can change on a daily basis. It said that if she had continued with the 
call in February, it could have sent her an offer which would then have been valid for 
fourteen days. But she hadnt got to that stage on the call in February, and those rates were 
no longer available. 
I understand that Mrs S says it wasnt her fault the call cut off, and she wasnt able to hear 
Santander call her back. But I can hear that Mrs S was able to call Santander, so I think she 
could also have called back when the call cut off in February. Santander has also said she 
could have reserved a new mortgage rate online. 
I dont think its Santanders fault that Mrs S didnt get to the stage of receiving a mortgage 
offer in February 2022. And because Mrs S didnt have an offer in place in February, then I 
dont think Santander made a mistake in March, when it offered her the rates available then, 
not the rates it had discussed with her almost two months earlier. 
I know that Mrs S will be disappointed, but because no offer had been made by Santander in 
February, I dont think it has to make those rates available to Mrs S now. And that means I 
dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2022. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman