DRN-3892315
The complaint
Mr H complains that Zopa Bank Limited have unfairly refused to write off a £25,000 loan that 
he says was applied for fraudulently by a third party. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here.
In March 2022 Mr H was in contact with a merchant about investing in cryptocurrency. And 
he provided access to his computer via remote access to this merchant. A loan was 
completed in Mr Hs name with Zopa with the application stating this was for home 
improvements. At the end of March 2022 Mr H contacted Zopa to raise a fraud claim. 
Zopa considered the claim but decided that Mr H should be held liable for the loan. It said it 
assessed the application fairly and received a copy of Mr Hs identification and a video selfie 
during the application on its online verification system. It also sent an e-mail to Mr H to 
confirm the application had been approved. So, it said Mr H was liable for the repayments on 
the loan. 
Mr H remained unhappy so he brought his complaint to this service. Zopa then told this 
service that if Mr H returned the £25,000 it would write off the interest that was due on the 
loan as a gesture of goodwill. 
The investigator thought the complaint should be upheld in part. He said that Mr H was 
aware of the loan and it was received into his bank account. So, he said Zopa hadnt treated 
Mr H unfairly by asking him to repay the £25,000 loan. And that Zopa had fairly agreed to 
waive the interest on the loan. 
Mr H disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said that he was the victim 
of a scam but said Zopa are treating him like a criminal. And that his bank had refunded 50% 
of the money that was taken out with two loan companies (including Zopa). He said Zopa 
shouldve completed more checks on the application before agreeing to the lending. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the reasons set 
out below.
I appreciate that Mr H was asked to download remote access software by the scammers, 
which enabled them to apply for the loan. However, it seems most likely that Mr H was 
aware of the finance being applied for in his name. All of his details had been entered into 
the loan application, including details of his bank account that it was to be paid into. So, Im 
satisfied that he was aware and had likely authorised the third-party scammers to apply for 
the loan on his behalf, albeit under the impression that this was to go towards his 
cryptocurrency investment.
The loan was duly paid into Mr Hs bank account, where it was subsequently transferred to 
the scammers. Therefore, Im satisfied he took receipt of the funds, which were applied for 
on his behalf by an authorised third party and had the benefit of them. As a result, Im 
satisfied he can fairly and reasonably be held liable for repayment of the loan. 
In terms of whether Zopa undertook checks that were reasonable and proportionate, Im 
satisfied they considered aspects such as credit worthiness and affordability, as well as 
completing identity and bank account checks. Overall, Zopa was satisfied with Mr Hs debt to 
income ratio, and Ive seen nothing that would have given Zopa any cause for concerns that 
the loan wouldnt have been affordable (such as defaults or a large amount of other debt). 
So, Im satisfied the checks they carried out were reasonable and proportionate in the 
circumstances.
I also dont think there were any circumstances presented that ought to have led Zopa to 
believe that the loan was being applied for as a result of a scam. The details entered into the 
loan application appear to be accurate, and the loan proceeds were paid into an account in 
Mr Hs name. So, Im not persuaded there was any reasons for Zopa to suspect that he was 
at risk of financial harm, such that they should have carried out further checks.
Putting things right
As a result of the above, I think Zopas offer to waive the interest on the loan if Mr Hs repays 
the capital sum (£25,000) is fair. But Zopa should continue to treat Mr H positively and 
sympathetically in the circumstances here. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding the complaint in part. Zopa Bank Limiteds offer 
to waive the interest applied to the capital sum (£25,000) is fair. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman