DRN-3221408
The complaint
Mr D, represented by his mother Mrs D, has complained about his car insurer Admiral 
Insurance Company Limited because it declined his claim and asked him to pay back its 
costs, taking two years to do so.
What happened
Mr D was in an accident in May 2018. The police attended and had concerns that Mr D 
might be under the influence of drink and/or drugs. Witnesses reported they thought Mr D 
might have fallen asleep at the wheel and Mr D said he had been feeling unwell before he 
drove. At court in January 2019 Mr D was convicted of dangerous driving but his not guilty 
plea on a charge of driving under the influence of drink and/or drugs was accepted. 
In the meantime, shortly after the accident, Admiral had been contacted by Mrs D and she 
became an authorised contact on the policy for Mr D. Both cars involved in the crash, which 
was a head-on collision, were badly damaged. Mrs D has reported that the other driver 
wasnt injured, but the police recorded injuries to the other driver and a claim for personal 
injury was made. There was damage to the roadside furniture too. 
Admiral felt it needed to wait to see how the police dealt with the matter, and what the court 
found. Having assessed all of that, Admiral sent Mr D a letter in April 2019 stating he had 
breached general condition three (GC3) of his policy  his inappropriate conduct had caused 
the crash. It referred to another condition too in respect of driving under the influence. But 
confirmed that the breach of GC3 meant it was declining his claim and removing him from 
the multicar policy. Admiral did not send a copy of this letter to Mrs D.
Admiral wrote to Mr D asking him to sign a form. But it didnt copy that to Mrs D and the form 
wasnt returned. So, Admiral asked the other driver involved in the incident to sign a form 
instead. Both sets of forms essentially authorised Admiral to settle the claims and reclaim its 
outlay directly from Mr D. Admiral then settled the claim from the other driver, but it didnt 
receive and/or didnt chase the claim in respect of the roadside furniture. So, the claim 
remained open.
In October 2019 Mrs D was looking for insurance for Mr D who was then able to drive again. 
She was told by another insurer that this claim was still open. She called Admiral and 
advised she had settled an invoice for reinstating the roadside furniture. Admiral noted that 
meant that all claims arising from the incident had been settled in full, so it closed its file. And 
because the claim had been declined, that generated a request sent to Mr D for repayment 
of its outlay of over £20,000.
Mrs D saw this letter. She contacted Admiral explaining how shocked, disappointed and 
worried she was. She said this was the time that the family should be putting things behind 
them, and there was no way Mr D could afford to repay the costs, which she also disputed. 
Mrs D said Mr D had been involved in an accident and she couldnt understand why Admiral 
would be saying he wasnt covered for that. She said none of the important letters about this 
had been sent to her despite Admiral having accepted she was to be the main point of 
contact. Admiral accepted it should have handled the claim better  essentially that it had 
caused delays by not following up about the roadside furniture earlier, and that it should 
have copied key correspondence to Mrs D. It sent a cheque for £160 compensation. But it 
said that, given the severe damage caused to the cars, there had been no way for it to 
dispute the injury claim made by the other driver. 
Mrs D complained to us and said she hadnt been able to sleep or stop crying. Our 
investigator, having noted the correct policy wording that applied to Mr Ds cover at the time 
of the accident, felt Admirals decline had been fair and reasonable. And whilst he noted its 
service hadnt been good, he felt the compensation it had paid fairly and reasonably made 
up for that. In saying that he explained that we cant take into account Mrs Ds upset, only 
that which Admirals failures caused to Mr D.
Mrs D responded, stating that she still felt the service Admiral had provided had not been 
fair. She said the £160 cheque had been returned to Admiral. So, Mr Ds complaint was then 
passed to me for consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with regret for any upset this will cause Mr D, I dont intend to uphold it. 
I appreciate this has been a difficult time for Mr D, and I understand that getting that 
repayment letter from Admiral in October 2019 came at a point when he thought that difficult 
time was behind him. But I think its decline was fair, and the need for repayment of Admirals 
outlay was a direct and reasonable result of that decline. Ill explain why.
Mrs D is correct, Admiral provided Mr D with a policy which offered protection in the event he 
was involved in or caused an accident. But like all policies it came with terms and conditions, 
And, like all insurers Im aware of, Admiral did not want to offer cover for Mr D for instances 
where his own reckless and/or illegal behaviour caused an accident. So, the Admiral policy 
wording, which applied to Mr D, at the time of the accident, included the condition, GC3 
which says that in the event of inappropriate conduct by the driver causing loss or damage 
during an incident, the policy wont offer any cover to that driver and Admiral will only meet 
its obligations detailed in  the Road Traffic Act. 
It is clear that Admiral had cause for concern early on in the claim  the police were 
investigating whether Mr D had been under the influence of drink and/or drugs whist driving. 
And the police charged Mr D. It seems the police were also informed that Mr D had driven 
whilst knowingly feeling unwell. Admiral applied for a police report but because their 
investigations were ongoing, with a prosecution pending, limited detail was shared. Admiral 
felt it had to wait for the outcome of the prosecution and for receipt of all relevant documents 
from the court. I think that was a reasonable decision  declining the claim for Mr D would 
have serious consequences so Admiral needed to gather details to ensure any decision it 
made had been fairly and reasonably reached. The court came to a judgment in 
January 2019, and Admiral had received all the details it required by mid-April 2019. It wrote 
to Mr D shortly thereafter advising it was declining the claim. I dont think Admiral could 
reasonably have acted any quicker.
Because the claim was declined on the policy, Admirals act of settling the claims resulted 
only from the duty placed upon it by the Road Traffic Act. Strictly speaking the Act requires a 
court judgment in respect of claims to have been issued for the insurer to then re-claim costs 
from the policyholder/driver. But, in practice, most insurers will look to getting agreement 
from the parties allowing it to proceed. Consent from either Mr D or the other driver would 
have allowed Admiral to do this, and I see the other driver agreed. Essentially that means he relinquished his right to claim directly against Mr D, whilst allowing Admiral to do so instead, 
in return for Admiral settling his claim. Theres nothing wrong in that, and if Mr D had signed 
the form he had been sent  that would have also allowed Admiral to look to him for 
repayment of its outlay.
So, unfortunately for Mr D, Admiral was within its right to decline his claim and then ask him 
to refund it all the costs it had paid out in settling the other drivers claim. I know Mrs D has 
questioned the amount of these costs incurred by Admiral as she believes the other driver 
wasnt injured. But I think Admirals explanation in its final response letter has merit. In short, 
this was a serious accident and there was evidence of injury to the other driver, so it had no 
prospect for successfully challenging any claim made by the other driver, more so given 
Mr Ds conviction of dangerous driving at the time. 
I think it may have helped Mr D during all of this if the key correspondence sent to him had 
also been copied to Mrs D. And I appreciate that the timing of Mr D learning how much he 
would have to repay Admiral caused him additional upset. If Admiral had followed up on the 
roadside furniture issue earlier, Mr D would have been asked for re-payment about six 
months earlier than he was (around May instead of late October 2019). But being asked to 
repay that type of sum would always have been a shock for him and a cause for worry. The 
additional and avoidable upset Admiral caused him was because it hadnt managed his 
expectations about what would happen and its delays meant Mr D had thought he had 
reached a point where the incident could be put behind him. Sadly that wasnt the case. But 
I think the £160 compensation offered by Admiral was fair and reasonable for the upset it 
caused Mr D. As our investigator explained, the worry caused to Mrs D cant be taken into 
account as shes not the consumer against who Admiral is claiming. If Mr D wants Admiral to 
pay this sum, he, or Mrs D, should contact it so a new cheque can be issued or payment by 
an alternate method can be arranged.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman