DRN-2336735
The complaint
Mr B has complained about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company (LV). He isnt happy that 
it settled a fault claim against his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
I originally considered this case and set out my initial thoughts in my provisional decision as 
follows;  
Mr B was contacted by the police and his insurer as another driver said he had reversed into 
his car in a car park and driven off. Mr B initially said that he wasnt sure whether he was in 
the car park before realising that he was, but he said that he hadnt hit the other car.
LV asked Mr B about what had happened over the phone when it was notified about the 
accident, but he asked them to email which meant things were delayed. But as the other 
drivers costs were mounting (as he was in a hire car) LV settled the claim. It said that as 
there was a witness to the incident and there was clearly damage to the other drivers car it 
didnt feel it could dispute liability. So, Mr B complained to this service. 
Our investigator looked into things for him and upheld his complaint. He thought that LV 
hadnt done a thorough enough investigation into the circumstances surrounding the claim 
and upheld the complaint. He pointed out that the witness didnt actually see the accident, 
they just heard it, and that the attending engineer didnt identify any damage to Mr Bs car 
that would show he hit the other drivers car.
As LV didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What I provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Im currently minded to 
partly uphold the complaint. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr B, but Ill explain 
why. And I must highlight that this is my provisional view which is subject to change 
depending on any representations that I receive.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision and focus on Mr Bs key 
concern, the issue of liability. 
Under the policy terms LV has the right to take over the settlement of any claim. So, it has 
the right to decide whether to take a third party to court or settle a claim. And legal 
proceedings are time-consuming, expensive and the outcome can be uncertain. As such, it 
isnt always commercially sensible to take a third party to court.
It isnt the role of this service to decide liability, as that is a matter for the courts. But our 
general approach is to look to ensure insurers act fairly. We expect them to make a 
reasonable assessment, based on a clear understanding of the evidence and the 
circumstances of the accident. 
So, Ive carefully looked at how LV  handled Mr Bs claim. And Im satisfied it carried out a 
reasonable investigation in the circumstances although I agree it couldve been more 
thorough. I say this as it couldve been more proactive in inspecting the other drivers car 
and ensuring all damage claimed for was attributed to this claim. However, I must highlight 
that the payment for damage caused to the other car was relatively low.
Turning to the evidence that was available, I can see that a witness heard the coming 
together of Mr Bs car and the other car. It is possible that they were mistaken but I think the 
witness was clearly satisfied that there was an accident, as they witnessed the immediate 
aftermath, and that Mr B drove off. I say this as they went to the trouble of leaving a note for 
the other driver and there is no suggestion that they are anything but independent. And Mr B 
initially said he wasnt in the car park before agreeing that he was following contact from LV 
and the police.
Furthermore, and importantly in this case, Mr B was hesitant about whether he couldve hit 
the other car without realising and said he wasnt prepared to attend court as a witness. I 
think this meant that it would be difficult for LV to defend Mr B as it couldnt go to court in 
order to defend him. And although the engineer was inconclusive about an impact between 
Mr Bs car and the third partys we often see damage to one vehicle with little evidence of 
damage to the other. 
Given all of this Im satisfied that LV carried out a reasonable investigation into the claim. It 
took account of the available evidence. It noted the third party had an independent witness 
who saw events just after the accident and that Mr B wasnt prepared to attend court which 
limited its ability to defend Mr B. As such, I consider it would be difficult for LV to fully defend 
Mr B and I think it acted reasonably in settling the third partys small claim costs. 
However, I think that LV couldve provided Mr B with a better service. I say this as its 
investigation into the circumstances surrounding the accident couldve been more thorough 
and robust, as discussed above. And it led Mr B to believe it would reconsider its position 
when it received the engineers advice when its mind was clearly made up which meant Mr B 
was given false hope and expectation. 
So Im currently minded to ask LV to pay Mr B £100 compensation for the stress and 
inconvenience its poor service caused Mr B.
Replies
 
LV acknowledged the provisional decision while Mr B provided a detailed response. In the 
main he reiterated the same points and issues that he had raised previously.
Mr B said again that LV didnt investigate the claim fully before deciding liability and 
maintained that he didnt reverse into the third party. And repeated that he had always 
maintained this. Mr S said that he didnt delay any aspect of the claim and just looked for LV 
to email about the alleged incident as he suspected a scam of some nature.
Ultimately, Mr B believed that this was a deliberate false claim and that LV didnt undertake a 
reasonable investigation and maintained that  the witness only heard the impact; the 
witness didnt provide their details to the police just the insurer; LV inspected his car after the 
claim was settled; and LV said that the amount involved was too little to be disputed.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having gone through everything again and considered Mr Bs further representations, and 
despite my natural sympathy for Mr B, Im not upholding this complaint. 
I can understand Mr Bs frustration as he was at the scene and feels that it there was any 
impact it was minimal, and this seems likely. But it isnt the role of this service to decide 
liability. And, ultimately, as Mr B wasnt prepared to go to court I cant say that LV has done 
anything wrong in deciding, on balance, that there was a coming together of the cars.  
I say this as the only independent evidence clearly suggests that Mr B hit the third-party car. 
I know Mr B feels they didnt give their details to the police, but they just left their details at 
the scene and it was the third party who advanced things with the police and their insurer as 
Mr B didnt stop. Mr B also accepts that he was in the car park and undertook a reversing 
manoeuvre as the witness described. And as Mr B isnt prepared to attend court in order that 
LV can defend him Im not sure what else it could do, and I dont think it acted unreasonably 
in looking to limit its costs in circumstances like this. 
That said, and as Ive already outlined, I do think LV couldve provided Mr B with a better 
service. Its investigation into the circumstances surrounding the incident could have been 
more thorough and robust. This led Mr B to believe it would reconsider its position when it 
received the engineers evidence when its mind was clearly made up as it didnt think it could 
defend Mr B, especially as he wasnt prepared to go to court. I think this led Mr B to believe 
that it would change its stance when it was already satisfied that it couldnt defend him. So I 
think that Mr B should be awarded £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
I also agree that there could be damage sustained to the third-party car that wasnt caused 
by Mr B on the day in question. But given the low-level costs of the claim I dont think this 
has made a difference or affected Mr B so Im not making any further award for that.
 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I partly uphold this complaint and ask Liverpool 
Victoria Insurance Company to pay Mr B £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman