DRN-2390863
The complaint
Mr L complained that his savings account was blocked by Santander UK Plc (Santander)
What happened
On 17 August 2020, Mr L wanted to make a transfer of £8,000 from his savings account so 
that he could give this money to a friend to invest on his behalf, and to buy a car. Santander 
had concerns that the transaction could have been a scam and blocked the account. 
Transfers were not allowed until the account was unblocked on 26 August 2020.
Mr L says complained that he was unable to make the investment, and he missed out on an 
opportunity to make profits. He was unable to buy the car, which was needed for him to carry 
out his work. And he couldnt use his accounts for daily living expenses.
Santander responded and said that it followed its security procedures in blocking the 
transfer. They apologised for the time it took to unblock Mr Ls account and paid 
compensation of £50 for the delay.
Mr L brought his complaint to this service, where our investigator looked at it. He said that 
Santander were within their rights to block the account as they had concerns that the 
transfer related to a scam. This was because Mr L said that the transfer was for an 
investment suggested by a friend. Also, the type of investment was popular with fraudsters. 
The investigator said that the next day, Mr L called Santander again and said that the 
payment was for a car. This was then referred to a fraud investigator and the account was 
unblocked on 26 August 2020. Santander had told Mr L that he could still use his cards for 
purchases.
Mr L was still unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander were within their rights to not make the transfer. Its terms and conditions state 
6.6 We can refuse any Payment Instruction, if.we reasonably suspect it relates to fraud or 
any other criminal act.
I have listened to the calls. In the call on 17 August 2020, Mr L said that the money was 
needed for an investment to be made through a friend. It was to be invested into 
cryptocurrency. When asked about the friend, Mr L said I kind of know him. He said he had 
invested £500 in this way in the past but hadnt had the money returned yet. Mr L said he 
couldve lied and said it was for a car. Santander said they werent happy and believed that 
this could be a scam and therefore blocked the savings account. 
Mr L called Santander the next day and said hed made up the story about the investment 
and the money was for a car. After some further questions, they said that they would 
recommend the account was unblocked but this needed to be agreed by a fraud investigator. 
This took until 26 August 2020. In view of this delay, Santander paid compensation of £50, 
which I think is fair. 
I can see why Santander suspected the transaction could have been a scam, based on what 
Mr L told them in the first call. Its important to say that security procedures in place are there 
to protect customers  it wasnt that Santander didnt believe Mr L. But the information he 
gave them meant they were concerned that he might have been the victim of a scam.
In his response to the investigator, Mr L said that he had lost money by not making the 
investment. But I dont think itd be fair for me to say that Santander should be liable for that. 
They were entitled to block the account as they did and ask for extra information. It was only 
after they fully investigated the matter that they removed the block  which, while 
inconvenient for Mr L  was done with protecting him as a customer in mind. I realise that 
Mr L wont see things this way  but impartially, I think Santander has acted fairly here.
Mr L says that he couldnt use his accounts for normal purposes as a result of the block. But 
Santander told him that his cards could be used. I have looked at his bank statements for the 
period and these show cash withdrawals, debit card and Apple pay transactions being made 
on both of his current accounts.  One account had an overdraft facility of £500 and the other 
had reasonable credit balances. So, this would suggest that Mr L was not inconvenienced.
So, I do not think that Santander need to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman