DRN-3687266
The complaint
Mr U complains that Santander UK Plc unfairly declined a claim made under section 75 of 
the Customer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
In October 2019, Mr U submitted a legal case into court using their online claim service. He 
says his case was sent to the wrong court and they failed to adhere to Practice Direction 1A 
of the Civil Procedure Rules (CPR). Because of this, in November 2021, Mr U raised a 
claim to Santander under section 75 for breach of contract and misrepresentation.
Santander didnt think a claim could be raised against a court. And in any event, it wasnt 
satisfied Mr U had evidenced a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. So it declined the 
claim.
Mr U wasnt happy. He says the online claim service is a separate entity to the court itself. 
Hes provided their user guide and quoted from the CPR to evidence his claim. He raised a 
complaint about this; and was unhappy with how it was handled.
Mr U brought his complaint to our service, but our investigator didnt uphold it. She was 
persuaded that the online claims service wasnt the court itself, but she didnt think Mr U had 
evidenced his claim for breach of contract and misrepresentation. So she didnt think 
Santander had been unfair in its decision to decline it.
As Mr U didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me and I issued a provisional decision.
My provisional decision
Section 75 claim
Section 75 of the CCA says that, in certain circumstances, a borrower under a credit 
agreement has an equal right to claim against the credit provider if there's either a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services.
Its not in dispute that Mr U paid the court fees using his Santander credit card, so hes a 
borrower under a credit agreement as required by the CCA. But what remains in question is 
whether Mr U entered into a contract with the online claim service for the supply of goods or 
services, and if he did, was there a breach of contract or misrepresentation.
So Ive thought about whether theres a contract for goods or services in place. Just because 
Mr U made a payment, it doesnt automatically mean he entered into a supply contract with 
the court or the online claim service.
Case law supports the view that certain relationships and arrangements are not considered 
contracts by law, such as those which are considered statutory relationships, even if Mr U 
paid for the receipt of goods or services1. These scenarios include those where Mr U has a 
right to access certain services and the supplier is under an obligation to provide them, such 
as access to and the provision of the Court process. This means that Mr U did not enter into 
any contract with the Court or the online claims service. Therefore, there can be no breach 
of a non-existent contract or any misrepresentation of one.
Mr U argues he entered into a contract with the online claims service who are a separate 
entity to the court. Im not persuaded its a separate entity that supplies goods or services in 
its own capacity, nor am I persuaded Mr U entered into any contract with them for the 
reasons outlined above. I say this because its an online portal service provided by the Court 
as a way of accessing the Court process. Ultimately, its an alternative to filling out forms and 
posting them to the Court.
For these reasons, I dont think Santander acted unfairly in declining Mr Us claim under 
Section 75.
Delays and complaint handling
Mr U is unhappy with the length of time its taken for Santander to respond to him, in 
particular to his appeal of the complaint outcome. And he doesnt believe it followed the 
correct complaints procedure.
I can see that Mr U made his claim on 16 November 2021. Santander requested further 
evidence and subsequently declined the claim over the phone on 17 December 2021. Mr U 
told Santander he was unhappy and asked to raise a complaint. He was told hed be sent 
the paperwork to log a complaint.
Mr U was later advised by phone on 24 December 2021 that his complaint hadnt been 
upheld. And this was followed up in writing with his referral rights to our service. Hes 
concerned that he didnt receive the paperwork or have the opportunity to make his 
submissions before a final response was issued.
I can appreciate why Mr U would feel that way if hed been told he was going to receive 
paperwork and he didnt. But Santander called him to discuss the complaint outcome, so Im 
satisfied Mr U had the opportunity to raise any submissions he wanted to make during that 
conversation.
I understand Mr U responded to the complaint outcome and hes unhappy with the length of 
time Santander took to come back to him. But Santanders correspondence of 24 December 
2021 was its final response to the complaint, and it had been clear that should he remain 
unhappy, his next step was to contact our service. So Im satisfied Santander had been clear 
that this was the end of its process.
Summary
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im satisfied Santanders decision to decline Mr Us 
section 75 claim was correct and fair. And Ive seen no evidence of delays to the handling of 
his claim or complaint.
1 Pfizer Corp v Ministry of Health [1965] A.C. 512 at 535536.Responses to my provisional decision
Mr U has raised several points on why he disagrees with my decision. I dont intend to list 
them all, but I consider the key points to be as follows:
The case law Ive relied on is old and possibly outdated. And it doesnt appear to 
relate to consumer rights law, such as the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA).
He has a regulated debtor-creditor agreement as defined in section 13 of the CCA.
There is a regulated debtor-creditor-supplier relationship defined under section 12 
of the CCA, as the online claim service is the supplier of a service.
The online claim service is a government department activity thereby confirming its 
status as a business defined under the CRA and CCA, which both state that a 
business includes the activities of any government department or local or public 
authority. 
The Crown Proceedings Act 1947 confirms that even the Crown is bound by statutory 
duties and can be sued in respect of a failure to comply with those duties.
Santander failed to inform him in advance that a payment to this supplier wouldnt be 
protected by section 75 of the CCA (if that is the case). 
I havent considered the applicable period of time in which the delay took place. This 
complaint was reopened in January 2022 and Santander took over eight weeks to 
respond to his appeal.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr U has raised a number of points regarding his complaint and whilst I may not have 
mentioned them all, I want to reassure him that Ive read and considered everything hes 
sent us. But I dont intend to respond to every point individually, or possibly in the level of 
detail he would like. This isnt meant as a discourtesy, but it simply reflects the informal 
nature of our service.
Section 75 claim
Section 75 of the CCA says it only applies to debtor-creditor-supplier agreements falling 
within section 12(b) or (c). So whilst I acknowledge the comments Mr U has made regarding 
section 13, I dont consider them to be relevant to Santanders liability under section 75. 
Its not in dispute that Mr U has a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement within the meaning of 
section 12. I cant see that Mr U and Santander have disagreed over this relationship and 
that the required agreement is in place, so I dont need to make a finding on it. 
But section 75 says Mr U can only claim against Santander for a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation of that contract. And Im not persuaded his relationship with the Courts, or 
its online service, constitutes a contract  rather, that it was a statutory relationship. The provisions of the CRA would only be a consideration if this was a contract for goods or 
services. And whilst Mr U may disagree, I dont think there is one here.
I agree that it is perfectly possible for a consumer to enter into a contract with a local 
authority or government department or agent. But in Mr Us specific case, that isnt whats 
happened. Im not saying he doesnt have any right to make a claim against them or sue the 
Court directly as he has suggested, just that I dont consider Santander has any liability to 
him under section 75.
Mr U says that Santander shouldve told him in advance that this transaction wasnt 
protected by section 75 if this was the case. But I dont think they were required to make him 
aware of this. And I havent seen anything to suggest that he contacted Santander prior to 
making the payment to raise this enquiry. So Im not persuaded it needed to have done more 
here.
Delays and complaint handling
I understand Mr U believes I havent considered the relevant period of time in which 
Santander caused delays. He says he asked that his complaint be reopened in January 
2022. And he didnt receive the appeal decision until April 2022.
But Santander issued its final response to Mr Us complaint in December 2021. This 
represented the end of Santanders complaint process. And as I explained in my provisional 
decision, the letter advises Mr U that his next step is to contact our service should he remain 
unhappy. It didnt offer an appeal process.
So whilst I acknowledge that Santander took some time to come back to Mr U, it had already 
issued its final response to the complaint within the eight week time frame set by the 
financial regulators  the Financial Conduct Authority. So it wasnt required to deal with a 
further appeal and there is no time requirement in which it must do so.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman