DRN-3301091
The complaint
Mr A and Ms L complain that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. hasnt refunded the premiums they paid for an annual travel insurance 
policy.
As Ms L brought the complaint, Ill refer mainly to her throughout this decision.
What happened
On 8 March 2020, Ms L took out an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy through a 
broker. The policy was underwritten by Mapfre and provided cover between 8 March 2020 
and 7 March 2021. Ms L paid £135.93 for the policy, which included cover for a number of 
medical conditions. Ms L planned to travel abroad in May 2020.
However, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Ms L wasnt able to travel as planned. She said 
that her travel providers rebooked her travel plans for February 2021. Mapfres notes show 
that Ms L told it about the change in dates and that itd confirmed that the existing annual 
policy would cover the new trip dates. As further restrictions remained in place though in late 
2020, Ms L still wasnt able to travel. 
So in February 2021, Ms L contacted Mapfre to ask whether it would pay her a refund of 
premium as she hadnt been able to travel. Mapfre offered Ms L a pro-rata premium refund 
of £11.17 which represented the unused portion of the policy from 15 February 2021 until the 
policy end date. 
Ms L was unhappy with the pro-rata refund shed been offered and she asked us to look into 
her complaint.
Our adjudicator set out the details of the relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in 
the circumstances of this case. He also explained that it is a fundamental principle of 
insurance law that if the insurer had started to bear risk  for however short a time  the 
premium paid is not returnable. That means its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any 
premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. And he explained that Covid-19 
didnt make it impossible for the contract of insurance to be performed because cover under 
the policy started on 8 March 2020 and the policy covered various risks during that time. 
The adjudicator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
He thought that Mapfres offer to pay Ms L a pro-rata refund of her premium was a fair and 
reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms L disagreed. She said that another travel insurer had paid her a significantly higher 
premium refund. And she said that Mapfre hadnt got in touch with its policyholders to let 
them know about the option to cancel their policy and get a refund. Shed only become 
aware of the possibility after obtaining a refund from the other travel insurer.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr A and Ms L, I think Mapfre has treated 
them fairly and Ill explain why.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. The policy 
terms and conditions say:
if you have not travelled or made a claim and you wish to cancel the policy within 14
days of receiving your policy documentation a full refund will be given. If you cancel
after 14 days of receipt of your policy documents no premium refund will be made.
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling-off period and so there is no requirement under 
the relevant industry rules and guidelines for Mapfre to offer a refund of premium. 
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that Mapfre doesnt have to pay any 
refund of a policyholders premium after the cooling-off period has ended. In this case, Ms 
Ls cooling-off period ended on 22 March 2020. But it doesnt look as though Ms L asked for 
a refund until broadly 15 February 2021. So the cancellation was clearly significantly outside 
of the 14-day cooling-off period. This means I dont think the terms and conditions of Ms Ls 
contract with Mapfre entitle her to any refund of premiums.
But Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint 
(as Im required to do) including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding 
Covid-19. In the circumstances of this case, I think Mapfres offer of a pro-rata refund for the 
unused portion of Ms Ls policy is fair. And given Mapfres records suggest that Ms L didnt 
get in touch with it until 15 February 2021 to request a refund (although it seems she may 
have looked-into making a claim on the policy in November 2020), I think its fair that the 
date it seems Ms L requested a refund is used to calculate the refund on the facts of this 
case 
Mapfre wouldve been on-risk for the core policy for a 365-day period if the policy hadnt 
been cancelled. The refund represents the remaining, unused 18 days of cover, after the 
policy was cancelled, as Mapfre was no longer carrying any further risk of Ms L making a 
claim after that point. 
Ive thought about what Ms L has said about being unable to travel for the duration of the 
policy year, as many travel restrictions remained in place. But it is a fundamental principle of 
insurance law, that as Mapfre had borne risk  for however short a time  the premium paid 
is not returnable. Ms L had the benefit of the policy between March 2020 and February 2021. 
And it seems that for some months of that time, Mapfre was covering the risk of Ms Ls 
rescheduled holiday which was due to take place in February 2021. So its not unreasonable 
for Mapfre to keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. That means I 
think its fair for Mapfre to calculate the pro-rata refund from 15 February 2021.
Its clear Ms L feels strongly that Mapfre ought to have let its policyholders know that there 
was an option to cancel their policies and obtain a refund. Its important I make it clear that 
we have no power to tell a financial business how to operate its business or what 
commercial decisions it should make. Thats because were not the industry regulator. And 
while I appreciate Ms L says that she and Mr A received a higher level of refund from 
another travel insurer, that was a commercial decision which that particular insurer was entitled to make, although Id add that it isnt clear on what basis such a refund was 
calculated or what type of policy this was. In any event, Mapfre isnt obliged to follow the 
actions of third party insurers. So I cant fairly direct Mapfre to pay a higher refund on this 
basis.
Overall, I find that Mapfres previous offer to pay Ms L and Mr A a pro-rata refund of 
premium of £11.17 is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. This means Im not 
directing it to do anything more. Its now open to Ms L and Mr A to get in touch with Mapfre if 
theyd like to accept this offer and to provide the bank details Mapfre previously requested so 
settlement can be made.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that Mapfre has already made a fair 
offer to settle Mr A and Ms Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Ms L to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman