DRN-3169068
The complaint
Mr W complains Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money acted unfairly when it said he 
would need a mobile phone in order to access his online banking. Hes also unhappy with 
the way Virgin Money handled his complaint, and how that made him feel.
What happened
Mr W had a number of accounts with Virgin Money which he used to manage online, 
including several ISA products, a savings account and a credit card account. Hes hearing 
impaired and doesnt own or use a mobile or a landline. Mr W is in his early seventies.
In July 2019 Virgin Money emailed Mr W to say that new regulations affecting the whole of 
the banking sector were going to be coming into effect on 14 September 2019. Virgin Money 
said that these regulations  known as strong customer authentication  were designed to 
prevent fraud and increase the security of online banking and payments. 
In August 2019 Virgin Money emailed Mr W again to say that because of the new regulations 
that were coming in it needed an up- to- date mobile phone number for him as he wouldnt 
be able to access his accounts online if it didnt have one. Virgin Money said that it would be 
using his mobile number as an additional level of security. Virgin Money said that it would 
send a six-digit passcode to him when he attempted to sign in, and that it would be 
introducing this change  and others  shortly before the 14 September date. Virgin Money 
said that if Mr W tried to sign in online without giving them an up-to-date mobile number 
theyd ask him to call them before he could get into his account. Virgin Money said that if he 
didnt have a mobile  or cant use one  hed be able to manage his account and get up-to-
date account and product information over the phone.
Mr W emailed Virgin Money saying that solutions dependant on a mobile phone or talking on 
the phone werent suitable for him as he was hearing impaired.
Virgin Money investigated the issues raised in Mr Ws email and said that it needed to do 
additional security checks because of the new regulations, and that it needed mobile phone 
numbers from all of its customers who hold online accounts to enable it to send a secure 
one-time passcode (OTP). Virgin Money said that if this was something Mr W couldnt 
provide then it could service his account over the phone. Virgin Money said it appreciated 
this would not be a suitable way to communicate for Mr W  given that he was hearing 
impaired  but those were the currently the only two options available to him. Virgin Money 
said that it could help Mr W to switch to an account that wasnt online  such as a postal 
based account  or he could buy himself a mobile phone so he could receive OTPs or it 
could send OTPs to a trusted family members mobile phone. Virgin Money said that it 
understood Mr W might not see any value in owning a mobile phone, but to be able to 
continue banking online it did feel that this was the best way forward. 
Mr W said he appreciated Virgin Money was trying to be helpful, but that he felt its approach 
to strong customer authentication discriminated against impaired hearing customers as it 
seemed to be relying solely on the telephone for additional security checks. He said this 
seemed so wrong in this day and age that he spoke to the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) who he says told him the new regulations do not limit, or require that, mobile phones 
or phones are the only way in which the rules can or should be addressed. He asked for his 
concerns to be treated as a formal complaint.
Virgin Money investigated Mr Ws complaint.  Having done so, Virgin Money said Mr W could 
call its contact centre whenever he needed an OTP  and at the same time apologised if this 
wasnt satisfactory. Virgin Money said it was working on alternatives to a mobile phone 
number, but alternatives were likely to be implemented after the regulations had changed. 
Virgin Money also offered to help Mr W close his accounts if thats what he wanted or to help 
him find a more suitable account.
Mr W complained to us saying he was registered with Virgin Money as having impaired 
hearing and as someone who doesnt use the phone. Mr W told us that its humiliating 
enough to have to admit shortcomings, and that its unreasonable, and seemingly at odds 
with the regulations, that someone like him should have to ask a family member to act as an 
intermediary for their day to day banking activities. He was also unhappy that Virgin Money 
had given no timescale for when it would be coming up with alternatives. Virgin Money 
subsequently introduced the need for additional security checks for Mr Ws credit card which 
he asked to be added to his complaint. Virgin Money subsequently emailed Mr W to say that 
he could use its mobile app to help with authentication.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ws complaint and agreed that Virgin Money hadnt 
acted fairly. Our investigator said that Virgin Money should have offered Mr W alternative 
ways of authenticating himself that didnt rely on using a phone and that the other 
alternatives it had offered were either alternatives to online banking rather than alternative 
ways of authenticating or were unfair. Our investigator also thought that Virgin Money had 
been insensitive when it suggested he might use telephone banking if he didnt own a mobile 
phone  given that Virgin Money knew he was hearing impaired  and when it repeatedly 
sent generic correspondence to him suggesting he call them if he wanted to, for example, 
discuss his complaint. So, they recommended that Virgin Money pay Mr W £500 in 
compensation and offer him alternative ways of authenticating himself. Mr W has told us that 
hes closed most of his accounts with Virgin Money because hes not been able to operate 
them online. His credit card account is, however, still open  although he says he barely 
uses it having opened another account elsewhere (albeit with a lower limit which is likely to 
be problematic once Mr W starts going away on holidays again).
Virgin Money didnt agree with our investigators recommendations. It said it had offered 
alternatives for other customers to make reasonable adjustments, but unfortunately the 
alternatives it had offered werent suitable to Mr Ws particular circumstances. Virgin Money 
also said it was unable to remove the requirement for the additional security checks as this 
would leave Mr Ws accounts at a higher risk of fraud. Virgin Money said that there was 
another alternative it could offer  namely to provide Mr W with a voucher so he could buy a 
basic mobile phone on which he could receive OTPs. Virgin Money said it thought this was 
reasonable as the only accounts he still held  by that point hed closed most of them  
werent ones he was using to do regular banking. In other words, he wouldnt need to carry 
the mobile around with him. Finally Virgin Money thought the compensation recommended 
was too high given the impact on Mr W. Virgin Money said Mr W had been free to move his 
accounts to another provider in August 2019 when he realised what Virgin Money was 
offering was no longer suitable for his needs, and that between £250 to £300 was a very fair 
offer for the inconvenience of having to find another provider. As Virgin Money didnt agree 
to our investigators recommendations, I was asked to consider this complaint. Mr W was 
happy with what our investigator had said.
I issued a provisional decision upholding Mr Ws complaint. Both parties have replied to that 
provisional decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Virgin Money told Mr W that it was making changes to the way its customers logged into 
online banking and later to how it authorised certain payments. Virgin Money told Mr W that 
these changes were as a result of new regulations that were going to come into effect in 
September 2019 that affected the whole banking sector.
As I said in my provisional decision, Virgin Money is right that new regulations (or to be more 
accurate, the parts that relate to authentication, amongst other things) came into effect in 
September 2019  the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs). Virgin Money is also 
right that these regulations affected the whole banking sector. The regulations required 
payment service providers (PSPs) to apply strong customer authentication in certain 
circumstances. Those circumstances are set out in in Article 100 of the regulations which 
says:
A payment service provider must apply strong customer authentication where a 
payment service user
(a) accesses its payment account online, whether directly or through an account 
information service provider;
(b) initiates an electronic payment transaction; or
(c) carries out any action through a remote channel which may imply a risk of 
payment fraud or other abuses.
The FCA gave PSPs until March 2020 to implement strong customer authentication for 
online banking and has given the e-commerce industry until March 2022 to implement strong 
customer authentication for online payments. The e-commerce industry includes card 
issuers, payment firms and online retailers. There was, of course, nothing to stop firms 
bringing in strong customer authentication sooner than that, if they wanted to do so.
The Payment Services Regulations  which implemented an EU Directive from 2015 
commonly known as the revised Payment Services Directive  define strong customer 
authentication as:
authentication based on the use of two or more elements that are independent, in that 
the breach of one element does not compromise the reliability of any other element, 
and designed in such a way as to protect the confidentiality of the authentication data, 
with the elements falling into two or more of the following categories
(a) something known only by the payment service user (knowledge);
(b) something held only by the payment service user (possession);
(c) something inherent to the payment service user (inherence);
In short, strong customer authentication involves, amongst other things, checking that the 
person accessing a payment account online or initiating an electronic payment is permitted 
to do so. PSPs have to authenticate the person in question using factors based on 
knowledge, inherence or possession and must use at least two independent factors 
when doing so. They cant, for example, check using only knowledge based factors, but they can check using one or more knowledge based factors and one or more possession 
based factors. As I said in my provisional decision, the way Virgin Money has gone about 
those checks  and the reliance it has placed on mobile phones / phones generally to 
perform those checks  is at the heart of this complaint.
Virgin Moneys approach to implementing strong customer authentication
Virgin Money initially told Mr W it would be making changes to how he banked online as a 
result of the new regulations. Virgin Money told Mr W that if he logged into his online 
banking, hed be asked for an OTP which it would send to his mobile phone. Virgin Money 
told Mr W that if he didnt have a mobile phone he wouldnt be able to access his account 
online. His only option would be to call Virgin Money to manage his account and get up-to-
date account and product information over the phone.
Why did Mr W complain?
Mr W has told us that he has impaired hearing and so doesnt own a mobile phone or use a 
landline. He does, however, find online banking very useful and uses it extensively. He told 
Virgin Money that any strong customer authentication solution that involves him having to 
use a mobile / phone wouldnt be suitable for him. 
As I said in my provisional decision, I accept that Mr W doesnt own or want a mobile / phone 
as he has impaired hearing. So, I can understand why he was unhappy when Virgin Money 
said that he would need to give them a mobile phone number, or use a phone, in order to log 
into his accounts online. I can also understand why he complained about Virgin Moneys 
decision to rely on mobiles / phones in order to authenticate. He was worried it would mean 
he wouldnt be able to use online banking  putting him at a disadvantage.
Its important to note that Mr W isnt complaining about Virgin Moneys decision to introduce 
strong customer authentication, which is an important measure designed to combat fraud, 
and one that PSPs are obliged to implement. And hes not complaining about having to 
complete additional checks either. I dont think Mr W would have complained had Virgin 
Money offered to send the OTP to his email address so he could pass the extra checks 
Virgin Money was introducing or an alternative that worked for him. In short, his complaint is 
about Virgin Moneys decision to rely on mobiles / phones for authentication.
What has the FCA said about strong customer authentication and its expectations?
The Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA) has published several papers about strong 
customer authentication and its expectations and it has written to firms about this too. In a 
paper published in June 2019  Payment Services and Electronic Money  Our Approach  
the FCA described its approach to the PSRs and payment services and e-money related 
rules in its Handbook. The FCA said the paper provides guidance for a practical 
understanding of the requirements, our regulatory approach and how businesses will 
experience regulatory supervision. The FCA added that its guidance is intended to illustrate 
ways (but not the only ways) in which a person can comply with the relevant regulations and 
rules.
In paragraph 20.21 of its paper the FCA said:
We encourage firms to consider the impact of strong customer authentication 
solutions on different groups of customers, in particular those with protected 
characteristics, as part of the design process. Additionally, it may be necessary for a 
PSP [Payment Service Provider] to provide different methods of authentication, to 
comply with their obligation to apply strong customer authentication in line with regulation 100 of the PSRs 2017. For example, not all payment service users will 
possess a mobile phone or smart phone and payments may be made in areas without 
mobile phone reception. PSPs must provide a viable means to strongly authenticate 
customers in these situations.
The FCA has, in my opinion, made it clear in its paper and elsewhere that businesses 
shouldnt rely on mobile phones alone to authenticate their customers and should provide 
viable alternatives for different groups of customers. The FCA has, in my opinion, also made 
it clear in this paper and elsewhere that this includes people who dont possess a mobile 
phone or a smart phone and not just those who cant use one. The FCA has talked, for 
example, about managing the potentially negative impact of strong customer authentication 
on different groups of customers particularly the vulnerable, the less digitally engaged or 
located in areas with limited digital access. And the FCA has also talked about the need for 
firms to develop strong customer authentication solutions that work for all groups of 
consumers and has said that this means they may need to provide several different 
authentication methods for your customers.
Mr W says he emailed the FCA about Virgin Moneys response to his complaint and that the 
FCA told him that the new regulations do not limit, or require that, mobile phones or phones 
are the only way in which the rules can or should be addressed. Ive seen a copy of the 
FCAs email to Mr W and I can see the FCA said within the rules themselves, there is no 
requirement for this to be by mobile/phone only when talking about what the strong 
customer authentication rules mean. In that email, the FCA also referred Mr W to the paper 
Ive just quoted.
Should Virgin Money have done more for Mr S when he originally complained?
Mr W has told us that he doesnt own a mobile or use phones as hes hearing impaired. I 
accept that hes hearing impaired. Hes likely, as a result, to have a disability for the 
purposes of the Equality Act 2010. He might be considered a vulnerable person for the 
purposes of the FCAs guidance on treating vulnerable customers fairly too, although this is 
less clear. So Ive taken the Equality Act 2010 into account  including the duty to make 
reasonable adjustments and the provisions relating to indirect discrimination  when 
deciding this complaint based on whats fair and reasonable in addition to the FCAs 
guidance on vulnerable customers. Ive also taken the papers the FCA has published on 
strong customer authentication and its thoughts  particularly in relation to people who do 
not possess a mobile  into account when deciding whether or not Virgin Money should have 
done more when Mr W originally complained and whether or not its actions were fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. In addition, Ive taken the Payment Services 
Regulations  in particular, Article 100  into account as well as FCA Principle 6  that firms 
must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. Mr W could have 
argued that Virgin Moneys approach is discriminatory on account of age as many elderly 
people dont have a mobile phone. Age is a protected characteristic for the purposes of the 
Equality Act 2010  in the same way disability is  so Ive taken this into account too. Virgin 
Money didnt disagree with any of this analysis, all of which I included in my provisional 
decision.
Having taken everything into account, I still dont think it was unfair or unreasonable of Virgin 
Money to implement strong customer authentication  its an important measure to help 
combat fraud. Nor do I think it was unfair or unreasonable of Virgin Money to decide that it 
was going to use OTPs to help authenticate its customers. I do, however, still think it was 
unfair and unreasonable of Virgin Money not to offer Mr W alternative ways to authenticate 
himself that do not rely on phones or allow Mr W to remain independent. Ill explain why.
The FCA has said  and I think its fair and reasonable  that in its view firms should be giving their customers several different ways to authenticate themselves, and not just rely on 
mobile phones, so that authentication works for all groups of consumers. In Mr Ws case, 
given that he is hearing impaired, I think Virgin Money should have offered him an option 
that would have allowed him to authenticate himself that didnt rely on a phone (mobile or 
otherwise) or rely on him using telephone banking. It follows that I dont think it was fair or 
reasonable that Virgin Money didnt have an alternative way someone like Mr W could 
authenticate himself that didnt involve a phone (mobile or otherwise).
Mr W told Virgin Money in August 2019 that he would be happy to receive an OTP by email 
saying that he was aware other banks offered this option. Mr W is right  many other 
businesses, including competitors of Virgin Money, already had the systems in place in 
August 2019 that allowed them to send an OTP by email. Virgin Money, like the rest of the 
industry, had by then had several years to prepare for strong customer authentication. So I 
can understand why Mr W must have been disappointed by Virgin Moneys response  that 
it couldnt send OTPs by email / didnt want to. It must be even more frustrating for Mr W to 
know that sending OTPs by email is an option UK Finance recommended in the paper it 
published in October 2020  over sixteen months ago. Virgin Money has been involved in 
the work UK Finance has done on strong customer authentication  it chaired the business 
working group amongst other things. Given everything Ive just said, I dont think it was 
unreasonable or unfair of Mr W to ask Virgin Money to consider this option.
Virgin Money has recently offered to exempt Mr Ws credit card from strong customer 
authentication checks, and to move his existing Fixed ISAs into another ISA product (for 
which it is able to provide a card reader) as well as compensate him for any interest hed 
otherwise lose and make sure that hes not charged any fees. I think this is a fair (albeit late) 
offer and it means this complaint can now be resolved as Mr W is happy with Virgin Moneys 
strong customer authentication proposal. There is the matter of compensation too. Before I 
deal with that, and before I require Virgin Money to do what it has offered / what Mr W is 
willing to accept in full and final settlement, however, I do think it would be helpful to say 
more about Virgin Moneys argument  at least until recently  that it had offered Mr W 
alternatives.
Virgin Moneys argument that its offered alternatives
Virgin Money was telling us  at least until recently  that it had offered other alternatives to 
Mr W that it said would allow him to access his account and make payments. Virgin Money 
was telling us, for example, that Mr W could use its telephone banking service. But even 
Virgin Money accepted  at the time it originally made this suggestion  that this option 
wouldnt work for Mr W as hes hearing impaired. Its difficult to understand why Virgin 
Money thought it would be helpful or sensible to suggest telephone banking to Mr W given 
that he had been very clear that he is hearing impaired and options involving telephones 
arent suitable. The suggestion was at best going to be unhelpful, and more than likely going 
to come across as insensitive if not cause considerable offence and distress. And I also think 
Virgin Money missed the point here. The FCA has been clear that businesses should be 
offering customers alternative ways to authenticate themselves. But what Virgin Money was 
offering Mr W  when it suggested he could use its telephone banking services  were 
alternatives to online banking rather than alternative ways to authenticate himself. For 
someone like Mr W, who relies heavily on online banking and wants to take advantage of its 
convenience, I dont think that was fair and reasonable. 
The same is true of another of Virgin Moneys suggestions, namely that he should change 
over to a postal based account. I dont think that was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances either. One of Virgin Moneys other suggestions, namely that an OTP could 
be sent to a trusted family members mobile phone was, in my opinion, equally unhelpful and 
arguably inappropriate given that Mr W has made it clear throughout that he wishes to be responsible for his own banking and does not want to rely on a third party. The suggestion 
seems at odds with the intention behind strong customer authentication too. I can 
understand why Mr W felt it was wrong in this day and age that Virgin Money couldnt offer 
him a solution that would allow him to bank independently and didnt involve mobiles or 
phones. Virgin Moneys failure to do so is, in my opinion, an example of a failure to design a 
service in an inclusive way.
Virgin Money originally suggested that Mr W could buy a mobile phone so that he could 
receive OTPs, along with the other suggestions Ive discussed above. Virgin Money 
suggested a number of options to our investigator after Mr W had complained to us and 
whilst they were investigating Mr Ws complaint. One of those options included buying Mr W 
a mobile phone if that is necessary and usually as a last resort. After our investigator had 
issued their view and after Id got involved Virgin Money offered Mr W a voucher so he could 
purchase a basic mobile phone. The final option might have worked on had it been offered 
when Mr W originally complained, although its an option I had second thoughts about 
putting to him as hes made it clear throughout this complaint that he wants an alternative 
that doesnt involve phones at all  and understandably so. But it was an offer that was 
made late on and now that the complaint has been resolved in another way  see next  its 
not something I feel I need to consider further.
More recently Virgin Money has made suggestions that, in my view, are more helpful. For 
example, Virgin Money told our investigator that some of its products come with the option of 
option of authenticating using a token. I explored that option with both parties  it would have 
solved Mr Ws complaint about his credit card had it been an option there. Unfortunately, its 
not an option at least as far as Mr Ws credit card is concerned. Fortunately, Virgin Moneys 
most recent suggestion  that it exempts Mr Ws credit card from strong customer 
authentication checks  does solve Mr Ws complaint about his credit card. Thats an option 
that Virgin Money says is now available  in line with the recommendations that UK Finance 
has made for vulnerable customers for whom few if any viable options may be available. Its 
an option Ive put to Mr W  and its one that hes happy to accept.
Putting things right
Mr W has closed most of his accounts with Virgin Money because of the problems hes had. 
He now only has a credit card and three fixed ISAs. Virgin Money offered to transfer Mr Ws 
ISAs into a different type of ISA for which a security token can be used for authentication 
purposes  it offered to compensate Mr W so he wouldnt lose out as a result too. The offer 
is, in my view, a fair one, but its one that Mr W has decided not to take up  it looks like hell 
wait till his ISAs mature and then transfer them elsewhere. So all Im going to do is require 
Virgin Money to exempt Mr Ws credit card from strong customer authentication checks  as 
offered by Virgin Money  and to pay him the £500 in compensation our investigator 
recommended, to which Virgin Money has also now agreed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I require Clydesdale Bank Plc to exempt Mr Ws credit card from 
strong customer authentication checks  as it has offered to do  and to pay him £500 in 
compensation in full and final settlement of his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman