DRN-2841126
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc applied a default to his account. 
What happened
In September 2020, Mr D had to visit his local RBS branch to verify his identity. During the 
visit, he found out RBS had defaulted his credit card account in March 2020.
Mr D feels this is unfair because he says he didnt receive any letters warning him his 
account would be defaulted.
Mr D began to have difficulty keeping up with his repayments in October 2019.
RBSs contact notes show on 6 January 2020 it sent a default notice to Mr D. Mr D says he 
didnt receive this notice.
In February 2020 he wrote to RBS suggesting a payment plan. The plan Mr D suggested 
was to pay £1,231.62 in March 2020 and then £500 each month. Mr D didnt receive a reply 
to his suggestion. By July 2020, Mr Ds financial situation had improved, and he began 
making payments to his account again.
Finding out about the default has caused Mr D stress and embarrassment. As he is a 
company director, hes worried it could affect the reputation of his business. He would like 
RBS to remove the default from his account.
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She felt it was fair for RBS to 
apply the default as it was in line with the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) guidance 
on defaults. The investigator felt it was reasonable for RBS not to agree to the repayment 
plan as it would have taken several years to repay the debt using the repayment plan, he 
suggested. The investigator also thought RBS acted fairly when it reduced Mr Ds credit limit 
from £20,000 to £13,500 as the higher limit was only agreed as a temporary measure. The 
investigator felt that it was more likely than not that the default notice was sent. The 
investigator accepted Mr D didnt receive the notice, but she felt that Mr D wouldnt have 
been able to prevent the default even if he had received it as he would have needed to pay 
£5,326.37 in January 2020. And even if Mr D didnt receive the default notice in January 
2020, the statements would have made him aware that he had overdue payments so she 
feels Mr D would have brought his account within the credit limit, even without receiving the 
default notice, if he had been able to do this.
Mrs D, on behalf of Mr D, didnt agree. She feels the investigator has believed what RBS is 
saying despite them not being able to produce the letters. She wants the investigator to look 
again at the letter dated 29 June 2020. Mr D sent with a cheque which RBS cashed but 
chose not to respond to. She thinks in assuming that Mr D wouldnt have made payments to 
prevent the default the investigator has made assumptions about them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear about the effect of the default on Mr D. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs D must feel very let down because a default was applied, and 
they say they hadnt received a default notice.
I cant explain why they didnt receive the notice or any of the letters which accompanied it. It 
is very strange particularly given Mr D was receiving statements for the account.
RBS is obliged to send a default notice and accompanying letters, but it isnt obliged to 
ensure they are delivered; it is enough that they are correctly addressed, and a postal 
service is used. RBS hasnt provided this service with copies of the letters it sent, it has only 
provided templates. I appreciate this adds to Mr and Mrs Ds frustration. But this is 
something we do accept at the service and so I cant say RBS has done anything wrong by 
not keeping copies of the letters. Nor have I seen anything which suggests the letters were 
incorrectly addressed.
 
I think RBS acted reasonably in sending the notice, as the investigator said placing the 
account in default was in line with ICO guidance. I havent been persuaded by anything 
Mr and Mrs D have said or provided, that Mr D would have been able to prevent the default 
had they received the notice. Their savings account only had a balance of just over £2,000. 
Mr Ds direct debit payment was repeatedly failing. They have said that they would have 
borrowed from their business account but havent been able to provide evidence of this in 
the form of statements in a non-editable form. I also have a copy of a letter dated 
26 February 2020 where Mr D says that: I know that you have been attempting to collect the 
overdue payment of 5326.37 but at this moment in time I am not able to make this payment. 
I therefore cant say with any confidence that had they receive the notices Mr D would have 
been able to prevent the default.
Mrs D wants me to look at a letter dated June 2020. As the default was applied before then it 
doesnt change my opinion about it being correct to apply the default.
Given all of the above I cant uphold this complaint. Mr D does, however, have the 
opportunity to put a notice of correction on his file to explain that he didnt receive the 
relevant notices.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 Nicola Wood
Ombudsman