DRN-3177893
The complaint
Ms L complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) marked her credit file. 
What happened
In December 2019, Ms L had the following balances with HSBC:
 
On 19 December 2019, she called HSBC to say she was struggling with her finances. There 
had been a family bereavement. She asked if HSBC would suspend the payment of £291.94 
to her personal loan for that month to help her. HSBC agreed. But the direct debit wasnt 
cancelled, and the payment was made as normal on 31 December 2019. Miss L called again 
on that day and HSBC apologised  and reversed the payment  so her current account was 
credited with £291.94  and so the personal loan payment was therefore missed for that 
month. 
In January 2020, she called HSBC and went through her income and expenditure. HSBC 
offered to provide a consolidation loan to pay off the personal loan, credit card and some of 
the overdraft. After two qualifying payments on 1 February 2020 and 1 March 2020, HSBC 
sent Ms L the loan offer letter on 23 April 2020  for £15,610, payable over 82 months, 
interest free. But Ms L declined to take the loan then  as it meant transferring her current 
account to a basic account, which she didnt want to do.
Ms L complained  her credit file had been marked for the missed personal loan payment in 
December 2019. And, also - for missed payments to her credit card and personal loan in the 
first months of 2020  while the managed loan was still being set up. She said she wasnt 
advised that her credit file would be marked. And the delays in setting up the managed loan 
were as a result of HSBCs error. Ms L said the markers werent fair. Shed banked with 
HSBC for 23 years and felt let down.
HSBC said the markers on Ms Ls credit file were fair. Shed been told about them on the 
calls. They reflected a true picture of what had happened. HSBC had to report accurate 
account information to the credit reference agencies  and thats what theyd done.
Ms L brought her complaint to us. After a several discussions between HSBC and our 
investigator, HSBC agreed to remove the credit file markers with effect from January 2020 in 
respect of Ms Ls personal loan and credit card  HSBC agreed there had been some 
confusion about what was going to happen. But  HSBC said that the marker for the missed 
personal loan payment in December 2019 should remain. Looking at what happened in 
December 2019 - our investigator said there had had been confusion between HSBC and 
Product Balance
Current Account £2,000 debit
Personal Loan £4,962 debit
Credit Card £8,932 debitMs L on the calls. She was vulnerable and confused  given her family bereavement, and 
HSBC hadnt been clear enough in telling her that her credit file would be marked. And  she 
hadnt received a letter saying that either.
Ms L disagreed about the remaining marker on her credit file. She said shed only wanted a 
one month breathing space  and that had led to a whole lot of problems. She hadnt been 
advised there would be an impact on her credit file. Ms L asked that an ombudsman look at 
her complaint.
I then reached a provisional decision where I said:
 I can see that HSBC agreed that there was some confusion over the missed payments to 
Ms Ls credit card and personal loan during the first few months of 2020  these were as a 
result of the need to see two qualifying payments to the proposed consolidation loan, and 
there were further delays in setting it up. It was good to see that HSBC agreed to remove the 
markers for the missed payments from January 2020.
So  I am going to look at the remaining issue of the credit marker on Ms Ls credit file in 
respect of the missed payment to her personal loan in December 2019. Ive listened to the 
call she made to HSBC on 19 December 2019  when she advised HSBC that she had 
some financial difficulties and had recently had a family bereavement. She asked HSBC for 
some breathing space  she wanted to miss the payment due that month, and then catch 
up over the next few months. HSBC agreed to do this  and arranged to have a further call 
with Ms L on or around 20 January 2020 to go through her income and expenditure to arrive 
at a longer-term solution and to deal with how to make up the missed December 2019 
payment. HSBC went on to say the missed payment would show on Ms Ls credit file as 
arrears. After that comment, Ms L asked, how will that work? The call handler then said 
there wouldnt be any interest and charges on her current account and referred to the later 
call to be arranged. Ms L then said, Im struggling to understand this. The call handler then 
said the missed payment would be noted as arrears  and went on to say that Ms L would 
get various letters about missed payment and defaults  but said these can be ignored and 
this agreement overrides those  we have to send them out The call handler then went on to 
say again that there wouldnt be any interest or charges on Ms Ls current account.
Im not persuaded that Ms L understood there would be an effect on her credit file. The 
discussion with HSBC was for over 15 minutes, with quite a lot of information in it  and 
there was one reference to Ms Ls credit file  as Ive set out. HSBC also said twice there 
would be arrears  but to a customer, arrears means simply a missed payment as 
between the bank and themselves  not a marker on her credit file. HSBC also said  that 
she could ignore the letters she would get about defaults as they override the agreement 
made. I think Ms L took this to mean  there wasnt any effect on her credit records. During 
the call, its clear that Ms L was confused and vulnerable  she said she didnt understand 
 and therefore HSBC shouldve taken more time to spell out the impact on her credit file. 
For example, there wasnt any mention about that affecting her ability to get credit in the 
future  which it could have. And  importantly, HSBC didnt send Miss L a letter to say what 
had been agreed  or that her credit file would be marked, and what that would mean to her.
Miss L called HSBC again on 31 December 2019  as the payment had been made to the 
personal loan  which was not what HSBC had agreed to do. I agree that on that call  the 
call handler did say that the missed payment would show on Ms Ls credit file  a little more 
clearly than on the first call. But also  there was also a discussion about other matters such 
as the reversal the payment back to her current account; and the need to discuss her 
income and expenditure; how to pay off the arrears on the personal loan, and the 
suspension of charges on her current account - again, a lot of information. Ms L also said on 
that call that she hadnt been advised on the first call that her credit file would be marked.Ive thought about whether the clearer reference to credit file impact on the second call was 
significant enough  and I dont think it was. I think Ms L was, by then, committed in her own 
mind to suspending the loan payment for that month (based on the first call)  and I suspect 
she couldnt change her mind about what to do. And so  she just said  to go ahead with 
the reversal of the direct debit payment which had been made in error. And again  there 
wasnt a letter sent to Ms L about the agreement made, or the effect on her credit file.
I appreciate that HSBC must report accurate information to credit reference agencies. But 
equally, they had a duty to explain things to Ms L in a fair, clear and not misleading way. And 
in the particular circumstances of this case, I dont think HSBC went far enough to clearly 
spell out to Ms L  the effect on her credit file, and what that would mean to her.
And so  my provisional decision is to uphold Ms Ls complaint. And ask HSBC to remove 
the missed payment marker from her credit file.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Ms L accepted my findings. But HSBC didnt. They said (in summary):
HSBC have an obligation to advise credit reference agencies of missed payments.
In their view, Ms L was advised of the impact on her credit file when she called on 31 
December 2019.
Therefore, the entry on Ms Ls credit file for December 2019 should remain.
So  I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered what HSBC have said. 
Of course, I appreciate that they have an obligation to report accurate information to credit 
reference agencies. But equally, they also have a duty to be clear and not misleading in their 
dealings with customers. And, in the circumstances of Ms Ls case, I dont think they were 
clear enough  and I dont think Ms l understood what was said either. On the call on 31 
December 2019, I agree there was a reference to an effect on her credit file. But - I didnt 
hear (for example) an explanation of what that meant  that it would remain for six years and 
mean she couldnt get credit.  And  it was one comment alongside several other things 
going on in the conversation. There were also discussions about how HSBC hadnt 
cancelled the loan payment in error; that they would do that on that day and refund the 
money back to the current account; suspension of charges on her current account; the 
making of an appointment to discuss income and expenditure. 
And  most important  HSBC didnt send Ms L a letter or email saying what had been 
agreed or saying her credit file would be affected  either on 31 December 2019, or after the 
earlier conversation on 19 December 2019.
Our role is to decide on whether, in the overall circumstances of what happened, HSBC 
dealt with Ms L fairly and reasonably  and on further reflection, I still dont think they did. 
And so  my final decision is that HSBC should remove the late payment marker from Ms Ls 
credit file for December 2019.My final decision
My final decision is to uphold this complaint. And HSBC UK Bank Plc must:
Remove the late payment marker from Ms Ls credit file for the missed payment in 
December 2019. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman