DRN-1740834
The complaint
Mrs R says AXA France IARD mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mrs R bought the policy in 2002 sometime after she took out a store card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Rs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Rs complaint for the following reasons.
The store card was taken out over four years before the PPI was sold to Mrs R during a 
phone call. So I think shed have been aware that she didnt have to have it. And, from what 
we know about how PPI was sold, I think AXA wouldve made Mrs R aware that she had a 
choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it. I appreciate she says that wasnt 
the case, but I dont think I can uphold this complaint based solely on her recollection of 
something that happened so long ago. 
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs R so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But Mrs R doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things the policy 
didnt cover  and based on what I know about her circumstances it looks like the policy 
couldve been useful to her. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped her buying 
it. 
The regulators rules on high levels of undisclosed commission only apply to lenders. AXA 
was not the lender, but the insurer of the policy. So, those rules don't affect this complaint. 
Ive taken into account Mrs Rs comments. But these points dont change my conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Phillip Lai-FangOmbudsman