DRN-4286569
The complaint
Ms G and Mr S are unhappy that Euroins AD cancelled a travel insurance policy theyd taken 
out.
What happened
Ms G and Mr S took out an annual travel insurance policy underwritten by Euroins in June 
2022. The policy was arranged by a company Ill refer to as R. 
R discovered that there had been a technical issue when the policy was set up and 
contacted Ms G in October 2022 to rescreen her medical conditions. By this time Ms G had 
already travelled abroad on at least three occasions. Following the re-screening Euroins said 
that they could no longer offer Ms G the same policy as shed not accurately declared her 
medical history when the policy was taken out. They would have excluded the pre-existing 
conditions and added exclusions. 
Euroins provided a proportionate refund of the premiums paid. Ms G complained but didnt 
receive a reply to her complaint within the required 8 weeks. So, she complained to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator started to look into what had happened. R got in touch to say that they 
would refund the remaining premiums for the policy year and offered £150 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused. Ms G didnt accept this offer. Our investigator 
recommended a further £150 compensation as he didnt think that Ms G had been treated 
fairly. He thought Euroins had most likely prematurely decided that they wouldnt offer Ms G 
cover for her conditions.  
Ms G clarified some further information about her medical history and highlighted that shed 
had to take out new insurance in April 2023 instead of July 2023. Euroins, and R, didnt reply 
to any further correspondence from our investigator. So, I need to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the key issue in this complaint is the overall customer service Ms G and Mr S 
received. 
Im upholding this complaint because: 
There was a technical issue which impacted Ms G and Mr Ss policy. That shouldnt 
have happened. 
When the screening issue was identified Ms G and Mr S had to undergo another 
medical screening, which is what Id expect to happen in such circumstances. But I 
think more care ought to have been taken to establish what conditions Ms G had 
when the policy was taken out and what conditions had developed since. Instead, 
Euroins concluded Ms G hadnt declared some conditions when the policy was taken 
out. 
In any event Euroins has now paid Ms G and Mr S all of their premiums back. I think 
thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. Ms G and Mr S have 
benefitted from the cover Euroins offered at no cost up until the policy was cancelled. 
So, although Ms G and Mr S took out a new policy in April, I dont think Euroins 
needs to do anything more to put things right in the circumstances of this case. 
I think Ms G and Mr S were caused avoidable distress and inconvenience throughout 
this experience. It must have been upsetting to discover their insurance wasnt 
correctly set up through no fault of their own. This had an impact because they were 
worried that they had travelled, and were due to travel again, without the benefit of 
the cover theyd taken out. I think a total of £300 compensation, including the £150 
already offered, more fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience caused to them 
as a result.
I can only take into account what actually did happen, as opposed to what might 
have happened. So, I cant award compensation for what might have gone wrong if 
Ms G and Mr S needed to claim before this issue was sorted out. Fortunately, Ms G 
and Mr S didnt need to make a claim. 
Putting things right
Euroins has already refunded the premiums to Ms G and Mr S. So, they need to put things 
right by paying a total of £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the distress and 
inconvenience of the policy not being set up correctly and the poor service received. 
My final decision
Im upholding Ms G and Mr Ss complaint and direct Euroins AD to put things right in the way 
Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman