DRN-3821730
The complaint
Miss M and Mr M have complained that Covea Insurance plc (Covea) unfairly declined a 
claim under their home insurance policy.
For ease, I will normally only refer to Mr M as he mainly dealt with the claim and the 
complaint.
What happened
Mr M contacted Covea to make a claim for paint he had spilled on the sofa. Covea assessed 
the claim and declined it because it didnt accept Mr Ms account of what happened. When 
Mr M complained, Covea maintained its decision to decline the claim.
So, Mr M complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said what Mr 
M had described seemed to meet the definition of accidental damage and Covea hadnt 
relied on any of the terms of the policy to decline the claim. He said Covea should reconsider 
the claim.
As Covea didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
The claim was made under the accidental damage part of the policy. This was defined as:
An unintentional and unexpected one off incident that causes damage to your buildings or 
contents.
Mr M said that he was carrying a tin of paint at chest height and when he entered the room, 
he stood on a game console controller, which caused him to slip. The paint then landed on 
the sofa. He said he tried to clean the paint off the sofa, which caused it to spread further. 
Based on what Mr M described, I think this met the definition of accidental damage.
Covea has declined the claim because it doesnt think what Mr M described was credible or 
that the claim was genuine. As the paint Mr M used wasnt one that splashed, it didnt accept 
that it could have covered such a large area of the sofa. Covea confirmed to this service that 
it wasnt relying on a specific part of the policy to decline the claim. 
Covea cant decline a claim simply because it doesnt think it should settle it. It needs to act 
in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. From what Ive seen, Mr M has a claim 
that meets the definition of accidental damage under the policy. Covea hasnt applied an 
exclusion to show why the claim shouldnt proceed. As a result, I uphold this complaint. 
Covea needs to reassess the claim and either settle it or decline it based on the terms and 
conditions of the policy.
Putting things right
Covea should reassess the claim and either settle it or decline based on the terms and 
conditions of the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is upheld. I require 
Covea Insurance plc to reassess the claim and either settle it or decline it based on the 
terms and conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman