DRN-3390701
The complaint
Mr Y complains that he was given unsuitable advice by Bailey Richards Wealth Management
Limited (BRWM) to transfer deferred benefits from his Defined Benefit (DB) pension with
British Steel (BSPS) to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP).
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved pension benefits, one
of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when
their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 31
March 2017.
In January 2017, Mr Y contacted a financial adviser firm (Firm A) for advice on his pension.
They completed some of the initial paperwork for Mr Y, but as they didnt have the relevant
permissions to advise on a pension transfer they referred him to BRWM for advice. Mr Y was
advised by BRWM to transfer his DB benefits to a SIPP. After the transfer, Firm A became
the ongoing adviser on Mr Ys plan.
A fact find, risk profiler and a retirement options form were completed in January 2017 which
show:
Mr Y was approaching 56, married and owned his home without a mortgage. He held
£28,000 in cash savings and had no liabilities. He had an adult daughter who was
financially dependent.
He was working full-time for British Steel and earned £28,000 per year. He also had
his own business which earned him about £14,000 per year.
His wife was a year younger than Mr Y. She had an annual income of £7,200.
She had her own final salary pension with 13 years of service and a state pension
quote of £8,160 per year.
Mr Y was concerned about the future of BSPS. He wanted full control over his funds
and the investment of it.
He wanted to retire immediately from his employed role at British Steel to focus on
his self-employed business which he had run for a number of years. He was looking
to take initial income of £13,200 per year from his pension in a tax-efficient manner to
supplement his earnings.
He required the ability to be able to change his income requirements throughout
retirement.
He had no previous experience of investing in equities. His attitude to risk was
recorded as lowest medium.
A suitability report shows BRWM recommended Mr Y to transfer his BSPS benefits to a flexi-
drawdown plan which would allow him to take income of £13,200 per year part from tax-free
cash and part taxable income.
Mr Y complained to BRWM in 2019 about the advice he received. He said he felt the advice
was flawed and he has lost out financially as a result. BRWM rejected his complaint.
Mr Y referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators upheld his complaint. He
thought BRWM had given unsuitable advice. BRWM still disagreed and so the complaint has
come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision and gave both parties further opportunity to provide any 
comments or information they wanted me to consider. BRWM disagreed with my findings 
and provided comments which Ive carefully considered and addressed further below in this 
decision.
In my provisional decision I said the following:
The starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. BRWM
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in
Mr Ys best interest. (COBS 19.1.6). And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not
satisfied the transfer was in his best interest. Ill explain why.
Deferring taking BSPS benefits
I think theres no real dispute about the fact that if Mr Y had kept his pension until age 65 his
retirement benefits in the DB scheme most likely would have been higher than if he
transferred. BRWM acknowledged this in their suitability report when they said:
The above Critical Yields are all high and fall outside of your Cautious to Moderate
investment risk profile. Therefore, if my decision to transfer was based only on the
critical yields and if you did not require your benefits immediately I would recommend
that the benefits remain within the scheme until age 65.
Mr Y says this wasnt brought to his attention and he didnt know what benefits he would
have been entitled to through BSPS. However, Ive seen the suitability letter addressed to Mr
Y and the accompanying letter explains that in a following meeting the content would be
discussed. This meeting seems to have taken place as Ive seen an email from Mr Y to
BRWM a few days after the suitability report was issued where he asks BRWM to proceed
as suggested during the advisers visit.
I appreciate that the suitability letter was long and technical in parts. And I dont know what
exactly was discussed in the follow up meeting and in what detail. However, I think the report
clearly set out that estimated benefits at age 65 would be over £29,000 per year. And Mr Y
also had previously received a transfer value illustration from BSPS which showed that his
benefits at the date of leaving were around £23,000 per year. Both numbers wereconsiderably higher than the £13,200 per year Mr Y would be taking from his SIPP.
He also received an early retirement quote from BSPS in July 2016 which estimated that he
would receive £11,472 per year or a lump sum of £54,399 plus a reduced pension of £8,160
per year if he took benefits immediately. I think its likely Mr Y understood that deferring his
benefits until a later date would generally give him better benefits than taking benefits
immediately.
And this is where Mr Ys objective to focus on his self-employed business comes in. This
cant be ignored and should have rightly been given some consideration. Maximising income
in retirement, whilst important for many, has to be weighed up against other objectives. Mr Y
obviously wanted to leave his employment at British Steel and do something that he enjoyed
more. He was prepared to live on a lower income. So maximising his income in retirement in
my view was likely secondary to him than making a change to his lifestyle in this regard. He
indicated as much in BRWMs fact find when he listed maximum pension as one of the lower
priorities.
Having said that, the adviser shouldnt have simply tried to meet Mr Ys objectives without
considering alternatives. I agree with the investigator that BRWM should have explored with
Mr Y whether instead of taking income from his pension, he could work part-time in a
different role (with British Steel or elsewhere) which might have allowed him to spend a bit
more time on his business but defer taking his pension. I cant see that this was considered.
It's impossible to know what Mr Y would have done if BRWM had explored this route with
him. Mr Y says he could have taken a part time role. However, Im not persuaded that this
would have been his preferred option. After the transfer Mr Y did quit his employed role and
solely focussed on his business, so his plans were not just a random idea, but more
concrete. I dont think he would have taken the decision to quit a full time employed role
lightly. When his pension was reviewed in 2018 by Firm A, their notes indicate that Mr Y was
enjoying his business and didnt know when he would fully retire. I think on balance Mr Y
wanted to spend all his time on his business if this was reasonably achievable.
Taking DB benefits immediately vs transferring benefits to a SIPP
I then considered whether Mr Y could have met his objectives by taking his benefits
immediately from BSPS and whether this would have been in his best interest rather than
transferring.
Mr Y said he required £13,200 per year from the pension to supplement the revenue from
his business. He was recommended to draw this income part in tax free cash and part as
taxable income. I think he could have achieved the same using his DB benefits at least until
age 67. The reduced pension was about £5,000 less than the income he wanted, so using
his tax-free cash of around £55,000 would have been enough to supplement this income
until state pension age.
Mr Ys income requirements over the full course of his retirement werent established by
BRWM as far as I can see. In their illustrations they assumed an ongoing income of £13,200
drawn from the SIPP which would supplement Mr Ys expected business income of £18,000
per year. However, during the review of his pension in 2018 Firm As notes state that Mr Y
said he could manage his outgoings on significantly less income than current if required. And
Mr and Mrs Ys outgoing were recorded as about £1,700 per month (£20,400 a year).
So I considered what income Mr Y could have at age 67 if he stayed in BSPS. His reduced
pension of £8,160 would have been subject to CPI increases. If I assume those to be 2% on
average, this income would have increased to around £10,000 per year. This doesnt factorin that Mr Ys early retirement quote from BSPS was seven months old when he received
advice, so the figures likely would have been slightly higher. Mr Y also would have been able
to access his state pension at age 67. I dont have reason to believe Mr Y, nearly at age 56,
wouldnt have had accumulated 35 years of employed work to qualify him for a full state
pension which would have been over £9,000. His wife, who was only a year younger than
him, had a state pension entitlement of £8,164 and had 13 years worth of a final salary
pension. Her retirement income would be more than her working income.
Based on the above I think its a fair assumption Mr and Mrs Y could have had a joint income
of around £27,000 from Mr Ys BSPS pension and both their state pensions when they
reached state retirement age. In addition they also would have had Mrs Ys final salary
income which I dont have details of, but given it was 13 years worth of service will likely be
another few thousand pounds per year. Of course its also possible that Mr Y would still be
working at 67 and earn additional income from his business. And if he needed less income,
he and his wife could have chosen to defer one of their state pensions or Mrs Ys final salary
pension.
If Mr Y had taken his BSPS benefits his entitlement would have likely been reviewed when
the scheme moved to the PPF. However, early retirement factors were more generous in the
PPF than in BSPS and outweighed the general 10% initial reduction in benefits. So I dont
think its likely Mr Ys benefits would have reduced further.
Based on their recorded outgoings of £20,400 per year, I think the couple would have had
sufficient means to retire if Mr Y took his BSPS benefits straight away. This would have been
guaranteed income which would increase every year.
I dont think Mr Y could have reasonably been able to draw a higher income from his SIPP
without running the real risk of depleting his pension. The illustrations BRWM provided show
Mr Y being left with a pension pot of only £22,400 at age 75 if he took an average income of
£13,200 throughout retirement and his pension attracted returns of 0.9%. Assuming returns
of 3.9% Mr Y would have more or less depleted his funds by age 90.
I note the illustrations took into account BRWMs initial advice charges and the product and
investment charges. However, I cant see that ongoing adviser fees were included even
though in the suitability report BRWM acknowledged that ongoing service would be provided
by Firm A. And I think it ought to have been clear to BRWM that this service would likely not
have been free. Mr Y ended up paid ongoing adviser charges to Firm A of 0.75% which
would have meant funds would deplete quicker.
The regulators projections rates at the time of the advice were 2%, 5% and 8% for low,
medium and high returns. Taking into account Mr Ys lowest medium attitude to risk and that
he was advised to invest in a cautious portfolio, I dont think average returns above 3.9%
were likely achievable year on year and there was a risk it could be less. Also the average
life expectancy for someone Mr Ys age in 2017 was 82. And there was still a 25% chance
he could live to age 90 and possibly beyond. So I think to keep levels of income withdrawals
sustainable, Mr Y likely would have had to reduce annual average income levels. I think on
balance those income levels were unlikely to be significantly more than the increasing
income Mr Y could draw from his DB scheme every year and could quite possibly be less.
Overall, I dont think it was likely Mr Y would financially be better off by transferring to a
SIPP. I also note that Mr Ys DB pension was his only retirement provision and so he didnt
have the capacity to take much risk on it.
Death benefits and flexibilityBRWM say Mr Y wanted flexibility with his income. Whilst flexibility sounds attractive, I
havent seen persuasive evidence that Mr Y had a strong need for flexible income 
throughout retirement. As I said above, his plans in retirement werent really explored. In any
event, until age 67, Mr Y would have had a certain degree of flexibility with his DB benefits
as he could use as much or little of his tax-free cash as he needed. The funds he didnt need
could have been put in a savings account or a cash ISA. And once he stopped working, I
cant see that a steady guaranteed income would have been to his disadvantage. The 
suitability report also said Mr Y would like the ability to not only leave any remaining
funds to his wife but also to choose other beneficiaries after death.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked most people would like
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. So the thought of being able to leave a
lump sum to his family when he died would have sounded a lot more attractive than the DB
scheme where his wife would receive a reduced pension.
I think the existing death benefits with BSPS were underplayed. Mr Ys wife would have
received a guaranteed spouses pension for life which would have been valuable if Mr Y
predeceased her. It also would have paid a dependents pension to his daughter if Mr Y had
died early into retirement. And if Mr Y lived a long life, there might not have been a large or
any sum to leave to beneficiaries from the SIPP as explained above.
In any event, whilst death benefits might be important for consumers, there generally
shouldnt be a disproportionate emphasis on this compared to their own retirement needs.
Mr Y was in good health and so more focus should have been on ensuring Mr Y would
receive his required income over a long period of time.
concerns about financial stability of BSPS
Mr Y was concerned about his pension. Lots of his colleagues at the time were transferring
out of the scheme and he was worried his pension would end up in the PPF.
So its quite possible that Mr Y was leaning towards the decision to transfer. However, it was
BRWMs obligation to give Mr Y an objective picture and recommend what was in his best
interest. Mr Y was particularly concerned about BSPS moving to the PPF. He was worried
he could lose some of his pension. However, as I set out above, even if this happened, Mr Y
was still likely to be better off not transferring. I cant see that this was properly explained to
him or BRWM did enough to alleviate these concerns.
summary
Its possible that Mr Y was attracted by the idea of transferring. He might have heard from
colleagues that this is what they were doing. And I dont doubt that flexibility, control and
higher death benefits would have sounded like attractive features. But BRWM wasnt there
to just transact what Mr Y might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really
understand what Mr Y needed and recommend what was in his best interest.
For these reasons, BRWM should have recommended Mr Y to stay a member of his scheme
and not transfer his benefits. And if they had done so and explained their reasons properly
why Mr Y would be better off staying in BSPS, I think Mr Y likely would have followed their
advice.
Having looked at the risk questionnaires Mr Y completed both with Firm A and BRWM, its
evident that Mr Y had a relatively cautious attitude to risk and that he had never invested in 
equities before. He described his own attitude to risk in Firm As fact find as somewhat risk 
averse. I think he understood he needed to take a little risk in the SIPP to ensure it was growing sufficiently to provide him an income, so he might have agreed to accept the lowest 
medium risk category.
However, I think if he had been told that he could meet his objective of receiving £13,200 per
year immediately and focus on his own business; as well as being provided with a secure,
increasing income for life -even in the PPF-, he more likely than not in my view would have
opted for this more secure option. I dont think the perceived advantages of flexibility and
different death benefits justified taking unnecessary risks with his pension.
Responses to my provisional findings
BRWM disagreed with some of my findings and the outcome of my decision. Ill address 
what I consider to be their key points below:
I said Mr Ys attitude to risk was recorded as lowest medium, however this isnt a 
risk level BRWM uses. They categorised him as cautious to moderate which is 
defined as follows in the annex to the suitability report:
You are prepared to take some investment risk in order to increase the chance of 
achieving a reasonable return but would still like to ensure that capital protection is 
considered. A typical Cautious/Moderate risk investor will usually invest in a range of
assets or funds to obtain diversification. There would be a lower proportion of 
equities and property compared to fixed interest and cash.
BRWM says its clear this risk profile does not mean Mr Y had no appetite for risk. 
This was not the lowest risk profile offered.
Having reviewed the file again I can see that it was Firm A who recorded Mr Ys risk level as 
lowest medium and BRWM used cautious to moderate. I apologise for this oversight, 
however I dont think it makes a difference to this complaint. I never said Mr Y had the lowest 
risk profile. As I said in my provisional decision, given his answers in both risk questionnaires 
I dont think Mr Y wanted to take a lot of risk. However, I think he understood he needed to 
take a little risk in the SIPP to ensure it was growing sufficiently to provide him an income, so 
he might have agreed to accept a risk category which lay between cautious and moderate.
 
I acknowledged that Mr Y was informed that he would unlikely be better off by 
transferring. As Mr Y still wished to transfer, BRWM cant see how the complaint can 
be upheld.
BRWM have misinterpreted my findings in this respect. The suitability report pointed out that 
if BRWMs decision was only based on critical yields and Mr Y didnt need his benefits 
immediately, BRWM would recommend he should remain in his DB scheme until 65. And I 
explained in my provisional decision that this means Mr Y likely knew he would receive a 
higher income if he deferred his benefits to age 65. I mentioned this to demonstrate that I 
thought Mr Y had made a conscious decision to retire early and was willing to accept a lower 
income in return. However, I dont think BRWM made it clear that he was also better off 
retiring early from the DB scheme and that he didnt need to transfer to meet his objectives.
BRWM addressed alternatives to a transfer and why these alternatives did not meet 
Mr Ys objectives. A part-time role would have been counterproductive to his 
objective of developing his self-employed business further. BRWM also doesnt think 
its an advisers role to provide advice in respect of a clients career.
Alternatives were mentioned but discounted due to Mr Ys objectives not being met. 
However as explained in detail, I think they could have been met by taking benefits from BSPS early. I also dont think its unreasonable to think it would have been possible for Mr Y 
to keep working part-time and still develop his business further. Maybe not as much as by 
fully retiring from his employed role, but he could have spent more time on his business. I 
wouldnt have necessarily expected the adviser to recommend Mr Y to continue working 
part-time, however the adviser should have discussed with Mr Y whether he had considered 
this option and what financial impact different options had, so Mr Y could make an informed 
choice. In any event, Ive already said that I consider Mr Y likely would have chosen to retire 
fully from his employed role in any event.
BRWM disagreed that Mr Y could have met his income objective of £1,100 per month 
with his BSPS benefits until age 67. They also think Mr Ys statement in 2018 that he 
could manage his outgoings on significantly less income was irrelevant as it was 
given a year after the advice. BRWM says if anything this shows he needed flexible 
income depending on how his business performed. Also, if he earned more than he 
needed he would be subject to more income tax.
In their calculations they assumed Mr Y wanted £1,100 net income but the fact finds and 
suitability report make it clear the figure quoted was gross. So Im still satisfied his 
income objectives could have been met by taking benefits from BSPS. I do think Mr Ys 
statement about his required income is relevant even if it was given a year after the 
advice. My key issue here is that BRWM didnt seem to have probed Mr Ys income 
requirements and asked whether he could live on less before they gave their advice. It 
seems the required income was simply taken on face value. Mr Ys outgoings didnt 
change between 2017 and 2018, so the answer that he could live on less would have 
likely been the same. I also dont think potentially paying more income tax on money he 
might not needed to cover his outgoings, was a valid reason to forego likely higher and 
guaranteed benefits in retirement.
Mr Y and Mrs Ys state pensions and Mr Ys final salary pension would have provided 
guaranteed income streams which would have been factored into Mr Ys capacity for 
loss.
Mr Ys DB scheme was a significant proportion of the couples pension provisions. I agree 
they had other guaranteed income streams which gave them some security and which 
meant they could afford some losses. However, I still think they relied on Mr Ys pension 
income and his capacity for loss was still fairly low. And most importantly, there was no need 
for Mr Y to take any risk with his pension as his objectives could be achieved by taking his 
BSPS benefits.
The average gross return of cautious portfolios (0%-35% invested in equities) 
between 1990 and 2021 was 6.35% a year. And Mr Ys recommended portfolio had 
grown by 23.62% in the last five years and by an average of 6.51% since launch in 
2009. Even when taking into account ongoing charges of 0.75% these rates were 
well in excess of the 3.9% projected.
Historic performance doesnt guarantee future performance and the regulators grow rates 
provide in my view a more objective and reasonable benchmark. I think Mr Y couldnt 
reasonably rely on achieving returns above the middle growth rate in a cautious portfolio and 
there was a risk returns could be lower over the long-term and Mr Y could run of funds 
unless he reduced income over time. I dont think this was a risk Mr Y needed to take.
In response to my findings on flexibility, BRWM say they explored Mr Ys plans up 
until state retirement age and he didnt have concrete plans after that. They disagree Mr Y excess funds could have been put into savings or cash ISAs as offer rates 
would have been eroded by inflation. Mr Ys daughter was 20 at the time of the 
advice so only would have been eligible for a dependants pension until 23. The 
flexibility of death benefits was another reason for transferring.
The point I was making about the need for flexibility was that I cant see persuasive 
reasons why Mr Y couldnt have benefited from a steady income from his DB scheme. I 
set out how using the tax-free cash lump sum from BSPS would have provided some 
flexibility before age 67 and other pensions could have been deferred if they werent 
needed. Its true that Mr Ys daughter likely wouldnt have benefited from a dependants 
pension as on balance it was unlikely Mr Y would die within the next three years.  
However, as I said before the primary purpose of a pension is to provide retirement 
benefits and the longer Mr Y lived the less likely his daughter would be financially 
dependant on him in any event, so I dont consider the flexibility of death benefits here to 
be a reasonable justification for a transfer.
Mr Y was given information about the PPF by BRWM and by the scheme, however 
his view was that he couldnt transfer from the PPF and that was an issue that was 
very important to him.
Its correct that a transfer from the PPF wouldnt have been possible. However, Mr Y 
should have been assured that it was in his best interest to remain in the scheme and 
take his benefits from there. So a transfer wasnt necessary. And even if the BSPS had 
not gone into the PPF, he couldnt have transferred after taking benefits from the DB 
scheme. 
summary
Overall, BRWM strongly remains of the view Mr Ys objectives couldnt have been met by 
staying in BSPS and if they advised against a transfer, he would have used a different 
financial adviser to facilitate the transfer, like a vast number of his colleagues. However, for 
reasons set out in detail in my decision, I remain satisfied that Mr Y could have met his 
objectives by taking benefits from BSPS and the advice to transfer was unsuitable. And on 
the balance of probabilities, I think Mr Y would have listened to BRWM if they had properly 
explained to him why it was in his best interest to remain in his DB scheme.
Ive carefully considered all of BRWMs comments, but they dont change my decision to 
uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr Y, as far as possible, into
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice he was given. I consider he
would have taken his benefits from BSPS immediately and subsequently moved with it to the
PPF. So calculations should be made on this assumption. For the purpose of calculations it
should be assumed he would have taken the BSPS benefits at the same time the transfer
proceeded in 2018.
BRWM must undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review
guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9:
Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptlyfollowing receipt of notification of Mr Ys acceptance of the decision.
BRWM may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ys
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ys SERPS/S2P
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid
into Mr Ys pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mr Y as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall
from the loss adequately reflects this.
In addition BRWM should pay Mr Y £300 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has
caused him.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr Y within 90 days of the date
BRWM receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes BRWM
to pay Mr Y.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Additional compensation
In October 2020, due to an improved funding position, the BSPS trustees bought an
insurance policy as part of the process of the pension scheme exiting its PPF assessment
and completing a buy-out. Pension Insurance Corporation plc (PIC) will become responsible
for paying benefits directly to members. The process of the buy-out is currently expected to
be complete by late summer 2022.
It's been announced that:
When the buy-out happens all members whose PPF benefits are less than their full Scheme
benefits (i.e. the amount they would be if the Scheme were not in a PPF assessment period)
will see an increase to their benefits. All other members will see no change as a result of the
buy-out.
For most members, PPF level benefits are less than full Scheme benefits. When the buyout
happens, these members will see an increase to their current level of benefits so they will
receive more than PPF levels. All other members will see no change to their current level of
benefits as a result of the buy-out.As explained earlier I think Mr Y would have taken benefits early from BSPS. Due to the 
lower early retirement reduction factor which would have applied in the PPF, I think (albeit 
without certainty in advance of knowing the detailed terms of the buy-out) that entry into the 
PPF would have produced an overall better outcome for Mr Y than if he had received full 
scheme benefits from BSPS. As such, I think its more likely the case that there would be no 
deficit in the PPF benefits which could be made up by the buy-out process.
For this reason I require BRWM to undertake a redress calculation on the current known
basis, rather than wait for the terms of any future buy-out to be confirmed. This is in order to
provide a resolution as swiftly as possible for both parties, and bring finality to proceedings.
If Mr Y accepts my final decision hell will be doing so on the basis of my understanding as 
set out above. Its important that Mr Y is aware that, once this final decision has been issued, 
if accepted, it cannot be amended or revisited in the future.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and to ask Bailey Richards Wealth 
Management Limited to pay Mr Y compensation as set out above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I additionally require Bailey 
Richards Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr Y any interest on that amount in full,
as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I only require Bailey Richards 
Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr Y any interest as set out above on
the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Bailey Richards Wealth Management Limited pays Mr Y the balance. I additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr Y.
If Mr Y accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Bailey Richards 
Wealth Management Limited. My recommendation is not binding. Further, its unlikely that 
Mr Y can accept my final decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr Y may want to 
consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final 
decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022. 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman