DRN-2541152
The complaint
Mr C complains about TSB Bank plc (TSB) that he was unable to log into his mobile app or 
internet banking services which meant that he was unable to transfer money into his wifes 
account.
What happened
Mr C says that he has been unable to use the online services on two separate occasions (5 
October 2020 and 30 October 2020). On 5 October, Mr C was unable to transfer money into 
his wifes account as the mobile App service and internet banking wasnt working. Mr C says 
that TSB temporarily suspended his ability to log in.  Mr C had a cast on his knee during this 
time, he was particularly distressed as he thought that he would be required to go into a 
branch in order to do the transfer. He raised this matter with TSB on the same day. He was 
told that there was a system issue which meant that many customers were unable to use 
their online services. 
Due to the system issues, TSB offered an apology to Mr C and offered him £25 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience that he suffered. They also offered £8.50 
to cover the cost of his calls. As Mr C declined the offer, TSB increased the compensation 
amount to £50 for the distress and inconvenience and £8.50 to cover the cost of his calls. Mr 
C accepted this offer but later advised TSB that this amount hadnt been paid into his 
account. TSB acknowledged their error and paid the £50 compensation into his account. 
They increased the payment to cover the additional call Mr C had made and paid him £10. 
TSB have also said that a similar issue occurred on 30 October whereby Mr C had trouble 
accessing his Mobile App and Internet Banking services. TSB said that they were 
experiencing an issue with their digital channels, which prevented customers from accessing 
their account. They apologised for the issue and explained that this was resolved on the 
same day. TSB offered £30 compensation for the distress and inconvenience that this matter 
had caused, however Mr C had declined this.
One of our investigators looked into this matter and didnt uphold it. The investigator said 
that the amount of compensation TSB has offered on both occasions is fair in the 
circumstances of the complaint. Mr C disagrees with the view and explains that he isnt 
disputing the compensation amount. He says that the £90 is satisfactory, but he finds the 
frequency of the online issues occurring to be unacceptable. So, this matter has been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about whether TSB have done enough in these circumstances to show that they 
have acted in a fair and reasonable manner in regard to the online issues that Mr C has 
faced. Im satisfied that they have, let me explain why. 
On 5 October, I can see that Mr C was unable to log onto his mobile App and internet 
banking between 07:48AM and 08:00AM. Mr C was able to log into his mobile app at 
13:02PM, which means that he could have done any transfers at that point. I can see that no 
transfers were made by Mr C once the issue had been resolved. On 30 October, Ive seen 
evidence that shows Mr C was able to log in on several occasions that day, there was one 
failed attempt at logging in at 13:46PM. Again, no transfers were done on that day.
Although I can appreciate that this would have caused a level of inconvenience, Mr C was 
able to log in on the same day for both occasions. This means that he wouldve been able to 
transfer funds himself. I appreciate that the thought of going into a branch would have been 
distressing as Mr C was in a knee cast at that time. However, he did have the option to use 
the automated telephone banking system which wouldve allowed him to transfer the funds 
whilst the online services werent working.
TSB have said that on both occasions they had a system issue which is why Mr C was 
unable to use his App or the main internet banking system. The system issue also caused 
his account to be suspended on a temporary basis during the first incident. However, Ive 
looked at page 5 of TSBs Internet Banking agreement that does say customers may not be 
able to use all of their services all the time, and at times access can be slower if repairs or 
maintenance is being conducted.
Ive already said that a technical issue has occurred on both occasions which is why Mr C 
was unable to access his online services or transfer funds. So, Ive thought about how TSB 
have handled the matter. I was pleased to see that they have offered an apology and 
compensation on both occasions and agreed to reimburse Mr C for his calls. I understand 
that Mr C had to follow up with TSB on one occasion where the agreed compensation wasnt 
processed. Again, as TSB offered a reimbursement for his calls, this is fair. Overall, Im 
satisfied that the actions taken by TSB are fair reasonable and the compensation offered is 
reasonable given the inconvenience experienced by Mr C. 
Im aware that Mr C has recently faced a similar issue, although in this decision Im only 
looking at the two incidents referred to above. I understand that Mr C is also unhappy about 
the handling of his complaint but as this is not a regulated activity, Im unable to make any 
decision in this regard. Mr C has the option to raise any wider concerns regarding the 
operation of the bank with the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
However, I find that TSB have acted in a fair and reasonable manner with regard to the 
difficulties that Mr C has had with accessing his online services.  And it is for this reason that 
I wont be asking TSB Bank plc to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Afroz Rasool
Ombudsman