DRN-3143926
Complaint
Ms S is unhappy with the interest rate Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) is proposing to charge her 
for using her overdraft. She says its unfair that she will be charged an Annual Percentage 
Rate (APR) of 49.9% when the standard rate for accounts of her type is 29.9%.
Background
In 2020, Lloyds wrote to its customers to explain that it would be moving to a new overdraft 
pricing structure based on an APR. Ms S was told that the APR that would be applied to her 
overdraft would be 49.9%. Ms S complained to Lloyds saying this rate was significantly 
higher than the amount that other Club Lloyds accountholders were receiving. 
Lloyds didnt uphold Ms S complaint. It said it considered a number of factors when deciding 
which APR to apply on an overdraft and it was satisfied that Ms S wasnt treated unfairly. Ms 
S remained dissatisfied and referred her complaint to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Ms S concerns. She didnt think that Lloyds had done 
anything wrong or treated Ms S unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Ms S disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Ms S complaint. 
Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that a banks decision to alter its 
overdraft pricing structure and the associated rates it sets are commercial decisions. So 
while Ms S is unhappy with what she considers to be an unfair overdraft interest rate, Im 
afraid that this isnt something for me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at Lloyds charging structure changes per se, it wont have 
acted fairly and reasonably towards Ms S if it implemented these changes unfairly. Ms S 
says that the changes have been implemented unfairly here as she has been treated as a 
higher risk customer even though she has an impeccable track record, an excellent credit 
score and shes a Club Lloyds accountholder. She cant understand why he hasnt been 
offered the lower interest rate. 
But while Ms S may be keen to get a better understanding of why she hasnt been offered 
the lower interest rate its, ultimately, up to Lloyds how it assesses what interest rate to offer 
its customers. Thats a business decision for it to make. And its not for our service to tell 
Lloyds how to assess application or say it should have offered a lower interest rate to a 
customer. 
Lloyds says it considered a number of factors when making its decision including, amongst 
other things, Ms S relationship with the bank, credit file data, her existing overdraft limit and 
her usage of the facility. These are factors which are typically considered by most, if not, all 
lenders when deciding to offer credit and on what terms. So I dont think that theres anything 
here to indicate that Ms S has been discriminated against. And being a Club Lloyds 
accountholder doesnt guarantee a particular overdraft interest rate, or even than 
accountholder will be able to have an overdraft at all.
I understand Ms S strength of feeling on this matter and why she might be unhappy at 
having to pay a higher interest rate than some other customers. But as Ms S is rarely 
overdrawn and her facility has a small credit limit, Im satisfied shes able to stop using it and 
have it removed, if she doesnt want to accept the new pricing structure. 
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Lloyds implemented these 
changes in a way that treated Ms S unfairly. And as the terms and conditions permitted 
Lloyds to make these changes in the first place, it follows that Im not upholding Ms S 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman