DRN-3807635
The complaint
G complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund the money it lost when it was the 
victim of a scam.
What happened
G is a limited company that deals with the wholesale of food products and, in 2021, it was 
looking to buy chocolate bars. It found a company offering some for sale through an online 
marketplace and agreed a price to buy them. The selling company said the delivery of the 
chocolate bars would be handled by a shipping company, and the shipping company then 
got in touch with G saying it would need to pay to insure the delivery. G made a payment to 
the shipping company for this insurance, but the shipping company came back a number of 
times saying further payments needed to be made for various other reasons. And G 
ultimately made a number of payments to the shipping company over the next few months, 
totalling around £30,000. Unfortunately we now know the shipping company was a scam.
The scam was uncovered after the shipping company asked G to pay for a replacement 
vehicle after the delivery vehicle broke down. But G didnt think it should have to pay for this, 
so didnt send any further money. The chocolate bars were never delivered, and both the 
shipping company and the delivery company stopped responding to G, so G reported the 
payments to Barclays as fraud and asked it to refund them.
Barclays investigated but said it felt it had given G effective warning when the payments 
were made, and G had said it was happy to proceed with the payments. It also said the 
payments werent unusual or out of character for G. So it didnt agree to refund the money G 
had lost. G wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so referred a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They said similar sized payments had been 
made out of Gs account in the previous twelve months, so these payments didnt look 
unusual. And that the payments werent made particularly close together, so didnt look out 
of character either. So they didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong and didnt think it 
should have to refund the payments. G disagreed with our investigator, so the complaint has 
been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Banks are expected to make payments in line with their customers instructions. And G 
accepts it made the payments. So while I recognise it didnt intend for the money to go to 
scammers, it did authorise the payments. And so the starting position in law is that it is liable 
for them and Barclays doesnt have to refund the money it lost.
However, where a customer made a payment as a consequence of the actions of a 
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer 
even though they authorised the payment.
Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I think Barclays should fairly 
and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So Ive also considered whether Barclays should have identified that G was potentially at risk 
of fraud as a result of these scam payments.
From looking at the statements for Gs account, there are a number of payments out of the 
account over the past twelve months for what I consider to be similar amounts to these 
payments. There are also a number of payments to what appear to be accounts money 
hadnt been sent to before, as happened with these payments. There are other times when 
significant amounts are transferred into the account before being transferred out again, as 
happened with some of these payments. And the balance of the account fluctuates quite a 
lot, and so none of these payments left the account balance at a particularly unusual level. 
The payments were also made out of a business account. And business accounts are often 
used in a different way to personal accounts, with businesses being more likely to make 
occasional large payments out. Banks potential liabilities for failing to follow a customers 
instructions can also be significantly higher for business customers too.
So I dont think these payments will have looked particularly unusual or suspicious to 
Barclays. I think its reasonable that Barclays didnt identify that G was potentially at risk of 
fraud as a result of these payments. And so I think its reasonable that Barclays didnt ask 
any further questions or carry out any further checks before allowing the payments to go 
through.
I appreciate that G has been the victim of a cruel scam. But, for the reasons set out above, I 
dont think Barclays has acted unreasonably or that anything we would reasonably expect it 
to have done would have prevented G losing the money. And so I dont think it would be fair 
to require Barclays to refund the money G lost.
Ive also considered whether Barclays did enough to help G recover the money it had lost 
once it was made aware of the scam. Barclays has said it contacted the banks the money 
was sent to, and that those banks havent been able to return any of the money. It hasnt 
been able to send us clear evidence of this. But as the payments were international 
payments and several months had already passed since the payments were made, I think 
its very unlikely any money could have been recovered anyway. And so I dont think it would 
be fair to require Barclays to refund any of the money G lost as a result of this either.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman