DRN-4408327
The complaint
Miss R complains that Helvetia Global Solutions Ltd unfairly declined a claim she made 
under her furniture insurance policy.
Helvetia is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As Helvetia has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agents, 
in my decision, any reference to Helvetia includes the actions of the agents. 
What happened
In September 2022, Miss R took out a furniture insurance policy with Helvetia when she 
purchased a three piece suite. 
In mid-2023 Miss R made a claim under the policy because there were a number of stains 
on the furniture. 
Helvetia declined Miss Rs claim. It said the staining on her furniture was consistent with 
staining that had been allowed to accumulate over a period of time through normal everyday 
usage. It said the damage wasnt covered under the policys terms and conditions.
Miss R raised a complaint with Helvetia, but it maintained its position. So, Miss R asked our 
service to consider the matter.
Our investigator didnt think Miss Rs complaint should be upheld. She thought it was fair for 
Helvetia to have declined Miss Rs claim because the damage didnt appear to be covered 
by the policy.
Miss R disagreed with our investigators outcome. She said she didnt think it was fair as 
shed paid a lot of money for her sofa and was told to pay more for protection. She said she 
was told stains would wipe off but an ice pop that had splashed on it wouldnt wipe off and 
had left a stain. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
The policys terms and conditions say that Accidental damage (including staining) is 
covered.
Accidental damage (including staining) is defined as:
The sudden and unforeseen damage to the product(s) or the sudden and unforeseen 
contact between the product(s) and a substance resulting in a stain to the product(s) subject 
to the exclusions listed under Section 5 What is not Covered.
The policys terms and conditions also say:
Please note that this policy provides cover for specific accidental events and stains and is 
not a general cleaning or maintenance contract. As such, cover is not provided for staining 
and damage, accidental or otherwise, which has occurred or accumulated over a period of 
time or is from normal everyday use.
The list under what is not covered includes:
The gradual accumulation of stain or dye transfer or by accumulated multiple stains or by 
unidentifiable stain(s); and
Stains caused by due transfer unless resulting from sudden contact with clothing or 
newspaper and magazine print;
I understand that Miss R initially contacted the retailer who sold her the suite after she first 
noticed the stains. Shes provided a copy of the report from the technician who visited her 
property in February 2023. The technician concluded that the damage on the furniture was 
due to dye transfer from clothing. 
After Miss R made her claim, Helvetia sent its own technician to review the furniture. 
Helvetias technician also concluded that the damage was due to dye transfer from clothing 
and said it wasnt a one-off incident.
Given what it says in the policys terms and conditions, I dont think it was unfair for Helvetia 
to decline Miss Rs claim. 
Helvetia has noted that Miss R suggested the damage occurred around Christmas time. 
However, the damage appears to be across all of the items, which suggests it didnt happen 
as a sudden, one-off event. I think its more likely to have occurred over a period of time or 
from normal everyday use.
I know my answer will be disappointing for Miss R. I understand the suite was a significant 
purchase for her and she says she was told it would be protected from clothing dye. I can 
understand her frustration that this has turned out not to be the case. However, I cant tell 
Helvetia to pay out for a claim that doesnt appear to be covered by the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 December 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman