DRN-3595813
The complaint
Mrs L complains about esure Insurance Limiteds handling of her buildings insurance claim.
All references to esure also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
However, before I do so I would like to say Im sorry to hear about Mr Ls passing and 
Mrs Ls own health problems  which shes explained to both esure and our service.
The claim was put on hold until around January 2022 due to both Mr and Mrs L being unwell. 
So my decision focusses on events up until esures final response in May 2022. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
I can see there has been some progress to the claim between January and May 
2022, but there does appear to have been further issues identified, with another leak 
discovered in the property.
However, I can also see there were several occasions where matters appear to have 
not been progressed as quickly as they reasonably could. For example, excavation 
work was carried out in January 2022 but a contractor for drying work was not 
appointed until February 2022 - and this didnt appear to begin until March 2022.
esure have said the secondary leak caused some delays in works commencing but I 
cant see that this was identified before March 2022. Mrs L appears to be aware of 
the additional leak. And she has said she tried to make esure aware of this as early 
as January 2022 but she was unable to get in contact with the assigned loss 
adjuster.
From what Ive seen, Im not persuaded Mrs L was kept up to date with what was 
going on with the claim. She was put in accommodation esure accept was not ideally 
suited to her, despite what it knew about her health issues, and it has accepted the 
appointed adjuster failed to keep her updated - meaning esure had to eventually 
intervene to progress matters. 
Mrs L has also said in communication to esure about the anxiety she had been 
caused regarding whether or not she would be able to remain in her alternative 
accommodation.
esure has accepted it could have delivered better service to Mrs L, but I dont think its 
offer of £150 compensation goes far enough to address matters. Considering what 
Ive set out above, I think esure should pay Mrs L £300 compensation. I feel this 
better reflects the distress and inconvenience she has been caused.
So for these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ls complaint.
To put things right, I direct esure Insurance Limited to pay Mrs L £300 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman