DRN-1991217
 
The complaint
Mr A complains that esure Insurance Limited is involved with incorrectly recording that his 
car has been written off when it hasnt been. 
What happened
When Mr A tried to sell his car a dealer told him his insurer had recorded the car as having 
been written off. He complained to esure who informed him it had not recorded that his car 
had been written off  no claims had been made and so it wouldnt have had a need to. 
esure referred him to two different insurers who might be able to help. 
Not happy with that, Mr A asked us to investigate. esure provided us with screen shots from 
the Motor Insurance Anti-Fraud Register (MIAFTR) which showed another insurer  which Ill 
call A - had recorded the information against Mr As car registration details. However, the 
name was different. Our investigator concluded esure hadnt done anything wrong. She was 
satisfied it was A that was responsible for adding the record and so Mr A needs to pursue 
this matter with it. 
Mr A disagrees. He doesnt believe esure has provided sufficient evidence to support the 
investigators outcome and he says A will only cooperate with esure about this.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr A feels strongly about his complaint. But I can only uphold it and make an 
award against esure if I find it has done something wrong. 
esure has provided screen shots of the MIAFTR database, which shows that A has recorded 
that Mr As car was involved in an accident on 8 July, albeit with a different persons details. 
It updated this information to the database on 26 July 2019. Whilst Mr A may disagree, Im 
satisfied this information is sufficient for me to reach a conclusion that A is responsible for 
the incorrect information recorded. 
Mr A has said that A will only deal with esure on this matter. Im not quite sure why that 
would be necessary. But in any event, Mr A hasnt provided any persuasive evidence that A 
has attempted to gain esures assistance with this, and esure has refused. I therefore find no 
basis on which to uphold this complaint. 
If Mr A wishes to pursue this matter further, he will need to do so with A. As the investigator 
explained, that isnt a matter we can help with as Mr A isnt a customer of A in relation to this 
matter.  Mr A can also take the matter up with MIAFTR.  
 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2020. 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman