DRN-3841287
The complaint
Mr F complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard removed his spending 
facility.
What happened
Mr F held a credit card account with Barclaycard.
Barclaycard removed the spending facility in July 2022 because it hadnt received payments 
in line with what was requested on Mr Fs monthly statements since April 2022.
Mr F complained to Barclaycard. He said he hadnt been advised previously that his account 
would be closed. He said hed tried to make payments but hadnt been able to make contact 
with Barclaycard.
In response, Barclaycard said it was unable to uphold the complaint because the spending 
facility was correctly removed.
Mr F didnt agree and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that although Mr F had some issues 
with his current account which meant it had limited functionality, there were other ways in 
which Mr F could have made payments to his credit card.
Mr F didnt agree. He said Barclaycard wouldnt accept a bank transfer and that hed been 
advised by his local branch that he could only pay with a debit card.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the account history for Mr Fs credit card. I can see that he made a payment in 
March 2022, but no further payments were made until August 2022.
On the monthly statement dated 24 June 2022 Barclaycard advised Mr F that if he continued 
to miss payments, the spending facility would be removed from his account. Mr F failed to 
make a payment by the due date of 19 July 2022 and accordingly the spending facility was 
removed.
Mr F has said that he tried to contact Barclaycard to discuss how he could make a payment 
to his credit card. He spoke to Barclaycard on 21 July 2022 and advised them that the 
reason hed fallen behind on payment was due to him forgetting about the card because he 
hadnt used it for a long time. Mr F didnt mention any issues with his debit card during this 
call. In a further call dated 9 August 2022 Mr F told Barclaycard that he was having 
difficulties with his debit card.
Barclaycard says it removed Mr Fs spending facility because he missed payments. In order 
to uphold this complaint, I would need to be satisfied that Mr F didnt have any other way of 
making payments to his credit card.
Mr F said that he made calls to Barclaycard in April and May 2022 and that hed made them 
aware that he was unable to pay. Apart from the two calls Ive mentioned above, Barclaycard 
hasnt been able to locate any call recordings or provide any call notes. So, theres no 
evidence to support Mr Fs assertion that he made these calls. Even if I accepted that Mr F 
made these calls, I still think he could have made payments to his credit card in other ways. 
Mr F could have paid by bank transfer or by cash or cheque at a bank.
I think Mr F ought reasonably to have been aware that he could make payments by other 
methods because the information on how to pay was set out clearly on us monthly 
statements for the credit card. The information is also set out clearly on Barclaycards 
website.
Taking everything into account, I dont think Barclaycard made an error in removing the 
spending facility, nor do I think it has treated Mr F unfairly. I wont be asking Barclaycard to 
do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman