DRN-2875390
The complaint
Mr C complains about Allay Claims Ltd and the settlement fee they are charging him after he 
received a successful payment protection insurance (PPI) refund.
What happened
In June 2019, Mr C instructed Allay to complete a free PPI check through an online website. 
Mr C signed letters of authority (LOA) as part of this sign up process, which authorised Allay 
to pursue a claim against lender B.
Lender B confirmed Mr C had PPI on his accounts with them and Allay contacted Mr C to 
ask him to complete and return a PPI questionnaire. Mr C provided this in August 2019 and 
Allay submitted a full claim at this point.
Mr Cs claim was successful and lender B provided Mr C with a substantial PPI refund. So, 
Allay invoiced Mr C for their settlement fee. But Mr C was unhappy with how much Allay 
were charging him. So, Mr C paid Allay £1800 but raised a complaint.
Mr C didnt think Allay made it clear to him how much they would charge if a claim was 
successful. And he didnt think the work they completed was worth the invoice he was being 
charged. Mr C also felt Allay had pressured him into signing up to their services with 
telephone calls. So, Mr C wanted Allay to waive the remainder of their settlement fee that 
was left outstanding.
Allay didnt agree. They thought Mr C had agreed to their terms and conditions by signing 
the LOAs. And they felt these terms and conditions made it reasonably clear that they 
provided a no win no fee service as well as the fee they would charge if a claim was 
successful. So, they thought the remainder of their settlement fee was payable. And they 
didnt agree theyd pressured Mr C into signing up to their services, as hed signed the LOA 
as part of the sign-up process, which was done online before theyd spoken to him. So, they 
didnt think theyd done anything wrong and didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr 
C was unhappy with the response, so we continued to investigate his complaint.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She thought Mr C had agreed 
to the terms and conditions, and so the fee Allay would charge, when he signed the LOAs. 
And although she recognised Mr C hadnt read these fully, she didnt think it was fair to hold 
Allay responsible for this. She was satisfied Allay completed the work that led to the 
successful claim, so she thought Allay were fair to charge their fee, in line with the terms and 
conditions of the agreement.
And she didnt think Allay had pressured Mr C into signing up to use Allays services. She 
explained shed seen Allay had chased Mr C for further information after theyd already been 
instructed but she thought this was reasonable. And shed thought Mr C had provided this 
further information. She thought that, if Mr C was unhappy with Allay continuing with the 
claim, it was reasonable to expect him to make them aware of this at that point. And she 
hadnt seen evidence to show he had. So, she thought Allay had acted fairly and didnt think 
they needed to do anything more.
Mr C didnt agree. He maintained his view that it was unreasonable to expect him to read the 
entire terms and conditions to understand the fee that would be charged. He thought hed 
been pressured into signing up to use Allays service and still believed the fee Allay invoiced 
him for was excessive. As Mr C didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr C. I dont doubt Mr C didnt 
fully understand the fee Allay would charge him if his claim was successful. And, as the PPI 
refund Mr C received from lender B was substantial, I think the fee Allay charged was 
considerably higher than he expected it to be. So, I can understand why Mr C would be 
shocked and concerned when he received that invoice. But, for me to say Allay have acted 
unfairly and unreasonably by charging this fee, Id need to see one of two things. Id need to 
be satisfied that Allay failed to make Mr C reasonably aware of the fee theyd charged before 
he authorised them to pursue his claim. Or, if they did, that the work they completed was of 
no material value to the successful claim. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Mr C doesnt dispute that he instructed Allay to pursue the claims on his behalf. And Mr C 
hasnt said he dealt with lender B directly to secure the successful PPI refund. Ive seen 
Allays system notes which show they submitted the claim to lender B and the offer letter 
from lender B, which was sent to both Mr C and Allay. So, Im satisfied that the work Allay 
completed led to the refund Mr C received. And because of this, I think they are entitled to 
charge Mr C their settlement as long as Mr C was made reasonably aware of how this would 
be calculated. So, Ive thought about whether I think he was.
Ive seen Mr C instructed Mr C to complete a free PPI check through an online website on 23 
June 2019. And Ive seen Mr C signed the LOAs on the same day. Ive seen as part of this 
process, Mr C provided his address, contact number, e-mail address and date of birth. As 
this personal information was correct, Im satisfied it was Mr C who completed this sign-up 
process.
And Allay have shown me that, to sign the LOA, Mr C wouldve needed to have read and 
accepted the terms and conditions of the agreement. The LOA also explain that, by signing 
them, Mr C was agreeing to be bound by these terms.
And Ive seen the terms, which explain If the agreed fee is 24% (inclusive of VAT where 
applicable) and the redress we obtain for you is £1,000 then the fee payable by you to us 
would be £240 (inclusive of VAT where applicable). If the redress we obtain for you is £3,000 
then the fee payable by you to us would be £720 (inclusive of VAT where applicable). If the 
redress we obtain for you is £10,000 then the fee payable by you to us would be £2,400 
(inclusive of VAT where applicable). The fee will be payable to us immediately upon receipt 
of your refund.
I think this makes it reasonably clear to Mr C that Allays fee would be 24% inclusive of VAT. 
And I think it also makes it clear that the amount Allay would charge would be based on the 
value of the refund Mr C received. So, I think it was made reasonably clear to Mr C that the higher the refund he received from lender B, the higher Allays fee would be. And as Mr C 
signed the LOA, I think he agreed to be bound by this.
I do understand that Mr C doesnt always read the terms and conditions of agreements he 
enters into. And I can appreciate this fee information was included within a page of text. But 
whenever a customer is entering into a binding agreement with a company such as Allay, Id 
expect them to make sure they fully understood the fee structure and what they were likely 
to pay. If Mr C was unsure of this, or didnt want to read the terms and conditions, Id have 
expected him to confirm this with Allay by other means before signing the documents. And 
crucially, in this situation, Mr C signed the documents online before he ever spoke to Allay. 
So, I think the onus was on Mr C to ensure he understood the terms.
Ive also considered Mr Cs comments about being pressured into using Allays services. But 
as Ive explained, Mr C signed the LOAs online before Allay ever contacted him. Ive seen 
Mr C did received contact after PPI was identified and this was Allay asking for Mr C to 
complete a PPI questionnaire so they could supply this to lender B. Ive seen Allay sent Mr C 
two texts and three e-mails asking for this information between 27 July and 15 August 2019. 
And Ive seen it was completed by Mr C on 20 August 2019. I dont think this shows Allay 
pressured Mr C into returning these documents. And in any event, Allay were already 
instructed by this point.
If Mr C was unhappy with the level of contact he was receiving, I wouldve expected him to 
raise his concerns with Allay at this point. And if necessary, explain he no longer wished for 
them to continue. But Ive seen no evidence to show he did so. Instead, he returned the 
questionnaire Allay asked for. So, I dont think I can say Allay acted unfairly, or should 
reduce their fee because of this.
So, Im satisfied Allay completed the work required to secure the PPI refund Mr C received. 
And I think Allay made it reasonably clear to Mr C what their fee would be before he entered 
into the agreement. Ive seen the settlement fee Allay are charging Mr C. And this fee is 
charged in line with the terms and conditions of the agreement. So, I cant say Allay have 
acted unfairly by invoicing Mr C for this amount and I think the remainder of the fee remains 
payable. Because of this, I dont think Allay need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr C was hoping for. And I recognise this means there 
will be an additional amount left to pay Allay. But as Ive explained, I can only say this should 
be waived if I think Allay have done something wrong. And I dont think they have. But Im 
aware its been some time since Mr C received the PPI refund and Id expect Allay to 
discuss affordable repayment options with Mr C if hes no longer able to pay the remaining 
fee in full.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint about Allay Claims Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman