DRN-3577121
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim 
they made under sections 56, 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in 
relation to a solar panel system they say was misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mr and Mrs B are represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around April 2015, Mr and Mrs B were contacted by a representative of a company Ill 
call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at their 
home. After being visited by a representative of P, Mr and Mrs B decided to purchase the 
system and finance it through a five year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The 
system was subsequently installed.
In March 2021 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr and Mrs Bs behalf under section 
75 of the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr and Mrs B to enter into the contract with P. The 
CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
the system would generate free electricity, which could be sold to the national grid;
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on their electricity bills would provide almost 
enough income to cover the monthly loan payments, and they would only have to top 
up their loan payments with about £15 to £20 a month of their own money (but 
instead there was a monthly deficit of £137);
after the loan ended, the system would be profitable, and it would pay for its cash 
price within eight years, and for the loan within ten years (but instead it has 
transpired that it will actually take 16 years to pay for the loan); and
the system would not require maintenance (but in fact the inverter would have to be 
replaced at least once during the systems 25-year lifespan, at a cost of £1,500 each 
time).
Further, the CMC said that P did not explain that the panels would deteriorate over time, 
generating less energy each year.
Shawbrook did not respond to the claim, so the CMC brought this complaint to our service. 
Shawbrook didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr and Mrs B or that there 
were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr and Mrs B and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
it was not credible that P had told Mr and Mrs B that the system would pay for the 
loan within ten years;
Mr and Mrs B could have afforded to buy the panels outright, without needing a loan, 
so the only explanation for them increasing their outgoings by taking a loan must be 
that the financial benefits from the system had been misrepresented to them;
Mr and Mrs Bs evidence was more convincing that Ps or Shawbrooks; and
where a person is unaware that a representation is false, the fact that they could 
have found out it was false by taking reasonable care is not a defence in law.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr and Mrs B paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr and Mrs B could claim against 
Shawbrook (the creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same 
way they could have claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into account 
when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr and 
Mrs B and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In 
this case, the CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system, and also on the 
possibility that Shawbrook paid P commission or gave P some other financial incentive to 
broker the loan. Shawbrook denies that it paid commission, and I have seen no evidence to 
the contrary.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr and Mrs B say that during a sales meeting they were told that the system would be 
entirely self-financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both parties. These include the 
credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. Ive considered these, along with Mr and Mrs Bs testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to decide 
on balance what is most likely to have happened.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (i.e. the cash price of the system), 
the interest to be charged, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with Mr and Mrs B, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to them agreeing to enter into the contract. It is not in dispute that a copy was 
left with them after the meeting, but it is disputed that the salesman talked them through it 
during the meeting. But I dont think its likely or plausible that they simply took the 
salesmans word for it when he told them that they could buy thousands of pounds worth of 
equipment  paid for with an interest-bearing loan  without it costing them a penny, without 
at any point asking to see something to that effect in writing. Its more likely that they have 
simply forgotten seeing the quote over the six years between the sale and the bringing of 
their claim. So on the balance of probabilities, I am satisfied that the quotation did form a 
central part of the sales process when Mr and Mrs B agreed to enter into the contract, and 
that the salesperson went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, 
along with Mr and Mrs Bs version of events, when considering if there have been any untrue 
statements of fact.
FIT payments and savings
Mr and Mrs B have said that they were told their monthly loan repayments would be 
covered, or self-funded by the FIT payments and the savings on their energy bills. Ive 
considered the quote that was provided by P as well as Mr and Mrs Bs recollections of their 
meeting with Ps representative to decide what is most likely to have been said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr and Mrs B could 
expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected 
FIT payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT 
scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr and Mrs B could expect to receive a total 
FIT income in year one of £601.29, which results in an average monthly income of about 
£50. Im satisfied that the same document set out that there would be a monthly loan 
repayment due of £203.59. The quote then goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr and 
Mrs B could expect from the system. The expected year one electricity savings are £321.61 
and, when taking into account the optional extras chosen by Mr and Mrs B, the combined 
income and savings in year one is shown as £1,089.57. This is shown in a table titled 
Putting it all together. That total works out as less than £91 a month. So I cannot conclude 
that the salesman told them that the system would almost be enough to cover the monthly 
loan repayments, with a shortfall of only £15 to £20 a month.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 60 months as this is the 
length of the loan that Mr and Mrs B entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan 
as repayable in 60 monthly payments of £203.59. For each year of the five year loan it 
shows the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 
months, and subtracts the monthly loan repayment, to give an average difference between 
the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. This gives 
a negative figure for every year of the loan, meaning that the system would never make 
enough money to cover the loan payments. The average monthly shortfall in year one is 
£112, dropping to £90 a month in year five.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr and Mrs B could expect to receive from the 
system, by way of FIT payments and savings, as well as their expected contractual monthly 
loan repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income and 
savings to the monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income they 
could expect to receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings would not be 
immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. (This supports my finding 
above that Mr and Mrs B werent told that the FIT payments alone would cover the loan 
repayments.) Ive carefully thought about Mr and Mrs Bs version of events. However, as Ive 
found that the quote did form a central part of the sales process which the salesperson went 
through at the meeting, I dont think I can reasonably find that they were told that the monthly 
loan repayments would be mostly covered by the FIT income and savings, with only a 
shortfall of £20.
I am reinforced in my view by this graph, which also appeared in the quote and which plainly 
showed that the system would not be nearly enough to cover the loan payments.
Self-funding and system deterioration
Ill now consider whether P told Mr and Mrs B that the system would be self-funding from the 
outset. In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to 
have happened.
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand. On balance Im also satisfied that the 
salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start. 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr and Mrs B were told by P that the system would be self-
funding over a certain period of time.
The Key Facts page of the quote states in large font that it would take eight years for the 
overall benefits that Mr and Mrs B could expect to receive to match the cash price of the 
system.
I think the eight-year estimated payback time is clear and prominent, being in large print on 
page 2, and so I dont consider that it needed further explaining. This figure also appears in 
the Putting it all together section.
A later page of the quote has a table detailing the estimated performance of the system over 
20 years. This too shows that during year eight the overall benefits that Mr and Mrs B could 
expect to receive would reach the cash price of the system, £10,469. (To save space I have 
only reproduced the three rows for years 1, 7 and 8 of the table.)
 
The same table shows that the total amount payable under the loan agreement, £13,214.80, 
would be reached by the end of year 10.
This table also shows, in the first column (which is titled Panel degradation), how the 
panels will reduce in efficiency year on year. This is shown as a percentage which reduces 
each year, ending in year 20 at 93.2%. The quote also says (on page 3) that the 25 year 
warranty covers the panels for up to 90% of their original output. So Im satisfied that the 
quote did take into account that the panels would deteriorate over time, and that this would 
have been factored into the table, and into the quote generally. And Im satisfied that the 
quote explained this adequately.
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr and Mrs B that the system would pay for its 
cash price in eight years, and for the loan in about ten years, as supported by the graph and 
the table above, which were included in the quote. If that were an untrue statement of fact, 
and Im satisfied that this was what induced them to enter into the contract, and they 
subsequently suffered a loss, then that could amount to a misrepresentation.
The CMC says it is untrue because it will actually take 15 or 16 years for the system to pay 
for itself. So Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in 
line with the contract between P and Mr and Mrs B.
Performance
The MCS certificate and quote set out that the system is expected to produce 4,131 kWh a 
year. I have looked at Mr and Mrs Bs FIT statements and can see that their system, on 
average, has generated 4,239 kWh a year. This is slightly more than estimated by P at the 
point of sale, so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected, in terms of energy 
generation, if not financially. So the reason Mr and Mrs B have not seen the expected 
financial returns is not because the system is defective, but for some other cause.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2004 and 2013 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think 
this explains why Mr and Mrs B havent been receiving the financial returns they may have 
been expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system have 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr and Mrs B could 
have expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may 
not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due 
to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr and Mrs B entered into the 
contract.
The inverter
I dont think it is likely that the salesman would have told Mr and Mrs B that the system would 
require no maintenance over its estimated lifespan of 25 years. It is possible that the 
salesman did not tell them during the meeting that the inverter would need to be replaced, 
but that is not the same thing as a misrepresentation.
I also note that the quote says, in a section titled Inverter:
The Inverter is the one part of PV system that has a higher chance of failure and 
may require your attention within the 25 years.
So I dont uphold this complaint point.
The decision to take out a loan
Although I accept that Mr and Mrs B could have afforded to buy the system outright, I think 
that their decision to pay for it with an interest-bearing loan can be explained by  as the salesman put it  wanting to spread the cost instead. I think that in principle, there is not 
much difference between being out of pocket by £112 to £90 each month during the loan 
term, and being out of pocket by £10,469 immediately (in the case of a cash purchase). 
I think they were given enough information to make an informed decision about whether to 
take out a loan.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr and Mrs B 
to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 August 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman