DRN-4173894
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that AWP P&C SA hasnt paid a cancellation claim under their travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G hold a travel insurance policy through a bank account, provided by AWP.
Mr and Mrs G were due to travel abroad between 25 August and 15 September 2022. 
Unfortunately, Mr G tested positive for Covid-19 using a lateral flow test (LFT) the day 
before they were due to travel. Mr and Mrs G say they phoned the airline and were advised 
they wouldnt be able to fly as they would need to quarantine. So, Mr and Mrs G cancelled 
their holiday, and made a claim to AWP for the costs.
AWP said a claim would be declined without further evidence to support the claim. It said the 
LFT wasnt enough, but Mr and Mrs G could provide evidence of:
registering the LFT result with the NHS,
a PCR or equivalent antigen test showing a positive result, or
a medical report such as a medical certificate completed by a GP.
Mr and Mrs G werent able to provide any of the above. They say the policy doesnt specify 
which test is needed to make a claim, it was too late to order a PCR test, and Mr G wasnt 
well enough to visit a testing centre. And in any event, their policy covers quarantine. So, Mr 
and Mrs G brought a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having done so, she didnt think 
AWP had acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining the claim, for the reasons it did.
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree with our investigators findings. As no agreement was reached, 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules, and 
other industry guidance, into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.
Our investigator quoted the relevant terms that apply to Mr and Mrs Gs claim. The policy 
covers cancellation due to being diagnosed with Covid-19, as well as having to quarantine 
due to Covid-19. But for the claim to succeed on either ground, a policyholder needs to show 
they have a valid claim. In this instance, its for Mr and Mrs G to show that they had to cancel 
their holiday due to Covid-19.
The policy terms outline what evidence is needed in support of the claim, and the relevant 
point 6 c. under Special conditions relating to claims says that [] you must also provide 
us with: [] c. a medical certificate from a doctor to confirm that you or your travelling 
companion are not fit to travel [] So, whilst the terms dont specify which test is required, 
they do say a medical certificate from a doctor needs to be provided.
Mr and Mrs G havent been able to provide a medical certificate from a doctor as above. But 
AWP said it would accept other evidence as well, such as a PCR or equivalent antigen test 
showing a positive result, or evidence of Mr and Mrs G registering the LFT result with the 
NHS.
Overall, I dont think a photo of a positive LFT alone is enough to show Mr and Mrs G have a 
valid claim under the policy. I think AWP has acted fairly and reasonably by giving them 
options of what other evidence they could send in support of their claim. As Mr and Mrs G 
havent provided anything else, I dont think AWP has acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
declining the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman