DRN-3624993
The complaint
Mr Ls complaint is about an offset mortgage Mr L holds with Barclays Bank UK PLC and 
Barclays failure to include all Mr Ls savings accounts when offsetting mortgage interest.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letter dated 27 June 2022. All parties have a copy of that letter, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, the main issue in the compliant has been resolved. 
Finally, our decisions are published, so its important I dont include any information that 
might lead to Mr L being identified. So for these reasons, I will keep my summary of what 
happened quite brief.
Briefly, Mr L has an offset mortgage with Barclays taken out in 2008, the terms of which 
allow him to link his savings accounts to the mortgage account. Rather than interest being 
earned on his savings, it is instead used to reduce the interest on his mortgage account.
In September 2021 Mr L suspected not all his linked accounts were being used to offset the 
mortgage interest. Barclays agreed it hadnt linked four of his accounts since May 2008, but 
Barclays took no steps to redress the position. It wasnt until June 2022 that Barclays finally 
addressed the complaint, but Mr L had already contacted our service in March 2022.
After we became involved in the matter, Barclays again acknowledged it had made a 
mistake and hadnt linked all the accounts, as a result of which Mr L had been charged the 
wrong amount of interest since 2008. The bank recalculated the overcharged interest at 
£2,217.70, and penalty interest at 8% simple per annum of £1,432.83, from which Barclays 
deducted 20% for tax, which the bank paid direct to HMRC, leaving Mr L with £1,146.27. 
Barclays explained that if Mr L was entitled to reclaim the tax, he would need to contact 
HMRC. Barclays also paid Mr L £400 compensation.
Mr L was disappointed, as hed calculated that the interest refund should have been about 
£3,000 and Barclays hadnt given him a proper explanation of its calculations.
An investigator looked at the complaint. He was satisfied that Barclays calculations were 
correct. However, he thought Barclays customer service had fallen short, and asked the 
bank to pay Mr L a further £350, bringing the total compensation to £750. Barclays didnt 
agree with this, as they said that, although Mr L was elderly, he wasnt vulnerable and so 
didnt think an award of that amount was justified.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I confirm Ive reviewed the calculations provided by Barclays. We dont provide an auditing 
service, but it seems to me that the calculations are correct and that the refund of £2,217.70 
is the right amount, as well as the compensatory interest. I hope that this puts Mr Ls mind at 
rest that hes now been put back in the position hed have been in if the mistake hadnt been 
made, as both the investigator and I have looked at the figures and are satisfied they are 
correct.
The only outstanding issue is that of compensation for distress and inconvenience. Barclays 
has paid Mr L £400, but the investigator thought a further £350 was justified. Barclays has 
resisted this, saying that Mr L isnt a vulnerable person. 
However, Im satisfied that an increased award is justified here. Mr L was put to a significant 
amount of trouble, he was told in September 2021 that Barclays had linked the missing 
accounts and backdated the interest to 20 May 2008, when the bank hadnt done so. Mr L 
then had to chase Barclays multiple times and as a result, was made to feel as if he was in 
the wrong in pursuing this matter. Barclays also didnt provide Mr L with an explanation of 
how it had calculated the refund, to which he was entitled. Mr L is 76 years of age and the 
worry he was caused was significant. 
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that a further £350 is justified.
Putting things right
In addition to the interest refund and compensatory interest, and the payment of £400 for 
distress and inconvenience, I direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr L an additional amount 
of £350 for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to settle the 
complaint as directed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman