DRN-3998625
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy with esure Insurance Limiteds (esure) handling of a storm claim made 
under his buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
In February 2022, Mr J said a storm damaged both the roof and guttering of his house and 
also caused the flat roof of his garage to be lifted off. He made a claim to esure.
esure arranged for a surveyor to visit Mr Js property. Mr J says this was more than three 
weeks after the storm occurred, and the weather conditions caused more damage to his 
property. esure accepted the claim for damage to the roof of Mr Js house but declined the 
remainder of the claim. It said while there had been storm conditions, it did not consider 
these were the primary cause of damage to the guttering or garage roof. 
Mr J complained about the decision reached by esure. It responded to his complaint in     
June 2022. It remained of the view the decision to partially decline the claim was the right 
one in the circumstances. esure said the evidence it relied on indicated there was long term 
damage on the roof of the garage, and online images showed damage to the guttering 
dating back to at least 2019.
Mr J remained unhappy and referred his complaint to us for investigation. It was considered 
by one of our investigators who thought esure had acted fairly in declining the claim. As Mr J 
didnt agree, this matter has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust neither side will consider my summary of the background as a discourtesy. Its 
intended to reflect the informal nature of our role, so my decision here focuses on those 
issues I consider most relevant.
Its accepted there are three areas of damage Mr J is concerned about. These are to the 
main roof of the house, the guttering, and the garage roof. 
As both sides know, there are three key questions considered when presented with claims 
for storm damage. The first question asks if storm conditions were present, and its accepted 
they were at the time Mr J noticed the damage. 
The second question asks if the damage claimed for is consistent with damage a storm 
typically causes. The surveyor made a finding that the mortar around the ridge tiles had 
deteriorated over time, which they didnt consider to be caused by the storm conditions. This 
doesnt seem unreasonable to me, based on the images and findings included in the 
surveyors report. It was also noted that there was a reference to a slipped tile, which can be 
considered as storm damage. I also think its reasonable to suggest that felt being lifted off a 
flat roof might also be considered as damage caused by storm conditions. 
However, Im not persuaded the twisted guttering Mr J claimed for is consistent with damage 
typically caused by storm conditions. I say this as the twisting of guttering isnt something 
thats usually caused by storm conditions. In addition to this, the surveyor appointed by 
esure noted in their report the damage to the guttering appeared to be old damage. This is 
supported by the online images of the property esure provided, which were taken a few 
years ago. Whilst the online image isnt as detailed as the ones included in the expert report, 
they do seem to indicate the guttering in the same position as shown in the report. Mr J 
hasnt provided me with any evidence to suggest the conclusions reached by esure were 
unfair. 
Im persuaded, based on the evidence provided, it was reasonable for esure to conclude the 
damage to the guttering was not caused by the storm conditions, as it appears to be historic. 
Im not going to require esure to take any action with regards to the guttering part of Mr Js 
claim. 
Ill turn now to the final question we consider in storm claims. This is whether storm 
conditions were the main cause of the damage. esure accepted the slipped tiles on the roof 
of Mr Js house were caused by storm conditions and made an offer in respect of this. Mr J 
didnt accept this offer as he was looking to obtain a quote to repair both the roof of his 
house and garage. However, Im persuaded the answer to the three questions was yes in 
regard to the roof of the house, so it was reasonable for esure to make an offer to repair the 
slipped tiles. Its up to Mr J to decide if he wants to accept that offer. 
The outstanding issue to decide is whether the storm conditions were responsible for the felt 
detaching from the garage roof as Mr J believes, or if esure acted fairly in concluding the felt 
had deteriorated over time.
Ive carefully considered what Mr J says about the work that was carried out to install solar 
panels to the roof of the garage the year before. But like our investigator, I dont think the 
installation of solar panels is, in itself, sufficient to show the felt hadnt deteriorated. Ive gone 
on to consider the findings of the surveyor, who noted the felt seen (as some of the felt 
remaining on the garage roof had been covered by a temporary repair) had significantly 
discoloured, cracked, and perished. There are a number of photos to support the findings of 
the surveyor, and these consistently show the felt has cracked, discoloured, and appears 
quite worn. 
With this in mind, I dont consider it unreasonable esure reached the conclusion the storm 
conditions were not the main cause of the damage to the garage, but that the claim was 
declined in relying on the exclusion not to cover damage that has occurred gradually. It 
follows, Im not going to require esure to take any further steps in regard to this claim.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2023. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman