DRN-3735428
The complaint
Mr C complains that Nationwide Building Society acted unreasonably by blocking his 
account whilst he was abroad.
What happened
Mr C was on holiday abroad in 2019 and had been using his Nationwide credit card for a 
number of days without any problem. However, when he attempted to use his card for a 
hotel booking, Nationwide required him to answer security questions.
Unfortunately, Mr C struggled to answer the security questions, and this resulted in 
Nationwide cancelling the transaction and blocking his account. 
Mr C complained to Nationwide as he thought they should have known he was in another 
country as he had been using his card. Also, he thought the questions were unreasonable.
Nationwide said that they acted fairly as Mr C failed to answer the security questions and 
they were concerned he might not be the account holder. They also said that the merchant 
for the hotel booking was in a different country to the one he was in. They added that, under 
the terms and conditions of the account, they could block suspicious or unknown 
transactions where there were security concerns.
Mr C complained to our service as he required an apology and recognition of the impact this 
had on his holiday. Whilst our investigator understood Mr Cs frustration, her view was that 
Nationwide had acted reasonably. 
Mr C remains dissatisfied as he feels Nationwide were unreasonable in not asking 
alternative questions. His complaint has therefore been referred to me to look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see why Mr C became frustrated and upset. He was on holiday and, as he had been 
regularly using the card, he was surprised to have to answer security questions. Then, when 
asked the questions, he couldnt recall the answers and the subsequent transaction 
cancellation and account block caused him inconvenience and affected his holiday.
I first looked at Nationwides rationale for the security checks. The hotel booking showed on 
their fraud detection system as a potential fraudulent or unauthorised transaction. This 
system and these checks are part of Nationwides ongoing process to reduce fraud and, 
whilst Mr Cs experience is unfortunate, it is something that can happen under the terms and 
conditions of the account. Having checked Nationwides terms and conditions and 
considered their explanation Im satisfied that they were entitled to undertake the security 
check. Checks like these will often be inconvenient for customers, but that doesnt mean that 
Nationwide is wrong to carry them out. Nationwide explained that the previous use of a 
merchant doesn't mean that an unauthorised payment isnt taking place and the hotel boking 
merchant was in a different country.
I then checked to see if Nationwide dealt with this situation in a fair and reasonable way. I 
considered Mr Cs comments about Nationwides algorithm and that they should have asked 
different security questions. I also looked at file notes and listened to the call recording.
Nationwide file notes indicate that there were two reasons for Mr C failing the security 
checks. The first was an incorrect answer. The second was his inability to provide answers 
to several questions they thought he should know. 
The quality of the call recording doesnt allow me to confirm that Mr C gave an incorrect 
answer. However, a file note made at the time states Mr C was asked for details about an 
additional cardholder and the answer was incorrect. On that basis, I think Nationwide were 
entitled to want further information. The other questions which Mr C couldnt answer, were 
about his phone banking password, last payment, payment due date and the location in 
which the account was opened. I found these to be a reasonable mix of questions requiring 
current and historic information and, although some might be difficult to remember, I think it 
was reasonable for Nationwide to expect Mr C to know an important password or be able to 
provide either exact or rough answers to some of the other questions.
I considered Mr Cs comments about how he found it difficult to recall information that he 
hadnt used for some time. Also, that he relied on a direct debit for payment and didnt have 
access to his account details, due to being abroad. However, I found that the Nationwide 
representative took a fair and flexible approach. He did include additional questions and, 
after explaining that he would have to enter unanswered questions on his system, he asked 
Mr C if he had any idea of his last payment amount. He also tried to assist Mr C by asking if 
could possibly find out the answers and offers a further call.
I understand the situation was frustrating and stressful for Mr C and that some of the 
questions may have been difficult to answer. However, this is balanced against the fact that 
Nationwide was entitled to ask the questions they did. Also, it is evident from the call that the 
representative showed a flexible approach and tried to help Mr C. However, although I can 
understand he would have felt under pressure to give an immediate and right answer, Mr C 
dismissed the questions and continued to ask for more. Unfortunately, this approach, 
combined with the incorrect answer, resulted in him failing the security check. In these 
circumstances, I think Nationwide were entitled to take the actions they did here.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman