DRN-3075542
The complaint
Mrs K complains about the service of Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, (Halifax) when 
she paid money into her account and opened an account on behalf of her child.
What happened
Mrs K is unhappy with the service and delays experienced when opening a new account for 
her 12-year-old child. Things didnt go well when she tried to do this including the 
miscommunication of information, unnecessary time visiting and speaking to the branch and 
poor service. Mrs K says it took longer than it shouldve to open the account and shes had 
to spend a lot of time on this. This caused unnecessary inconvenience and distress.
Mrs K also says a cashier was extremely rude and difficult when she wanted to pay money 
into her own account during a branch visit. This embarrassed her as other customers saw.
Mrs K complained to Halifax. It apologised for the poor service, wrong information being 
given and inconvenience caused. It paid Mrs K £100 in recognition of this, however, this 
payment was made before the letter explaining the payment was received by Mrs K and so 
she didnt know what it related to. She was unhappy itd been paid into her account as she 
feels its an invasion of privacy and says this process was also full of miscommunication. 
Mrs K brought the matter to our service for an independent review. She thought the 
compensation should be higher due to the stress on her and her family and time it took to do 
something which shouldve been simple. She felt Halifax shouldnt use the pandemic as an 
excuse and wanted it to donate to a charity to recognise the stress inaccuracies can cause. 
Our investigator looked into matters. Whilst he agreed Halifax hadnt dealt with matters 
correctly, he considered the apology and £100 paid to Mrs K was a fair and reasonable way 
to resolve this matter. Mrs K disagreed and feels the £100 is for repeated return journeys but 
a price cant be put on feelings. And she questions how a company learns if its not 
punished. The matter has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of matters and points have been raised, this decision focuses on what I 
think are the main issues. However, Ive carefully considered all of the submissions made 
before arriving at my decision. Having done so, I think the investigator has reached a fair 
outcome here. So, I dont uphold her complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
Its important to keep in mind the events here happened in October 2020, during the earlier 
stages of the Covid-19 pandemic. Businesses open to customers entering their premises 
were following significant and frequently changing restrictions on their normal operation. 
This, inevitably, had an impact on the service offered. So, whilst I note what Mrs K says, the 
pandemic presented huge challenges and unprecedented times so I do consider it relevant. 
Its not in dispute that Halifax let Mrs K down here. I think it was reasonable for her to expect 
Halifax to give her the right information and deal with matters correctly from the outset. And I 
appreciate what Mrs K has said about the impact of this. Having said this, I recognise that 
mistakes can happen. I also think its important to explain our role is to look at problems a 
consumer experienced and see if the business has done anything wrong. If it has, we look to 
put the consumer back in the position they wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt 
happened. And we may award compensation we think is fair and reasonable. However, our 
awards are designed to compensate consumers, not punish organisations. That is the role of 
the regulator. 
Fortunately, the difficulties in this matter didnt cause a financial loss. However, I can see 
from what has been said Mrs K understandably found this inconvenient and frustrating and it 
took additional time to open the account. I balance this with the actions of the branch 
manager who spoke to Mrs K. He explained the staffing issues the local branches were 
experiencing at the time - caused by high numbers of staff isolating - which I think is likely to 
account for some of the poor service and miscommunications in this matter. He apologised 
for what happened and confirmed hed feedback about the poor service. Further, he sought 
to resolve things for Mrs K including when she spoke to him as further difficulties occurred.
Its unfortunate the £100 was paid to Mrs Ks account before the letter arrived explaining this 
would be done. But I dont consider it was an invasion of privacy nor anything sinister, rather 
it was unfortunate timing with a letter arriving in the post after the payment had been made.
Halifax accepted it made mistakes, apologised and paid Mrs K £100. Mrs K doesnt think this 
is enough given the significant impact of the situation. I appreciate her strength of feeling. 
But, taking everything into account, Im satisfied the branch managers explanation, apology 
and £100 already paid to Mrs K is a fair and reasonable way to resolve this matter. 
Overall, I agree with the majority of Mrs Ks complaint. But, for the reasons set out above, I 
dont require Halifax to take further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman