DRN-4053033
The complaint
Mr K complains that he made a claim to Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva), via his broker, in 
June 2023 but received no response, under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr K says his motorcycle was stolen in June 2022. He contacted his broker by phone to 
make a claim but heard nothing back on the matter. He says he wrote letters to both Aviva 
and his broker by recorded mail to raise his concerns. Mr K says he was offered a settlement 
payment for his loss in September only after he had referred the matter to our service. 
Aviva says it wasnt aware of Mr Ks claim until our service contacted it. It says the tracked 
letter Mr K posted is showing as accepted at the post office. However, it says there is no 
further notification to show it was delivered. Aviva says its aware the broker raised a 
complaint on Mr Ks behalf at the end of June 2022. But its claim team didnt receive this 
email as it was sent to an address it wouldnt expect to have been used.
Aviva offered Mr K a settlement payment for £5,000 minus his policy excess. It added 
interest from the date it was aware of the claim until this was paid. It also offered Mr K £100 
compensation for not being more proactive in dealing with the claim when it became aware. 
Mr K didnt think this was fair and asked our service to consider his complaint. Our 
investigator says the broker was acting on Avivas behalf when Mr K notified it of his claim. 
He couldnt verify that a call was made at the beginning of June 2022. But he was satisfied 
that the broker made Aviva aware of the claim in its complaint notification at the end of June. 
Because of the delay in dealing with Mr Ks claim he says Aviva should pay an additional 
£250 compensation. 
Aviva accepted this outcome. Mr K didnt. He says he experienced severe issues contacting 
both his broker and Aviva. He says he reported his claim on 9 June 2022 and didnt receive 
a payment until 18 October. Had he needed to hire a motorcycle over this period he says 
this would have cost £150 per day. Mr K asked for his complaint to be considered at a higher 
level. He also asked for a plan to ensure this situation isnt repeated. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold Mr Ks complaint. But I havent seen reason to add to 
the compensation our investigator thought was reasonable. Im sorry to disappoint Mr K but I 
will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Mr K says his motorcycle was stolen from his driveway and he contacted his broker to make 
a claim under his insurance policy on 9 June 2022. Aviva hasnt disputed that the theft took 
place and that it happened at the time Mr K advised. Its paid what it assessed to be the 
market value of Mr Ks motorcycle, which he hasnt disputed. So, I neednt consider these 
points further. My focus here is around the time Aviva took to settle Mr Ks claim and the 
standard of its communication. 
I acknowledge Avivas comments that the responsibility here lies with Mr Ks broker. 
However, Mr K says Aviva was made aware on several occasions about his claim. Ive 
thought carefully about what happened.  
In Mr Ks testimony he says he contacted his broker on 9 June 2022. We asked if he could 
provide a record of the telephone call. He contacted his mobile network provider, but it 
wasnt able to help. It says the records cant be provided where the contract is on a pay-as-
you-go basis. I note Aviva asked Mr Ks broker to search its records, but it couldnt find a 
contact from the time he says he called. The earliest contact it had from Mr Ks number was 
in September. 
I can see that Mr Ks broker wrote to him at the end of June 2022 in response to his 
complaint. Its letter says it has been in contact with Aviva, with respect to his claim, and 
forwarded a copy of his letter, for immediate investigation. 
Aviva says it didnt receive Mr Ks letter via post. Ive seen a copy of the tracking information 
for this letter. But this doesnt show it was delivered to Aviva. 
We asked Aviva about the contact the broker had made at the end of June 2022. It 
responded to say it couldnt locate this email, but it identified that this is an Aviva mailbox 
and its managed by Aviva Ireland. It says it didnt know why this mailbox was used by the 
broker, but that this information wasnt communicated to its claims team. Aviva explains this 
is why the matter wasnt dealt with until our service made contact. 
Having considered all this evidence - I dont dispute Mr Ks account that he phoned his 
broker in early June 2022, but Im not able to verify this. Mr Ks broker knew about the claim 
toward the end of June when it received Mr Ks complaint. And Ive seen the email it sent to 
Aviva on 29 June. I acknowledge Avivas comments that this mailbox is managed by Aviva 
Ireland. But it doesnt dispute this is an email address it owns and uses. In the 
circumstances I agree with our investigator that its reasonable to expect the brokers email 
to have been acted on and contact made with the relevant business area. Alternatively 
contact couldve been made with the broker if more information was needed. It was because 
this didnt happen that there was a delay in responding to Mr Ks claim. 
Ive thought about the impact this had on Mr K. He didnt have the use of his motorcycle or 
the money to buy a replacement for over three months. Hes also been caused 
inconvenience and distress due to the lack of response to his claim and complaint 
correspondence. I think its fair that Aviva pays an additional £250 compensation to 
acknowledge this. 
I acknowledge Mr Ks comments that he didnt think he ought to pay the £675 excess charge 
on his policy. However, Mr K is responsible for the first £675 of any claim he makes under 
his policy. This is the purpose of the excess charge, which he agreed when he purchased 
the policy with Aviva. So, although I understand he has strong views about this, I cant fairly 
ask Aviva to pay this part of the claim.
In summary I dont think Aviva behaved fairly in the time it took to deal with Mr Ks complaint 
and for the communication difficulties. So, it should now pay him an additional £250 in 
compensation.   My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Aviva Insurance Limited should:
pay Mr K an additional £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it 
caused him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman