DRN-3379485
The complaint
Mr Y complains about the way Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax responded to a claim
he made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in relation to a car hed
bought. Mr Y used his Halifax credit card to part-fund the purchase.
What happened
Mr Y bought a car from a dealer, D, for £4,445. Of this amount, he paid £2,000 using his
Halifax credit card. Within a few weeks of getting the car, Mr Y contacted D to tell it of
problems he was having with the in-car entertainment system. He said that the screen often
became unresponsive. The problem was intermittent, but of enough concern to Mr Y that he
felt the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. He says D told him it would look into the fault, but
said it wouldnt repair it if it was likely to cost more than £200. Instead, it would take back the
car and give him a partial refund.
Mr Y wasnt happy with this. He was unwilling to agree to an unspecified refund and thought
it was unfair that D wasnt prepared to negotiate the amount. He was also concerned at the
time and cost implications of Ds proposal, as he lives some 70 miles from D and would be
without a car for some time while his was being repaired. He raised a section 75 claim
against Halifax in relation to his dissatisfaction with the car.
Halifax didnt accept Mr Ys claim. It said it had no evidence D had breached its contract with
him. Halifax said because D was willing to fix the problem or provide Mr Y with a refund, it
had no liability to him under section 75, or any chargeback right under the card scheme
rules. He had to allow D to fix the problem. Mr Y didnt agree with Halifaxs stance and
referred matters to us.
In the course of Mr Y bringing his complaint hes identified further problems with the cars
handbrake and clutch, which he believes Halifax should also address.
Our initial assessments
Two investigators at our service reviewed Mr Ys complaint and the concerns hes
expressed. In summary, their conclusions were that:
the transaction met the financial limits and connected debtor-creditor-supplier
arrangements set out in section 75;
the issues Mr Y cited in his claim were potential breaches of the satisfactory quality
requirements of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA), which are implied into his
contract with D;
Mr Y had provided video evidence of the fault, which had arisen within a couple of
weeks, and D had offered to repair it. There didnt seem to be any significant dispute
about whether the fault existed or that it constituted a breach of contract;
D had offered to resolve that breach with regard to its obligations under the CRA.
While noting Mr Ys concerns about Ds proposal, it appeared to be a fair remedy.
So Halifaxs position in respect of his section 75 claim wasnt unreasonable;
Halifax had correctly explained the card scheme limitations that applied in respect of
its ability to use chargeback to address the dispute; and
the subsequent problems Mr Y had identified with the car didnt form part of his
original complaint. Although wed sought Halifaxs consent to deal with these in the
context of that complaint, it had declined to do so  as its entitled to do. A separate
complaint file was set up and progressed to deal with those issues
Mr Y didnt accept our investigators conclusions and asked for a review. The complaint was 
passed to me where I explained my thoughts in a provisional decision. I said:
Ill start by saying that my decision here deals only with the way Halifax responded to 
the original fault Mr Y identified with the in-car entertainment system. I recognise that 
the subsequent faults he has identified inform his overall dissatisfaction with the car 
(and with Halifax). But those aspects are the subject of a separate complaint and I 
wont be dealing with them in this decision.
Neither party has sought to question Halifaxs potential liability here, but for context I 
think itll help to set out how that has arisen. Mr Y used his credit card to pay £2,000 
towards the overall cost of the car. His credit card agreement is regulated by the 
CCA. One effect of section 75 of the CCA is that, where an individual buys goods 
from a supplier using credit provided under pre-existing arrangements between the 
lender and the supplier, then subject to certain financial limits that individual can 
bring a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against the lender in the 
same way he could against the supplier.
The supplier here was D and Halifax was the lender. Mr Y has a claim for breach of 
contract against D through the CRA provisions relating to satisfactory quality 
incorporated into the contract. So he can bring that same claim against Halifax, as he 
has sought to do. Mr Y was unhappy with Halifaxs response to that claim, and 
complained about it. He then referred that complaint to us.
Having reviewed Halifaxs response to Mr Ys claim and subsequent complaint, I 
think its fair to say that the bank could have dealt with things better here. Halifax told 
Mr Y he needed to provide evidence of a breach. But Mr Y had evidence  he had a 
video hed made demonstrating the fault. Halifax hasnt set out why it might seek to 
dispute that evidence, or even that it does dispute it. Nor has it offered anything to 
suggest the fault developed more than six months after Mr Y took delivery of the car, 
as it would need to do to satisfy the requirements in section 19 of the CRA. Indeed, it 
seems unlikely Halifax could do so, given Mr Y raised his concerns within two weeks 
of getting the car.
I dont know why Halifax told Mr Y he would need to allow D to fix the fault, or that it 
was unable to review his section 75 claim on the basis he was unwilling to do so. 
While this is a condition of some chargeback rules, it isnt a requirement of section 
75. As Ive already mentioned, section 75 enables Mr Y to make his claim against 
Halifax. It isnt a fair response to that claim to tell Mr Y he has to take it up with D.
In my view the fault Mr Y identified and the evidence he provided of that fault 
demonstrates the car wasnt of satisfactory quality as required under the CRA. 
Halifax hasnt offered evidence to counter Mr Ys claim. So under section 75 of the 
CCA, the bank is liable to him for the resulting breach of contract.Im aware D has said it will look to fix the problem with the in-car entertainment 
system  if it is cost-effective to do so. Otherwise it will take back the car and refund 
Mr Y. That seems to me to be broadly in line with remedies available to Mr Y under 
the CRA  though the CRA also permits Mr Y to seek an alternative remedy should 
he so wish. However, the proposal to make an unspecified and apparently non-
negotiable partial refund is a cause for some concern.
While I can see why Mr Y is unwilling to agree those terms, its possible that D is 
simply referencing the deduction it would be entitled to make for Mr Ys use of the car 
in the event a cost-effective repair cant be performed and he rejects the vehicle. But 
my role here isnt to assess Ds settlement proposal, any more than it was for Halifax 
to do so. Rather, I need to take a view on whether Halifax ought to be proposing an 
appropriate remedy bearing in mind its section 75 obligations.
If Halifax considers Ds proposal to be a fair way to respond to Mr Ys claim, then  
as the respondent in his section 75 claim, and in the absence of any persuasive 
argument that the faults do not amount to a breach of contract  it follows that it 
should at least be making the same offer (albeit with the involvement of a suitably 
qualified mechanic). In line with section 23 of the CRA, this would involve arranging 
for the fault to be repaired within a reasonable time and without significant 
inconvenience to Mr Y, and to bear any necessary costs incurred in doing so. But 
from what I can see Halifax hasnt offered to do anything in response to Mr Ys claim, 
other than to tell him what it thinks of Ds proposal.
It follows that Im not currently persuaded Halifax has taken a fair approach in its 
response to Mr Ys claim, or that it has had proper regard for its obligations under 
section 75 of the CCA.
Putting things right
To address the position, I intend to direct Halifax to pay the cost of repair of the fault 
Mr Y identified with the in-car entertainment system, provided that this is not 
impossible. Noting Mr Y lives some distance from D, the cost and inconvenience in 
returning the car to D for repair is likely to be significant. So to minimise this, the 
repair should be undertaken at a garage local to Mr Y.
If an effective repair cant be carried out without imposing unreasonable costs on 
Halifax then, in line with section 24 of the CRA, Mr Y can decide whether to exercise 
his final right to reject the car and receive a refund of the purchase price  subject to 
a deduction for use  or to a price reduction. I can understand Mr Ys decision might 
be affected by the further problems hes cited with the car, but that is ultimately up to 
him.
I can also see how the way Halifax has dealt with matters has caused Mr Y 
unnecessary inconvenience and avoidable upset. I think he should receive 
compensation for the impact this had. I propose to require Halifax to pay Mr Y £250 
in this respect.
Both sides responded to say that they accepted my proposed outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I was pleased to see that Mr Y and Halifax accepted my provisional decision. I thank them 
both for their quick responses. As both parties agree, I see no reason to depart from the 
findings I reached in this. So my decision on whats fair here remains the same as already 
explained.
My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax should take the steps 
outlined in this decision to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
James Staples
Ombudsman