DRN-3886246
The complaint
Mrs B complains Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited declined her motor insurance claim 
following an accident.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator for 
these reasons:
Ive seen copies of Mrs Bs policy documents. Her schedule of insurance details that 
she is covered for third party, fire, and theft  which she doesnt dispute. The 
schedule also sets out that the heads of cover shes able to claim under are Legal 
Liability to Third Parties and Fire & Theft or Attempted Theft. 
Mrs Bs claim arose following an accident, and shes wanting Mulsanne to cover the 
damages to her car. However, the policy she bought doesnt provide cover for 
accidental damage. So unfortunately, I cant agree that her claim has met the criteria 
set out in her policy schedule or policy booklet.
Ive noted what Mrs B has said about the section of her policy that details what 
Mulsanne will pay out in the event of a claim. However, that section of the policy 
cannot be read in isolation. It must be considered in conjunction with her policy 
schedule, and the other relevant sections of her policy booklet. And as Ive said 
above, Mrs Bs claim doesnt involve liability to a third party, nor did the damages 
shes claimed for arise out of fire or theft. Because of this, I wont be asking 
Mulsanne to settle Mrs Bs claim.
For these reasons, although I understand Mrs Bs frustration, I do not uphold her complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint about Mulsanne Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman