DRN-2945597
The complaint
Ms T (by the way of her representative) has complained that Mutual Clothing and Supply
Company Limited (Mutual) gave her unaffordable loans.
 
What happened
Our adjudicator partly upheld Ms Ts complaint. Mutual did not agree with the adjudicators 
opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to uphold more 
loans than the adjudcatior. A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional 
findings follow this and form part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Ms T took 14 loans from Mutual between June 2012 and March 2018. A summary of her
borrowing, based on the information provided to us from the lender can be found below:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidNo. of 
Weekly 
InstalmentsAmount 
BorrowedMax Combined 
Weekly Repayment
1 02/06/2012 27/12/2012 51 £300.00 £8.23
2 06/10/2012 26/06/2013 51 £300.00 £16.46
3 22/12/2012 04/12/2013 51 £400.00 £27.44
4 04/05/2013 04/02/2015 102 £700.00 £29.84
5 22/06/2013 26/03/2014 51 £300.00 £38.07
6 19/10/2013 09/07/2014 51 £250.00 £36.70
7 15/03/2014 11/05/2016 102 £1,000.00 £40.91
8 31/01/2015 01/03/2017 102 £1,000.00 £41.01
9 25/07/2015 26/07/2017 102 £700.00 £41.01
10 31/10/2015 01/11/2017 102 £700.00 £51.64
11 11/02/2017 24/04/2019 102 £1,000.00 £51.64
12 15/07/2017 24/07/2019 102 £1,000.00 £51.64
13 28/10/2017 24/07/2019 102 £700.00 £41.01
14 17/03/2018 24/04/2019 51 £600.00 £57.48
In its final response, Mutual confirmed it did not investigate any of Ms Ts loans which were
taken out more than six years from the date Ms T complained. This is because Mutual
believes that Ms T could have raised her complaint earlier than she actually did. Mutual later
confirmed Ms T had seven loans taken out more than six years before she complained.
The adjudicator who investigated Ms Ts complaint asked Ms Ts representatives for more
information about when Ms T first became aware that the lender may have done something
wrong  and what prompted Ms T to realise this. As Ms Ts representatives did not respond
with the information our service requested, the adjudicator was unable to determine Ms Ts
awareness for loans 1-7.
Subsequently, Mutual provided some details of Ms Ts seven earlier loans. But in the
absence of any information showing Ms Ts awareness for these loans, this decision will only
be focussing on loans 8-14, and whether Mutual were wrong to approve them. These are the
loans that Mutual says were taken out within the six years of when Ms T complaint.
The adjudicator who investigated Ms Ts complaint referred to Ms Ts later loans as loans
1-7. But to avoid any confusion, I will be referring to these loans as loans 8-14 now that we
have all the information about Ms Ts borrowing history.
The adjudicator upheld loans 8-11 as she thought the total weekly repayments for these
loans, represented a large portion of Ms Ts declared weekly income. The adjudicator
thought it was unlikely that Ms T wouldve been able to sustainably meet the repayments
without borrowing again.
When Ms T applied for loan 12, the adjudicator thought that the lender ought to have
realised that her overall pattern of lending was showing signs that these loans had become
unsustainable for her. So, the adjudicator thought the lender was wrong to continue
approving loans from loan 12 onwards. As a result, loans 12-14 were also upheld.
It appears that Ms T agreed with our adjudicators opinion.
Mutual didnt agree, and in response it provided us a lengthy report with annexes. I want to
make it clear, that I have read, in full the response weve received from Mutual but as Im
intending to uphold the complaint for different reasons compared to that of our adjudicator, I
havent commented on the specifics of it any further. But for completeness, below is
summary of what Mutual said;
These loans are not high interest or expensive.
There are important differences in a home credit loan to other forms of high cost
short-term credit which the adjudicator hasnt taken into consideration.
It could see no indication that this lending was spiralling out of control or that the
amounts lent were increasing unsustainably.
Mutual assess the affordability, creditworthiness and sustainability of the lending
robustly in a manual underwriting assessment. Rules do not prescribe how this
assessment should be made.
Mutual was entitled to ask about the partners income and it was reasonable to
conclude they would contribute to the household living costs.
There was a considerable gap between the provision of each loan.
In a recent court case, the judge said it might be fair to lend up to four loans per year
(but more may indicate financial difficulty). So, the number of times Mutual lent does
not indicate unsustainable borrowing.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final
decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair andreasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the time these loans were provided.
Mutual needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms T could
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and the
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mutual should fairly and reasonably have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms T. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become or was becoming
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mutual was required to establish
whether Ms T could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre
unlikely to be able to do so without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Ms Ts complaint.
Loans 1-7
As I have explained, Mutual objected to our service looking into Ms Ts first seven loans. But
it appears that Ms T has accepted our position after receiving a copy of our adjudicators
opinion  as she did not provide any additional information.
So, I wont comment further on these loans, or the level of individual checks Mutual
completed before approving these loans, as I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement
about them. But as these loans form part of the total borrowing relationship Ms T had with
the lender, they are something I have taken into account when considering the later loans
she borrowed.Loans 8-14
Mutuals response concerns how it defines the cost of the credit and the risk of it to Ms T.
It also concerns our approach to repeat lending. We have responded to Mutual on these
issues in detail through other final decisions it has received, and the published decisions on
our website. So, Im not going deal with these points at length here.
I will say briefly that I consider it reasonable to describe loans 8-14 as high cost credit, as
does the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), which includes home collected credit within its
identified high cost credit portfolio. And while I note it has a longer term than, for example,
a payday loan, that does not make it a low risk, or inexpensive, option for a consumer. And,
as such, long-term use of these products can be harmful to a consumer. The FCA has not
said anything to the contrary on this point. I have considered these issues alongside
everything else in making my decision.
I havent looked in any detail about whether the checks for loans 8-14 were proportionate
and Ill explain why below. But I will say that Ive not found Mutuals suggestion that it
gathered more and more information about Ms Ts expenditure to be persuasive in showing
the loans were affordable and sustainable. It looks like, based on what has been provided,
that Mutual took the same sort of information for each loan, that being asking Ms T about her
(and the household) expenditure as well as her income.
Theres no real detailed analysis of this apparent increasing volume of information. So, Im
not clear how this argument supports that the loans were properly lent. Furthermore, at this
stage in the lending relationship I dont think it was reasonable of Mutual to have relied solely
on what Ms T was telling it.
Mutual also says it carried out a credit check for at least the final loan, in the final response
letter Mutual explained that it didnt show of anything of concern. In Mutuals submissions it
provided us a copy of credit checks, which in my mind do show signs of financial difficulty.
Ms T had defaulted on an account within the previous 12 months, two accounts had
delinquent markers on them and Ms T appeared to be significantly above her available credit
limits, as she was utilising 271% of her available credit.
The adjudicator wasnt aware at the time of the view of the number of loans that Mutual said
were outside of this services jurisdiction. And as can be shown from the loan table earlier on
in this decision, by the time of loan 8 Ms Ts lending history was already well established and
had been ongoing for nearly three years.
Mutual has also commented on the gaps between loans. But Mutual seems to be
considering gaps as the difference in time between each new loan being approved. 
Whereas, any gap, in our view, needs to be considered from when a loan is repaid to when a
new loan is taken out. So, looking at the loan history, in its totality, there are no gaps in
lending, and it seems that Ms T spent nearly seven years indebted to Mutual via 14 loans.
As I have explained, I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for
these loans because I didnt consider it necessary to do so. Indeed, Id be inclined to think
that from loan 8, Mutuals checks really needed to go further than just relying on the
information Ms T told it. At this point in the lending relationship, I think Mutual ought to have
been verifying Ms Ts income and overall expenditure in order to have an accurate
understanding of her actual financial position.
So, in addition to assessing the circumstances behind each individual loan provided to
Ms T, Mutual also needed to consider the overall pattern of lending and what unfolded
during the course of its lending relationship with Ms T.Our adjudicator upheld loans 8 - 11 due to the weekly repayments for these loans, equalling
a significant portion of Ms Ts declared weekly income - which Mutual disputes given what it
says about the household income and Ms Ts declared expenditure. Ive thought about this,
but I dont think I need to make a finding about this because Im satisfied, for the reasons Im
going to explain below that Mutual ought to have realised that by this point the loans werent
sustainable.
I think Mutual was wrong to have provided loans 8-14 because Ms T wasnt in a position to
sustainably repay them for the following reasons:
By loan 8, Ms T had been indebted to Mutual for around 34 months. During this time,
she had taken seven loans which were to run for either one or two years with no
breaks in between loans. So Mutual ought to have realised it was more likely that Ms
T was having longer term problems as the need for credit continued.
Ms T was showing signs that she needed to borrow a new loan as soon as she was
due to repay a previous one. When she applied for loan 8 in the same manner, this
was now the fourth time she had requested a new loan as she was due to repay one
within a week or two. This continued need for credit ought to have alerted Mutual to
consider whether the loans were sustainable.
Ms T was regularly making repayments to a number of loans at the same time. This
suggests that Ms T wasnt making any real improvements to the amount she owed
Mutual. She went on to exhibit the same pattern of borrowing for her subsequent
loans  regularly having four loans running concurrently.
Ms T also had some problems repaying her loans, loans 11 and 14 lasted longer
than the credit agreement anticipated, indicating that she was having financial
problems and these loans werent sustainable for her.
The monthly repayments for loan 8 were Ms Ts largest loan repayments to date. The 
repayments for this loan was around five times more than what Ms T initially paid for 
her first loan due to the fact that Ms T was repaying loans concurrently. And the 
weekly and monthly repayments continued to increase over the remainder of the
borrowing relationship with the exception of loan 13. So, Ms Ts overall indebtedness
to Mutual was increasing over time.
I think that Ms T lost out because Mutual continued to provide borrowing from loan 8
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Ts indebtedness by allowing
her to take expensive credit over an extended period of time.
the length of time coupled with the number of loans which Ms T borrowed was likely
to have had negative implications on Ms Ts ability to access mainstream credit and
so kept her in the market for these loans.
So, overall, having considered everything Im intending to uphold Ms Ts complaint as I think
Mutual were wrong to approve loans 8-14 for these reasons.
Mutual has referred to the 2020 High Court judgement in the case of Kerrigan vs Elevate
Credit International Limited. It has essentially said that the judge in this case said that the
relationship could be fair if there are a lower number of loans per year. For example, under
four loans a year. It said, as it lent a lower amount than this, then this would indicate, on the
same basis as the court case, that it hadnt lent unsustainably.
Firstly, looking at the courts findings at this point in the judgement, the judge was talking
about whether an unfair relationship had developed. This is a different question, with somedifferent considerations than whether a loan or series of loans, has been lent irresponsibly.
I accept that there can be some overlap between whether a pattern of lending itself shows
that the lending is unsustainable, and a relationship is unfair. But the court in this judgement
was considering issues related to short term high cost credit rather than home collected
credit. I can see Mutual has acknowledged they are different products with different
considerations. And, indeed, has repeatedly been keen to distance its products from those of
short term high cost credit providers. So, this means that the judges conclusions about a
differently structured product shouldnt and cant be directly applied here.
And in any event the number of loans is just one aspect in deciding whether a lending
pattern is harmful. The loan size, duration of loans, the repayments and other factors need to
be also looked at, as Ive done here.
So, whilst I have noted Mutuals submissions on this point, it hasnt introduced any
arguments which persuade me to change my opinion about Ms Ts complaint.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mutual responded and told us it accepted the provisional decision, so no further arguments 
or evidence were provided. 
Ms Ts representative acknowledged receipt of the provisional decision but also provided no 
new comments or evidence. 
As neither party had anything further to add I see no reason to depart from the findings I 
reached in the provisional decision and I still think Mutual was wrong to have approved loans 
8  14 for Ms T.  Ive outlined below what Mutual needs to do to put things right. 
  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mutual should fairly pay in this case, Ive thought about what
might have happened had it not approved loan 8 onwards as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending, Ms T may have simply left matters there,
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between her and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt
a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.
Or, Ms T may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed, a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Ms T in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Ms T would more likely than not have taken up any one ofthese options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mutuals liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
I think Mutual were wrong to approve loans 8-14. So, Mutual should do the following to put
things right:
Refund all interest, fees and charges on loans 8-14.
Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms T from the
date Ms T originally made her payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
Mutual should remove loans 8-14 entirely from Ms Ts credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. Mutual should give
Ms T a certificate showing how much tax is deducted, if she asks for one.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, Im upholding Ms Ts 
complaint.
Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited should put things right for Ms T as Ive 
outlined above  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman