DRN-4072145
The complaint
Mr K complains that Progressive Money Limited (Progressive Money) lent to him 
irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr K took out a fixed sum loan agreement with Progressive Money in April 2018. He 
borrowed £3,000 over 48 months, repaying £157 a month. The total cost of the loan was 
£4,535.76 
Mr K says he couldnt afford the credit and that he got into financial difficulty and couldnt pay 
it back. He says Progressive Money ought to have known the credit was unaffordable for 
him.
 
Progressive Money says it did all the necessary checks before it lent to Mr K. It says it very 
carefully considered whether the loan was affordable and whether repayments would be 
sustainable for him and concluded that it would.
 
Our investigator considered that Mr Ks complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
although Progressive Money had done necessary and proportionate checks it didnt act fairly 
on the information it obtained.  
Progressive Money disagreed with the view. It noted two factual errors in the investigators 
assessment and made representations about why it felt it was a reasonable decision to lend 
to Mr K despite evidence of significant debts and defaults. It also made comments about 
how Mr K managed his account well for a while before he got into trouble. 
Our investigator reviewed this information and concluded that it did not change their opinion 
about the lending.
 
As Progressive Money did not agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Mr Ks complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusion as our investigator. I will explain why 
I have reached this decision.
Progressive Money needed to take reasonable steps to make sure that it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to 
make sure Mr K could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner.
 
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Progressive Money had to think about 
whether repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had 
to ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr K undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Progressive Money to simply think about the likelihood of 
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr K.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
Progressive Money said that it conducted checks to ensure that the credit would be 
affordable for Mr K when he took out the loan. Having reviewed those checks I think they 
were thorough. They checked his credit file and also his bank statements. An underwriter 
spoke to Mr K in person to discuss his personal circumstances in depth. 
Those checks revealed that Mr K had a very chequered credit history. He had 13 defaults, 
the most recent of which was registered 15 months before his application. There was 
evidence of two satisfied County Court Judgements (CCJ) in September and July 2016. 
Mr K had outstanding debts of over £19,000 (more than an entire years gross salary) and 
defaults totalling £11,599. His credit file showed 18 delinquent accounts in the preceding 
12 months. 
When Progressive Finance spoke to Mr K about these he explained that the debts had been 
incurred by his partner. Sadly, she had died in 2014 and he said he had been unaware of the 
debts until that point. He had sought the advice of a solicitor in relation to the two CCJs but 
had been told it was too late to do anything about them, so he had paid them off. 
Mr Ks credit file showed that these were sole accounts in his name. Had they been in Mr Ks 
partners name her estate would have been responsible for repaying the debts and had there 
not been sufficient in the estate to satisfy those debts they would have been written off. So, 
regardless of who had spent the money which created the debts, they were solely Mr Ks 
responsibility as they were in his sole name. Progressive Moneys notes stated that Mr K 
was unable to pay them. I note that more than one of the accounts was opened after Mr Ks 
partners death and at least one of them was a sole current account in Mr Ks name so its 
not clear to me that Mr K had otherwise managed his finances well.
Mr K was making no payments towards those debts. He also had additional personal loan 
debt in the form of a loan which he was in a current arrangement to pay, although it was for 
a small sum. Mr K explained that loan had been to help him pay bills when he was unable to 
work when his partner died. He had incurred bank charges in the months preceding his 
application, in one case when a direct debit was returned unpaid. Progressive Money explained that although Mr K had been making no payments towards the 
debts,  it made an allowance of one per cent of those outstanding debts each month in its 
assessment of whether he had enough disposable income to allow him to borrow more. On 
this basis, if no further interest or charges were applied, it would take Mr K over eight years 
to repay the money he already owed. There was no information to suggest creditors would 
accept repayment on terms of one per cent a month as Progressive Money had allowed for.
I dont think this was reasonable. Mr K was making no payments at all towards the debts, 
and they were not subject to agreed repayment plans. He was effectively ignoring them and 
seemed to have little intention of paying them, even though according to Progressive 
Moneys assessment he had disposable income with which he could have done so. While he 
may notionally have had disposable income he was still spending on average more than his 
income over the three months prior to applying for the loan. Mr K was not consolidating 
debts  he told Progressive Money that he would use the loan to tile his bathroom and 
maybe for a holiday  so the additional borrowing would not decrease the amount owed. It 
would have increased his overall debt balance.
Mr K had told Progressive Money that he owned his home jointly with his son and it had 
been a gift from his father. This meant that creditors could potentially obtain a charging order 
against his property for his unsecured debt. The consequences for Mr K failing to meet his 
repayments on both his proposed new loan agreement and his existing debts were 
potentially very significant. 
So, while on the face of it Mr K appeared to have sufficient disposable income to afford the 
loan I think Progressive Money ought reasonably to have realised that Mr K was 
overindebted and finding it difficult to manage his debts and he would continue to do so in 
the future. It was unlikely Mr K could make sustainable repayments on the borrowing. It 
follows that I dont think it made a fair lending decision.
Putting things right
Progressive Money should not have provided the loan to Mr K. To settle this complaint 
Progressive Money should do the following:
Add up the total amount of money Mr K received as a result of having been given this 
fixed sum loan agreement.
Subtract the repayments Mr K has made from this amount.
If this results in Mr K having paid more than he received, any overpayments must be 
refunded along with 8% simple interest* calculated from the date the overpayments 
were made to the date of settlement.
If any capital balance remains outstanding, Progressive Money should arrange an 
affordable and suitable payment plan with Mr K. 
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ks credit file as a result of the 
interest and charges of the loan, If the loan is still outstanding this should be done 
once the outstanding balance has been cleared.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Progressive Money to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give 
Mr K a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund to 
reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.My final decision
I have decided that Progressive Money acted unfairly when it gave Mr K the fixed sum loan 
agreement. To put things right I direct Progressive Money UK Plc to pay compensation as 
detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman