DRN-3975085
Complaint
Mr S has complained about a loan Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) provided to him. He says the 
loan was unaffordable.
Background
L2G provided Mr S with a loan for £400 in June 2019. The loan had an APR of 1,013.1% 
and a 18-month term. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of £1,645.56, which 
included interest, fees and charges of £1,245.56, was due to be repaid in 18 monthly 
instalments of just over £90. 
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that L2G didnt act unfairly 
when providing Mr S with his loan. Mr S disagreed with our adjudicator and so the case was 
passed forward for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
My provisional decision of 31 January 2023
I issued a provisional decision  on 31 January 2023 - setting out why I was intending to 
uphold Mr S complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary 
of my findings. 
I started by saying that weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and 
irresponsible lending on our website. And that I used this approach to help me decide Mr S 
complaint. 
I went on to explain that L2G needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, 
what this means is L2G needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr S could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
I then continued by saying that L2G may have argued that the relatively low payments meant 
that a light touch assessment was proportionate in this case. But I was mindful that it didnt 
agree with the declaration of income that Mr S provided. Furthermore, the credit checks it 
carried out showed that Mr S was in arrears on more than one of his existing revolving credit 
accounts. 
So I was persuaded by what Mr S had said about already being in a difficult financial position 
at the time. And while it was possible his credit file reflected his choices rather than because 
he was struggling, my experience of these types of cases suggested this was unlikely, I was 
satisfied that further checks would have been proportionate here.
And I thought that if L2G had carried out further checks before providing these loans, it 
would have seen that Mr S was struggling to manage his finances. Indeed, most of his 
income was being taken up by his existing living costs and repayments to his existing 
commitments. Mr S bank statements also showed that he was incurring unpaid direct debit 
fees too.
Bearing all of this in mind, I was satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would
more likely than not have demonstrated that Mr S would not have been able to make the
repayments to this loan without borrowing further and/or suffering undue difficulty. And, in 
these circumstances, I found that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely 
than not have alerted L2G to the fact that Mr S was in no sort of position to make the 
payments to this loan without suffering significant adverse consequences.
As L2G provided Mr S with this loan, notwithstanding this, I was minded to conclude that it 
failed to act fairly and reasonably towards him. Mr S ended up paying interest, fees and 
charges on a loan he shouldnt have been provided with. So finished by saying that I was 
intending to find that Mr S lost out because of what L2G did wrong and that it needed put 
things right.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr S confirmed that he accepted my provisional decision and that he had nothing further to 
add. 
L2G responded confirming that it disagreed with my provisional decision. In summary it did 
so because:
it verified that Mr S received a minimum of £1,561.00 a month. He may well have 
received more than this.
the credit reports were on the whole positive.
the bank statements in the months leading up to the application showed anything to 
indicate that the loan was unaffordable.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank the parties for their responses.
L2G says that it considered Mr S received a minimum of £1,561.00 not that this is all he 
received. But its still fair to say that this is less than the amount Mr S declared. Furthermore, 
while I appreciate that L2G may have been prepared to accept the credit risk presented by 
the information from Mr S credit file, I still think that the arrears on more than one revolving 
credit account ought to have prompted further checks into Mr S ability to repay a loan on 
such disadvantageous terms.
Finally, Ive considered the bank statements provided. And having done so, Ive seen payday 
lending on them and at least one returned direct debit in the lead up to the loan being 
provided. Whats more, its clear that the balance Mr S has left in his account  which he 
didnt have an overdraft on  at the each of each statement period is less than the monthly payment he was required to make for this loan. So the further information provided doesnt 
persuade me that the loan was affordable.  
Overall and having considered the further representations made in response to my 
provisional decision of 31 January 2023, I remain satisfied that L2G didnt act fairly and 
reasonably towards Mr S as it provided him with an unaffordable loan. And so Im still 
upholding Mr S complaint.
Fair compensation  what L2G needs to do to put things right for Mr S
Having thought about everything, I think that L2G should put things right for Mr S by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Mr S paid on his loan;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Mr S to the date of settlement
removing all adverse information about this loan from Mr S credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must give     
Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained and in my provisional decision of 31 January 2023, Im 
upholding Mr S complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited should put things right in the way Ive set out 
above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman