DRN-2337324
The complaint
Mr R complains that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) acted unfairly and unreasonably by 
declining his claim under a legal expenses insurance policy. He wants the claim accepted.
What happened
Mr R had a legal expenses insurance policy with UKI as part of his household insurance. He 
made a claim for legal assistance to deal with a dispute about a property left to him under a 
will. Probate had been obtained in 1999 but the issue with the property was disclosed to Mr 
R around 30 May 2020. UKI declined the claim, saying that the policy didnt cover it.
Mr R complained to UKI. It said that the Will had left a property to Mr R and his two siblings, 
who had developed the property. But Mr Rs issue was that one sibling had then transferred 
the property into his sole name after probate had been obtained. UKI said that the policy 
only covered disputes about the Will, not later disputes about ownership of items left to 
beneficiaries within the Will. It thought that Mr Rs dispute was about the transfer of the 
property, rather than what the Will said as it said the property was left to three individuals, 
not just one.
Mr R complained to us. The investigators view was that UKI wasnt at fault. She said that 
the inheritance section of the policy didnt cover claims about the ownership of a property 
between beneficiaries due to the exclusion within the policy. About 20 years had passed 
since probate had been obtained, so she didnt think the dispute was about the Will.
Mr R disagreed. He said that the property remained within the estate of the Will so it should 
be covered. Mr R felt this service didnt understand the policy wording and sent further 
information about earlier policies to be considered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When I refer to UKI, Im also referring to its agents. The relevant rules and industry 
guidelines say that UKI has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And it 
shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The starting point is the wording of the policy itself at the time the claim was made or arose 
(as opposed to earlier policies as Mr R suggests) as not all possible claims are covered. In 
relation to inheritance, the terms and conditions of the policy says:
"Inheritance disputes - We will cover the costs of claims for a dispute over something left to 
you in a will. We dont cover claims arising from or relating to disputes with executors about 
the management of the estate, disputes between you and another beneficiary regarding the 
administration or disposal of any item left to you in a will".
I dont think the wording of this clause covers Mr Rs claim. While the Will left the property to 
Mr R and two others, this wasnt the cause of the dispute. The dispute was about one 
individual later transferring the property into their sole name after probate had been obtained 
and claiming sole ownership. This isnt a dispute about the Will itself, though I appreciate 
that the contents of the Will become relevant to Mr Rs claim as the person now claiming 
ownership of the property will need to explain how the property went from being left to three 
people to being owned solely by them. 
Mr R has said that the property was still within the estate, but if correct, the core of the 
dispute is an argument about the management of the estate or with another beneficiary 
about the administration or disposal of an item left under the Will; these are excluded under 
the policy. And I anticipate that if the property is now registered in the name of someone 
other than the deceased, its been removed from the estate of the Will, but I havent seen the 
evidence.
I also thought about whether UKI had generally acted fairly and reasonably in declining the 
claim. The policy does specifically exclude disputes with executors about the management 
of the estate or with beneficiaries about the administration or disposal of an item under a 
Will. In all the circumstances, I thought it was fair and reasonable for UKI to rely on the terms 
and conditions of the policy and it had shown that the exclusion applied.
I looked to see if other terms and conditions were relevant and could lead to the claim being 
covered. I couldnt find any term or condition that could assist Mr R with his claim. As a 
result, I cant say UKI has acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining his claim for legal 
assistance. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 
13 April 2021.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman