DRN-2931894
The complaint
Mrs D and Mr D complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE did not treat them fairly when they 
cancelled their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D booked three holidays during the course of January and February 2020, which 
were due to start on 17 March, 6 June and 5 October 2020. 
Theyve told us that the first two holidays were cancelled due to government instructions 
regarding the Covid-19 pandemic. And Mr and Mrs D later made the decision that they 
would not travel on the third holiday either. Theyve explained they took this decision for 
peace of mind given on-going uncertainties and restrictions in place in the destination 
country. 
Mr and Mrs D contacted their travel insurance provider on 25 August 2020. They had an 
annual multi-trip policy which covered trips in Europe and was valid from 12 January 2020 
until 11 January 2021. This policy was underwritten by Great Lakes. Great Lakes gave them 
a premium refund of £88.09 as a gesture of goodwill. But Mr and Mrs D do not feel this is fair 
in the circumstances as they paid a total premium of £587.28 for the policy (which included 
cover for their declared pre-existing medical conditions). So they brought their complaint to 
our service. 
Our investigator set out the details of the relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in 
the circumstances of this case. The investigator also explained that it is a fundamental 
principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started to bear risk  for however short a 
time  the premium paid is not returnable. That means its not unreasonable for an insurer to 
keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. The investigator also 
explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of insurance to be 
performed because cover under the policy started on 12 January 2020 and the policy 
covered various risks during that time. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
They felt Great Lakes offer of £88.09 was fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. The investigator explained that Great Lakes had provided evidence explaining 
how it prices its policies. And said that they were satisfied with the reasons it had calculated 
the refund given to Mr and Mrs D in the way it had. They also didnt think Great Lakes had 
treated Mr and Mrs D unfairly, or any differently to any other customers in similar 
circumstances.   
Mr and Mrs D dont agree. They argue that Great Lakes was not at any time at risk of a claim 
being made against it as they were unable to travel. So the case has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
Cancellation within the first 14 days
You have the right to cancel up to 14 days from the date your policy commences, or the 
date on which you receive your policy documentation, whichever is the later.
You will receive a full refund except in the following circumstances:
Your holiday return date is within one month of the commencement of your policy. 
No refund will be given.
Your cover has commenced. A pro rata refund will be given.
You have made or are intending to make a claim. No refund will be given or we will 
recover the monies paid to you in settlement of the claim before refunding the 
premium paid.
Please call 0800 904 7489 if you wish to exercise your right to cancel. If you do not exercise 
your right to cancel then you are required to pay the premium.
See below for your rights outside this statutory cooling-off period.
Your cancellation rights
After the statutory cooling-off period you may cancel the policy at any time by contacting us, 
but no refund of premium will be available.
Im sorry to hear that Mr and Mrs D were not able to go on the trips they had planned. But I 
do think Great Lakes offer of a refund of £88.09 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this case. I say this because: 
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling-off period and so there is no 
requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a 
refund.
As Ive outlined above the contract of insurance says that no refund will be given if 
the policy is cancelled outside the 14-day statutory cooling-off period. Mr and Mrs D 
contacted Great Lakes a considerable amount of time after this period. 
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-
19. Mr and Mrs D contacted Great Lakes on 25 August 2020, at which point their 
policy had been in place for around seven and a half months. 
Mr and Mrs D do not feel Great Lakes was at any risk of them making a claim against 
it during this period as they were unable to travel. Whilst I accept there were 
government-imposed travel restrictions in place for some of the period their policy 
was active, these restrictions changed on a frequent basis. Great Lakes had no way of knowing Mr and Mrs D had not made any trips during his period. Similarly during 
this period Great Lakes was still bearing the risk that they may have had to cancel 
any trips they had planned due to an event insured by the policy  for example illness 
or injury. And its fair that it should retain some premium for this.
Great Lakes has given Mr and Mrs D a refund of 15% of the overall premium they 
paid for their policy. This equates to £88.09. Because of the way Great Lakes has 
shown us it calculated the premium Mr and Mrs D were charged for their policy, Im 
satisfied this offer is fair in the circumstances and reflects the time Great Lakes were 
no longer on risk after Mr and Mrs D contacted it on 25 August 2020 to let it know 
they would not be making any trips during the policy period.
Great Lakes has told us it returned this refund to the payment card Mr and Mrs D 
used to purchase the policy. I understand Mr and Mrs D would have preferred to 
have been given a credit they could transfer towards a new policy. But Great Lakes is 
not under any obligation to offer a refund in the form of a credit. And Ive considered 
that Mr and Mrs D could use the amount refunded to their card as payment or part-
payment for a future policy. So I dont think Great Lakes has acted unreasonably in 
this respect.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint for the reasons I have outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
Jenette Lynch
Ombudsman