DRN-2281799
The complaint
Mr N complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited (AGI) lost his phone, lied to him 
about this and havent offered him fair compensation for this loss.
What happened
Mr N had mobile phone insurance, provided by AGI, included as part of his packaged bank 
account. In mid-December 2019, Mr N noticed that the screen was slightly cracked on his 
new phone, so he contacted AGI to make a claim. The claim was accepted and AGI 
arranged for a courier to collect the phone and take it to AGIs approved repairers.
Mr N contacted AGI for an update on the repair. After several weeks, AGI told Mr N that the 
repairers hadnt received his phone so they would look into what had happened. At the end 
of December 2019, AGI decided that Mr Ns phone had been lost so at the beginning of 
January 2020 they sent him a replacement phone, however they didnt tell him that his 
phone was lost.
When Mr N received the phone, he thought the clarity wasnt as good as it shouldve been, 
so he took it to his local phone retailer who identified that the phone hed been sent had a 
different IMEI number. So, Mr N called AGI to ask why he hadnt had his original phone 
returned. 
AGI explained that Mr Ns original phone hadnt been received from the courier, so theyd 
sent him a replacement phone. Mr N didnt think this was fair, he was unhappy that AGI 
hadnt told him theyd lost his phone and that theyd sent him a refurbished phone which 
wasnt the same as the new phone which had been lost in transit. So, he raised a complaint. 
AGI upheld the complaint in part. At the end of January 2020, they offered Mr N a cash 
settlement of £546.49 as a gesture of goodwill - which they said was based on the value 
they could replace the phone for. They also offered him £60 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience hed been caused by the loss of the phone and the delay in settling the 
claim.
Mr N didnt agree. He said that this valuation was based on a refurbished phone, not the 
brand new one which had been replaced. He also didnt think £60 was fair as he felt AGI 
hadnt told him the truth and had made him have to prove they hadnt returned his original 
phone. So, he asked this service to look into his complaint. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint was upheld. She thought that AGI hadnt 
applied the terms of the policy fairly as theyd lost the phone not Mr N. She felt that based on 
what shed seen there would have been no reason why Mr Ns relatively new phone couldnt 
have been repaired and returned to him. She also didnt think AGI had treated Mr N fairly by 
not telling him his phone had been lost until hed questioned it, or basing their cash offer only 
on prices from marketplace retailers.
AGI didnt agree. They said there was no guarantee Mr Ns phone couldve been repaired so 
it was reasonable for them to send a replacement. They also said theyd sent Mr N a like for 
like phone so the specification wouldve been the same and that the policy doesnt say they 
would replace the phone on a like for like basis. They also said although the retailers they 
had used to provide the cash offer were market places, they also offered warranties with the 
phones, so they felt it was reasonable to use them as a basis for their offer.   
As an agreement couldnt be reached the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Mr N told us he feels AGI have treated him unreasonably as they lost his phone and didnt 
tell him, then sent him a different phone back which he had to prove wasnt his. He feels that 
under the circumstances its not fair for them to settle the claim based on a refurbished 
phone  not his virtually new one.  
However, AGI feel theyve settled Mr Ns claim in line with the policy terms and that Mr Ns 
phone wouldve been refurbished when they returned it to him. They also said that after Mr N 
had told them he was unhappy with the replacement phone theyd offered him the cash 
settlement on the same refurbished basis. 
AGI explained that they felt this was fair as theyd checked several online retailer prices and 
what theyd offered was in-line with these. They also felt the retailers theyd used were 
reasonable comparisons as the refurbished phones that could be purchased all came with at 
least a year warranty. 
 
So, Ive looked at Mr Ns policy to see what cover it provides, and Ive seen that under the 
Mobile phone insurance section it says:
If your mobile phone is damaged or breaks down, we will either:
1. Repair the mobile phone (where possible) or
2. Replace it with a mobile phone of the same make and model. If we cannot do this, 
you will be given a choice of models with an equivalent specification.
If your mobile phone is lost or stolen, we will replace it with a mobile phone of the same 
make, model and memory size. If we cannot do this, you will be given a choice of models 
with an equivalent specification. 
Replacements
1. Where we replace the mobile phone, the replacement may be a remanufactured (not 
brand new) device, 
2. We will attempt to replace your phone with one of the same colours, but we cant 
guarantee to do this or replace any limited or special edition mobile phones.   
Whilst I recognise that AGI offered Mr N a refurbished phone initially and then a cash 
settlement based on a refurbished phone as this is in-line with their policy, I dont think 
theyve fully considered in their offer that Mr N wasnt responsible for the loss of his phone  
it was in their couriers care at the time. I acknowledge that the policy doesnt specify that these terms would only be applied if the 
loss had been caused by the policy holder. But I think it was reasonable for Mr N to think that 
his phone was safe when he placed it in the care of AGIs couriers. And I think that had Mr N 
been responsible for its loss it wouldve been fair for AGI to rely on the policy terms. But, as 
AGI have noted themselves, there is nowhere in their policy that covers if they have caused 
the loss of a customers property, so I think they should have been more sympathetic to 
Mr N in their settlement offer.  
AGI have said that there was no guarantee that Mr Ns phone couldve been repaired, and 
even if it couldve been it still would have been a refurbished phone that had been returned 
to him. And therefore, sending him a refurbished phone was a replacement on a like for like 
basis. I dont disagree with AGI that Mr Ns phone wouldve been refurbished when it was 
returned to him. However, the difference is that Mr N knew the history of his own phone, its 
age and battery usage for example, and was prepared to request for the repair and 
subsequent refurbishment on this basis. He wasnt prepared, given the nature if the damage 
to have a different phone  and as he claimed  older model returned to him. And I dont 
think he should be disadvantaged for a loss he wasnt responsible for.  
AGI have also said they wouldnt have sent Mr N a different model phone and that the 
replacement wouldve been on a like for like basis. But I dont agree. If the specification of 
the replacement phone was exactly the same, Mr N wouldnt have had any reason to take 
the phone to the manufacturer for them to check it, so I think its likely there were differences 
in the clarity of the screen as Mr N described. 
I recognise that AGI have said they wanted proof Mr N had been told there was a difference, 
but thats not really the issue here. What Mr N was able to show by speaking to the 
manufacturer, was that AGI had treated him unfairly by not telling him his phone had been 
lost and just sending him a replacement and hoping he wouldnt notice. This prevented him 
from making a decision about how he wanted to proceed with his claim and caused 
unnecessary delays. 
Mr N told us he felt frustrated by AGI as they hadnt told him that his phone had been lost 
and hed had to prove the phone hed been sent wasnt his own. AGI said that they had told 
Mr N hed be receiving a replacement phone in a text message at the end of December 
2019, so he shouldve been aware  but I dont agree. 
Im not persuaded that if Mr N had been aware his phone wasnt being returned that he 
wouldve taken it to the manufacturer. I also think that as AGI had told Mr N they would be 
trying to locate his missing phone and he hadnt heard anything more from them to confirm it 
was still missing, it was reasonable for him to believe his phone had been located, repaired 
and was being returned to him. Ive also listened to the call between Mr N and AGI at the 
beginning of January 2020 and it was clear that Mr N wasnt aware he was getting a 
replacement phone until hed received it, and he definitely wasnt aware his phone was lost 
until the agent on the call told him.
I recognise Mr N feels AGI havent settled his claim fairly as the phone they lost was only a 
few months old with minor damage, and the cash settlement was based on a refurbished 
phone. And I agree with AGI that the terms of their policy dont say that a replacement or 
cash settlement would be based on a new phone only refurbished. But I dont agree with 
their explanation about treating all customers fairly.  
I say this because, Mr N wasnt claiming for a loss or expectation that his phone was going 
to be beyond repair under the policy. Had he been doing so, it wouldve been fair for AGI to 
settle in this way. Whilst I acknowledge AGIs comments that Mr Ns phone wasnt new and 
was damaged when he made a claim, Im not satisfied that theyve taken into consideration that is was a new model only a couple of months old when it was lost. Ive looked at the 
retailers that AGI have provided, and Im not persuaded that they would be able to provide a 
replacement phone on the same basis as Mr Ns lost one. 
I recognise that AGI feel that providing Mr N with a new phone would be over-indemnifying 
the claim. However, I think that AGI need to should take into consideration that this is no 
longer a straightforward claim under the policy. I dont think that Mr N had any intention of 
not having his phone returned to him, and given the age of the phone, the limited damage 
Mr N described and the circumstances in which Mr Ns phone was lost, I think that on this 
occasion they reassess the claim on the basis that the phone was as close to new as 
possible - as theyre unable to say otherwise. 
So, I think they should either arrange for the replacement of Mr Ns phone with a new one on 
a like for like basis or offer a cash settlement of a new phone on a like for like basis from a 
mainstream retailer  not an online market place.  
Trouble and upset
AGI have acknowledged that the service Mr N received wasnt at the level it shouldve been 
when dealing with his claim, but theyre satisfied the £60 compensation is fair. I dont agree. 
AGI have told us that Mr Ns claim was settled in early January 2020, when he received the 
replacement phone. But Ive looked at the timeline of events and Ive seen that it wasnt until 
the beginning of February 2020 that Mr N was offered the cash settlement.  
Looking at the evidence available, I dont think AGI did enough to update Mr N about the 
loss of his phone. I say this because they were made aware 10 days after Mr N had asked 
for an update on his phone that it had been lost. However, they didnt tell him the outcome of 
the investigation, and they simply sent Mr N a text to say he was getting a refurbished 
phone. It was only a week later when Mr N called AGI to ask why he hadnt received his own 
phone back that he was told it had been lost by the courier. It was a further two weeks 
before AGI even looked at replacement phones to provide a cash value once the 
replacement phone had been received back. 
I think that had AGI called Mr N to make him aware his phone had been lost initially he 
couldve told them whether he wanted a replacement phone  or not. But by not telling Mr N 
at the outset they caused him a further month delay and the inconvenience of having to wait 
for and subsequently return a phone that wasnt his. 
So, I think because of the additional inconvenience caused to Mr N by AGIs processing of 
his claim, and the distress caused to him by the loss of the phone, AGI should pay him a 
further £100 in addition to the £60 theyve already offered.
Putting things right
Taking all the above into consideration, I think AGI should either provide Mr N with a new 
and not refurbished phone of the same specification as the phone which was lost by their 
couriers or pay him a cash settlement for the cost of a new replacement phone from a 
mainstream reputable retailer  not a market place or second-hand retailer. 
I also think they should pay Mr N and additional £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience on top of the £60 theyve already offered, due to AGIs failings in the 
processing of his claim and the poor communication he suffered throughout. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold Mr Ns complaint. I instruct Assurant General Insurance 
Limited to:
Either provide Mr N with a new phone which is a like for like model or compensate 
him with a cash settlement for the cost of a new like-for-like model of the phone 
which was lost;
Pay Mr N a total of £160 compensation for the distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman