DRN-2214004
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy because Saga Services Limited (Saga) updated his car insurance policy 
with the incorrect vehicle details meaning his car was uninsured.
What happened
In July 2018, Mr W purchased a car insurance policy sold by brokers, Saga. In September 
2018, he changed his car and sent an email to them to ask for the policy to be updated to 
cover the new car.
As he didnt hear from Saga, he called them. The advisor asked for the registration of the 
new car, outlined the details of the vehicle and Mr W confirmed the information was correct. 
The advisor explained the change in the cost of the policy and said the updated policy 
documents would be sent by email to him.
In April 2019, Mr W was involved in a car accident. When he contacted Saga to report it, he 
was told his car wasnt insured and another car of a different make and model was covered 
under his insurance policy. 
Mr W complained to Saga. They said they listened to the call when Mr W asked for the new 
car to be added to the policy and the advisor confirmed the registration number phonetically, 
and Mr W confirmed it was correct. They also said the updated policy documents were sent 
to Mr W with the details. However Mr W denied receiving these documents. 
Unhappy with their response, Mr W referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the complaint should be upheld. They said Mr W sent an email in advance 
with the full details for the new car to be insured and the advisor made reference to it 
meaning he wouldve had sight of it during the call. The investigator also mentioned at the 
start of the call, Mr W said the car was the same model of his previous car but a different 
year. Overall, they felt the advisor had enough information available to realise they were 
insuring the incorrect car based on Mr Ws email and his comments. 
Saga disagreed and reiterated the registration was repeated phonetically and the car details 
were outlined meaning Mr W had two occasions during the call to make the correction. They 
said although the advisor wouldve seen the note about Mr Ws email request to change the 
car, they wouldnt have seen the content of the email. 
Since the investigator made his recommendation Mr W has provided us with evidence that 
he is required to pay for the damage to the third party car that was involved in the accident in 
April 2019. The amount is over £1,600.
In August 2020, I issued a provisional decision saying I intended to uphold the complaint. I 
said:
Updating the car details
Sagas terms of business say if a policyholder wishes to make changes to the policy, they 
should let them know and a telephone number is provided.
While I accept Mr W sent an email in September 2018 asking for the policy to be updated to 
cover the new car, I havent relied on it as it wasnt actioned and I believe its likely the agent 
didnt have access to it. Therefore when reviewing this case Ive relied on the telephone call 
between Mr W and Sagas advisor because this is where the change was made to the 
policy.
I have listened to the call and I can hear Mr W provided the correct registration of the car he 
wanted to insure however when repeating it back phonetically, the advisor misheard the first 
digit. The advisor asked Mr W if the details were correct and he agreed. On the 
understanding the registration was correct, the advisor proceeded to outline the details of the 
car including the make and model. He said this once to which Mr W asked him to repeat it 
and Mr W confirmed the details were correct. I consider this to be the advisors second 
attempt to verify the car to be insured. 
I appreciate mistakes may happen and things may be mis-heard or misunderstood 
especially when saying or hearing single digits. This is why advisors will often repeat digits 
back phonetically to avoid mistakes from happening so I believe it was reasonable for the 
advisor to do so here. The advisor outlined the make and model of the car based on the 
registration he believed to be correct. This was completely different to the car Mr W wanted 
to insure. As it was repeated twice and it sounded nothing like Mr Ws car, I believe it 
wouldve been reasonable for him to realise the advisor was giving the incorrect details and 
to correct him. Especially as he knew it was the same car model but a different year. 
I think it was fair for the advisor to rely on Mr Ws confirmation of both pieces of information  
he had obtained to be correct. Therefore I cant so the advisor did anything wrong.  
Policy documents
At the end of the call, the advisor told Mr W that the updated policy documents would be 
sent to him by email. These documents outlined the details of the car insured and Mr Ws 
policy. Ive seen a copy of these documents including the insurance schedule and I can see 
the car is not the one Mr W wanted to insure. The documents said if anything was incorrect, 
Mr W should let them know immediately. Mr W said he never received this.
Saga has provided evidence which shows these policy documents were sent to Mr Ws 
online customer portal on the same day as the telephone call when the change was made. 
Given the email address is the same one Mr W used to initially send an email to request the 
change of vehicle, Im satisfied Saga had the correct email address and they sent these 
documents to him. So I think its most likely Mr W had access to the documents and it 
wouldve been reasonable for him to check the details. 
I know Mr W also said he believed Saga had his incorrect postal address but based on 
Sagas system notes, I am satisfied they did have his correct address at the time of making 
the change to the policy.
Premiums paid
Saga said they wont be refunding the premiums Mr W paid. However as the incorrect car 
was insured under the policy, Mr W couldnt have benefited from it meaning he was not on 
risk for Saga. Therefore I believe they should treat this as if Mr W had cancelled the policy 
from the time he made the change in September 2018 and refund him the premiums paid 
since that date. This means as it would be considered there was no policy in place, Saga will not be responsible for settling the claim following the accident with Mr Ws car and he would 
be responsible for any costs to the third party. 
Summary
Overall, I cant reasonably agree Saga done anything wrong when insuring the car. They 
asked Mr W to confirm whether they had the correct details and he provided his confirmation 
on at least two separate occasions. They also sent him policy documents and invited him to 
let them know them if anything was incorrect. These are the actions I would expect to 
happen following an amendment to a policy so I believe Saga has acted fairly. However as 
the incorrect car was insured, Mr W couldnt have benefited from the policy meaning it posed 
no risk to Saga so the policy should be treated as if Mr W cancelled it and he should be 
refunded the premiums paid since that date.
 
I appreciate my provisional decision may disappoint Mr W but in light of the above, it 
wouldnt be fair to ask Saga to pay for the damages caused to the third partys car as a 
result of the accident in April 2019.
Response to my provisional findings
Both parties were invited to respond to my provisional decision. Mr W said he had a hearing 
inflection and he accepted there may have been a misunderstanding between him and the 
advisor concerning the cars registration. He also questioned when reporting the accident, 
why the advisor told him the address he gave was different to that held on the policy. He 
said he believed this was the reason why he never received the policy documents. I 
arranged for a copy of the policy documents and a screenshot of Sagas internal systems, 
which outlines when they were sent and by what means, to be sent to Mr W for his 
consideration. He provided no further comments.   
Saga accepted my provisional decision and said they would refund Mr W the premiums from 
when the policy was amended (12 September 2018) to when it was cancelled (26 May 
2019).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mr W for his comments and I appreciate he has a hearing inflection. However there is 
no indication Sagas advisor was aware of this at the start of the call and there was more 
than one opportunity for Mr W to correct the details about the registration and the make and 
model of the car. So I cant say Saga did anything wrong. Also Im satisfied the policy 
documents were sent to him following the changes to the policy and they held Mr Ws correct 
email and postal address. Therefore, Ive reached the same outcome as my provisional 
decisional and for the same reasons. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ws complaint.
To put things right, Saga Services Limited should:
- Treat Mr Ws policy as being cancelled by him from the date the policy was amended 
in September 2018; and- Refund Mr W the premiums paid since this date. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman