DRN-3286055
The complaint
Mr G complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard didnt 
support him.
What happened
Mr G had two credit cards from Barclaycard. The history of them is set out below:
Card Limit/Balance: 
March 2020Limit 
ReductionPayment 
HolidayBreathing 
Space 
AgreedOther
Card A £15,800
Balance £12,806£14,550 (Oct 
2020)April 2020 
to June 
202030 day 
breathing 
space Aug 
2020  0% 
interestCard 
suspended 
Nov 2020
Card B £17,650
Balance £10,764£11,500 (Nov 
2020)April 2020 
to June 
202030 day 
breathing 
space Oct 
2020  0% 
interestCard 
suspended 
Jan 2021
Mr G was affected by the pandemic and asked for, and Barclaycard agreed, to payment 
holidays on both cards. Later, a one month breathing space with no interest or fees charged 
was agreed on both cards. There were several missed payments on the cards and 
Barclaycard reduced the limits as shown; and then, later, suspended the cards.
Mr G complained. He said he didnt get any support from Barclaycard throughout the 
pandemic. He said they unfairly reduced the limits on his cards and blocked online access to 
his accounts. He said that Barclaycard added markers to his credit file which meant he 
couldnt get any credit. He wants the markers removed. He wants the interest rate on his 
cards to be reduced to zero or reduced. He also said there were problem in getting through 
to Barclaycard on the phone  so he couldnt easily talk to them.
Barclaycard apologised for the trouble Mr G had in contacting them; and paid compensation 
of £100, as well as giving him two months interest free on both cards from their final 
response in November 2020.They didnt agree to reduce the interest rate on the cards, 
which remained at the published rate. They said that Mr Gs Card A was suspended as it 
was in persistent debt. The reductions in the limits were made because of the missed 
payments on the accounts. These had been notified to the credit reference agencies (CRAs) 
 as Barclaycard had to do that as part of their obligations to report accurate information. 
They gave him guidance on logging in online.
Mr G brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Barclaycard had acted fairly. Theyd 
given Mr G payment holidays on both cards in April 2020, and then further interest free 
periods later  for one month. The limit reductions were made because of the missed 
payments  and this was a commercial business decision that Barclaycard could take. They 
were also entitled to charge a commercial rate of interest on Mr Gs cards. He noted that Mr 
G wouldnt agree to provide his income and expenditure details to Barclaycard  and 
therefore they couldnt work out if they could support him in the way he might want. 
Mr G didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G was struggling because of the Covid-19 pandemic and he needed support. He says he 
didnt get it from Barclaycard in several ways. He says:
They reduced his credit limits.
They marked his credit file with missed payments which meant he couldnt get credit.
He wanted the interest rate on the cards to be reduced or set to zero.
Barclaycard blocked his online access to both card accounts.
He couldnt get thought to Barclaycard to discuss his accounts.
The relevant guidance here is the pandemic support scheme which Barclaycard, along with 
other banks, put in place. In April 2020, The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) announced 
guidance to lenders in response to the effects on customers of the COVID-19 pandemic. All 
lenders, including Barclaycard, had to put in place payment holidays on many credit 
agreements, including credit cards  to help customers who were affected. Customers could 
ask for a total of two payment holidays each of three months  whereby payments could be 
suspended. Missed payments would not be reported to credit reference agencies, although 
interest would still be debited to the accounts. This support was provided by firms up to the 
end of October 2020. 
The intention was to provide short term support  usually in cases where customers would 
be returning to work within a short period of time. And so  where a customers situation was 
that they were in longer term difficulty, then payment holidays under this scheme werent 
normally agreed.
So  I have looked at what happened in the light of this. Its important to note here that the 
FCA (Barclaycards regulator) didnt say, for example, that banks must agree to reduced 
interest rates, nor should they change their lending criteria for customers as a result of the 
pandemic.
I can see that Mr G asked for, and got, payment holidays on both cards in April 2020. So  
he didnt need to make any payments to the cards for the period of the holiday. And I can 
see from the statements that payments werent asked for by Barclaycard, nor were they 
made by Mr G  in line with the agreed payment holidays. 
At the end of the payment holidays  Mr G contacted Barclaycard to ask for an extension. I can see he called Barclaycard on 11 June 2020, and Barclaycard agreed to call him back  
which they did on 13 June 2020, but unfortunately there wasnt any response and they left a 
message for Mr G to call back. On 9 July 2020, Mr G called Barclaycard. But he wouldnt 
answer any questions about his circumstances  and he hung up. 
Ive thought about this. The payment holiday support had to be agreed by Barclaycard (and 
all banks)  as they needed to understand whether, for example, customers were going to 
be able to return to work at the end of the payment holiday period  in other words, if they 
would be able to manage the debt at that time and thereafter. If customers were in long term 
financial difficultly, then other forms of longer-term support might be considered. So, I can 
see why Barclaycard needed to ask questions about Mr Gs income and expenditure. I can 
see that on another call  in October 2020  Mr G again refused to give this information to 
Barclaycard. And so  as they didnt have that information, I dont think we could reasonably 
expect them to give another payment holiday, or any other type of support to Mr G. 
Nevertheless, I can see that Barclaycard did give Mr G a period of one-month interest  free 
on both cards  in August 2020 (Card A) and October 2020 (card B). And again - in 
November 2020, they gave a further two-month period of interest free borrowing on both 
cards. Late payment fees were also waived. I note in Mr Gs response to our investigators 
view that he didnt consider this as much help  but a total interest free period of three 
months on a debt of approximately £25,000 was, I think, a significant benefit to Mr G. 
Turning to the limit reductions on the cards. I can see that Mr G missed a number pf 
payments on both cards, so that by October 2020  he was two months in arrears on Card 
A, and by November 2020  two months in arrears on Card B. So  it was reasonable that 
Barclaycard were concerned about whether Mr Gs could repay the debts; and especially as 
they hadnt been able to understand his financial situation. If they had been able to do so, 
things may have been different, but that wasnt the case. Also - its down to Barclaycards 
own commercial decisions on how they set and agree to credit limits  its not something we 
can generally interfere with. But given that they didnt have the information about Mr G that 
they needed, I can see why they reduced Mr Gs limits.
Mr G says that Barclaycard advised the CRAs of the missed payments and that was 
unreasonable. But all banks, including Barclaycard, have an obligation to report accurate 
and information to the CRAs  and as Mr G had missed payments, they had to do that. 
Turning to the matter of interest rates. The actual level of interest rates is a commercial 
decision for Barclaycard to take  they set the interest rates, and we dont interfere with that. 
But Mr G says he wanted his rates to be reduced to zero, or lowered. If he could have 
demonstrated that he was in financial difficulty  then Barclaycard, as part of their obligation 
to support customers in financial difficulty  may have considered a form of long term 
support for Mr G  possibly involving a payment plan with lower payments, and zero interest. 
But  as they couldnt get any information from Mr G, I  think it was reasonable that 
Barclaycard didnt offer that to him. And - its important to note that such a plan would have 
been advised to the CRAs  so I suspect that Mr G wouldnt have wanted that to happen. 
Turning to the online access to Mr Gs accounts, I looked at the log-on data and it looks like 
on Card B  he tried to log on on 2 October 2020 but entered incorrect information, and 
hadnt tried to log on since then. And on Card A  Barclaycard gave him guidance as to what 
to do in their final response in November 2020. But Mr G hadnt tried to log on since then. So 
 I think they acted fairly here.
I looked at Barclaycards letters to Mr G. They sent ten letters to him between the end of the 
payment holiday and January 2021  and all of them asked if they could help and asked him 
to get in touch to discuss his situation. So  they were trying to find a way to help. I accept that Mr G says he couldnt get through to Barclaycard. I sense his frustrations. But all banks, 
including Barclaycard, were experiencing severe disruption due to the impact of Covid 19 at 
this time. The FCA also announced at the time of the pandemic that customers might well 
experience delays in getting through to banks. And to be fair to Barclaycard, theyve 
apologised for that and paid compensation of £100  I think thats reasonable. And, Ive seen 
that on several occasions, Barclaycard did try to call Mr G about his situation, but without 
any success.
I can see from Mr Gs correspondence with us that he feels strongly about his complaint and 
will therefore be disappointed by my decision  but Im not going to ask Barclaycard to do 
anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman