DRN-3907418
The complaint
Mr Ds complaint is about the advice Approachable Finance Limited (trading as 
Approachable Finance (IFA)) gave him to transfer benefits from an occupational pension 
scheme (OPS) to a personal pension. He says the defined benefit element of the OPS 
should have been investigated further before proceeding with the advice to transfer. Mr D 
believes he lost out financially by having to take the defined benefit part of the pension as a 
single life annuity with no guarantee period.
Mr D also complains that the service agreement he had with the firm was terminated at short 
notice.
What happened
Mr Ds complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He sent his assessment of the 
complaint to both parties on 2 December 2022. The background and circumstances to the 
complaint were set out in his assessment. But to recap, Mr D was a member of an 
occupational pension scheme (OPS) and hed sought advice from Approachable Finance 
about taking benefits from it. Hed been made aware from colleagues of the potential 
opportunity for an uplifted tax-free cash amount.
Approachable Finance contacted the administrators - a well-known pension provider  and 
the Trustees in the process of obtaining information about the scheme. On 21 January 2020 
the administrators sent Approachable Finance information about the Group Plan. The letter 
provided detailed information including that the plan was paid up, didnt facilitate drawdown, 
and so would need to be transferred to a new plan if drawdown was required. It also said 
there are no Safeguarded Benefits attached to this members plan. 
The administrators called Approachable Finance on 19 February 2020 about the level of 
protected tax-free cash (PTFC) available and the delays in getting information from the 
Trustees. The administrators call note said the Trustees were considering limiting tax-free 
cash to 25%, but Mr D was already aware of other scheme members whod benefited from 
an uplift in the tax-free cash and so he was concerned he may be restricted to the 25%.
The administrators wrote to Approachable Finance again on 18 March 2020 saying the 
Trustees had confirmed that the tax-free cash payable from the plan would be based on     
Mr Ds protected amount as at 5 April 2006, rather than being restricted to 25%.  It said the 
Trustees had also confirmed there was an option to take the PTFC cash and use the 
remainder for a drawdown arrangement.
The letter went on to say that the OPS had non standard rules, which include a defined 
benefit guarantee in respect of contributions prior to 1 March 1996. The scheme actuaries 
have identified that there is a shortfall in [Mr Ds] pre 1 March 1996 fund, which means that 
in addition to the benefits available from our scheme, the employer will have to make up the 
shortfall to the pre 1 March 1996 fund.
Approachable Finance sent a copy of the letter to Mr D prior to a meeting with him on 23 
March 2020. And the defined benefit guarantee was discussed during it. Mr D has said 
Approachable Finance told him the guarantee wasnt connected to the plan with the pension 
provider and was nothing to worry about. 
A suitability report was issued to Mr D on 31 March 2020. The report was silent on the 
defined benefit guarantee. Approachable Finance advised Mr D to take the PTFC, and 
transfer the remaining funds to a drawdown pension with another pension provider.
On 17 April 2020 the administrators wrote to Approachable Finance confirming the Trustees 
had authorised payment of the PTFC and transfer of the balance to another pension 
provider. The PTFC was paid to Mr D and the remaining fund transferred to a drawdown 
plan.
The Trustees e-mailed Approachable Finance in July 2020 asking if it was authorised to 
provide advice in respect of safeguarded benefits. The Trustee also asked whether 
Approachable Finance would accept a top up to the drawdown lump sum initially paid out by 
the scheme. Approachable Finance said that it had legal, GDPR and regulatory concerns 
about the e-mail.
Mr D contacted the OPS sponsoring employer to ask about the defined benefit guarantee 
the Trustees had referred to. And in November 2020 the sponsoring employer provided 
details about the guarantee, as calculated by the actuaries. It also said it would cover the 
cost of a financial adviser to advise on the transfer of the defined benefit 
guarantee/safeguarded benefits. The employer said it had confirmation from the scheme 
administrators that a transfer of safeguarded benefits had already taken place in April/May 
2020, and Mr D should check if the new pension provider would accept a further transfer.
Approachable Finance provided Mr D with details of a Pension Transfer Specialist (PTS) in 
November 2020. However, having had a basic discussion with the PTS and provided some 
background to the situation, the PTS told Mr D of the starting point that safeguarded benefit 
transfers were generally not a good idea. The PTS told Mr D he'd pay a fee and the likely 
advice would be to remain in the scheme and not transfer. Mr D subsequently contacted the 
employer to say he didnt think it was in his interests to transfer and hed chosen not to 
pursue that option.
Mr D said the Trustees eventually told him he could go to the market and buy an
annuity if he wished, but again he would need to provide evidence of financial advice from a
suitably qualified adviser. Mr D searched for annuity options and discussed the matter with 
some annuity providers. However, these companies declined to assist further when Mr D 
alerted them that the purchase would be from a defined benefit guarantee/ safeguarded 
benefits arrangement.
Mr D returned to the Trustees saying he couldnt get anyone to advise him on the remaining 
guaranteed/ safeguarded benefits, so could they help. The Trustees offered Mr D an annuity 
on a single life basis, with no escalation or guarantee period. Mr D says he accepted this as 
he felt he had no other options open to him.
Mr D had a review meeting with Approachable Finance in January 2022 during which Mr D 
raised further questions about the guaranteed/safeguarded benefits. Approachable Finance 
subsequently wrote to Mr D saying it was cancelling its client agreement with him.  
Approachable Finance said it felt there was a conflict of interest with the OPS situation still 
ongoing, and its concerns regarding the Trustees approach to the matter. It said as Mr D 
had approached the OPS administrators to check on Approachable Finances involvement 
in the initial transfer, it felt thered been a breakdown in trust.Mr D then raised two complaints. Initially he complained that it was unfair that Approachable 
Finance had taken fees for the pension transfer advice, but since terminated his ongoing 
advice agreement at short notice. He asked Approachable Finance to refund the original 
adviser fee. Approachable Finance initially agreed to the refund, but Mr D decided to take 
the matter further. He raised additional concerns that insufficient due diligence had been 
carried out in respect of the defined benefit guarantee prior to the transfer from the OPS. He 
felt hed lost out financially due to having been forced into a single life annuity.
Approachable Finance didnt uphold Mr Ds complaints and withdrew the offer to refund the 
original advice fee. Approachable Finance said the defined benefit guarantee was a 
separate scheme with safeguarded benefits that it didnt have the authorisation to advise on.
Mr D referred his complaints to us, and they were considered by the investigator. 
Approachable Finance had said it hadnt provided any advice on a defined benefit transfer, 
so it felt Mr D shouldnt be able to complain about work it hadnt undertaken to provide.
The investigator explained the relevant Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules covering our 
jurisdiction to consider complaints and powers to dismiss them. The investigator said we had 
jurisdiction to consider the complaint as Mr D was an eligible complainant and his complaint 
was about a regulated activity. And he didnt think there were any valid reasons why the 
complaint should be dismissed.
The investigator went onto consider whether Approachable Finance should have undertaken 
further due diligence in light of the information it received that there was a defined benefit 
guarantee. The investigator acknowledged that the administrators original report of 21 
January 2020 said there were no safeguarded benefits attached to the plan. And at that time 
the administrator hadnt had instruction from the Trustees that the pre-March 1996 fund 
might be considered to be safeguarded benefits, so its scheme notes didnt reflect this.
But the investigator thought the 18 March 2020 letter from the administrator confirmed the 
OPS had  non standard rules, which include a defined benefit guarantee in respect of 
contributions prior to 1 March 1996. 
The investigator thought the fact that the OPS included a defined benefit guarantee should 
have prompted Approachable Finance to investigate the scheme further given it wasnt 
authorised to advise on safeguarded benefits. He said Approachable Finance had instead 
said it was nothing to do with the plan it was transferring. He noted it wasnt mentioned in the 
suitability report.
The investigator said he had asked the OPS administrators to clarify the situation and it had 
said the scheme was:
 an Own Trust Money Purchase scheme, but when it was set up, the Trustees wanted to 
incorporate a Defined Benefit Guarantee, and [the administrators] agreed to set up the 
scheme with the non-standard Defined Benefit Guarantee element. On 1 March 96 the 
Defined Benefit Guarantee was removed for contributions from that date onwards. So it is 
only the fund generated in respect of premiums prior to 1 March 96 that has the Defined 
Benefit Guarantee, and therefore it is only the pre March 96 fund that the trustees are 
classing as Safeguarded Benefits
And
As far as the [administrators] is concerned, it is only the pre March 96 fund that is 
potentially classed as Safeguarded Benefit, i.e. the post March 96 fund is excluded. Our correspondence with the Trustees suggests that they only consider the pre 96 fund to be 
Safeguarded benefits in cases where the cost of providing the DB Guarantee exceeds the 
value of the pre 96 fund, as was the case with this customer.
The investigator said the pre-March 1996 fund value transferred was around £85,000. And 
the administrators had already confirmed there was a shortfall under the defined benefit 
guarantee. This meant the pre-1996 benefits were classed as safeguarded, something 
Approachable Finance wasnt authorised to advise on.
The investigator thought Approachable Finance should have undertaken further due 
diligence to clarify the situation with the defined benefit guarantee, and had it done so, it 
would have been clear that the OPS included an element of safeguarded benefits. The 
investigator went on to consider what impact this had on Mr D.
The investigator said Mr D had confirmed that Approachable Finance had informed him from 
the start that it was unable to advise on safeguarded benefits. The investigator said had 
Approachable Finance investigated the defined benefit guarantee it would have realised it 
wasnt authorised to advise on the safeguarded benefit and, in all likelihood, a referral would 
have been made to a PTS with the required permissions. Or Mr D would have located his 
own suitably authorised PTS.
The investigator said by proceeding with the advice, Approachable Finance had initially 
denied Mr D the option of having the occupational scheme reviewed as one, including the 
defined benefit guarantee and the shortfall. As a review by a PTS didnt take place, the 
investigator said it wasnt possible to confirm what the recommendation would have been. 
But Mr D had confirmed his plan, other than taking the protected tax-free cash, had been to 
take a drawdown from the pension at some point, something the original plan couldnt 
accommodate.
The investigator said after the defined benefit guarantee had been calculated, some six 
months later, the sponsoring employer set out clearly the requirement for Mr D to seek 
further independent financial advice in relation to the remaining safeguarded element. It said 
it would cover that cost. 
The investigator said Mr D was given the option of having a PTS advise him on the situation, 
at no cost to himself. And it appeared the Trustees were happy to allow Mr D to continue and 
transfer the defined benefit guaranteed element out once hed received advice from a 
suitably qualified adviser/PTS. The investigator said Mr D had an opportunity to mitigate his 
position by taking advice. And although Mr D did speak with a PTS, he confirmed he decided 
not to take forward the formal advice process in the belief that the likely outcome would be 
that he should not transfer, but the employer would still have to pay the advice fee. 
The investigator said he thought as Mr D hadnt taken advantage of the option of taking 
advice from a PTS, he wasnt able to conclude that he was forced to take the single life 
annuity. The investigator said there was no specific evidence that Mr D suffered financially 
as a result. And he thought that Mr D should have accepted the offer to take additional 
financial advice from a PTS, for which the sponsoring employer would have paid.
The investigator did, however, think Mr D had suffered significant disruption, distress and 
inconvenience because of Approachable Finance not having done what it should in the first 
place; investigate the defined benefit guarantee and inform Mr D to seek independent 
financial advice from a PTS. Mr D had spent a considerable amount of time and effort 
looking into the matter. It wasnt until the Trustees explained to Mr D some months later what 
should have happened, and what Mr D needed to do to correct the situation. The 
investigator thought to recognise the considerable distress and inconvenience caused to    Mr D that Approachable Finance should pay him the sum of £500.
The investigator said Mr D originally complained that Approachable Finance had terminated 
the client agreement at short notice, leaving him with no adviser. The investigator said the 
terms of the client agreement said:
The authority to act on your behalf may be terminated at any time without penalty by either
party giving seven days notice in writing to that effect to the other, but without prejudice to 
the completion of transactions already initiated.
The investigator said he wasnt aware of any transactions that were still to be completed. 
And whilst it could be argued seven days notice may not have been given, he was satisfied 
that it hadnt affected Mr D financially.
In conclusion, the investigator said he thought that Approachable Finance should have 
undertaken further due diligence with regards to the defined benefit guarantee. And that it 
should pay Mr D £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Approachable Finance didnt agree with the investigators findings and asked for the 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that there were other parties involved in this transfer such as the OPS 
administrators and its Trustees. Each had its own roles and responsibilities in the processing 
of the transaction. And it may be the other parties didnt meet their own responsibilities and 
obligations. However, the complaint before me is against Approachable Finance. And so Ive 
considered whether Approachable Finance met the relevant standards required of it in its 
own dealings with Mr D. If Mr D or Approachable Finance consider there were failings by any 
of the other parties involved then it is a matter for them to decide if they want to take action 
against any of those other parties. 
As I said above, the investigator explained how the administrators had described the plan in 
his assessment.  an Own Trust Money Purchase scheme, but when it was set up, the 
Trustees wanted to incorporate a Defined Benefit Guarantee, and [the administrators] 
agreed to set up the scheme with the non-standard Defined Benefit Guarantee element. 
This is consistent with the Trustees position that part of the scheme provided a defined 
benefit guarantee, and Im satisfied that is the correct position. 
Its not in dispute that the letter from the administrators dated 21 January 2020 clearly stated 
that there were no Safeguarded Benefits attached to this members plan. This 
information had been sent to Approachable Finance following its request for detailed 
information about the scheme from the administrators. So the starting point was 
Approachable Finance was clearly told there were no safeguarded benefits. It also says this 
was confirmed in a telephone conversation with the administrators on 19 February 2020, 
albeit the administrators notes dont record this. But I accept it was clearly reasonable for 
Approachable Finance to proceed on the basis that there were no safeguarded benefits at 
this point.
I also accept that in the exchanges between Approachable Finance, the administrators and 
the Trustees in arranging the transfer, other than the 18 March 2020 letter, there was no indication that there were defined/safeguarded benefits. And I have considered the 18 March 
2020 letter in that context.
The 18 March 2020 letter included confirmation that the Trustees had confirmed what         
tax-free cash was payable and information about the value of the plan. But the letter then 
went on to say:
The [name of the OPS] has non standard rules, which include a defined benefit guarantee in 
respect of contributions prior to 1 March 1996. The scheme actuaries have identified that 
there is a shortfall in [Mr Ds] pre 1 March 1996 fund, which means that in addition to the 
benefits available from our scheme, the employer will have to make up the shortfall to the 
pre 1 March 1996 fund. 
I am not in a position to comment on the amount required to cover the shortfall or how it will 
be paid, as this will be dealt with by the trustees, the scheme actuaries and the employer.
In my view this information was a clear red flag  it was saying the OPS had a defined 
benefit to it. But it also said the administrators werent in a position to effectively provide its 
value, which was also important information.  And it said that the scheme had non-standard 
rules. This should all have prompted further investigation. 
Approachable Finance has focused on the wording in addition to the benefits available from 
our scheme, saying the terminology in the letter was extremely clear and the defined benefit 
was separate to the scheme it was advising on. It said it had no connection whatsoever to 
the scope of the advice it provided, and the existence of the scheme didnt make any 
difference to its advice.
I dont agree with Approachable Finances view on this. The wording has to be considered in 
the round, including all the information given in it. The letter referred to the scheme that 
Approachable Finance was advising on. As Ive said above, it was told the scheme had a 
defined benefit, its value wasnt given but it was known there was a shortfall, and the 
scheme had non-standard rules. So even if the benefit was in addition Approachable 
Finance didnt know the full picture; what type of defined benefit applied; what rules applied 
to it; its value and how it interacted with the other parts of the scheme that Approachable 
Finance were considering including giving advice about it. 
Approachable Finance didnt know whether there were consequences of transferring out 
only part of the scheme, or of any potential disadvantages to Mr D in doing so. It didnt look 
into what the non-standard rules were. In my opinion the letter didnt make the nature of the 
scheme clear, and Approachable Finance wasnt in a position to know if the defined benefits 
would make a difference to the advice it had been asked to give.  
Approachable Finance was required to obtain all the relevant information about Mr Ds 
pension and act in his best interests. In my view it failed to do so. There could have been 
unknown consequences to transferring out part of the schemes benefits. And as a minimum, 
the fact that Mr D would likely need further advice about the remaining benefits was clearly 
foreseeable.
As Ive said above, I accept that this was only one piece of information in the context of all 
the other information and contact Approachable Finance had with the administrators and the 
Trustees. But it was key information. Approachable Finance was aware of it.  In my opinion it 
wasnt reasonable for Approachable Finance to press on with the transfer without making 
further enquiries about the nature of the pension it was advising on.
Approachable Finance has questioned why it is been complained about in reference to advice it didnt offer on the separate defined benefit pension. For the reasons Ive explained, 
it wasnt a separate scheme  it was a benefit/feature of the same scheme. Even if it was 
agreed it was a benefit separate to the scheme, it was something that Approachable Finance 
should have taken into account when advising Mr D. Like the investigator, Im satisfied the 
complaint is about a regulated activity and we have jurisdiction to consider it. 
Approachable Finance has also questioned Mr Ds motivation for making the complaints. It 
said they were made shortly after Mr D had asked it to do further work and after it had told 
Mr D it wasnt willing to be involved in the transfer of the defined benefits (as it wasnt 
something it was legally allowed to do). And it was after the cancellation of its client 
agreement. It said this was a full twenty-one months after the transfer had taken place. And 
it had initially offered Mr D a refund of its initial advice fee which was what apparently Mr D 
had wanted in his complaint letter. It said this was an offer made without prejudice to avoid 
the protracted debate that was now taking place and in line with Ombudsman and regulators 
guidelines of trying to resolve and acknowledge complaints efficiently. 
In my view it was reasonable for Approachable Finance to end the agreement in the 
circumstances, particularly as the relationship had broken down. And I also think it acted 
fairly and in good faith to try and attempt to resolve the complaint at an early stage.  
However I also think Mr D was entitled to make his complaint  whatever the timing and 
what eventually prompted it. And it was a matter for Mr D to decide whether he wanted to 
accept the offer  which was subsequently withdrawn before coming to our service. 
I appreciate that my decision has consequences for the parties involved. And as Ive said, 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments in making my decision. But in my 
view the content of the 18 March 2020 letter clearly raised questions that needed further 
investigation. Although proceeding without making the necessary enquiries may not have 
caused Mr D a loss, like the investigator, Im satisfied it caused unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience. 
Accordingly, for the reasons Ive outlined above and by the investigator, I consider Mr Ds 
complaint should succeed. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ds complaint. I order Approachable Finance Limited to 
pay Mr D £500. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman