DRN-3736754
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) unfairly declined a claim they made 
under their home insurance policy.
Reference to QIC includes agents acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M had a home insurance policy with QIC that covered them for loss or damage 
caused by an escape of water. In May 2022 they contacted QIC as they noticed a section of 
their bathroom floor was wet and spongy. And subsequently that there were small stains on 
their kitchen ceiling below the bathroom. QIC sent a surveyor who noted water damage to 
the boards underneath the flooring and to those running under the shower tray. They said 
the damage was covered under Mr and Mrs Ms policy. A plumber was then asked to trace 
the leak and fix it. He found slight movement in the shower tray when it was occupied and 
that was causing the shower waste trap and pipe to release water. 
QIC drew up a scope of works, which Mr and Mrs M disputed. But QIC reviewed the 
situation and decided not to cover all of the claim. Its regional surveyor and in-house 
surveyor said the design of the shower was defective as it allowed water to pass out of the 
shower enclosure and that had caused the floorboards to rot, the shower tray to move and 
the waste pipe to leak. It said it would only cover the damage caused by the waste pipe, 
which was the staining to the kitchen ceiling. QIC said the remainder of the work was 
declined due to poor design and because the damage had been caused gradually, both of 
which were exclusions under Mr and Mrs Ms policy. QIC later said it appreciated its initial 
assessment had been incorrect and offered Mr and Mrs M £100 for the inconvenience 
caused. 
Our investigator thought QIC should pay the full value of the claim. He said there was no 
evidence of poor or faulty design or that there was anything wrong with the seals around the 
shower. Nor did he think there was any evidence Mr and Mrs M knew that anything was 
wrong with the shower. He thought the offer of £100 was fair in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs M agreed with the investigators view but QIC did not. It said the cause of the 
damage to the bathroom was water escaping from the shower when used, which gradually 
caused damage and allowed movement in the shower tray. It said the leak from the waste 
pipe wasnt present until the shower tray started moving. As QIC didnt accept the 
investigators view, the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is in this 
complaint), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities. In other words, what I 
consider most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and wider 
circumstances.
Mr and Mrs Ms policy covers them for damage caused by an escape of water. But it doesnt 
cover them for damage caused by a gradual water leak or gradual deterioration. And it 
doesnt cover them for poor workmanship or poor design. QIC has applied both of these 
exclusions to Mr and Mrs Ms claim and its my role to decide if that was fair.
QICs field surveyor made the initial assessment of the damage. They took a number of 
photographs of the property, including the area around the shower. They thought the most 
likely cause of the damage was failure to the seals around the shower tray itself, although 
they said there was a possibility the shower waste was an issue as well. They decided the 
claim should be met in full.
QICs regional surveyor then reviewed the claim and decided to decline much of it. But I 
think this review was flawed. I say this for two reasons. One, because they said the shower 
was clearly defective because it allowed water to pass out of the shower enclosure onto the 
floor. But Mr and Mrs M have said the bathroom was designed as a wet room and 
professionally installed. The field surveyor noted as much in his report and said there was 
waterproof flooring fitted outside the shower. So, I think this casts doubt on the regional 
surveyors view that the design was flawed for the reasons stated.
And two, the regional surveyor noted a historic patch to the ceiling in the kitchen and said 
this previous repair indicated the leak in the shower was an ongoing issue. But Mr and 
Mrs M have said this patch was unrelated to the shower. They said it was a recent leak from 
a small hole in a cold-water pipe that Mr M repaired himself. And it was below the toilet in the 
bathroom, about 2m away from the shower leak. The photographs taken by the field 
surveyor clearly show the position of the patched ceiling in the kitchen and supports what 
Mr and Mrs M have said about that patch being below the toilet, not the shower. So, I think 
this too detracts from the view taken by the regional surveyor. And, taken together, I dont 
think it was fair and reasonable for QIC to decline Mr and Mrs Ms claim on the basis that the 
damage was caused by poor workmanship or poor design. 
As Ive said, the field surveyor thought the likely cause of the damage was a failure to seals 
around the shower tray itself but they also noted that the waste trap and pipe could be an 
issue. And the plumber who attended subsequently identified the waste pipe as being the 
main cause of the damage. I think its reasonable to give most weight to the evidence 
provided by those who physically attended the site. And most notably to the plumbers 
evidence as he was the only person who investigated the cause of the leak, creating an 
inspection hole in the plasterboard from the kitchen below to enable him to do that. So, on 
balance, I think the damage is most likely to have been caused by problems with the waste 
trap and pipe underneath the shower, rather than by water passing out of the shower.
QIC could argue that the waste pipe had been leaking for a while and the damage caused to 
the bathroom was caused by water leaking gradually and thus excluded from Mr and 
Mrs Ms policy. The photographs of the damaged floorboards would possibly support that 
view. So, I think a strict application of the policy terms could allow QIC to decline the claim 
using that exclusion. But the approach this service takes when looking at this issue is to see 
whether the policy holders should have reasonably been aware of the damage occurring. 
And, if not, and they took reasonable action as soon as they became aware, were likely to 
say that a fair and reasonable outcome would be for the insurer to pay the claim. 
In this case, I think the most likely cause of the leak was the waste trap and pipe. And that 
was underneath the shower tray, out of sight of Mr and Mrs M. The field surveyor noted that 
the property was very well maintained and there was no evidence of any issues with any 
seals elsewhere around or in the shower area. That is supported by the photographs attached to the field surveyors report. So, I dont think Mr and Mrs M have failed to take care 
of their property and it seems to me they took action by contacting QIC as soon as they 
became aware of the problem. The fact there was only a small stain on the kitchen ceiling, 
rather than anything larger, also indicates that they took action sooner rather than later. 
So, on balance, I dont think Mr and Mrs M should reasonably have been aware of the 
damage beneath the shower, even if that was happening gradually. As they were prevented 
from doing anything to stop it getting worse, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for 
QIC to decline their claim on the basis that the damage was happening gradually. 
Putting things right
In light of the above, I dont think it was fair and reasonable for QIC to rely on the evidence to 
decline Mr and Mrs Ms claim. And so, I think they should pay the claim in full, less the policy 
excess. If it pays a cash settlement, QIC should pay interest on that amount from the date 
the claim was first made to the date its paid to Mr and Mrs M.
QIC offered to pay Mr and Mrs M £100 for the inconvenience caused by its field surveyors 
incorrect assessment of the claim. And I note that its now paid that amount. In light of my 
findings, which in part rely on the field surveyors report and findings, I dont agree that the 
field surveyors assessment was necessarily wrong. But I do think the regional surveyors 
assessment was flawed and unnecessarily lengthened the claim process. So, I think Mr and 
Mrs M should be allowed to keep that £100. In the circumstances, I think that amount, plus 
the full claim payment, provides a reasonable resolution to this complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and QIC 
Europe Limited must:
settle Mr and Mrs Ms claim in full, less the policy excess, in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy; and
if it pays a cash settlement, pay 8% simple interest on that amount from the date on 
which the claim was first made to the date on which the money is paid to Mr and 
Mrs M1.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman
1 If QIC Europe Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
this interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs M how much its taken off. It should also give them a tax 
deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.