DRN-4237108
The complaint
Miss S complains that FirstRand Bank Limited trading as MotoNovo Finance (MotoNovo) 
irresponsibly granted her a hire purchase agreement that she couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
In March 2019 Miss S acquired a vehicle financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
MotoNovo. Miss S paid a deposit of £300 and was required to make 59 monthly repayments 
of £314.67 and a final payment of £315.67. The total amount repayable under the agreement 
was £19,181.20. Miss S believes MotoNovo failed to complete adequate affordability checks. 
Miss S says that if it had it wouldve been clear the agreement wasnt affordable.
MotoNovo disagreed. It said it carried out an adequate assessment which included a full 
credit search. It said this showed her accounts were being well managed and there was no 
record of defaults or county court judgements on her file.
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. They thought 
MotoNovos checks werent proportionate but that had it completed proportionate checks it 
wouldve still found the lending was affordable. 
Miss S didnt agree. She reiterated that MotoNovo hadnt completed adequate checks at the 
point of sale. Miss S felt it wasnt fair to include overtime payments and regular payments 
from her partner at the time in any income calculations. Miss S said that her income and 
expenditure hadnt been fairly calculated, and it should have been clear the agreement was 
not affordable for her circumstances.  She asked for an Ombudsman to issue a final decision 
on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent, or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and wider circumstances.
We explain how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Ss complaint. MotoNovo needed to 
ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly as per the rules set out in the FCAs Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC). In practice, what this means is that MotoNovo needed to carry out 
proportionate checks to be able to understand whether any lending was affordable for Miss 
S before providing it.
In this case, there are two overarching questions that I need to answer to fairly and 
reasonably decide Miss Ss complaint. These two questions are:
1. Did MotoNovo complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that     
Miss S would be able to repay her loan without experiencing significant adverse 
consequences?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Miss S wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did MotoNovo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did MotoNovo complete a reasonable and proportionate affordability check?
MotoNovo was required to ensure it carried out adequate checks on Miss Ss ability to 
sustainably afford the agreement. These checks had to be borrower-focussed and 
proportionate (see CONC 5.2A). What is considered proportionate will vary depending on 
the circumstances, such as (but not limited to): the total amount repayable, the size of the 
monthly repayments, the term of the agreement (CONC 5.2A.20 R), and the consumers 
specific circumstances.
Im not satisfied that MotoNovo gathered a reasonable amount of information from Miss S 
about her income and expenditure prior to approving the finance. I understand MotoNovo 
made the decision to lend on the basis that her accounts were being managed well and 
found the risk this posed to itself as acceptable. But Im not satisfied enough consideration 
was given to the personal risk posed to Miss S.
MotoNovo says that Miss Ss application underwent credit and underwriting checks, and 
these didnt raise concerns. MotoNovo hasnt provided a copy of the credit check it 
completed. So, Ive relied on a copy of the credit file supplied by Miss S and I think this gives 
a good indication of what MotoNovo would likely have seen.
At the time of the application it shows that Miss S had other outstanding credit commitments 
but that she was managing them well. So, I dont find that the credit search alone would 
have raised concerns that meant the lending shouldnt have been provided or that additional 
checks were needed.
However, I havent seen evidence of MotoNovo gathering adequate income and expenditure 
information from Miss S before the agreement was provided. MotoNovos second final 
response letter to Miss S also acknowledges this fact. Given the size and duration of the 
agreement as well as the repayment amounts, it would have been reasonable and 
proportionate in the circumstances for MotoNovo to have asked Miss S about her income 
and expenditure before the agreement was provided. Without knowing what her income and 
regular committed expenditure was, MotoNovo wouldnt have got a reasonable 
understanding of whether the agreement was affordable for her. 
Im satisfied MotoNovo didnt complete proportionate affordability checks, but this doesnt 
automatically mean it failed to make a fair a lending decision.
Did MotoNovo make a fair lending decision?
Ive considered what MotoNovo would likely have found out if it had completed reasonable 
and proportionate affordability checks. I cant be certain what Miss S would have told 
MotoNovo had it asked about her income and regular expenditure. I dont think MotoNovo 
necessarily needed to request bank statements or payslips, but in the absence of anything 
else, Ive placed significant weight on the information contained in Miss Ss statements from 
January and February 2019 and payslips from December 2018 to February 2019 as an 
indication of what would most likely have been disclosed. Ive mostly not included the 
statement submitted from March 2019, as Im satisfied that much of its information wouldnt 
have been available when the agreement was entered into.These statements show that Miss S was receiving an average of around £2,500 a month in 
income. This includes her salary, overtime payments made in February 2021 that amounted 
to around £400 and regular transfers from her partner at the time of £1,200 a month. Her 
regular committed monthly expenditure at the time was around £1,900. In calculating these 
amounts Ive included any applicable payments for her credit commitments, housing costs, 
council tax, utilities, food, fuel and other ongoing costs. Id like to highlight to Miss S that my 
calculations include the full £650 rental cost, not the half that MotoNovo used in its own 
calculations.
Taking these figures into account, it appears to show the agreement was affordable for        
Miss S. Altogether Miss Ss income and expenditure at the time satisfies me that the 
agreement did not appear to be unaffordable  as on average she was left with around £280 
of disposable income after taking into account the monthly payments for the agreement. For 
this reason, Im not persuaded that MotoNovo acted unfairly when approving the finance.
Miss S has suggested that the calculations discussed to date have failed to consider another 
credit commitment which was also taken out in March 2019. Miss S has explained that she 
wouldnt have made her first payment towards this agreement until April, and I can see from 
her bank statements she only received the agreed funds into her account on 8 March 2019. 
At the point MotoNovo completed its checks I think it wouldve been far too recent for this 
other agreement to have shown on any credit file searches. But I agree that proportionate 
discussions about Miss Ss income and expenditure most likely would have revealed this 
new commitment  and that it should have been considered. With all that said, the 
MotoNovo agreement still wouldve been affordable after including this additional 
expenditure as Miss Ss average disposable income would have been around £120.
I understand Miss S also feels its unfair to include overtime in the affordability calculations. 
Miss S has said that her overtime was extremely rare  and in fact is no longer available 
from her employer. Ive thought about this carefully and acknowledge that her payslip from 
January 2019 shows no overtime pay at all. However, I also note she received a significant 
amount of overtime pay in her December 2018 and February 2019 payslips. Whilst not 
included in my calculations, her bank statement from March 2019 also shows she was paid 
substantially more than her basic salary. Whilst Miss S has said she no longer has the option 
of overtime available to her, Im satisfied that at the time she entered into the credit 
agreement she had a reasonable expectation of the option to regularly earn more than her 
basic salary. So, I think it would have been fair for MotoNovo to have thought overtime was 
offered to Miss S on a regular basis and for it to have included it in any affordability 
calculations.
Miss S also feels it is unfair to include payments from her ex-partner as part of her income at 
the time. I appreciate that she feels not all the amount transferred went towards rental and 
bill costs  but I have to balance this with the fact that the same amount was sent to Miss S 
each month and was labelled house and bills. Its fair for these amounts to also be included 
in any income calculations.
Im satisfied from the information provided that at the time the agreement was taken Miss S 
had sufficient disposable income to meet her monthly repayments and have money left over 
each month for emergency or unexpected costs. If MotoNovo had completed proportionate 
checks they would have likely revealed Miss S was able to sustainably afford the 
repayments owed under the agreement. So, it follows that I think MotoNovo made a fair 
lending decision.
Did MotoNovo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?Im not persuaded from the submissions made to date that MotoNovo acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in some other way.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 September 2023.
 
Paul Clarke
Ombudsman