DRN-3453001
The complaint
Mr F complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited sent him surrender values and 
statements on his whole of life policies for many years, but now say that the policies were 
assigned to a pension policy in 1989.
What happened
Mr F took out two whole of life policies with a company that has now been acquired by Aviva. 
When Mr F tried to surrender the policies in 2007, Aviva wrote and told him the policies had 
been assigned to the Trustees of a staff pension scheme and that later the value of the 
policies had been included a transfer to a personal pension plan.
Mr F and his independent financial adviser (IFA) continued to receive regular statements 
from Aviva for the two policies, and in 2020 Mr F again requested that they be surrendered. 
Aviva wrote to Mr F and explained why he was unable to surrender the policies. Mr F 
complained to Aviva who apologised that he was still receiving statements on the policies he 
no longer owned. Aviva sent Mr F a cheque for £515 to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience this matter had caused him. Mr F didnt accept the remedy and brought his 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
One of our Investigators looked into things and thought that Avivas ongoing errors in 
providing Mr F with statements and surrender illustrations on the two policies had a 
significant impact on Mr F. The Investigator didnt think that the £515 compensation offered 
by Aviva reflected the impact on Mr F and thought that Aviva should pay Mr F a further £500.
Aviva didnt agree with the Investigator and thought the remedy was too high and asked that 
an Ombudsman decides the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute that Aviva continued to send Mr F regular statements on the two whole 
of life policies, but Im satisfied the whole of life policies were made paid-up and assigned to 
the Trustees of a staff pension scheme. Its not clear exactly when this happened, but this is 
supported by a letter from business administering the staff pension scheme to Mr F on 15 
August 1989. The letter said, {the transfer value of the staff pension scheme} ..includes the 
value of your whole of life policies issued under the old staff life assurance scheme (which 
were made paid-up for a reduced sum around when you left service) and the value of your 
protected rights. In addition to this Ive seen a notification that the two policies were 
assigned to the Trustees of the staff pension scheme. And Ive seen a policy statement 
dated 25 February 1998 to an IFA showing that the policies were held in the name of 
Trustees of {the staff pension scheme} on Mr F.
This means that it wouldnt be possible for Mr F to surrender the policies without the 
Trustees of the staff pension scheme confirming they had no further interest in them. I can 
see that when Mr F first asked Aviva to surrender the policies in 2007 it asked him to provide 
confirmation that the Trustees of the staff pension scheme had no further interest in the 
policies, but Mr F didnt provide this.
There is some doubt about when the policies were transferred to the Trustees of the staff 
pension scheme, but Im satisfied they were. And, regardless of when this happened, it 
seems more likely than not the benefits of the whole of life policies were included in the 
transfer value to the personal pension provider. Although the intention of the Trustees was to 
surrender the policies, as they couldnt re-assign them to a new personal pension provider, 
its more likely than not this didnt happen until after Mr Fs fund had already been 
transferred. But this doesnt mean that Mr F retained the value or the benefits of the policies 
as they were assigned to the Trustees of the staff pension scheme in lieu of the transfer 
value it had paid out.
Mr F has said that he was confused; on the one-hand he received letters telling him the 
policies had been assigned to the Trustees of the staff pension scheme, but on the other-
hand he continued to receive statements with the sum assured and surrender values. This 
would have been very confusing for Mr F and indeed his IFA. I appreciate Mr F says he 
didnt receive the explanation letter dated 18 September 2007 from Aviva, as there was 
some confusion over his current address, but it went on to explain the policies had been 
assigned to the Trustees of the staff pension scheme and apologised that hed still been 
receiving details of the policies. This may have helped Mr F understand what had happened.
However, regardless of the 2007 apology and explanation, Aviva continued to send regular 
statements on the two whole of life policies to Mr F and his IFA. These statements told Mr F 
what the sum assured and what the fund value was on each policy and there was nothing in 
the statements that would have led Mr F to believe he wasnt the policy holder. So, between 
2007 and 2020, it seems reasonable to me that Mr F would have thought he had some life 
cover in place, and that the policies had a surrender value. 
Mr F says that recent life events caused him to consider whether he had sufficient life cover 
and that finding out that the policies were no longer in existence has left him concerned 
about how he could pay for his funeral. Ive carefully considered whether the apology and 
£515 Aviva offered Mr F was fair and reasonable, but Ive concluded that it doesnt take into 
account that Mr F is now in his early seventies and relacing the life cover Aviva told him he 
still had would be expensive. Ive no doubt that the letters Aviva continued to send Mr F 
persuaded him he had life cover in place and that this would have provided him with some 
comfort which turned out to be mis-placed. Mr F is now in his early seventies and Im 
satisfied from his testimony and complaint that the cumulative effect of the errors caused him 
a lot of distress. And, I think its likely that if these letters hadnt been sent, over a period of 
13 years, Mr F would have been able to consider alternative arrangements when he was 
younger. 
Ive decided that Aviva assigned the whole of life policies to the Trustees of the staff pension 
scheme, and that the value of these policies was more likely than not included in the transfer 
value to a personal pension plan. However, although Aviva apologised and offered Mr F 
£515 for the distress and inconvenience the letters between 2007 and 2020 had caused him, 
I dont think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. Aviva says the £515 
remedy Mr F rejected was already one-third of the last surrender values it sent Mr F. That 
may be the case, but I dont consider the distress and inconvenience Mr F experienced 
should be related to the non-existent surrender value or indeed be formula based. Instead, 
Ive taken into account Mr Fs age and that Aviva had consistently written to him over a 13-
year period to provide details of the level of life cover he had in place. In this regard, I think 
the impact on Mr F is greater than it would likely be for someone of a much younger age and 
who could more easily obtain alternative life cover. So, Ive decided Aviva should pay Mr F the sum of £500 in addition to the £515 it had previously offered. For clarity, Aviva should 
pay Mr F £1,015. 
My final decision
Ive decided that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should pay Mr F the sum of £1,015 to 
remedy the distress and inconvenience caused to him when it continued to send statements 
confirming he still had the whole of life policies in his name.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman