DRN-4069337
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as K, is represented in this complaint by one of its directors, 
who Ill refer to as Mrs K.
Mrs K complains that Vanguard Asset Management Ltd (Vanguard), her pension provider, 
wont accept pension contributions from K as employer contributions due to outstanding due 
diligence checks on K. 
What happened
Mrs K contacted Vanguard in September 2022 to ask it to allow company pension 
contributions from K to be paid into her pension plan.
Vanguard told Mrs K that because there were other directors/shareholders registered with K, 
it would need details about them, in line with its client terms. It said that it needed a 
Declarations Company Directors Policy Statement for all directors and/or shareholders 
controlling over 25% of K. 
The evidence provided shows that apart from Mrs K, there was one other director and/or 
shareholder with more than 25% of K. I understand that he completed and signed the 
required form on 16 September 2022. 
Vanguard started to carry out its Anti-Money Laundering (AML) checks for the requested 
contributions on 15 September 2022. But it couldnt locate the Certificate of Incorporation for 
K. So on 16 September 2022 it asked Mrs K to provide a copy as soon as possible. It also 
said that if a copy of the Certificate of Incorporation wasnt available, Mrs K needed to 
explain why. 
Mrs K replied on 17 September 2022. She said the certificate of incorporation wasnt 
available, but there were several other documents that were. She also asked which 
alternative documents she could provide so the checks could be completed. 
Vanguard responded on 20 September 2022. It asked Mrs K to explain why she didnt have 
the Certificate of Incorporation. She replied the same day to say it had been lost, and that 
she couldnt provide something she didnt have. 
Vanguard replied to Mrs K on 21 September 2022. It said it would consider whether any 
alternative available documents could be used instead.
After checking internally whether other documents could be used instead, Vanguard wrote to 
Mrs K to confirm that the Certificate of Incorporation was still required. And on 5 October 
2022, it wrote again to Mrs K to tell her that it needed her to get a new Certificate of 
Incorporation in order to verify K.
Mrs K told Vanguard she couldnt provide what she didn't have. And asked to raise a 
complaint. 
Vanguard issued its final response to the complaint on 7 October 2022. It didnt think it had 
done anything wrong. It said it had correctly followed its company verification process and 
hadnt made any errors. Vanguard said although it accepted employer pension contributions, 
it needed certain documents about the contributing company to satisfy AML regulations. It 
said this was confirmed on the Vanguard Personal Pension Declaration. Vanguard also said 
that while it acknowledged Mrs K had lost the Certificate of Incorporation, it understood that 
a copy would be available. 
Mrs K brought Ks complaint to this service. She was unhappy with Vanguards approach to 
the due diligence requirements. And felt shed lost the opportunity to make pension 
contributions because of it. She felt there was sufficient evidence that she was an employee, 
director and shareholder of K. And wanted Vanguard to allow pension contributions from K 
without the Certificate of Incorporation.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She felt Vanguard had been 
clear when it had confirmed that it needed the Certificate of Incorporation for K for its AML 
requirements. And that it was then Mrs Ks responsibility to obtain a copy and provide it to 
Vanguard. If she had done so, the contributions from K couldve started.
Mrs K didnt agree with our investigator. She said shed like to explain why. However, 
although this service agreed to give Mrs K additional time to provide further information, and 
chased her more than once for her points, shes provided no further information.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I know my decision will be disappointing to Mrs K. 
Ill explain my reasons for it. 
The role of this service isnt to comment on the validity of processes operated by a business, 
thats the role of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. Instead, our role is to look at 
how business rules and processes are applied to individual consumers circumstances and, 
where they have created unfairness, how that unfairness can be resolved. We dont have the 
powers to tell a business to change the way it operates.
In its final response to the complaint, Vanguard said itd confirmed on the Vanguard 
Personal Pension Declaration that it needed verification documentation about K to satisfy 
AML regulations. I looked at the wording on this form. It said in the declaration:
I understand that Vanguard will aim to verify the identity of the company, its officers and/or 
significant shareholders electronically to satisfy anti-money laundering regulations. In the 
event that Vanguard is unable to do this, we will request documentary evidence as an 
alternative.
The form also stated:
Vanguard reserves the right to delay applications until sufficient identification has been 
provided to its sole satisfaction. 
Similar wording is included on the form Vanguard required to be completed by all directors 
and/or shareholders controlling 25% or more of K if they wanted to make employer 
contributions. I understand Mrs K fell into this category. The form stated:I understand that Vanguard will aim to verify my identity, and the identity of other directors
and shareholders controlling 25%or more of the company, electronically to satisfy anti-
money laundering regulations. In the event that Vanguard is unable to do this, I agree to 
provide documentary evidence as an alternative.
From what Ive seen. I consider that Vanguard clearly communicated its requirements. And 
as it clearly stated that Vanguard could delay applications until it had received the 
documentation it needed, Im satisfied Mrs K wouldve been aware that she wouldnt be able 
to start pension contributions from K until shed provided the Certificate of Incorporation. 
I appreciate that Mrs K doesnt think the requirements are reasonable, and that Vanguard 
couldve used alternative documents that shed provided for the same purpose. But its for 
Vanguard to decide what documentation it needs. And I can see that while it did consider 
whether the alternative documents could be accepted, it confirmed that the Certificate of 
Incorporation for K was still needed. 
Mrs K could  and still can  meet Vanguards requirements by obtaining a replacement 
Certificate of Incorporation. From what I understand, this will then allow the employer 
contributions she wants from K to commence.
Ive also seen no evidence that Vanguard treated Mrs K any differently from any of its other 
policyholders in asking her for the Certificate of Incorporation. And I dont consider it to be an 
inappropriate request under the circumstances. 
Ive not found any evidence that Vanguard did anything wrong. Therefore I dont uphold the 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman