DRN-3281727
The complaint
Ms P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC blocked her account and took too long to 
release money shed paid into the account back to her. She says this caused her a financial 
loss and upset so she wants Barclays to pay her compensation.
What happened
Ms P opened an account with Barclays in early February 2021. On 22 February 2021, Ms P 
transferred £9,000 from an account she held with another bank into her newly opened 
Barclays account.
Following the payment, Barclays decided to review how Ms P was operating her account. 
Whilst it conducted its review the bank blocked her account and asked Ms P to provide 
information about her entitlement to the money shed transferred into her account. In 
response, Ms P gave Barclays a copy of a bank statement from her other account and an 
invoice showing shed been paid for goods shed sold as evidence she was entitled to the 
money paid into her account. 
Barclays reviewed the information Ms P provided but werent satisfied that it showed Ms P 
was entitled to the money. Ms P chased Barclays to try and find out what was happening 
with her account and how she could access her blocked funds. But she wasnt told she 
needed provide more information until late March 2021.
Ms P complained to Barclays about how long things were taking. Barclays apologised and 
offered her £150 compensation for not keeping in touch about what was happening. Ms P 
said the offer didnt adequate reflect the amount of trouble and upset the bank had caused 
her when it blocked her funds. She said shed intended to use the money to invest and she 
was now out of pocket. And her mental health had suffered. So, Ms P brought her complaint 
to our service.
Barclays decided to release Ms Ps funds after shed brought her complaint to us. It looked 
again at Ms Ps complaint and accepted it had taken too long to release Ms Ps funds. And 
should have returned them to her much sooner. It apologised and offered Ms P an additional 
£100 compensation along with 8% interest for loss of use of the funds. Ms P said this wasnt 
enough and she wants more compensation. 
An investigator looked into Ms Ps complaint. She asked Ms P for evidence to support her 
loss of investments. But Ms P wasnt able to provide enough to support what shed said. The 
investigator agreed that Barclays should have released Ms Ps money sooner than it did and 
it should have provided her with better service. So, she said Ms P had been caused some 
trouble and upset. However, she thought the banks offer was fair and didnt ask Barclays to 
do anything more to put things right.
Ms P disagreed. She wants more compensation. And said that the investigator must be 
biased to say the offer was fair and reasonable. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms P has said she is concerned that the investigator is biased because she thought the offer 
made by Barclays was fair  with the implication being that the bank is influencing our 
conclusions inappropriately. Whilst I do recognise her concern, as an ombudsman service 
our approach is to consider what both parties say and then reach our own independent 
conclusions on that evidence. That is what we have done in this complaint. If Ms P does not 
agree with our view, she does not have to accept it, and if she does not accept this final 
decision she will be free to continue to pursue her concerns by other means should she wish 
to do so. I cannot, however, advise her on how to go about doing that.
The crux of Ms Ps complaint is that she is unhappy the bank blocked her account and held 
onto her money. So, Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Ms Ps account. 
Barclays has important legal and regulatory obligations it must meet when providing 
accounts to customers. These obligations are ongoing, so do not only pertain to when an 
account is opened. To comply with its obligations Barclays may need to review an account 
and/or restrict its customers access. If Barclays didnt comply with its obligations it could 
risk serious sanction.
In order to meet these requirements Barclays may need to review activity taking place on 
accounts and ask customers for information about payments  its entitled and obliged to 
carry out such checks to help safeguard both the bank and its customers from financial 
crime. The terms of Ms Ps account also permit Barclays to block payments, accounts and 
ask for information. Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in 
the circumstances for Barclays to block Ms Ps account. Barclays has explained that this 
was its standard procedure, and I accept that it was. So, I cant say Barclays has done 
anything wrong when it decided to review Ms Ps account. 
Any review should be completed in a timely manner. From looking at the timeline of events, I 
can see the review of Ms Ps account should have been completed much sooner than it was. 
And that Ms Ps balance shouldve been released at the latest by 2 March 2021. Barclays 
has accepted it caused delays and that the service it provided to Ms P fell short. Barclays 
havent provided an explanation why it took so long to complete its review. And while I 
recognise that Barclays are entitled to carry out a review, I dont consider the account 
balance being withheld for nine months with little contact acceptable. So, Im not satisfied 
Barclays has treated Ms P fairly. Because of this, I think Barclays should pay compensation 
to recognise the trouble and upset caused to Ms P.
Barclays has agreed to pay Ms P £250 compensatio for the trouble and upset caused by the 
delay and its poor service. And its agreed to pay 8% interest on Ms Ps balance to 
compensate her for the loss of use of her money. Ms P has said this isnt enough to reflect 
the trouble and upset shes suffered and missed out on potential investment profits. So, she 
says shes out of pocket. 
Ive considered what Ms P has said about how Barclayss actions impacted her and Ive 
looked at the information shes provided regarding her intended investments. And that she 
says she lost out on more than £20,000. Ive no doubt this was a worrying and upsetting time 
for Ms P but for me to award more compensation Id have to be satisfied that the delays 
caused an unreasonable level of inconvenience and financial loss. Having looked at the evidence Ms P has provided Im not satisfied that this shows Ms P lost 
out financially. I havent seen any evidence that Ms P had made arrangements to invest the 
money in her account. So, it wouldnt be fair of me to tell Barclays to pay financial loss or 
compensation for something theres no evidence of.  
Ms P has explained that she had to chase Barclays and her mental health was impacted due 
to how long she had to wait for Barclays to release her funds. Shes said that she lost her 
business during the pandemic and things for her were very tough. Based on this, I think its 
likely that Barclays actions made Ms Ps situation harder at an already difficult time. So, I 
can appreciate not being able to access her money for so long wouldve been inconvenient 
and upsetting for Ms P. And its only right that Barclays recognises this. Im satisfied that 
£250 is a fair amount of compensation and proportionate to the trouble and upset Ms P was 
caused. 
As Ive set out above Im also satisfied that Barclays has caused unnecessary delays in 
returning Ms Ps money, and I think 8% simple interest our service recommends when 
someone has been deprived of funds they otherwise would have had, is fair compensation. It 
should pay this from 2 March 2021 until the funds were released. 
In summary, its clearly caused Ms P distress and inconvenience when she wasnt able to 
use her account and had to wait so long to get her funds released. So understandably shes 
upset. And I appreciate it must have been a worrying and frustrating time for her. So, I 
realise she will be disappointed by my decision. But having looked at all the evidence and 
circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied Barclays offer is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Im not going to ask Barclays Bank UK PLC to do anything 
more to resolve Ms Ps complaint. If it hasnt already done so Barclays Bank UK PLC should 
pay:
Ms P £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the time taken to 
complete its review of Ms Ps account and
Interest at 8% simple on Ms Ps closing balance from 2 March 2021 until the date the 
balance was released to Ms P

Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Ombudsman