The complaint
Miss W is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society gave her wrong information about her 
early repayment charge (ERC) when she applied to port her mortgage to a new property.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. Another reason for me not 
repeating the details of the complaint is to protect Miss W's anonymity when this decision is 
published. Suffice to say I've read and understood everything Miss W's said - and I've 
listened to the phone calls - and I have the utmost sympathy for the difficult situation she's 
been in. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Nationwide did nothing wrong in splitting the ERC refund between Miss W and her
ex-partner, as it was a joint mortgage that was redeemed when the previous property
was sold.
Nationwide admitted it made a mistake on the phone when it told Miss W she'd get
all the ERC refunded if she completed on a new property purchase (and ported the
mortgage) within a certain timeframe.
Nationwide didn't know the potential implications of paying half of the ERC refund to
Miss W's ex-partner. Whilst Miss W has said it means her ex-partner knows she's
moved house, that's not the case. The ERC may have been refunded for many other
reasons, such as a complaint having been made (and that was the redress awarded),
a general remediation exercise, or it may have been refunded if Miss W had bought
another house but not moved into it herself. The letter sent to Miss W's ex-partner
doesn't say she's moved house, nor does it give her address.
Whilst the restraining order mentions Miss W's temporary residence before she
bought this new property, it's also clear that it prevents her ex-partner from
contacting her by any means and anywhere (the property details are just an extra).
DRN-1409729Miss W moving house doesn't invalidate the order or change anything as he's still not 
allowed to contact her wherever she's living.
It's clear that the shock of discovering half the refund had been sent to her ex-partner
was distressing for Miss W. And it's not in dispute that Nationwide gave Miss W
incorrect information about the ERC. Having considered everything I'm satisfied £600
compensation is fair and reasonable. That's the £300 offered by Nationwide in its
response to the complaint, plus the extra £300 recommended by our investigator.
Putting things right
Nationwide must pay £600 compensation to Miss W (less any amount already paid, if 
applicable).
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and order Nationwide Building Society to pay redress as I've 
set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Miss W to accept or reject my decision before 23 July 2020.
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman