DRN-4470547
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that Age Partnership Limited (Age Partnership) mishandled their 
application for a further advance from their equity release mortgage.
What happened
In April 2023 Mr A contacted Age Partnership because they wanted to borrow more money 
on their equity release mortgage with a business Ill refer to as S. Mr and Mrs A complain 
that Age Partnership told them they could borrow the extra money they wanted with an 
interest rate of 4.9%. However, S went on to offer them the money with an interest rate of 
5.2% which they accepted. S said the 4.9% interest rate was no longer available by the time 
they received Mr and Mrs As application. 
Mr and Mrs A say Age Partnership didn't do enough to secure the 4.9% interest rate so it 
should reimburse them for the extra interest theyll have to pay as a result of the 5.2% 
interest rate.
Our investigator looked into the matter. He thought Age Partnership was responsible for Mr 
and Mrs A missing out on the 4.9% interest rate so he set out what he thought Age 
Partnership should do to put matters right.
Age Partnership asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has been 
passed to me to decide. It said it genuinely thought Mr and Mrs A were in time to take 
advantage of the 4.9% interest rate when it submitted their application to S, and that S 
processes were unclear. It said it acted in Mr and Mrs As best interests and tried to get S to 
honour the 4.9% interest rate, but it refused, despite the confusion about its processes.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Ill begin by saying that theres no dispute that originally Mr and Mrs A were quoted an 
interest rate of 4.9% on the further borrowing with S, but they were only able to secure an 
interest rate of 5.2% once their application was made.
S say thats because Mr and Mrs As application was made on 23 May 2022. Its interest 
rates changed on 17 May 2022. Ive seen evidence to show that S told Age Partnership 
about the upcoming changes to their interest rates on 10 May 2022.
Age Partnership doesnt dispute the fact that it was told that S interest rates were changing 
on 10 May 2022. However it says it thought it had until 24 May 2022 to fully submit 
applications to take advantage of the old interest rates. It says it thought that was the case 
because at the time the advice was given S wouldnt issue a Key Facts Illustration before 
submission of an application on behalf of a client. S says that wasnt the case.
I appreciate what Age Partnership has told us and think its worth saying here I have no 
reason to disbelieve Age Partnership when it says it genuinely thought it had until 24 May 
2022 to submit Mr and Mrs As application to take advantage of the old interest rates. 
However, theres no dispute now that it didnt have until 24 May 2022 to do that. I dont think 
its fair that Mr and Mrs A should lose out financially as a result of any misunderstanding 
about S processes and deadlines. 
Age Partnership has said that it doesnt think its fair that it should be held wholly responsible 
for the misunderstanding about whether it had until 24 May 2022 to fully submit applications 
to take advantage of the old interest rates. It thinks S also played a part in that.
I appreciate Age Partnerships position. However, I think Age Partnership should have done 
more to ensure that Mr and Mrs A got the 4.9% interest rate product that was discussed on 
10 May 2022. It has told us that S didnt notify it of the interest rate changes until around 
5.30pm on 10 May 2022, so the adviser that spoke to Mr A on that date wasnt aware of the 
interest rate changes at that meeting. I appreciate that. But the adviser would have been 
aware that the 4.9% interest rate product was being discontinued shortly after the meeting, 
and what it would mean for Mr and Mrs A if they missed the deadline and had to accept a 
higher interest rate. I think the advisor should have gone on to tell Mr and Mrs A that the 
4.9% interest rate was about to be discontinued, so that they were aware and could put 
themselves in a position to take advantage of that interest rate. Given what Mr and Mrs A 
have said and done after they missed the 4.9% interest rate, I think its likely that they would 
have done what they could to secure that interest rate before it was discontinued. So I think 
Age Partnership was responsible for Mr and Mrs A missing out on 4.9% interest rate.
Age Partnership says it didnt want to rush Mr and Mrs A or put any undue pressure on 
them. I understand that  it wouldnt have been appropriate for Age Partnership to have 
gone that far. However, I think that if Mr and Mrs A had been told the 4.9% interest rate was 
being discontinued, they would have acted differently to ensure that they didnt miss out on 
that interest rate. I dont think its fair to say that simply by telling Mr and Mrs A that the 
interest rate was soon to be discontinued that Age Partnership would have been putting 
undue pressure on them. 
Age Partnership has told us that after the 10 May 2022 meeting, a follow up appointment 
was made for 17 May 2022 to discuss its advisers recommendations in more detail. Its 
records are incomplete but it appears that on 16 May 2022 the meeting was re-arranged for 
19 May 2022. A final application was then made on Mr and Mrs As behalf after this.
Its not clear why the 17 May 2022 meeting was postponed. It might be because Mr and Mrs 
A needed more time to think about their options as Age Partnership has suggested. Or it 
might be that Mr and Mrs A thought they had plenty of time in relation to this matter and 
could prioritise other things. In any case, as I said above, I think its likely that if Mr and Mrs 
A had been aware that the 4.9% interest rate was about to be discontinued they would have 
acted more quickly to take advantage of it. 
As I think Age Partnership was responsible for Mr and Mrs A missing out on 4.9% interest 
rate, I think it needs to put matters right. Im in no doubt that Mr and Mrs A have lost out 
financially and also been inconvenienced by this matter. Theyve said that theyve been 
concerned and annoyed by this matter, and I can see that they have been trying to get it 
resolved for around a year and a half now. So I think Age Partnership should pay them £400 
compensation for the trouble and upset its handling of this matter has caused. I appreciate 
Age Partnership thinks thats too much, but I think its a fair and reasonable amount given 
the time theyve been affected by this issue and the impact on them.
I also think Age Partnership needs to ensure that Mr and Mrs A dont lose out financially as a result of what happened. In other words I think Age Partnership needs to put them back in 
the position they would have been in if Mr and Mrs A had been able to secure the 4.9% 
interest rate. Age Partnership has said it could do this by making a lump sum payment of 
£7,218 towards Mr and Mrs As equity release mortgage by the end of the second year - on 
6 July 2024. It says that would ensure that the total balance at the end of the estimated 21-
year period would be £298,772.99. The mortgage illustration that was produced for Mr and 
Mrs A on 23 May 2023 shows that otherwise the total balance at the end of the estimated 
21-year period would be £318, 343.40.
I think thats an appropriate way to ensure that Mr and Mrs A dont lose out financially as a 
result of what happened.
Putting things right
To put matters right Age Partnership should pay Mr and Mrs A £400 compensation and 
make a lump sum payment of £7,218 towards their equity release mortgage on 6 July 2024.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is that Age Partnership Limited should pay Mr 
and Mrs A £400 compensation and make a £7,218 lump sum payment towards their equity 
release mortgage on 6 July 2024.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman