DRN-2967694
The complaint
Mr T complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) acted irresponsibly 
when they increased his credit card limit resulting in him experiencing financial hardship.
What happened
Mr T has held a Barclaycard credit card account for several years. He says that the card 
agreement included automatic limit increases during that period.
In October 2020, Barclaycard contacted Mr T. Theyd identified his account as part of a 
project reviewing where credit card limits may have been increased to a level greater than 
they shouldve been. 
Mr T believes this showed that Barclaycard had acted irresponsibly when they increased his 
limit. So, he decided to complain to Barclaycard. He wanted them to refund all interest and 
charges relating to any limit increases that had been implemented within the last six years. 
He said their decision to increase his limit had resulted in financial hardship for him and his 
debt had increased as a result of the interest theyd charged. He wanted any refunds to be 
reflected in the information Barclaycard had reported to the credit reference agencies.
Barclaycard wrote to Mr T on 2 December 2020. They said theyd highlighted a potential 
fault in the way that some limits had been assessed. They apologised for this error and 
offered Mr T £75. But they also said that while the limit provided may have been set higher 
than intended, the way in which the account was managed shows that the limit provided was 
not irresponsible. 
Barclaycard also explained how they made their credit assessment and said, that there was 
nothing to suggest that you were experiencing financial difficulties. They pointed out that 
the interest applied to Mr Ts account was outside of any involvement with their Financial 
Assistance Team and their investigations showed nothing to suggest that this should be 
changed. Barclaycard also said that the information theyd provided to credit reference 
agencies was factually correct and couldnt be changed.
Barclaycard told Mr T how theyd assessed his suitability for an increased credit limit and 
that this showed that he had a good history of making payments and that Mr T did not 
incur any significant chargesdue to late payments or exceeding your limit.
Mr T didnt agree with Barclaycards findings. He remained of the opinion that Barclaycard 
had acted irresponsibly. He said that hed previously told Barclaycard about his financial 
problems and theyd responded by reducing the interest rate on his account. So, he decided 
to refer his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked into the circumstances of Mr Ts complaint. She didnt think 
that Barclaycard needed to take an action here. Mr T didnt agree with our investigator. So, 
he asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclaycard said theyd been undertaking an internal review of customers circumstances at 
the time that their Barclaycard limits were set. This review was prompted by a fault identified 
in their system and the review and any resolution, had been agreed with the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA).
Barclaycard have stressed that not all customers, who received a letter relating to the 
review, wouldve actually been impacted. But to ensure that all those impacted were 
identified, they reviewed all limits agreed during the affected period. They say that despite 
the fault identified, some customers limits wouldve been affordable, and some may have 
received refunds towards interest and fees.
Mr Ts credit card account has a credit limit of £7,090. This limit has been in place since it 
was increased from £3,090 on 5 January 2015. Barclaycard said that his limit was assessed, 
and a letter was sent to Mr T to let him know. They gave him 30 days to opt out of the 
increase, if he didnt feel it was needed or wanted. Their records show that Mr T didnt 
respond to them and so the limit was applied to his account. 
Ive looked at Barclaycards Terms and Conditions. Section 6 says We set your credit limit 
according to your circumstances, your account usage and history, information from other 
parts of Barclays group, information we receive from credit reference agencies, and any 
other information we think is relevantWell then review it from time to time. If we change 
your limit, well write to let you know. That appears to be what Barclaycard did here. 
Section 12 of Barclaycards Terms and Condition says You can choose whether or not you 
want to allow us to increase the credit limit on your account. If we increase your credit limit, 
well always tell you first and give you 30 days noticeWhen you receive this notice you 
can tell us not to increase your credit limitYou can tell us not to increase your credit limit at 
any time in the future or tell us at any time if you want to reduce your credit limit. We wont 
increase your credit limit if we think you cant afford to make repayments.
At the time that Mr Ts limit was increased, Barclaycard wouldve needed to ensure that they 
complied with the CONC rules laid down in the FCAs handbook. CONC 5.2 explains the 
creditworthiness assessments that Barclaycard wouldve needed to complete. In particular, 
Barclaycard shouldve considered:
the information it already held about Mr T at the time of the increase,
Mr Ts ability to make repayments as they fall due,
information obtained from a credit reference agency  the guidelines say Barclaycard 
should review the information on Mr Ts credit file plus any one of:
1. his income and financial commitments,
2. how hed handled his finances in the past,
3. internal credit scoring techniques.
Section 2.2 of the UK Cards Association best practice guidelines say that they should give 
30 days notice of the increase and offer Mr T the option to reject the increase. Thats what 
Barclaycard did here.
Barclaycard have provided full details of the assessment they completed before increasing 
Mr Ts credit limit. The data used was collected by an established and recognised third party 
who specialise in credit assessments. Barclaycard then matched this against their own 
lending criteria to ensure they complied with the requirements set out in CONC 5.2. In Mr Ts case, they used the personal information they already held about him. They also 
confirmed that Mr T had operated his Barclaycard account without any notable excesses of 
the limit or any missed or late payments. His credit file and history showed no public 
information of concern including no defaults or delinquent debts. There were no reports of 
late or missed payments in respect of any other borrowing and a very low probability of 
default was indicated. So, the assessments undertaken by Barclaycard appear to be 
proportionate and meet the requirements set out in CONC 5.2. There appears to have been 
nothing to suggest that further proportionate assessments were necessary here.
Ive reviewed the operation of Mr Ts Barclaycard account by referring to statements 
covering the period January 2014 to December 2020. Its notable that Mr T only exceeded 
his credit limit on three occasions during that seven-year period. Each time, this was 
adjusted promptly. Further, Mr T appears to have made monthly payments on time, every 
month, and for more than the minimum amount required.
So, given the apparent proportionate assessments undertaken by Barclaycard and the 
manner in which Mr T managed his Barclaycard account, I can find no evidence to suggest 
that Mr T was experiencing financial difficulties or that the credit provided by Barclaycard 
was unaffordable to him.
Mr T said that he told Barclaycard that he was struggling financially. He said that he is 
unable to remember the exact date but that Barclaycard offered an APR reduction. 
Barclaycard confirmed that in March 2017, Mr T was given a two-year promotional rate on 
his account. However, theyve been unable to find any notes in their files that would indicate 
why. But they did confirm that these offers are not proactive and are usually offered as part 
of a retention offer or if a consumer asks if the interest rate could be lowered. I havent 
found or been provided with any evidence to suggest that Mr T had told Barclaycard that he 
was finding the Barclaycard debt unaffordable. The rate reduction agreement was also more 
than two years after the limit increase so wouldnt have impacted on the original 
assessment.
In May 2018, Mr T reduced his outstanding balance by £4,000. The following month, he 
made further lump sum payments to the account of £2,500. These were in addition to the 
monthly payments he was making. But, despite his suggestion that he was struggling, Mr T 
didnt then ask Barclaycard to reduce his limit. Following these reductions, Mr T actually 
reused his credit limit to make various discretionary purchases through popular retail outlets 
and also for holiday expenses. I can see no evidence that Mr T used his Barclaycard to 
regularly pay for essential outgoings. So, there is no suggestion that he was dependent upon 
his Barclaycard account for these. 
Barclaycard said that some customers limits had been increased to a level greater than they 
shouldve been. But I cant reasonably say that if this was the case for Mr T, it adversely 
impacted him. I realise that Mr T will be disappointed, but I havent found any evidence to 
suggest that Mr T was struggling to manage his Barclaycard account, or that the limit 
increase had been unaffordable for him. So, I shant be asking Barclaycard to do anything 
more here.
Barclaycard have offered £75 to Mr T to reflect any concerns or inconvenience following 
their review. Barclaycard have said that this offer remains open to Mr T, should he wish to 
accept it.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2021.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman