DRN-4095556
The complaint
Mr H complains about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) who mis-advised on a 
valuation for jewellery under the home insurance policy. 
What happened
In February 2023, Mr H contacted Admiral over webchat to enquire about the insurance that 
they wished to take out. One of the questions that was asked by Mr H was in relation to 
some specified jewellery. And in particular what was needed by Admiral to support the value 
of the items.
Mr H said that Admiral told them that a valuation wouldnt be needed and instead a 
certificate and photos of the jewellery would be acceptable as proof of ownership and value. 
Mr H said that Admiral then sent an email asking for a valuation of the jewellery that had 
been conducted within the last three years. Mr H questioned this with Admiral, given the 
information he was given previously. 
Mr H said that Admiral said that a valuation was still required to ensure cover. So, he got a 
valuation conducted at a cost of £90. Mr H then complained to Admiral for the misinformation 
that he was given.  Mr H wanted a refund of the valuation costs, compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused. As well as not to charge any additional premium, as the value of 
the jewellery had increased. 
In its final response, Admiral who had reviewed the webchat transcript said that the agent 
had given Mr H the correct information and as such, it hadnt made any errors. It relied on 
the policy terms and conditions, which it said was clear in what was required to prove 
ownership and value. So, it said that it was unable to refund the valuation or provide 
compensation. But it did waiver the additional premium given the increased valuation. Mr H 
was given their referral rights and referred a complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She 
said that the policys terms and conditions, made it clear what was required as proof of 
value. And this was a valuation from a professional jeweller annually, and if there were any 
defects, they had to be rectified. 
She didnt agree that the certificate Mr H had produced, was sufficient, especially as the 
jewellery certificate was over 20 years old. Further, the recent valuation that Mr H had 
carried out, valued the jewellery £2,000 more than it was insured for. So, she thought that 
Admiral didnt need to refund the valuation, nor pay compensation as she said it had 
complied with the policy terms and conditions. She thought Admiral had been fair to waiver 
the additional premium, given the increased valuation. So, there was nothing further she 
could reasonably ask Admiral to do. 
Admiral accepted the view, Mr H did not. Mr H said that our investigator hadnt understood 
that the complaint was about being misinformed by Admiral. In that Admiral shouldve been 
more explicit that a valuation was necessary, rather than say proof of ownership or valuation 
was needed, which it didnt do. So, Mr H asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Mr H, but I hope my findings 
go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Ive been provided with the transcript of the webchat. Having reviewed it, I dont think that 
the agent misinformed Mr H about what was required to prove value. Ill explain why I think 
this is. Mr H specifically asked what proof of value would be required in the event of a claim. 
The agent said: 
Under Sections 2 and 3 of your policy. We will not cover loss or damage to specified items 
of jewellery valued at over £5,000 unless they are inspected by a professional jeweller 
annually and any defects are rectified. 
And the agent goes on to say: It is a requirement of your policy that you must send us proof 
of ownership or a professional valuation for any specified items as indicated on your Home 
Policy Schedule. The proof of ownership or professional valuation you send us must be 
dated within the last 3 years and be received by us within 30 days of the start of your policy. 
For valuations, the item(s) must be physically inspected by a professional valuer. We are 
unable to accept online valuations as these may not accurately reflect the value of your 
particular item(s). If these requirements are not met we will remove cover for the item(s) 
concerned. 
From this webchat, I think the agent was clear in informing what would be required. He 
informed Mr H that a valuation that had been conducted within the last three years and that 
the jewellery must be inspected by a professional jeweller (rather than any other method of 
valuation) would be required by Admiral for cover to continue. He also mentioned that the 
valuation would be needed to be sent to Admiral within 30 days of the start of the policy, 
otherwise cover would be removed. 
Mr H said that the agent misinformed them, as the agent said that photos and a certificate 
that gave details about the jewellery was enough, for proof of ownership: In terms of proof of 
ownership can I send you photos of the items and certificates? The agent answers as 
follows: Yes, that should be fine.  X then said: That is good news since a valuation is 
expensive and will need updating every year. 
Ive carefully reviewed the webchat and as Ive previously mentioned, I dont think the agent 
misinformed Mr H. Not only did he explain what the obligations were for Mr H under the 
policy, but I dont think that he told Mr H that a certificate and photos would be enough to 
prove valuation and ownership. I think that the agent was agreeing with Mr H that photos 
and a certificate would be enough to prove ownership. There was no mention here, that 
photos and the certificate were enough to prove valuation.
In addition, the certificate was dated from 2000, which was far in excess of the valuation 
having been conducted within three years, as per the policy terms and conditions. So, Im 
satisfied that Admiral advised Mr H correctly. And given that the valuation that Mr H had done, valued the jewellery at £2,000 more than the value that Mr H originally said it was 
worth. Which, I think supported the need for an up-to-date valuation.
Whilst I understand how disappointed Mr H will be, I dont think that Admiral did anything 
wrong here. Im satisfied that it correctly advised Mr H that a valuation would be required. 
And that photos and a certificate wouldnt be sufficient to prove value. 
I also think that Admiral were fair to waiver the additional premiums for the increased value 
of the jewellery. Consequently, I cant reasonably ask it to do anything more here. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman