DRN-3629699
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the advice given by Portal Financial Services LLP to transfer the 
benefits from her defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme and her personal 
pension plan to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). She says the advice was 
unsuitable and believes it caused her a financial loss.
What happened
In or around April 2017, Mrs M approached Portal to discuss her pension and retirement 
needs. Mrs M was aged 55 at the time and was interested in accessing her 25% pension 
commencement lump sum but didnt want to move her pension fund. Portal obtained details 
of Mrs Ms DB scheme and proposed a telephone consultation.  
During the telephone call on 9 June 2017, Portal completed a fact-find to gather information 
about Mrs Ms circumstances and objectives. It established the following: 
That Mrs M was 55 years old, divorced with 4 non-financially dependent children and 
hoped to retire at 65;
That Mrs A rented her home from her local council;
That apart from her DB scheme and a further personal pension she had, Mrs M had 
no other provisions for retirement (save any state pension entitlement and one other 
small occupational pension worth £500), no other assets and no savings;
Mrs M had no debts;
She was employed earning a total net monthly income of £1,500. After all her 
monthly expenditure she was left with no disposable income. 
Mrs Ms attitude to risk (ATR) was noted as moderately cautious or 4 on a scale of 1 
to 14 and that she had a suitable capacity for loss for the recommendation being 
made;
She wanted to access the maximum tax-free cash (TFC) from her DB scheme and 
also wanted combine another very small personal pension she had with it;
Mrs M A had no previous investment experience and confirmed she was likely to rely 
on an adviser.
Mrs M had the following pension arrangements:
A DB scheme with a former employer for which she was a deferred member, had 8 
years 5 months of membership and had ceased contributions when she left her job in 
February 1988. The scheme had a normal retirement age of 60. The transfer value 
analysis (TVAS) report for the scheme stated the transfer value was £72,351.52 and 
estimated that at age 60 Mrs M would be paid an annual pension of £3,524 or a 
PCLS of £15,088 and a reduced annual pension of £2,518. The scheme would also 
pay a spouses pension at 66.67%.
A personal pension with R which at the time of the advice had a transfer value of 
£18.64. 
A personal pension with N worth £500.
She was in the processing of joining her new employers occupational DC scheme. 
On 19 June 2017 Portal sent Mrs M its letter of recommendation and its suitability report in 
which it advised Mrs M to transfer both her DB scheme and the personal pension plan with R 
into a SIPP with A and to take TFC of £17,657. It advised she invest the balance of the 
proceeds in fixed interest, equity, and cash funds. The suitability report said Portal was 
making the recommendation so that Mrs A could have flexi-access drawdown of her 
pension. It also noted Mrs M had the following objectives which formed the basis of its 
reasons for recommending the transfer from his DB scheme: 
To release TFC from her DB scheme so she could purchase a new car and laptop, 
for home improvements and to go on holiday. 
To switch her personal pension with R so she could consolidate her pension savings 
all in one place.
To have greater flexibility about how to access her pension in the future.
To maximise her TFC in comparison to the DB scheme.
Greater choice and flexibility when it comes to death benefits.
Ownership and control of her pension fund
Willingness to take investment risk.
The TVAS report assessed the critical yield (for the DB scheme) if Mrs A retired at 60 to be 
14.8% if taking an annuity only or 7.8% if taking the full amount of TFC and a reduced 
annuity (both based on a joint life basis). 
Portals charge for arranging the transfer was 6.5% of the fund value (cited as £4,737.70) 
and it charged an ongoing adviser charge of 1% of the fund value each year. As annual 
management charge was 0.84% of the fund value per year.
Mrs M proceeded with Portals recommendation and the transfers took place in August 2017. 
Mrs M complained to Portal in November 2020 about the suitability of the transfer advice 
shed received. She said her circumstances werent considered and her investment 
experience, capacity for loss and ATR werent assessed adequately or at all. And she said 
the transfer to the SIPP wasnt suitable for someone with no investment experience and a 
low capacity for loss. She also said the investments her funds were placed in werent 
suitable for someone with her ATR. And Mrs M said shed suffered a significant financial loss 
as a result of the unsuitable advice to transfer that shed received.   
Portal looked into Mrs Ms complaint but didnt uphold it. It said it had assessed her ATR and 
capacity for loss and advised her accordingly. And it said it had obtained details about her 
financial situation which included her assets and liabilities and that the investments it 
recommended for her SIPP were certainly not high risk. It said it had also advised Mrs M 
about the costs of the advice and the ongoing charges. 
Unhappy with the outcome of Portals investigation, Mrs M complained to this service. Our 
Investigator looked into her complaint and recommended that it was upheld. She said the 
advice Portal gave Mrs M to transfer out wasnt suitable as she was highly unlikely to be able 
to improve on the benefits she was entitled to under her DB scheme as a result of investing 
in line with her ATR. Our Investigator also thought that Mrs Ms objectives  accessing the 
TFC to buy a car, laptop and go on holiday  didnt justify the transfer and the loss of her 
valuable DB benefits. And she thought that Mrs Ms stated desire for more flexible death 
benefits along with more flexibility or control over her pension in retirement didnt render the 
transfer suitable either. Our investigator recommended that Portal compensate Mrs M for the 
unsuitable advice itd given her.Portal didnt reply to our investigators view so the complaint was referred to me to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
What follows below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at 
the time of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Portals actions 
here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the Investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Portal should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mrs Ms best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it 
was in her best interests.
Financial viability 
Portal carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing how 
much Mrs Ms pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same 
benefits as her DB scheme (the critical yield).
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
Mrs M was aged 55 at the time of the advice and wanted to retire at 65. However, her DB 
scheme normal retirement age was 60. The critical yield required to match Mrs Ms benefits 
at age 60 was 14.8% if she took a full pension and 7.8% if she took TFC and a reduced 
pension. This compares with the discount rate of 3.7% per year for nine years to retirement 
and 3% per year for four years to retirement. For further comparison, the regulator's upper 
projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection 
rate 2% per year.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, 
Mrs Ms cautious attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in 
Mrs M giving up the guarantees available to her through her DB scheme only to achieve, at 
best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the lowest critical yield 
was 7.8%, I think Mrs M was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value 
than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with that attitude to risk. But 
crucially, I dont think that was made at all clear to Mrs M in the suitability report.
Furthermore, Portals models show that the fund would run out before Mrs M reached 85 
based on the regulators lower projection rate and a retirement age of 60. However, Portals 
cashflow model doesnt appear to have made any mention of inflation. And as Mrs Ms 
pension will be subject to an ongoing annual charge of 0.84% per year, plus an ongoing 
advice charge of 1%, it means she would need to achieve even higher growth to offset these 
extra charges. Also, as Portal will know, past performance is no guarantee of future 
performance and so I consider the discount rates and the regulators standard projections to 
be a more realistic indicator of expected fund growth in this regard, particularly over such a 
long period of time. So, if returns were lower than Portal predicted, I think its clear Mrs Ms 
funds were at risk of running out before she reached the average age of life expectancy (89). 
Whereas the DB scheme wouldve continued to pay her an escalating income for the entire 
remainder of her life however, long that is.
The DB scheme was a significant component of Mrs Ms retirement income, an income that 
looked like it would be modest. I cant see any basis for why someone like Mrs M, who had 
no previous investment experience, had stated she would need to rely on an adviser to 
understand investment matters and who was classed as having a moderately cautious ATR 
having any willingness to take on additional investment risk. I dont think the information from 
the fact-find supports such an assessment. Moreover, if Mrs M was deemed to be willing to 
take a risk then I would expect to have seen that explored further by Portal; but it wasnt.
In addition, Mrs M had no assets or other anticipated sources of income in retirement (other 
than any state pension and her new employers DC scheme which she was potentially about 
to join) to support Portals conclusion that she had suitable capacity for loss. I cant agree 
that Mrs M had any capacity to absorb a loss on her pension transfer. 
For this reason alone a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mrs Ms best interests. Of 
course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as Portal 
has argued in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is 
suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needsI dont think Mrs M required flexibility in retirement. This is because based on the evidence 
Ive seen, I dont think she had a genuine need to access her TFC earlier than the normal 
scheme retirement age meaning she could leave her funds invested until a later date. 
Whilst the principal objective for the transfer was stated to be the release TFC from Mrs Ms 
DB scheme so she could purchase a new car and laptop, for home improvements and to go 
on holiday, I cant see that Portal fully explored alternative options with Mrs M for addressing 
it. Portal noted in the suitability report that Mrs M didnt want to take on any (further) lending 
or pay any interest (although from the fact-find however I cant see that Mrs M had any 
outstanding loans or debts). And it was noted that she didnt have enough disposable 
income to service her needs. However, I can see on the fact-find that after paying her rent 
and other monthly expenditure there was an amount of £587 left each month. Although this 
was placed in the miscellaneous expenditure column there is no detail recorded by Portal 
about what this sum was used for. So I dont know if Mrs M actually did have some 
disposable income available to her each month. 
I cant see that Portal explored the possibility of a personal loan, or presented Mrs M with 
some alternative lending options which would have allowed her to make an informed 
decision about how to proceed. It seems to me that Portals advice was geared towards the 
transfer without fully exploring, in detail, Mrs Ms alleged aversion to borrowing or explaining 
to her that by taking out a personal loan she could retain her valuable DB benefits. And I 
think that this option ought to have been fully explored, given how important Mrs Ms DB 
scheme was to her overall retirement planning  transferring it in order to access a relatively 
small sum ought to have been the last resort. The purpose of a pension is to provide an 
income in retirement and as her DB scheme was Mrs Ms main source of retirement income, 
she had no capacity for loss. 
And I dont know, because Portal didnt record it, how necessary taking a holiday, acquiring 
a laptop and making some home improvements were to her. I can see from the fact-find that 
obtaining a car was very important but if the other items were more of a nice to have and/or 
werent time critical then I think Portal should have explored with Mrs M the cost of borrowing 
to finance a car  but it didnt. 
I dont doubt that Mrs M wanted to transfer so that she could achieve her principal objectives 
but Portal wasnt there just to execute what Mrs M said she wanted, it had a duty to act in 
her best interests and it wasnt in her best interests to transfer her pension just so she could 
access her TFC.
I also cant see evidence that Mrs M had a strong need for variable income throughout her 
retirement. Portal noted one of Mrs Ms objectives was greater flexibility about how she 
accessed her pension in the future but it should have acknowledged her lack of financial 
experience and knowledge and explained to her how important her DB pension benefits 
were. In addition, given Mrs Ms circumstances and limited financial and investment 
knowledge it is very unlikely that she would remain capable of managing her investments 
into old age or be prepared to pay for ongoing advice given her limited retirement provision. 
Its reasonable to think that Mrs M didnt understand the ongoing cost of having pension 
flexibility.
It also doesnt appear that Portal did any assessment of Mrs Ms income requirements in 
retirement and how she could fund this by transferring out of her DB scheme. Mrs M didnt 
own her own home, so it seems likely her current expenses would more or less continue in 
retirement. While Mrs M wouldve been entitled to a state pension at age 67, it isnt clear 
how she wouldve funded an income of around £1,000 per month if she took the maximum 
TFC from the pension.Overall, Im satisfied Mrs M could have met her income needs in retirement through her DB 
scheme at 65. Under the DB scheme, Mrs M was entitled to an annual income of £3,524 
from the scheme at 65, and she would also have had her new occupational DC scheme that 
Ive mentioned above which could have provided her with the extra income she needed until 
her state pension became payable. At that point her income needs would have been met 
and guaranteed for life. So I dont think Mrs M shouldve been advised to give up the 
valuable benefits associated with her DB scheme. 
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a SIPP were likely an attractive feature to Mrs M. But whilst I appreciate death 
benefits are important to consumers, and Mrs M might have thought it was a good idea to 
transfer her DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mrs M about what was best for her retirement provision. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think Portal explored to what extent 
Mrs M was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Whilst 
Mrs M wasnt married, that she would be in the future could not be ruled out at which the 
spouses pension provided by the DB scheme couldve been useful to her spouse if Mrs M 
predeceased him. I dont think Portal made the value of this benefit clear enough to Mrs M. 
This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on investment performance, 
whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. And as the cashflow 
analysis shows, there may not have been a large sum left as the fund may have been 
depleted particularly if Mrs M lived a long life.  In any event, Portal should not have 
encouraged Mrs M to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a personal 
pension over her security in retirement.
Furthermore, if Mrs M genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for her family members, which 
didnt depend on investment returns or how much of her pension fund remained on her 
death, I think Portal shouldve instead explored the option of life insurance; but it didnt.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a SIPP justified 
the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mrs M. And I dont think that insurance was 
properly explored as an alternative.
Control 
I think Mrs Ms stated desire for control over her pension benefits was both overstated and a 
generic objective. Mrs M was by no means an experienced investor and I cannot see that 
she had an interest in, or the knowledge to be able to manage her pension fund on her own. 
Indeed Portals letter of recommendation states that the SIPP will need to be regularly 
reviewed. So, I dont think that this was a genuine objective for Mrs M  it was simply a 
consequence of transferring away from her DB scheme.
Nor was the funding of Mrs Ms DB scheme in a position such that she should have 
genuinely been concerned about the security of her pension. 
Suitability of investments
Portal recommended that Mrs M invest in fixed interest, equity, and cash funds. As Im 
upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable form Mrs M, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment 
recommendation. This is because Mrs M should have been advised to remain in the DB 
scheme and so the investments wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the ability to take a larger sum of TFC, and the flexibility, control and 
potential for higher death benefits on offer through a personal pension would have sounded 
like attractive features to Mrs M. But Portal wasnt there to just transact what Mrs M might 
have thought she wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Mrs M needed 
and recommend what was in her best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mrs M was suitable. She was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mrs M was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this.  Mrs M shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the 
scheme just to buy a laptop, car, make home improvements and go on holiday, and the 
potential for higher death benefits wasnt worth giving up the guarantees associated with her 
DB scheme.
So, I think Portal shouldve advised Mrs M to remain in her DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mrs M would've gone ahead anyway, against Portals 
advice. Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mrs M wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme if Portal had advised her it wasnt in her best interests to 
do so. I say this because Mrs M was an inexperienced investor with a moderately cautious 
attitude to risk and, aside from her state pension and a potential new DC scheme, her DB 
pension accounted for a significant portion of her retirement provision. So, if Portal had 
provided Mrs M with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why 
it wasnt in her best interests, I think she wouldve accepted that advice. It is also worth 
stating that Ive seen no evidence that Mrs M wouldve insisted on going against such advice 
had it been given. 
In light of the above, I think Portal should compensate Mrs M for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Personal pension transfer
Portal also advised Mrs M to transfer her personal pension into the SIPP alongside her DB 
scheme so she could consolidate her pensions in one place and meet the objectives Ive set 
out above. Portal hasnt provided any information to suggest it carried out financial 
comparisons of the benefits attached to Mrs Ms personal pension. I have no information 
about the pension itself save its very low value. But given the charges associated with 
transferring the pension along with the ongoing annual fees, I think it likely that Mrs Ms 
personal pension would be less valuable on retirement after the transfer and she therefore 
should have been advised to leave his personal pension where it was.
Mrs M was advised to transfer on the basis that she could access tax free cash, reducing her 
income during retirement that I simply dont think Mrs M could afford. Its for this reason that I 
think the advice to transfer the personal pension alongside the DB pension was unsuitable. 
Mrs M should have been advised to leave both pensions with their existing providers. And as 
a result of not being advised to do this, I believe her retirement provisions have been 
financially impacted.
CompensationI understand that the fund value of Mrs Ms SIPP has fallen substantially from the amount 
she transferred  I can see I was worth £31,279 in November 2020, which is significantly 
lower than the amount invested after she took the TFC. I dont know what her SIPP is valued 
at today but I appreciate that the falling value of Mrs Ms SIPP  which accounted for the 
majority of her retirement provision  will have caused her some significant distress and 
inconvenience. Where a financial business causes a consumer avoidable distress and 
inconvenience this service can recommend that it compensate the consumer. For the 
reasons Ive given above, I dont think the transfer Portal recommended Mrs M make was in 
her best interests. The consequent distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs M was 
avoidable had she been suitably advised. I therefore agree with the recommendation made 
by our Investigator that Portal pay Mrs M compensation of £200 for the trouble and upset 
she was caused. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the Portal to put Mrs M, as far as possible, into 
the position she would now be in but for its unsuitable advice. I consider Mrs M would have 
most likely remained in her DB scheme, and kept her personal pension arrangements, if 
suitable advice had been given. I say this because the transfer wasnt financially viable and 
wasnt in her best interests. 
What should Portal do?
To compensate Mrs M fairly, Portal must determine the combined fair value of her 
transferred pension benefits as outlined in Step One and Step Two below. If the actual 
value is greater than the combined fair value, no compensation is payable.
fair value  step one
If Mrs M had been given suitable advice, I think she would have remained in the DB scheme. 
Portal must therefore calculate the value of the benefits Mrs M lost as a result of transferring 
out of her DB scheme in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the 
FCA in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for non-
compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.Weve previously asked Mrs M whether she preferred any redress to be calculated now in 
line with current guidance or wait for the new guidance/rules to come into effect.
She has chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle her complaint. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mrs M. 
The calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mrs Ms acceptance of the decision.
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mrs Ms 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mrs Ms SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Portal to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
fair value  step two
Portal must compare the value of Mrs Ms personal pension transferred to her SIPP with that 
of the notional value from the previous provider shown below to determine the fair value of 
Mrs Ms personal pension if suitable advice had been given. I consider that there was no 
reason for Mrs M to have moved her personal pension. It was invested in a with profits fund 
which met with this ATR. 
Investment 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Value of 
the 
personal 
pension 
fund 
transferredStill exists 
and liquidNotional 
value from 
the previous 
providerDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 90 days 
of the business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Notional Value
This is the value of Mrs M's investment had it remained with the previous provider until the 
end date. Portal should request that the previous provider calculate this value.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, Portal will need to determine 
a fair value for Mrs M's investment instead, using this benchmark: For half the investment: 
FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index; for the other half: average rate from 
fixed rate bonds. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of a fair value using 
the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the calculation of compensation.
Any additional sums paid into the SIPP should be added to the fair value calculation from the
point in time when they were actually paid in. Any withdrawal, income or other payment out
of the SIPP should be deducted from the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it
ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there are a large number
of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, I will accept if Portal totals all those
payments and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
The combined value of the sums produced by the above two steps is the combined fair 
value.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should, if possible, be paid 
into Mrs Ms pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. The 
compensation amount must, where possible, be paid to Mrs M within 90 days of the date 
Portal receives notification of Mrs Ms acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must 
be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portal 
to pay Mrs M.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above  and so any
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mrs M wanted capital growth with a small risk to her capital.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
measure below is appropriate.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to her capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mrs M's risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mrs M into that position. It does not mean that Mrs M would have invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of 
index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly 
reflects the sort of return Mrs M could have obtained from investments suited to his 
objective and risk attitude.
For the reasons given above, I also require Portal Financial Services LLP to pay Mrs M 
compensation of £200. 
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Portal Financial 
Services LLP to pay Mrs M the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Portal Financial Services LLP to pay Mrs M any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Portal 
Financial Services LLP to pay Mrs M any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Portal Financial Services LLP pays Mrs M the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mrs M.
If Mrs M accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Portal Financial 
Services LLP.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mrs M can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mrs M may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023. 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman