DRN-1319422
 
The complaint
Mrs D complains that the poor service she received from National Westminster Bank Plc 
(Natwest) has caused her financial loss.
What happened
Mrs D visited a Natwest branch on 5 June 2019 to withdraw some money before travelling 
overseas the same day. She was due at the airport at 11:00am but was at the bank when it 
opened at 10:00am and was the first person to be served. 
However, it soon transpired that the tills were not working. The Natwest cashier told Mrs D 
that she would have to wait for around ten minutes while the system rebooted. But she was 
unable to wait for this as she had to leave in order to catch her flight. As a result, Mrs D says 
she had to travel overseas without the money she needed to add to the funds she already 
had, which meant that she was not able to do everything she had planned. This meant she 
had to make arrangements to travel again a few months after. 
Mrs D complained that this poor service caused her financial loss, so she asked that 
Natwest compensate her by making a contribution to her next trip overseas. Natwest 
declined to make any such contribution, but they did offer £100 compensation to recognise 
the distress and inconvenience caused. Mrs D rejected this offer and brought her complaint 
to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ds complaint as he considered Natwests offer to be fair 
in the circumstances. Mrs D disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've decided not to 
uphold it.
Mrs D does not feel the £100 compensation offered by Natwest for distress and 
inconvenience is adequate as she considers she has suffered a financial loss that they ought 
to reimburse. Mrs D hasnt clearly outlined what this financial loss is exactly, but says that 
she was not able to do everything she had planned on her trip, which meant she had to book 
another one.
In order to fairly hold Natwest liable for Mrs Ds financial loss, Id have to be satisfied that 
their wrongful or negligent actions were the proximate cause of any loss that she sustained. 
But in the circumstances, I do not think that it is, as I do not consider Mrs Ds loss to have 
been a reasonably foreseeable consequence of Natwests tills failing to operate for a short 
period of time. 
I think its reasonable to expect that a customer travelling overseas would leave themselves 
enough time to organise any money they might need, such that any unforeseen technical errors or delays experienced in branch would not have any significant impact on the 
customers plans. In this instance, Mrs D left it until a couple of hours before she was due at 
the airport to withdraw her money. It was unfortunate that Natwests tills were not functioning 
properly when Mrs D needed them to. And Natwest asked if she could wait a further ten 
minutes while their systems rebooted, at which point they would be able to try again. But it 
was the limited amount of time Mrs D allowed to collect her money before she was due at 
the airport that meant she was unable to take as much money as was required. 
So I do not consider that the loss Mrs D has complained of foreseeably flows from Natwest 
being unable to operate their tills for ten minutes, as its reasonable to expect that a 
customer would either be able to wait for ten minutes or at least use another branch to 
withdraw their money. I appreciate the error may have been a contributing factor to the 
financial loss (among others), but I do not consider it to be the proximate cause of the loss. 
So I will not be directing Natwest to pay any damages in relation to this.
In terms of compensation for distress and inconvenience, Ive considered the service Mrs D 
received, and its clear she has been left upset and inconvenienced by the system error and 
not being able to withdraw enough money for her trip. I also appreciate it would have been 
frustrating that the branch was not set up and ready when they first opened in the morning. 
But I have to consider whether, in the circumstances, the £100 compensation offered by 
Natwest is proportionate to the trouble and upset suffered.
The power to make such an award is provided for in DISP Rule 3.7.2 of the Financial 
Conduct Authority Handbook, which sets out that I can award fair compensation for distress 
or inconvenience experienced by a customer. But such an award must be a proportionate 
reflection of the impact that a businesss actions (or inactions) have had. And in order to 
award further compensation to Mrs D, I would have to be satisfied that the wrongful actions 
of Natwest have had a greater impact than just moderate inconvenience or upset, which I 
cant say it has in these circumstances.
I appreciate the experience would have been frustrating. But I dont consider the actions of 
Natwest to warrant any further compensation at a higher level, and I can see that they have 
sought to make things right by apologising to Mrs D for the poor service she received. So 
I consider Natwest's offer of £100 to be fair compensation in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2020.
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman