DRN-4074380
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain about AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA) and its 
decision to decline the claim they made on their home insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs A have home insurance with AA which began in August 2021. 
Mr and Mrs A say in July 2022 while having their carpet changed in the hallway they were 
told there was a water leak. So they investigated further and found there was a leak in the 
ensuite in the master bedroom. 
Mr and Mrs A reported the matter to AA and they were advised to get a plumber to fix the 
leak, and they did this on the same day. Following the repair they submitted a claim to repair 
the damage caused by the leak. 
The AA sent a surveyor to inspect the property and prepare a report. Mr and Mrs A asked for 
a copy of the report but say it wasnt provided to them. Mr and Mrs A then spoke to AA to 
provide it with further information as requested. 
Mr and Mrs A say they received a call from AA a few days later to tell them their claim had 
been declined due to an exclusion in the policy that doesnt cover issues that had been 
ongoing for a long time. 
Mr and Mrs A werent happy with the response and so complained. They said the policy 
covers water leaks, investigation, and putting things right. And AA were unable to give an 
explanation for what constitutes a long time. They said as soon as they found out about the 
leak it was repaired. Mr and Mrs A say the damage to the woodwork described by AA were 
scuff marks on the door lining. They also obtained evidence from an expert which proves the 
leak couldnt have been visible to them. 
AA didnt agree. It said the policy excludes damage that is caused gradually over time. And 
since the surveyor who attended Mr and Mrs As property noted the issue had been ongoing 
for considerable time, and damage was clearly visible, the AA said it should have been 
noticed by Mr and Mrs A and investigated sooner. So it thought its decision to decline the 
claim was fair. Mr and Mrs A remained unhappy so they referred their complaint to us. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He said the images showed 
there was damage to the door frame which indicated the damage had been ongoing for 
some time. And on that basis AA hadnt acted unreasonably in declining the claim. 
Mr and Mrs A didnt agree. They said they were unable to prevent the damage from 
occurring since they didnt know there was a leak. By the time they discovered the leak the 
damage had already occurred. 
So the investigator looked into things again. He said he thought AA should cover the cost of 
the chipboard flooring based on the evidence. The investigator said he thought it was unfair 
to expect Mr and Mrs A to be aware of the damage occurring. And for the inconvenience 
caused AA should pay Mr and Mrs A £100 compensation. Mr and Mrs A accepted the 
outcome. 
AA didnt accept it. It said it correctly declined the claim on the basis of its surveyors report 
which said the failure of the shower seals and grout had been ongoing for some time, and 
there was clear damage due to the ongoing leak that Mr and Mrs A didnt attempt to repair. 
Since AA didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
My provisional decision 
I recently issued a provisional decision setting out my thoughts on the key complaint points 
and how I thought matters might best be resolved. I said: 
Our service assesses complaints independently within a fair and reasonable remit  we dont 
act for either a consumer or a business. And I want to assure Mr and Mrs A and AA that in 
considering this complaint, Ive thought very carefully about what happened here. 
Our investigator recommended upholding this complaint because they werent persuaded 
there was cogent evidence to support AAs full repudiation of the claim. There is no dispute 
that damage occurred to Mr and Mrs As home; in particular the carpets, architraves, and 
skirting. However theres disagreement between them about whether it was reasonable for 
Mr and Mrs A to be aware of the damage. 
The relevant industry rules say an insurer should handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
Ive considered the policy document. AA hasnt clearly defined what peril it was considering 
the claim under but taking the event as described by Mr and Mrs A I can only assume that 
AA has considered this event under Buildings Cover, section 3, for loss or damage to the 
building caused by water as a result of a burst, leaking or overflowing domestic water or 
heating installation, appliance or piping.
AA says the damage to Mr and Mrs As home isnt covered by the policy. It referred to a 
section in the policy called General Exceptions which says the policy doesnt cover, loss or 
damage arising from gradually operating clauses including deterioration, wear and tear, 
corrosion, rot or similar causes. So it has accepted there was water damage. AA goes on to 
say its surveyor concluded the issue had been ongoing for a considerable time, and since 
the damage is clearly visible on the woodwork it should have been noticed by the customer 
and investigated. 
The information in the report is detailed and I can see why AA used it to inform its decision. 
With strict application of the policy terms AA can decline the claim. However I have also 
looked at the evidence provided by Mr and Mrs A. 
I think their testimony regarding the leak and subsequent water damage is compelling and 
consistent. It is also backed up by photographs and independent evidence from the carpet 
fitter who discovered the water damage in the first place. 
The photographs show some scuffing and paint which has chipped on the bottom of the 
architraves and some on the skirting, and in general the woodwork shows signs of wear but 
from what I can see there is no clear evidence of water damage.
The information from the carpet fitter says he noticed the sub floor was loose. And when the 
carpet was lifted they found the loose floor was laminate, and under that was cork tiles which were glued to the floor. He says the water damage was under three layers of floor covering. 
And based on what Ive seen in the photographs I think his evidence supports Mr and Mrs 
As contention that they werent aware of any damage until the carpet was lifted. 
Further, as soon as Mr and Mrs A were aware of the water damage they took steps to locate 
the source of the leak and make the necessary repairs. So I think had they been aware of 
the damage sooner they would likely have taken these steps at that time. And the fact they 
didnt notice the damage means they were unable to alert their insurer or do anything to stop 
the damage getting worse. They couldnt have done anything more. 
So although the failure of the sealant and grout was likely due to wear and tear the water 
leak and subsequent damage was under the flooring and not visible to the naked eye. And 
so I think the policy covers the damage caused as it says, we will pay for loss or damage to 
the building caused by water.
Mr and Mrs A made the claim as soon as they became aware of the issue  so I think a fair 
and reasonable outcome is that AA cant rely on the exclusion and should pay the claim.
Response to my provisional decision 
Mr and Mrs A said they didnt have any additional information to provide and were satisfied 
with the provisional decision. 
AA didnt raise any additional points or query my findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In light of the fact that neither Mr and Mrs A nor AA had anything to add to the findings set 
out in my provisional decision (which Ive reproduced here and which forms part of this final 
decision), Im satisfied it represents an appropriate way to resolve the dispute. For the 
reasons Ive set out above Im upholding Mr and Mrs As complaint. 
Putting things right
AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited must take the following steps in settlement of 
this complaint: 
Pay the claim and settle the invoice for the items which were replaced or repaired as 
a result of the water damage. 
Add 8% simple interest from the date Mr and Mrs A paid the invoice to date of 
settlement. 
AA should also pay Mr and Mrs A £100 to reflect the distress and inconvenience 
caused to them as a result of this matter. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained my final decision is that to settle this complaint AA 
Underwriting Insurance Company Limited must take the steps detailed above no more than 
28 days after it receives Mr and Mrs As acceptance of this decision. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman