DRN-3363095
The complaint
Mr H complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc trading as More Th>n (RSA) for 
declining his home insurance claim. He wants RSA to settle his claim and pay for repairs to 
his roof. 
What happened
Mr H had buildings insurance with RSA from late 2019. 
In May 2021, Mr H and his family went away on holiday. Whilst he was away, heavy rains 
occurred through the UK, including in the area of his home. 
Shortly after he returned home, Mr H noticed water penetration into some upstairs rooms in 
his house, underneath a flat roof. 
He submitted a claim to his insurer RSA for storm damage. 
RSA sent a surveyor out to Mr Hs property. The surveyor did not go onto the roof but took 
photographs and formed an assessment of the damage. 
Based on the surveyors assessment, RSA declined the claim. RSA said that there had not 
been storm conditions at the property, and that there was no evidence of storm damage to 
the roof. It said that there were dips in the roof felt which appeared to be due to natural 
breakdown of materials, and that water was pooling in these dips and penetrating into the 
house. RSA declined the claim for a replacement roof and for internal damage to decoration. 
Mr H was not happy and complained. 
RSA sent its final response in June 2021. It said that there had not been storm conditions in 
Mr Hs area, that the damage sustained was not consistent with a one-off storm event, and 
that the weather only highlighted pre-existing damage. It therefore maintained its decision to 
decline the claim. 
Mr H remained unhappy so contacted us.
One of our investigators has looked into this matter and set out her view to the parties. She 
explained the questions which we consider in complaints about storm damage and explained 
that she reached the same conclusions as RSA had done. She set out the exclusions in the 
policy and made clear how wear and tear and breakdown of the roof was not an insured 
peril. She therefore did not think that RSAs decision to decline the claim was unreasonable 
and she did not recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr H did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate why Mr H is upset in this matter. He has explained that he was reassured by his 
builders a short time before the damage that there was no issue with his flat roof and so the 
damage came as a surprise to him. He has incurred losses which he thinks ought to be 
borne by his insurer as severe weather occurred at the time of the leak. He notes that there 
was heavy rain over a sustained period which he thinks caused the damage. 
I understand his feelings, but as my colleague explained, we have an approach to 
considering complaints about storm damage and this approach guides our consideration of 
whether the business has acted fairly. 
My colleague set out the questions which we consider and that the evidence available in this 
complaint does not support a finding that there were storm conditions. A storm is widely 
understood in insurance terms to require high winds and very severe and sudden rain.  RSA 
set out that this would usually mean winds exceeding 47 mph and rain exceeding 16mm per 
hour. 
The highest wind recorded near Mr Hs home was just under this threshold and the highest 
rain was 8mm per hour.
I agree with my colleagues conclusion, that the conditions in Mr Hs area do not meet the 
standard understanding of a storm, but as the wind speeds were close to the threshold, and 
potentially within a margin of error, I have gone on to consider the second question. 
This second question is whether the damage is consistent with damage caused by a storm.  
I have reviewed the photographs and the assessment of the surveyor and these are 
consistent with one another. The surveyor notes that there is no evidence of the felt being 
lifted or torn, such as would usually happen as a result of a storm or a clear point of water 
access. There is evidence of dips in the felt, allowing water to pool and penetrate through 
the area where the main roof and flat roof join. This would suggest that heavy rains may put 
extra pressure on the roof if the water pools, but this is not the same as damage caused by a 
storm.  
I have not seen evidence to contradict the experts view, and I think that the view reached by 
the surveyor is a reasonable view on the evidence. Accordingly, I am not satisfied that the 
damage is consistent with storm damage, and so I agree with the investigators view that 
RSA has not acted unreasonably in its decision to decline the claim. 
For these reasons, I agree with the investigators view and do not uphold Mr Hs complaint. I 
realise that this will be disappointing to Mr H but I hope it makes clear my reasons. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint and do not ask Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Plc trading as More Th>n to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman