DRN-1544419
 
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy about how British Gas Insurance Limited dealt with a claim under her 
home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs R contacted British Gas to repair a dripping tap. The engineer visited on several 
occasions to try and repair it. Mrs R also had to chase multiple times to progress the repair.
The tap then failed and when Mrs R contacted British Gas again, she said she was told the 
original job had already been closed. British Gas on-call plumber also told her that he 
couldnt come out as it was a Sunday. The next day the original engineer came back and 
fitted a new tap. A few minutes after he left, the tap started dripping. An engineer came back 
and repaired the drip and dealt with water seeping from the water connections. 
Due to various issues with the replacement tap, British Gas fitted a new one. However, Mrs 
R immediately noticed reduced water flow and that the taps couldnt be run in the kitchen 
and bathroom at the same time. British Gas initially decided that the issue was with the 
boiler. It then investigated further and said the issue was due to the new tap. After a visit by 
British Gas, Mrs R had no heating or hot water. An engineer fixed this and said the water 
flow issue was because of the tap. Following further visits from British Gas, it suggested two 
ways to fix the problem. However, British Gas then told Mrs R that it was closing the call and 
that any further work would be chargeable, as the issue related to the existing pipework.
Mrs R complained to British Gas. It disagreed with some of the events described by Mrs R 
but apologised for the delays and offered her £100 compensation.
Mrs R complained to this service. Our investigator partially upheld the complaint. He said 
that although he couldnt directly link the change in water pressure to British Gas actions, it 
took much longer than it should have to deal with the claim. He said British Gas should pay 
£250 compensation.
British Gas disagreed and said that the compensation shouldnt be increased. Mrs R said 
she thought British Gas should be held responsible for the water flow issues. As a result, the 
complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Thinking about the claim itself, Mrs R wanted a leaking tap fixed. This led to multiple visits 
from British Gas, various taps being fitted and, by the time British Gas closed the claim, an 
unresolved issue with low water pressure. Looking at the steps British Gas took to replace 
the tap, I can understand that Mrs R found this unsatisfactory, as there were a number of 
different issues that arose - from the engineer not having the right tools to a brand new tap 
also dripping. However, once these were resolved, the issue that remained outstanding was 
the low water pressure, for which Mrs R thinks British Gas was responsible.
British Gas clearly tried to identify the source of the water pressure issues, but the question 
is did it do enough and was it British Gas responsibility to fix the problem as part of the 
claim? I can see that British Gas checked whether fitting different taps would resolve the 
issue and also carried out various tests on the water supply pipes to try and identify the 
cause. I also asked British Gas to confirm that it had fully looked at issues such as whether 
the tap was compatible with the boiler. It confirmed that it had. In the end, British Gas 
concluded that the water pressure issue was due to the pipework in the property. Having 
looked at the range of work that British Gas carried out, it seems to have made an extensive 
effort to try and identify the source of the issue and to see whether its own work was the 
cause. 
I have thought about this carefully from Mrs Rs perspective and can completely understand 
why, given that the change in water pressure coincided with British Gas work, she thinks 
British Gas must be responsible for the problem. However, I havent found evidence that 
shows this.  In circumstances such as this, I would expect British Gas to extensively 
investigate the cause of the water pressure issue. This is what British Gas did, and no clear 
evidence was found to show that it had caused the problem.
Ive also looked at British Gas records of its visits and can see that several months before 
the issue with the tap, British Gas told Mrs R that there was a low water pressure issue. 
British Gas records show that Mrs Rs husband said they didnt want it investigated at that 
time. 
The policy says:
Our products dont include cover for any faults or design faults that:

 Weve told you about before and you havent fixed
So, on that basis, I also dont think British Gas was required to fix the water pressure issue 
under the terms of the policy. Mrs R already seemed to have been told that there was a 
water pressure issue but decided not to take any action at that time. 
Ive also thought about the amount of time that British Gas took to deal with the claim. I can 
see that there were a number of unnecessary delays, such as the engineer not having the 
correct tools or parts with him. There were also other issues, such as Mrs R being left with 
no heating or hot water, which required further visits. However, Im also aware that some of 
the reason why the claim took so long to deal with was because of the changes in 
circumstances, which required British Gas to reassess the situation and decide next steps. 
But, overall, I think British Gas could have progressed the claim more quickly. 
Putting things right
As a result, I think British Gas should pay Mrs R £250 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by the delays she experienced and the number of times that she had to follow up to 
ensure that the claim progressed. To be clear, this includes the £100 British Gas previously 
offered, so is an additional £150.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint about British Gas 
Insurance Limited is upheld in part. This is because it could have dealt with the claim more quickly. However, I dont uphold the part about it not fixing the low water pressure. I require it 
to:
Pay Mrs R £250 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman