DRN-2216777
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) told him that a legitimate payment it was
sending him was a scam, which caused him great concern.
What happened
Mr M said he got a call from someone claiming to be from BoS. That person told him he was
due a refund of a little over £250, and he gave the details of his current account with a
different bank. He then rang BoS, and it told him this was a scam, his current account might
be at risk. So he alerted his other bank to this.
Mr M then received the money. He found it had been paid by BoS. He complained, and BoS
said it was sorry, telling him that it was a scam had been a mistake. It paid him £50 for
inconvenience, and £18 to cover call costs. Mr M said he was very unhappy about the
resolution of his complaint, and he wasnt pleased then to receive a letter saying he was
happy with what hed been paid. So he complained about that too. He said BoS then tried to
contact him on a number he had previously removed from his account, and didnt want BoS
to use. He felt its efforts to contact him were excessive.
BoS wrote again. It said that when it spoke to Mr M about his complaint, it had confirmed
with Mr M that he understood his rights to refer a complaint to our service. Hed then agreed
to have the money paid into his account and his complaint closed. BoS said it had
understood it had overcome his earlier objection to the complaint outcome on the call. If that
was wrong, it was sorry. He could still complain to our service if he was unhappy.
And BoS also wrote to Mr M to say it didnt think its efforts to contact him had been
excessive. It had called a number hed given it, when that didnt connect it used a directory
enquiries service to find another number, but as that didnt answer either it then sent him an
email on the address hed given it.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She thought the payment that
BoS made was in line with what this service would recommend. Shed listened to the call
Mr M had with BoS, and shed also formed the view that Mr M had accepted the outcome of
the complaint. And BoS later confirmed that any misunderstanding about that wouldnt affect
the outcome of Mr Ms complaint or his referral rights, so she thought that was fair. She said
that BoSs contact with Mr M was in line with its process, so she felt it was reasonable.
Mr M didnt agree. He said he wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so
it was passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed to uphold it in 
part. This is what I said then: 
I think that telling Mr M that a call to him about a refund payment was in fact a scam, 
and his bank account was at risk, was a serious mistake to make. That caused Mr M 
considerable concern. And Mr M was still worried when a payment was received. He 
didnt know if he could spend it or not.
I dont think that what BoS has paid in this case is quite enough to make up for that. I 
think it should pay Mr M an additional £50 now.
I dont think BoS has to pay Mr M any more, for mistakenly recording him as content 
with the outcome of his complaint about this. Thats because I dont think Mr M was 
significantly disadvantaged by that.
And I dont think BoS has to pay any more for attempting to contact Mr M using all of 
the different methods available to it. Theres no suggestion that it had wrongly kept 
hold of a landline number that Mr M had asked it to delete. BoS just used publicly 
available information to try to contact Mr M. I dont think its efforts to do so were 
excessive.
I think an additional payment of £50 provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this
complaint.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
BoS agreed to make the payment I proposed. Mr M wrote with some further points.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M quoted this from my provisional decision "There's no suggestion that [BoS] had 
wrongly kept hold of a landline number that Mr M had asked to delete". He said he had 
asked BoS previously to delete this number from his file. And if BoS had kept a record of his 
request on file or looked into it a bit further, then this error could have been avoided quite 
easily. 
I accept that Mr M had previously asked BoS to delete this number from his records. I think it 
did delete that number when he asked it to. But I dont think BoS also had to keep a note to 
make sure it didnt call this number. Nor do I think BoS made a mistake by using publicly 
available information to try to contact Mr M.
I know Mr M still thinks BoS contact efforts were excessive. He said just one or two methods 
of contact wouldve been enough. But I dont agree. BoS deals with a range of customers, 
some of whom simply wont respond to some of the communication methods it used. I dont 
think BoS did anything wrong by trying a number of methods to get in touch with Mr M. 
Lastly, Mr M wanted to give us more details about the mistake that BoS made. He said when 
he called to check if he was really going to get a payment, BoS had no notes relating to this 
issue. BoS then told him it was a scam call because the call handler looked up the number 
that had been used to contact him using an internet search engine. Mr M thought that this was a serious mistake by BoS. And Mr M said it took several hours to sort this out, all 
because of that mistake. 
Ive agreed that BoS made a mistake. It has paid £50 in compensation, and £18 for call 
costs. I didnt think that was quite enough. But, although Ive considered what Mr M said 
carefully, I still think that an additional £50 provides Mr M with the right amount of 
compensation to provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc must pay Mr M £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman