DRN-3043518
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken in 
2005. Mrs C says Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, (Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which include Mrs Cs 
health at the time of the sale, as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and exclusions of 
cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here. Mrs C has told us 
she was employed, had been there more than ten years, was entitled to less than three 
months full sick pay and didnt have any savings to fall back on if she couldnt work. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the mis-sale complaint and said that, although it says it didnt 
do anything wrong in relation to the commission on the policy, Halifax has made an offer as 
if it had.
Mrs Cs representatives didnt agree with the adjudicators opinion  and Mrs C has asked 
for a decision. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for 
a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Cs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Cs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. But Halifax has offered to pay back some of the cost 
of the PPI in any event, so I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
Ive summarised my reasons for each of these conclusions below.
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
I think Halifax made it clear that Mrs C didnt have to take the PPI and she chose to take 
it. I say this because Mrs C hasnt said anything to make me think this wasnt clear. What 
we know of the call scripts Halifax used at the time to sell PPI like Mrs Cs also suggests 
its likely this was made clear. 
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mrs C, so it had to check the PPI was right for her. And 
the evidence about her circumstances at the time shows the policy wasnt fundamentally 
wrong or unsuitable for her. For example, she was eligible for the cover and had limited 
means to fall back on, so she had a need for cover. Also, there was nothing about her 
employment or occupation which would have made it difficult for her to claim.
Mrs C couldnt have claimed for work absences if related to the health issue or the 
broken bone shes told us she suffered, both of which shes told us were around four 
years before she took her card. Also, the policy contained limitations or exclusions on 
claims for mental health issues, placing more onerous evidential requirements on such 
claims. But I still dont think it was wrong for Halifax to have recommended the cover. I 
say this because Mrs C hasnt told us of having missed work with the health issue - and 
has told us of missing only a few hours work for a few weeks with the broken bone - and 
Ive nothing to suggest either issue was ongoing in nature or of concern at the sale itself. 
So, given Mrs Cs circumstances, I think the cover was still suitable despite these policy 
exclusions and limitations.
While the policy also contained limitations or exclusions on claims relating to back 
conditions, in light of Mrs Cs circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations 
and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. So I think 
she would have still thought she had some good reasons to take the policy.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose to take it, and I dont think she wouldve done so without 
an idea of what the cover was for, so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. It wasnt 
unsuitable for her, as I concluded above, and it seems like it couldve been useful for her 
if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. Overall, I think the PPI was 
sufficiently similar to what its likely Mrs C reasonably thought she was buying from the 
information its likely she was given  and I dont think she wouldve declined the cover 
had Halifax done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mrs C would have still taken the PPI. In her circumstances I think it 
couldve provided a useful benefit at a difficult time if she couldnt work in the circumstances 
the policy covered. I also think it was sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was 
getting. And, in those circumstances, I think she wouldve have taken the policy in any event.
Mrs Cs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; that these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and that the duty of utmost good faith meant Halifax should have disclosed the poor 
value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact on the 
chances of making a claim.
Mrs Cs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Cs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Cs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint. For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C.non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and, if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Halifax didnt need to disclose the commission it received  but 
in any event Halifax has offered to pay back some of the cost of PPI, so theres nothing more 
it needs to do. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Mrs Cs representatives have made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on her complaint.
In summary they have said Mrs C should get back all the money she paid for the policy 
because: Halifax failed to tell Mrs C about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, 
the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that 
meant the policy was poor value, they say I should find Mrs C wouldnt have taken the policy 
had she known about the level of commission and she should receive a refund of all the 
premiums she paid.
But in this case, Halifax has told us the commission for Mrs Cs PPI was less than half of 
what she paid for each premium. Weve looked at how Halifax has worked this out and, 
based on what weve seen, Im satisfied the commission in Mrs Cs case was less than half 
the cost of the PPI.
As thats the case, taking into account:
- The effect of section 140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
- the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin and the conclusion in that case; and
- the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
I dont think Halifax needed to tell Mrs C about the commission. So it follows that I dont think 
the non-disclosure created an unfair relationship - I dont think Halifax treated Mrs C unfairly.
 
This means Halifax doesnt need to pay Mrs C back any of the commission she paid for the 
PPI. 
But in any event Halifax has offered to give back to Mrs C some of the cost of the PPI to 
compensate Mrs C as if it had treated her unfairly. So I dont think it needs to do anything 
more.
 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipmy final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mrs Cs complaint or make any award in 
favour of her for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that Bank of Scotland Plc didnt need to disclose the commission 
it received, it doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mrs C paid for the PPI.
But Bank of Scotland Plc has offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C. 
Bank of Scotland Plc should now make arrangements to pay Mrs C if it hasnt done so 
already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs C to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 October 2021. 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman