DRN-2595632
The complaint
 Miss M is unhappy that a car supplied to her under a conditional sale agreement with 
Santander Consumer (UK) Plc, trading as Santander Consumer Finance, was of an 
unsatisfactory quality.
Miss M is being represented in this complaint by Mr A. For ease of reference, Ill refer to both 
Miss M and Mr A as being Miss M.
What happened
 In June 2019, Miss M was supplied with a used car through a conditional sale agreement 
with Santander. Miss M paid a £2,150 deposit and the agreement was for £12,803 over 48 
months, with monthly repayments of £285.91. At the time, the car was just three years old 
and had done 22,145 miles. 
In March 2020, Miss M contacted the supplying dealership about problems shed 
experienced with the car  there were noises coming from the engine and steering wheel, 
and the car key batteries needed replacing. At which point the car had done 27,283 miles. 
While the dealership lubricated the steering wheel bushes and replaced the battery in the car 
key fob; they also discovered that the engine had failed, which meant the car shouldnt be 
driven. After contacting the manufacturer, the dealership agreed to replace the engine at no 
cost to Miss M. But it took the dealership two months to arrange this, during which they 
provided Miss M with a courtesy car to keep her mobile.
But Miss M wouldnt agree to the engine being replaced until shed been supplied with 
written evidence of what caused the engine failure; and assurances that, once the engine 
had been replaced, the car would be safe to drive. The dealership explained that, once the 
engine had been replaced, it would be sent back to the manufacturer for investigation. And 
the manufacturer would be able to then confirm whatd caused the engine to fail.
Miss M still wasnt satisfied and her relationship with the dealership broke down shortly 
afterwards. So the dealership said they werent prepared to complete the repairs. They 
returned the replacement engine to the manufacturers and took back their courtesy car. 
They also told Miss M that, if she didnt arrange to remove her car from their premises, shed 
start to incur daily storage charges. 
Miss M asked the dealership to do an MOT and service on the car, so she could ensure that 
the terms of her warranty were complied with. But the dealership didnt want to do any work 
on the car while it was in its current state. They said it was unlikely to pass an MOT and said 
that the MOT and service were best done once the engine had been replaced.
Miss M then complained to Santander about the quality of the car, and the difficulties shed 
experienced with the dealership. She also complained that the actual mileage (22,145) was 
different to the recorded mileage on the order form and warranty documents (20,103).
Santander agreed the mileage had been recorded incorrectly and offered Miss M £100 
compensation for this  the difference between the auction prices for the car based on both 
mileages. But Santander said that, because Miss M hadnt raised the issue with the engine 
until more than six months after the car had been supplied to her, and because she hadnt 
evidenced that the fault thatd resulted in the engine failure was present at the time of 
supply; they werent upholding her complaint about the car quality. Miss M was unhappy with 
Santanders response, and brought her complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said that, while a reasonable person wouldnt expect the cars engine to last 
forever, it failed after 27,283 miles. So she didnt think the car was sufficiently durable. And, 
when considering the all the relevant circumstances, this meant the car wasnt of a 
satisfactory quality when supplied. But the investigator didnt think that the need for a 
replacement engine meant that the car was fundamentally unsafe when supplied.
The investigator thought the £100 offered for the mileage discrepancy was reasonable. And 
she thought Miss M couldve agreed to have the engine replaced or arrange for her car to be 
returned to her unrepaired. But, as Miss M chose not to do this, the investigator said 
Santander werent responsible for any storage charges. The investigator also said, for the 
same reasons, it wouldnt be fair to ask Santander to refund any of the payments to reflect 
the loss of use of the car  Miss M had been supplied with a courtesy car, which was only 
returned after shed refused repair.
However, the investigator thought that car should still be repaired. So she said Santander 
should arrange for the car to be repaired, at no cost to Miss M. And they should also remove 
any negative information from Miss Ms credit file in relation to the agreement.
Miss M didnt agree with the investigator. She provided extensive comments and said the car 
was supplied with a fault. Miss M also said that, by selling her a car with a fault, the 
dealership put her life in danger. So she wanted to be able to reject the car.
The investigator issued a second view, in which she also addressed the concerns Miss M 
had raised. The investigator said there were many reasons why an engine could fail and, 
while Miss M thought that the dealership shouldve been able to say what caused the failure, 
shed seen nothing to show her that the dealership knew what the root cause was.
The investigator also said that, although there were media reports about the same brand of 
car suffering engine failures, it wasnt possible to know if the issues Miss M had were the 
same as those reported in the media. And Miss Ms car hadnt been subject to a recall 
because of engine issues. So she didnt think Santander were responsible for providing Miss 
M with a courtesy car while the complaint was ongoing, or for replacing her car.
Miss Ms car needed a replacement engine, and the dealership contacted the manufacturer 
on 17 March 2020 to arrange this. But, because of the national lockdown - from 23 March to 
28 May 2020 - the dealership had very limited staff working. And they said their priority was 
to keep key workers mobile. So it wasnt until 10 June 2020 that Miss M was told that the 
manufacturer had agreed to replace the engine. The investigator thought this delay was 
down to unprecedented circumstances and didnt mean there was an undisclosed safety 
issue with the car. Nor did it mean that Miss M had the right to reject the car.
The investigator remained of the view that the car wasnt sufficiently durable, and this made 
it of an unsatisfactory quality. And, if Miss M had agreed to have the engine replaced, its 
likely the car wouldve been repaired by the end of June 2020. So she still thought that 
Santander should arrange for the engine to be replaced; but they didnt need to compensate 
Miss M for the time she didnt have use of the car after refusing the repair, or for any storage 
costs incurred as a result of her decision.Miss M still didnt agree with the investigator. She said the durability issue meant the car 
wasnt worth what she paid for it; and she still thought the dealership should be able to tell 
her what caused the engine failure and provide her with a report on this. So shes asked for 
an ombudsman to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. I can understand this is likely to come as a disappointment to 
Miss M, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Miss M was supplied with a car under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to look into complaints about it. 
The relevant law  the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) - says, amongst other things, that 
the car shouldve been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the 
supplier of goods, Santander are responsible.  Whats satisfactory is determined by things 
such as durability, and what a reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the 
price, description and other relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include 
things like the age and mileage at the time of sale; and the vehicles history. Durability 
means that the components within the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also says that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, where 
a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed that the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Santander can show otherwise. So, if I thought the car was 
faulty when Miss M took possession of it, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, 
itd be fair and reasonable to ask Santander to put this right.
And, while Ive noted that Miss M is unhappy with how the dealership dealt with this matter, 
especially with how long they took to communicate with her; Im considering what Santander 
did and didnt do. Im not considering the service provided by the dealership. Saying that, 
because of the national lockdown, I can understand why some things mayve taken longer 
than normal, and that Miss M would be frustrated by this delay.
The basic facts of this case arent in dispute. Miss M was supplied with a car that developed 
an engine fault around nine months after supply. And this fault caused the engine to fail. No 
reasonable person would expect a well maintained and serviced engine to fail after less than 
30,000 miles, so I agree this was an issue of durability  the engine on the car wasnt 
sufficiently durable, and this made the car of an unsatisfactory quality.
While Miss M would like to reject the car, the CRA allows for once chance at repair. So its 
not unreasonable that a repair  the replacement of the engine with a new one  was 
offered. But Miss M wouldnt give authority for this repair to happen.I appreciate Miss M would like to know what caused the engine failure. And, from what Ive 
seen, not having this information before the engine was repaired stopped things from being 
able to be moved forward. But I dont think a report on the cause of the failure is necessary.
The engine failed because it wasnt durable when supplied, and this failure meant it needed 
to be replaced. And knowing the underlying cause of failure before the engine was replaced 
wouldnt alter this fact. I agree that engines can fail for multiple reasons  I can see theres 
been a lot of discussion about the timing chain being a potential reason why this particular 
engine failed - but I consider its the failure thats important, and not the reason why. 
And the dealership said that, once the engine had been returned to the manufacturer, the 
manufacturer would be able to say why the failure happened. Which I think was reasonable. 
Regardless of whats been in the media about cars from this particular manufacturer, Im 
looking at the circumstances of this particular complaint, and the problems with this 
particular car. And I havent seen that the car supplied to Miss M was subject to any recall 
due to problems with the engine  there was a recall notice about a potential unrelated 
issue, but this was unconnected to the engine and wouldnt have caused it to fail.
I also appreciate that Miss M was worried about the safety of the car, and about what 
couldve happened. But my role is to consider what did happen. And I wont look to 
compensate Miss M for something that didnt happen, but which may or may not have 
happened under different circumstances, or at some undetermined point in the future.
Theres no evidence that the fault in the engine were present at the point the car was 
supplied to Miss M. But, for the reasons already explained, the fact that the engine failed 
after just over three years and 27,283 miles means it wasnt durable. Repairs from the 
dealership and the finance company are separate. So, as Santander havent had the 
opportunity to repair the car provided to them under the CRA, I wont be asking them to allow 
Miss M to reject the car. Given all of the circumstances I think that a repair is reasonable, so 
Ill be asking them to arrange for the engine to be replaced. Ive also noted that, despite the 
previous breakdown in the relationship, the dealership has agreed to complete this work.
Miss M was supplied with a courtesy car while the dealership was arranging for the engine to 
be replaced. I realise this took longer than anticipated, because of the national lockdown, but 
Miss M was kept mobile during this period. And had Miss M agreed to have the engine 
replaced, I agree its likely the car wouldve been repaired by the end of June 2020. 
But, once Miss M refused this work, the obligation to keep her mobile (by the ongoing 
provision of a courtesy car) stopped  by refusing the repair, Miss M was accepting it was 
her choice not to remain mobile, something that wouldnt have happened if the repair had 
been accepted. So I dont think that Santander are responsible for providing her with a 
courtesy car and/or compensating her for the time shes been without a car. And this 
includes refunding any part of the payments Miss M has paid towards the agreement.
Once Miss M refused repair of the car, she had an obligation to mitigate her losses. The car 
was left at the dealership and in doing so, Miss M was aware that she could be charged 
storage. But knowing this, Miss M still chose to leave the car at the dealership, rather than 
arrange for it to be recovered to her home. Because of this, I dont think that Santander are 
responsible for covering any storage costs Miss M may incur.Finally, Santander have offered Miss M £100 for the discrepancy in how the mileage was 
recorded on the paperwork. Theres no indication or evidence that the mileage on the car 
had been altered, and it was clear from the odometer what the mileage was when Miss M 
was supplied with the car. So I dont think shes suffered any significant detriment as a result 
of the error on the paperwork. So I wont be asking Santander to increase the offer theyve 
made, and its now for Miss M to decide whether to accept this.
Putting things right
 Santander should now arrange to do the following:
arrange for the engine to be replaced on the car, at no cost to Miss M, and within a 
reasonable timescale.
remove any negative information from Miss Ms credit file, in relation to this 
agreement (should any exist).

My final decision
 For the reasons explained, I uphold Miss Ms complaint. Santander Consumer (UK) Plc 
trading as Santander Consumer Finance must follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman