DRN-2109611
The complaint
Mr B complains that a used car he got with a hire purchase agreement (HPA) from Black 
Horse Limited was of unsatisfactory quality and he wants to reject it. 
Mr B was assisted by a relative in bringing his complaint but Ill refer to everything thats 
been said on his behalf as if Mr B had said it himself, to keep things simple. 
What happened
Mr B got this car in June 2019. A few months later, near the end of August, he contacted the 
supplying dealer (that Ill call A) about noise on acceleration. A checked the car and Mr B 
paid for gearbox bearings to be replaced in September 2019. Mr B noticed another noise 
when he got the car back - a cracking/loud clapping sound coming from the clutch. A said 
the flywheel had failed and this was repaired under an extended warranty in November 
2019. Mr B contributed about £250 towards the cost of additional parts. A noticed a small oil 
leak at the same time and repaired that, without charge. 
In December 2019 Mr B reported more noises coming from the gearbox and oil beneath the 
car. A checked the car again but didnt accept it was faulty. A thought Mr B had been dealt 
with fairly  issues he reported were fixed and he was provided with a courtesy car and kept 
mobile throughout. A offered to buy the car back for £13,000 (or accept it in part exchange) 
as a goodwill gesture. Mr B wanted to reject the car and receive a refund so he contacted 
Black Horse. 
Black Horse arranged for an independent expert to inspect in December 2019. The expert 
couldnt identify any faults or find an oil leak and he considered the car was in reasonable 
condition for its age and mileage. Black Horse didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. It says (in 
summary):-
 
Mr B was able to drive the car around 8,000 miles and he wouldnt have been able to 
do that if the car was faulty when he got it;
a main dealer was consulted and confirmed the problem with the gearbox is 
something that would be obvious as soon as it happened  so Mr B would have 
noticed if this was present when he got the car;
the remaining issues are wear and tear related;
none of the issues reported would render a car of this age, price and mileage of 
unsatisfactory quality ; and
the independent expert found nothing wrong. 
Mr B didnt think that was fair. He says the car had an oil leak after the last repair  he 
supplied photographs of oil that leaked on to his driveway. And, when he took the car to a 
main dealer in January 2020, further gearbox problems were identified that need to be 
investigated. He considers the car still has faults present and he should be allowed to reject 
it and he referred the matter to our service.  
One of our investigators looked at the evidence. He acknowledges Mr B had trouble with the 
car within the first six months but hes not persuaded its likely these issues were present 
when the car was supplied. He thinks a used car is likely to have some wear and tear 
present and he considers this car was sufficiently durable - given its age and mileage at the 
point of supply and the distance Mr B was able to travel after that. He accepts the 
independent experts conclusions - and considers the experts opinion should carry more 
weight than the main dealers limited visual check in January 2020. Hes not persuaded the 
car was of unsatisfactory quality when Mr B got it. He doesnt think Black Horse did anything 
wrong and he doesnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr B disagrees. In summary, he says:-
the car was in perfect condition before As repairs - the only concern was a slight 
wind sound when accelerating, especially at higher speeds;
A had the car for three to four months in total and made things worse - problems that 
were not there before appeared on collection after the car was repaired;
theres something wrong with the car - two separate main dealers and the RAC 
confirmed the gearbox and clutch had faults and, whilst more investigation is 
required, they also confirmed an abnormal noise is present that the independent 
expert said is normal for this model; and 
theres no concrete evidence that A even carried out clutch repairs because it hasnt 
claimed on the extended warranty. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
I can see that Mr B has strong feelings about this matter. Hes made detailed submissions 
and I want to assure him, if I dont address every point that hes raised, its not because I 
havent thought about it. I have considered everything thats been said and sent to us. But, 
Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is relevant and material to reaching a 
fair and reasonable outcome
Mr B acquired this car with a HPA, which is a regulated consumer credit agreement, and Im 
satisfied this service is able to consider complaints relating to that. I should make it clear at 
the outset however that Im considering Black Horses obligations arising under the finance 
here. Its not within my remit to look into issues that Mr B may have in respect of the 
supplying dealers after sales service. 
satisfactory quality
The relevant law says Black Horse was obliged to ensure that the car was of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied to Mr B. The level of quality thats satisfactory varies according 
to individual circumstances. In the case of a used car, its generally reasonable to take into 
account factors such as the age, price and mileage at the point of supply. 
This car was about 4 years old with around 46,000 miles on the clock and cost over £15,000 
when Mr B got it. As such, I think a fair minded person would accept it wouldnt meet the 
same standards as a brand new vehicle  as some parts were likely to be worn and would 
need replacing sooner or later  which is reflected in the lower price paid for a used vehicle. For me to uphold this complaint, Id have to be satisfied that its more likely than not this car 
had faults when it was supplied - and the presence of those faults means it was of 
unsatisfactory quality. But, I cant hold Black Horse liable for wear and tear or service issues 
that arise out of the normal use of a vehicle. 
expert evidence
Black Horse arranged for an independent expert to inspect the car in December 2019. The 
car had had about 54,500 miles on the clock at this point. Im satisfied the expert was 
instructed to check for the issues that Mr B had reported, identify any faults present and 
comment on whether these were likely to have been there when the car was supplied. 
The expert says he took the car on a test drive (at speeds of up to 70mph for nearly 30 miles 
in mixed road and traffic conditions) and carried out various checks, including oil levels. He 
found no oil leaks and considered the previous repairs were successful. He concluded that 
the car performed in a satisfactory manner, it was free from any abnormal noise (including 
from the clutch and gearbox) or vibration and it was of satisfactory quality, for the age and 
mileage.
Im satisfied the expert is independent and seems to have appropriate qualifications. I think 
his report makes sense and seems to be reasonably thorough and I think its reasonable to 
give some weight to the experts findings. 
the gearbox issue
Mr B first contacted A in August 2019 to report some abnormal noise on acceleration. Ive 
seen paperwork that shows A checked the car in September 2019 (when it had around 
54,000 on the clock). A thought there was a problem with the gearbox so this was removed 
and send away for investigation by a third party specialist who said gearbox bearings 
needed to be replaced. 
A told Mr B this repair was outside of its usual warranty cover  as the car had travelled 
more than 3,000 miles since supply  but A offered to waive the cost of removing and 
refitting the gearbox if Mr B paid for the refurbishment. Mr B seems to have accepted that 
was fair at the time  he agreed to pay £420 towards the cost. He told us the car was in 
excellent condition up to this point. And, whilst I accept he first reported this issue within a 
few months of supply, I think its reasonable to note he was able to drive the car over 7,000 
miles trouble free before that  which is not far off the mileage the average driver would 
cover in 12 months.
Ive seen nothing to show that this issue was present when Mr B got the car. On balance, I 
think its more likely to have developed over the time he had the vehicle  or he wouldnt 
have been able to drive as far as he did after supply without any problems. 
the clutch 
Not long after he got the car back following the gearbox repair, Mr B heard a loud clapping 
sound from the clutch. A said the flywheel was worn and this was replaced under an 
extended warranty in November 2019. I understand A recommended the clutch and slave 
cylinder should be replaced at the same time. I dont think thats unusual in this situation - as 
these parts are not easy to access  and I think it was a matter for Mr B to decide if he 
wanted to do so. It looks as if he made a contribution of around £250 for additional parts, 
which doesnt seem unreasonable. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest that the worn flywheel was connected to or caused by the previous gearbox repairs. I dont think its unusual to find a clutch and/or flywheel needs to 
be replaced around this sort of mileage  as the result of normal wear and tear. Im not 
persuaded its likely, on balance, that there was something wrong with the clutch when the 
car was supplied or Mr B would probably have had problems much sooner. 
ongoing issues
Mr B says the car was leaking oil when he got it back and there was still something wrong 
with the gearbox. He thinks the repairs undertaken by A either didnt work or made things 
worse. He also suggests its possible that A didnt actually repair the clutch and refers to an 
email from the extended warranty provider in May 2020 that says no invoice was ever 
received for this work. 
I cant say what might have happened in respect of the extended warranty payment. But, Im 
satisfied the expert was asked to consider the relevant repairs specifically in his report - and 
he found they were carried out successfully. I think its possible some residual oil may have 
escaped after A carried out the last repair but I find it unlikely the car had a significant leak. I 
say this because the expert checked and found no evidence of a leak on his inspection in 
late December 2019 - and the main dealer also considered all fluid levels, battery and fault 
memory were in order, in January 2020. 
Ive considered the RAC recovery report and the outcome of the main dealers visual 
inspection. I can see the RAC engineer noted a slight rattle coming from the transmission in 
early December 2019 and the main dealer found 1st gear baulking slightly when selecting 
first, noise coming from gearbox area with clutch pedal pressed and held down in early 
January 2020. I cant say what might have caused these - both reports say further 
investigation is required. But, Im satisfied the expert inspected the car around the same time 
(a few weeks after the RAC saw the car and a few weeks before the main dealer checked it) 
and he found the car was in relatively good condition with no significant issues.   
was the car of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied ?
I accept Mr B had several problems with this car within the first six months but, on balance, 
Im not persuaded its likely these issues were present at the outset. Im satisfied Mr B was 
able to drive the car a significant distance without any problems before these issues 
appeared. I also think its reasonable to give some weight to the experts opinion in this 
situation - and I accept his conclusions. For the reasons Ive explained, Im not persuaded 
that this car was of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr B. I dont think there are 
sufficient fair and reasonable grounds to uphold this complaint and I cant fairly require Black 
Horse to take the car back or do anything further.
I realise this decision is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr B. I appreciate its not the 
outcome he hoped for. But, hes not obliged to accept what Ive said - in which case it 
remains open to him to pursue the matter by any other means available. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my decision is I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman