DRN-4066931
The complaint
Mr W complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his deferred defined benefit 
(DB) British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a type of personal pension plan, in 2017. He 
says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss. 
CST Wealth Management Limited is responsible for answering this complaint and so to keep 
things consistent, Ill refer mainly to CST.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ws employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation 
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which 
included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined 
benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their 
benefits to a personal pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ws employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which 
gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
Mr W was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do and was referred to CST 
which is responsible for providing the pension advice. Information gathered about his 
circumstances and objectives at the time of the recommendation were broadly as follows:
Mr W was 39 years old and married. He had accrued several years worth of service 
with BSPS.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Ws BSPS was approximately 
£164,663. The normal retirement age (NRA) was 65.
Mr W earned around £35,000 per year. He lived in a home with an 18-year mortgage 
outstanding.
Mr W was contributing to a new defined contribution (DC) pension scheme. This 
pension isnt the subject of any complaint.
CST set out its advice in a suitability report in November 2017. In this CST advised Mr W to 
transfer out of the BSPS and invest the funds in a type of personal pension plan. CST said 
this would allow Mr W to achieve his objectives. Mr W accepted this advice and so 
transferred out in 2018. In 2022 Mr W complained to CST about its advice, saying he 
shouldnt have been advised to transfer out to a personal pension but CST didnt uphold his 
complaint. 
Mr W then referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our 
Investigators looked into the complaint and said it should be upheld. In response, CST said it 
hadnt done anything wrong and was acting on the financial objectives Mr W had at the time. 
As the complaint couldnt be informally resolved, it came to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive said above, CST didnt agree it had done anything wrong. However, in the interest of 
bringing complaints like this to a close, CST has recently said it would be willing to accept 
the Investigators View and run a calculation to see if the pension transfer had incurred any 
loss for Mr W. 
CST has used a BSPS-specific calculator established by the regulator for this purpose. Ive 
noted it took Mr Ws transferred pensions current value and inputted this into the calculator 
together with all his personal details. And as Mr Ws transferred pension balance has grown, 
the calculation shows there has been no financial loss incurred as a result of Mr W 
transferring away, back in 2018.
For the avoidance of any doubt here, Ive still looked at Mr Ws case and his points of 
complaint in great detail. Having done this, I agree with the points made by our investigator 
who comprehensively set out why he thought the complaint ought to be upheld. Im also 
sorry that its taken so long for Mr Ws complaint to reach this stage  I understand the 
distress and inconvenience caused by him having to bring the complaint at all.
However, because CST has recently informed us that it is willing to accept the Investigators 
View, and that a calculation has been carried out as required by the regulator, Im not going 
to go into the level of detail I normally would about why the complaint should be upheld. I 
can also see that weve explained to Mr W, the complexities about his former DB pensions 
value. We have also explained its relationship with both market forces in general, and 
specifically, with bond yields. So, these things help explain why no overall financial loss has 
been incurred in this situation. Weve also checked that the inputs that were put into the 
BSPS-calculator are correct.
So, in summary, I dont think the advice given to Mr W was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS2. And I dont think there were 
any other particular reasons which would justify the transfer and outweigh this. So I think 
CST ought to have advised him against transferring away from the BSPS. 
As I dont think I need to consider this in any further detail, Ill focus in this decision on the 
redress methodology.Putting things right
The aim is to put Mr W back in the financial position he would have been in at retirement had 
he remained in the DB scheme. CST has carried out a calculation using a BSPS-specific 
calculator provided by the FCA which is what I would expect them to do in the 
circumstances. 
The calculator uses economic and demographic assumptions to calculate how much a 
consumer needs in their pension arrangement to secure equivalent BSPS retirement 
benefits that they would have been entitled to under either BSPS2 or the PPF (as uplifted to 
reflect the subsequent buy-out), had they not transferred out. 
If the calculation shows there is not enough money in the consumers pension arrangement 
to match the BSPS benefits they would have received, the shortfall is the amount owed to 
the consumer. If the calculation shows there is enough money in the consumers pension 
arrangement, then no redress is due.
The BSPS calculator has been developed by actuaries and is programmed by the FCA with 
benefit structures of the BSPS, BSPS2 and PPF (including the impact of the subsequent 
buy-out) and relevant economic and demographic assumptions which are updated regularly. 
This information cant be changed by firms.
The calculator also makes automatic allowances for ongoing advice fees of 0.5% per year 
and product charges of 0.75% per year which are set percentages by the FCA.
I have checked the inputs that were entered by CST which are personal to Mr W. These 
include Mr Ws personal details, his individual benefits from the BSPS at the date he left the 
scheme and the value of his personal pension. The calculation also assumes that if he had 
not been advised to transfer his benefits from the BSPS, he would have moved to the 
BSPS2 and that he would have taken his DB benefits at age 65. 
Overall, based on what Ive seen, the calculation has been carried out appropriately and in 
line with the rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as 
detailed in the FCAs policy statement PS22/13 and set out in their handbook in DISP App 4:
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
The calculation in Mr Ws case shows that there is no shortfall to his pension and that he has 
sufficient funds to be able to replicate his DB benefits in retirement. Im satisfied that Mr W 
has not suffered a financial loss by transferring his pension.
Our investigator recommended that CST should pay Mr W for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the unsuitable advice. I have considered the impact this would 
likely have had on Mr W in his particular circumstances. This pension at the time 
represented most of his retirement provision. In his situation I think the thought of losing 
material benefits would have impacted upon Mr W. So I agree the recommended payment of 
£200 for distress and inconvenience. CST should pay Mr W this.
I think the calculation carried out by CST is appropriate in the circumstances and no redress 
for financial losses is due to Mr W. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require CST Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr W a sum of 
£200 for the distress and inconvenience he says this matter has caused him. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman