DRN-3219292
The complaint
Mr L complains that IG Markets Limited increased commission charges in his Contracts for 
Difference (CFD) account and failed to give him sufficient notice of the changes.
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. IG has accepted our Investigators opinion, but Mr L has disagreed and maintains that 
IG have increased the charges excessively and should have given their customers 10 
business days notice of the increase in charges. The facts around what happened are not in 
dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the Investigator for these reasons:
As a regulated business, IG has several obligations they must adhere to. They also 
have a certain amount of commercial discretion regarding how they operate, the 
products and services they choose to offer and how much they charge their 
customers. 
It is not within the remit of this service to tell a business how they should operate or 
interfere with what services they provide and how much they charge their customers 
as long as they are transparent and fair. Any concerns in this regard should be 
directed to the Financial Conduct Authority.
The Customer Agreement details the terms of the account and the agreement 
between IG and Mr L. Clause 8(2) shows IG were within their rights to make changes 
to the commission charges and that they should notify him of these changes in 
writing  which they did. So, I cant say they acted unfairly by making changes to how 
much they charge their customers.
Mr L refers to Clause 10 of the Customer Agreement which says any changes to the 
agreement require 10 Business days notice, but the agreement has not been 
modified by the changes to the commission rate applied so they are not required to 
give him notice in advance of the changes. 
On the evidence, Im satisfied there is no obligation on IG to have given their 
customers 10 business days notice of changes prior to making these as this is not 
considered a change to the terms of the agreement.
I am also satisfied with IGs explanation of the commission percentage rate increase. 
It is not 250% as Mr L has suggested, but 0.25% notional value. As such, they are 
not required to make any correction to their customers.
From what Ive seen, I am not persuaded that any wrongdoing on IGs part has been 
established. 
For these reasons, I am not upholding Mr Ls complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against IG Markets Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2022.
 
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman