DRN-4438575
The complaint
Miss R complains about the information provided by BISL Limited when she called to claim 
on her car insurance policy. 
Miss R is represented on this complaint, for ease of reading Ive referred to Miss R 
throughout.
What happened
Miss Rs car was hit in the rear when entering a roundabout and so called BISL, who are her 
broker, to report the accident and claim on her car insurance policy. Rather than dealing with 
Miss Rs claim on her car insurance policy, BISL referred her to its non-fault service who Ill 
refer to as E who handle claims on a credit hire and repair basis. 
When Miss R was referred to E her representative queried with E would be responsible for 
costs associated with credit hire and repair. Miss R said E wasnt clear about who would be 
responsible for the hire car charges, and so she rejected the hire car. Miss R raised a 
complaint with BISL. She said she hadnt been given clear information about the hire car 
costs and there had been a delayed in progressing her claim which left her without a car to 
use. 
BISL reviewed the complaint and upheld it. It said when it had transferred Miss R to E there 
had been an issue with the transfer which meant Miss R wasnt contacted for nine days. 
Because of this, BISL offered £75 compensation for the delay when transferring Miss R to E. 
Unhappy with BISLs response, Miss R referred her complaint here. She said not having a 
car had resulted in her losing her job and didnt think BISLs compensation was enough. 
Our Investigator reviewed the complaint and recommended it be upheld. She found that 
BISL hadnt given Miss R clear information about her options for getting her car repaired, 
before being referred to E. She also found the delays in progressing the claim were with E 
who arent within the jurisdiction of this service. However, for the poor information given 
when Miss R initially called to claim she recommended BISL pay an additional £150 
compensation, making a total compensation of £225. 
BISL responded to our investigator and accepted the outcome. Miss R didnt accept it, she 
said the poor claim handling has caused her to lose her job and thought £750 compensation 
was a fairer amount. 
As Miss R didnt agree so the complaint has come to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I address the merits of this complaint, I think its first important to set out the different
parties involved and BISLs responsibilities, to make clear what I can and cannot look at in 
this decision.
When Miss R called BISL to report the damage to her car, she was referred to E to handle 
the claim rather than claiming on her policy. E is an accident management company (AMC) 
who handle non-fault claims, and when it handled Miss Rs claim it was done outside of her 
insurance policy with her insurer. Also, the actions of E arent within the jurisdiction of this 
service. This means in this decision I can only consider the actions of BISL when it referred 
Miss R to E.
As Miss Rs broker, BISL was obliged to provide Miss R with information that was
clear, fair and not misleading, in line with its obligations under Principle 7 of the FCA
Handbook: Communications with clients (see PRIN 2.1 The Principles) and ICOBS 2.2.2R
(Clear, fair and not misleading rule). In the circumstances of this case, this means that when
Miss R contacted BISL to tell it about her non-fault claim for damage to her car, BISL ought 
to have provided her with clear information about her options, so she could decide how best 
to proceed with her claim.
Ive listened to the referral call when BISL referred Miss R to E.  While BISL did explain to 
Miss R that E is a separate company and would be handling her claim. Im not persuaded 
BISL provided Miss R with enough information for her to make an informed choice. I say this 
as BISL didnt explain that by using E, that Miss R would need to enter into a credit 
agreement with E for the repair of her car and the hire car. Or that there is a possibility she 
could be held liable for these costs if the third party doesnt pay them. Given this was then 
questioned with E Im satisfied this was important to Miss R. 
Ive therefore considered the impact of the poor referral on Miss R. If she had refused to use 
E and claim on her policy instead, as Miss Rs car was deemed a total loss she wouldnt 
have been entitled to a courtesy car under her car insurance policy. Considering Miss R 
needed a car I think its most likely, she still would have used E or at least agreed to discuss 
Es services with them. And while I understand Miss R didnt receive the service expected 
from E, Im unable to hold BISL responsible for Es actions. 
BISL has agreed to pay an additional £150 compensation for the poor information given 
when it referred Miss R to E. Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable compensation in the 
circumstances and so I wont be telling BISL to pay more than its agreed. I understand Miss 
R would like £750, but Im not persuaded the poor referral by BISL resulted in Miss R losing 
her job. I say this because if BISL had given Miss R sufficient information, she would either 
have claimed on her insurance policy, and not received a courtesy car due to her car being a 
total loss. Or, agreed to be transferred to E and been in the same situation as now. Im 
therefore not persuaded BISLs actions when it referred Miss R to E, warrant £750 
compensation.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
BISL Limited to pay Miss R an additional £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience, 
making the total compensation £225. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman