DRN-3699941
The complaint
Mr N complains about how Nationwide Building Society dealt with an account switch.
What happened
Mr N says he made an account switch application on 27 August 2021 from a bank I will call 
M. He says Nationwide didnt deal with the application within the seven days it said it would 
and has broken the switch guarantee. Mr N says he has suffered significant financial loss as 
he was forced to sell an investment and suffered significant stress as well as inconvenience. 
He would like £20,000 compensation and says Nationwide has repeatedly given him 
incorrect information. He also says Nationwide says it could complete the switch before his 
M account closed on 31 August 2021.
Nationwide says it made the switch request to M within seven working days but by which 
time M had closed Mr Ns account. It says M told its customers when it was closing its 
accounts and that customers had to move their accounts. Nationwide says it accepts it didnt 
communicate appropriately with Mr N by telling him the switch had failed but says the 
outcome was the same. It has paid £50 compensation for that mistake.
Mr N brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought Mr N had been given 90 days notice of his M account closing and that 
insufficient time had been left when the application was made. The investigator accepted 
Nationwide ought to have explained matters to Mr N and that extra checks were required but 
thought the compensation appropriate. The investigator thought Mr N received his 
investment proceeds some time after the switch in any event.
Mr N doesnt accept that view and in summary says he was protected by the switch 
guarantee and that Nationwide should be responsible for the charges he incurred. He 
questions why Nationwide can ignore the guarantee and says he was misled.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Nationwide has dealt fairly with this 
complaint. I appreciate Mr N will be disappointed by my decision and about how strongly he 
feels about what took place. I can see Mr N raises a number of complaint points. I confirm I 
have read all of his submissions but intend to comment on what I think are the main 
complaint arears here.
I have looked carefully at the information M sent its customers prior to it closing accounts. I 
can see M gave 90 days notice that it intended to close all its accounts by 31 August 2021 
and that it advised customers to move their accounts in advance.
I can see Mr N made his switch application on Friday 27 August 2021 which was prior to a 
bank holiday and that Nationwide makes clear that seven working days are required for a 
switch. Im satisfied that the problem here was caused by Mr N making the application too 
late and close to Ms closing date for accounts the following working day. I have not seen 
evidence from Nationwides records that it told Mr N that it could complete the switch within 
the following working day but accept what Mr N says. In any event I think the outcome would 
have been the same that there wasnt enough time to complete it.
I accept that Nationwide ought to have explained matters to Mr N when he spoke to it and 
accept the online explanation given to Mr N was confusing. But again, I think that even if 
Nationwide had explained the problem with the switch or that further checks needed to be 
carried out then the outcome would have been on the whole the same. Im satisfied that the 
compensation paid for the communication issue fair and reasonable but accept that is not 
the main part of this complaint. I accept Mr N was caused distress and inconvenience, but I 
dont think that communication issue caused any financial loss or justifies the compensation 
Mr N would like.
I appreciate Mr N says the guarantee provides a formal assurance and if not adhered to then 
compensation ought to follow. But I have explained what I consider the problem here that the 
switch was attempted far too late and that M had given Mr N a significant notice period. I 
also appreciate Mr N says he was forced to sell his investments and that his insurance policy 
was cancelled with a fee. But I can see the investment sale proceeds were received some 
time after these events and have not seen evidence of any loss. In any event I have made 
clear that I cant fairly hold Nationwide responsible for any such losses for the reasons I have 
explained. It follows that I cant fairly order Nationwide increase its compensation award or 
pay the £20,000 compensation Mr N would like.
We are not Nationwides regulator and so its not our role to punish a business as Mr N 
suggests in order to provide an incentive for it to change its behaviour, even if I upheld the 
main part of this complaint.
Overall, I accept that Nationwide ought to have been clearer in its communication with Mr N 
and explained why there was a delay. Im satisfied that its up to Nationwide to decide if it 
wishes to carry out further checks on an application but that even if it had explained that at 
the time, there would have been no real difference to the outcome. I say that as by the time 
Nationwide asked M to switch the account that M had closed all its customers accounts and 
so couldnt comply with that request. I cant fairly hold Nationwide responsible for another 
businesses decision to close accounts which was the main reason the switch failed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman