DRN-3804436
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy with Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of a subsidence claim made under 
his home insurance policy.
All references to Aviva include its appointed agents
What happened
Aviva has been dealing with a subsidence claim raised by Mr E under his home insurance 
policy since August 2020.
Avivas approach to the claim involved tree mitigation works, site investigations and level 
monitoring. Aviva concluded the site was stable and proposed a scope of works. The scope 
included crack repairs to the external and internal wall of the affected area of Mr Es 
property, along with internal redecoration.
Mr E is unhappy as he believes the drains are also affecting and contributing to the 
subsidence. He says Avivas proposed repairs wont be effective and lasting. Mr E adds that 
the movement hasnt stopped and provided photos to show the cracks in his property are 
getting wider.
Mr E also says the repair needs to include foundation work to ensure its effectiveness, Aviva 
disagrees. It says it has cause to believe the foundations are defective, taking into account 
the surrounding vegetation. And in any event, its not been shown the foundations have been 
damaged. So, its liability is limited to restoring the crack damage and decorating.
Aviva didnt uphold Mr Es complaint, so he referred the matter to our service. Our 
investigator looked at everything and initially recommended the complaint not be upheld. 
They concluded Avivas position to cover the proposed repairs was reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Mr E disagreed and provided further evidence for our service to consider. He said this 
showed the movement was ongoing and that there was most likely a linked issue with the 
drains.
Our investigator then issued a second opinion where they recommended the complaint be 
upheld. They concluded that on balance there was still movement at Mr Es property. So, 
they recommended Aviva reconsider the claim and investigate the reported drainage issues 
further, before monitoring the property to confirm stability.
Aviva disagreed with our investigators findings and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It 
said that the new information provided by Mr E didnt factor into its original decision, which 
centred on Mr E wanting a more substantial repair (including deeper foundations). Aviva also 
questioned whether the cause of the drainage issues would be covered under the policy.
The complaint was passed to me and on 2 November 2022 I issued my provisional findings. 
Ive repeated an extract below:
Usually, our service will consider events up to the date a business issues a final response 
letter to a consumer, telling them they can refer their complaint to our service. But 
occasionally, its impractical to do so because events have moved on. Due to the 
circumstances of this case, I reached out to both parties for further information in order to 
provide an up to date, relevant, and fair answer.
Ill first set out the present position as I see it. Ill then review both partys responses to the 
information I requested. Ill next consider our services approach to claims of this nature, and 
what we would expect to see from each party to move the claim forward. Finally, Ill set out 
what I see as the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
Present position
As things stand, Aviva isnt willing to conduct further investigations towards the subsidence 
claim. It says it advised Mr E to register a separate drainage claim for consideration in 
January 2021, and at the same time recommended he repaired some defects in the drains. 
Aviva said it didnt consider these defects to be linked to the cause of subsidence.
Mr E says he wants his own builders to do the repairs now, as he wants a more permanent 
solution than Aviva is offering due to the ongoing movement. He says the repair works are 
likely to cost around £30,000. So, he wants Aviva to cash settle the claim for £20,000, whilst 
fronting £10,000 of the costs himself. Mr E adds that hes never been reimbursed for any of 
his own surveys or reports during the claim.
Based on the present position, I asked Aviva:
If it would consider reimbursing Mr E for any reports prior to the claim being accepted 
in August 2020. But not for any reports which hadnt been shared, nor contributed to 
the claims progress.
If it can be shown the drain was accidently damaged, does its offer to consider a 
separate claim for the drains still stand?
If it could comment on the ongoing movement suggested by Mr E.
For its comments on a potential cash settlement amount in the circumstances.
Aviva responded and said:
It would cover the cost of reports prior to August 2020, upon a copy of the invoices.
Its offer to investigate the drainage issues under a separate claim still stands.
It would recommend a further three months monitoring in response to the alleged 
ongoing movement. Aviva asked if Mr E had repaired the drain issues since January 
2021 as if he hadnt, then the property would most likely be affected by this.
Its likely a cash settlement for the damage would amount to approximately £5,000 
less the policy excess of £1,000 (calculated around May 2021). But it says its unable 
to provide an up-to-date settlement offer, as Mr E wont allow any further site visits 
until our service decides the matter.
I asked Mr E:
If he could provide me of a breakdown of the £20,000 he wanted Aviva to settle and 
what work this would relate to, so I could consider what Aviva was fairly and 
reasonably required to pay under the terms of the policy.
Whether any further repairs to the drains had been carried out since January 2021.Mr E responded and said:
Hed obtained an up-to-date quote of the repairs and provided the breakdown of 
costs.
He said hed raised the issue of the drain with Avivas loss adjuster, but they werent 
keen on attending the matter. So, he now needs to locate where the leak is 
happening, and he suspects there is another leak contributing to subsidence.
Our approach
Our service considers it fair and reasonable for an insurer to undertake investigations in 
order to determine the scope of its liability  as they have access to the relevant resources 
and experts to do so. So, if Mr E has prevented any further site visits, this will ultimately limit 
the scope of his settlement to the evidence Aviva already holds.
Mr E requested a cash settlement after Aviva offered to indemnify him with repairs. So, our 
services approach is that Aviva cant force the repair on Mr E and must pay cash to settle 
the claim. But Aviva is only required to pay what it wouldve cost for it to do the repair, which 
might be less than the amount it costs Mr E.
If the amount isnt enough for Mr E to do the repairs, then as long as Avivas offer of repairs 
was fair to begin with, it would be reasonable to conclude that it has indemnified Mr E and no 
further payment is due. It would then fall to Mr E to prove that any additional costs were 
insurable interests under the policy.
Drains
Ive considered the evidence I have linking the ongoing movement to leaking drains. And I 
accept Mr E strongly feels this is the case. But from what hes told me, its reasonable to 
infer that no further drain investigations or works have been carried out since Aviva wrote to 
Mr E in January 2021, recommending him to repair the drain defects. The more recent 
reports Ive seen also mention drain defects, but they dont conclude what most likely caused 
them, nor do they cover what Mr E now says are ongoing issues.
On balance, if there are further issues with the drains then Mr E will need to reengage with 
Aviva to enable the necessary investigations. If he doesnt or is unable to evidence an 
insured event happened to the drains, then I dont find it reasonable for Aviva to be held 
liable for any linked damage.
Cash Settlement
Ive next considered whether Avivas initial offer of repairs is reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Aviva has stated that its repair cost will not include a new foundation to the front wall as the 
existing foundation is inadequate.
Mr Es scope of repairs includes a demolish and rebuild of the affected area and 
underpinning of the foundations. This is significantly more work than was set out in Avivas 
scope of repairs.
Underpinning is often considered a permanent and effective way of stabilising a property. 
But its also used as a preventative measure against future ground movement, in place of 
other remedies such as drain repairs or providing strengthening to an existing structure. 
Preventative work isnt covered by Mr Es policy.Mr Es policy also states under the section covering subsidence, We will not 
coverdamage caused by faulty or unsuitable materials, design or poor workmanship.
As Aviva is relying on this to exclude some of the damage, the onus is on it as the insurer to 
show the exclusion fairly applies. And having considered everything, Im persuaded Aviva 
has done enough to show it fairly applies in the circumstances of this case.
I say this because Avivas report and site investigations show the front wall has been built 
directly off a concrete floor slab with a foundation depth of 110mm. Aviva says this 
foundation depth isnt sufficient in line with guidelines used by a new homes provider. Im 
not fully persuaded those guidelines apply to Mr Es property. But in any event, I think a 
reasonable builder wouldve (in line with good industry practice) considered the area 
surrounding Mr Es property, including any vegetation, and taken steps to ensure the 
foundations were deep enough. And Im not persuaded that they did so in this case.
Therefore, I find it reasonable that Aviva is liable for any resultant damage to Mr Es 
property, but not any work involving the strengthening of the foundations.
If Mr E wishes for the claim to be accurately cash settled, I find it reasonable that he should 
arrange for Aviva to attend the site to scope and cost the works it would be liable for under 
the policy. I find no proper basis to simply award a lump sum based on the quote hes 
provided, as theres no comparison to what it would cost Aviva to do the insured works. And 
from what I can see, the majority of the work is linked to strengthening the foundations which 
is predominantly preventative.
It appears Mr E has disengaged from Avivas loss adjuster and no further site visits have 
been agreed. Ultimately, if Aviva is unable to accurately scope the repairs its liable for, this 
will likely mean Mr E receives a lower settlement than he may be entitled to.
Therefore, in order to move things forward Mr E can either:
Accept Avivas cash settlement, which on current evidence will be around £5,000 
less the policy excess. Or;
Allow Aviva to attend the site in order to update the scope of insurable repairs and 
cash settlement amount.
And;
Raise a separate claim for the drains to see if Aviva can fund the repairs under a 
separate section of the policy.
Aviva should:
Reimburse Mr Es expert reports prior to August 2020, upon receipt of evidence of 
invoices.
Pay 8% simple interest on this sum, from the date the invoices were paid, to the date 
of settlement
Developments
Aviva accepted my findings in principle. It said that whilst it didnt usually pay customer 
reports unless they altered its decision on a claim, it would accept reimbursing the reports 
referred to upon receipt of copies of the invoices.Mr E disagreed with my findings and said in summary:
He didnt consider the issues with the drains was a separate matter, instead he said it 
was directly connected to subsidence. And therefore, raising the drain issue as a 
separate claim is misleading the course of the investigation.
The front wall didnt have a foundation so he would rebuild it himself, but the side wall 
which has foundations also suffered from subsidence and required underpinning.
Avivas cash settlement offer isnt legitimate.
That I had disregarded the repair quote he provided.
That Aviva had allowed the neighbouring trees to remain.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems to me that the heart of the issue with the drains is Mr Es reluctance to raise a 
separate claim for them. He strongly feels Aviva should include any investigations as part of 
the subsidence claim.
However, I find that Avivas communication around January 2021 was clear and based on 
the evidence it held at the time. The email sent to Mr E stated, The drains near and under 
the garage have been surveyed and several defects were noted on Run DThese drain 
issues are not considered to be the cause of subsidence although we do recommend that 
the defects are repaired. The cost of the repairs cannot be accepted under the subsidence 
claim however, you should contact your insurers to see whether there is cover under a 
different peril. The failure to carry out these drain repairs as recommended may prejudice 
any future claims on your property.
As I determined in my provisional decision, Ive seen no firm evidence to either conclusively 
link the current drain issues to subsidence, or to show any works been done to the drains 
since Aviva set out its position on the claim above.
Ive seen reports from both Mr E and Aviva which conclude the drains have defects, but it 
doesnt follow that this shows they are causing the subsidence beyond reasonable doubt.
So, as I see it, theres nothing preventing Mr E from raising a drain claim for Aviva to 
consider. But as things stand, Ive reached the same conclusion I did in my provisional 
decision, and for the same reasons.
Regarding the different foundation depths to the walls, I refer back to the conclusions 
reached in my provisional decision about underpinning and see no reason to depart from 
them here either.In addition, it seems that the repairs in Mr Es property are linked to the presence of a nearby 
neighbouring tree (which Mr E says Aviva has allowed to remain). 
Our services approach is that if an insurer is unsuccessful in removing third party vegetation, 
then the scope of repairs (and any cash settlement linked to this) should take this into 
account in order to provide an effective and lasting repair. However, in line with my 
provisional findings, I still find it reasonable that Avivas cash settlement can fairly exclude 
any costs to strengthen defective foundations and any work it deems as preventative.
Ive considered Mr Es comments about the cash settlement, and as Ive set out previously 
this was based on a calculation made around May 2021, so its unlikely to reflect the present 
position. But I cant see that Aviva has been given a fair and reasonable opportunity to 
update the settlement since (and taking the above considerations into account).
So, I want to reassure Mr E that I havent disregarded his repair quote but, ultimately, it is for 
Avivas experts to determine what falls under insured works and what doesnt. There are 
clearly some defective and preventative works here which Aviva isnt reasonably going to 
cover in any event.
Should Mr E arrange a further site visit with Aviva to update the scope of a potential cash 
settlement, any issues arising from this will need to be considered as a separate matter. But 
as things stand, Ive not seen anything to change my mind about what I provisionally 
decided.
Therefore, in order to move things forward Mr E can either:
Accept Avivas cash settlement, which on current evidence will be around £5,000 
less the policy excess. 
Or;
Allow Aviva to attend the site to update the scope of insurable repairs and cash 
settlement amount.
And;
Raise a separate claim for the drains to see if Aviva can fund the repairs under a 
separate section of the policy.
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr E, Aviva must:
Reimburse Mr Es expert reports prior to August 2020, upon receipt of evidence of 
invoices.
Pay 8% simple interest on this sum, from the date the invoices were paid to the date 
of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Aviva Insurance Limited to 
put things right by doing what Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman