DRN-1660872
The complaint
Miss T has complained that Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) declined a claim she made for 
damage to her sofa.
What happened
There have been other businesses involved in this complaint who acted on behalf of 
Amtrust. For ease of reference, Ill refer only to Amtrust by name in this decision, even when 
referring to the actions of its agents.
Miss T purchased a sofa in 2014 along with a Care and Protection Plan which provides 
insurance cover if the sofa is damaged or malfunctioning within the first five years. The 
policy was underwritten by Amtrust which means responsibility for any claim decision rests 
with it.
In March 2019, Miss T contacted Amtrust to make a claim for several areas of damage to the 
sofa. She reported tears in the corner sofa and armless sofa as well as scratches and 
grazes across the entire unit. She explained she had recently had young relatives in the 
house and thought they have caused the damage with either their toys or items of clothing. 
Miss T provided Amtrust with a completed claim form and photos of the areas of damage.
Amtrust appointed an independent furniture technician to visit Miss Ts property and inspect 
the damage and produce a report. The report stated that the damage was consistent with 
wear and tear. Based on this report, Amtrust declined Miss Ts claim, relying on an exclusion 
in the policy for damage caused by wear and tear or which had happened gradually.
Miss T complained about the decision to decline her claim. When her complaint wasnt 
upheld by Amtrust, she brought it to our service where it was looked at by one of our 
investigators. Our investigator was persuaded that the damage had happened gradually, 
based on the comments of the independent furniture technician. So, she thought Amtrusts 
decision to decline the claim was fair.
Miss T has since accepted that most of the scratches and grazes are probably wear and 
tear. But she feels strongly that the tear was caused in a one-off event, by her young 
relatives. So, because no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that Miss Ts sofa has suffered damage or that her policy provides cover for 
this, subject to its terms and conditions. What I need to decide is whether Amtrusts decision 
to decline her claim is in line with those terms and conditions. And whether it is fair and 
reasonable, taking into account the particular circumstances of this case.
Miss Ts policy is designed to cover her for the cost of repairing accidental damage to her 
sofa resulting in rips, tears, burns, scuffs, scratches and punctures  among other things. 
But this cover is also subject to specific exclusions. The certificate of insurance explains:
This insurance will not pay for costs arising from:-
.
e) by wear and tear, anything which happens gradually or over a sustained period of 
time, or by the accumulation of multiple stains
So, its clear that damage caused by wear and tear isnt covered by Miss Ts policy. But in 
order to fairly rely on an exclusion, to decline a claim, it is for Amtrust to show that the 
exclusion applies.
When considering the claim, Amtrust appointed an independent furniture technician to 
inspect the damage and produce a report. The findings of this report state:
The technician has visited and reports the customer has shown him multiple 
scratches all over the corner groups seats and backs plus bad scratches which were 
described on the claim form as tears. CAUSE - This is consistent with general wear 
and tear over the past 5 years of use. All the damage looks old with dirt ingress 
present in the scratches (some look dirtier than others). This indicates a build up of 
damage over time. If the damage was new it would look fresher and cleaner. The 
armless units arm and seat is the worst with the colour having worn off due to heavy 
wear. Please note all the scratches are close and go in different directions some 
more than others. If this was a single incident there would not be so many.
Ive thought carefully about the fact that a sofa is designed to be regularly used without 
suffering damage to the extent that Miss T has reported. Ive also considered that her claim 
has been made toward the end of her five-year cover period  so some minor scuffs or 
scratches arent completely unexpected. And Ive carefully considered the evidence and 
arguments put forward by Miss T, Amtrust and the independent furniture technician. Having 
done so, Im most persuaded by the evidence provided by the furniture technician. I say this 
because the technician does this kind of assessment daily as part of his job. So, I think its 
reasonable to consider his opinion as expert evidence.
The technicians report states that the sofa has suffered from extensive damage in multiple 
areas  which suggests to me that its unlikely to be the result of a one-off event. It also 
highlights that dirt ingress was present, within the scratches and tears, which also suggests 
that the damage happened over time. Had the damage happened as Miss T suggests, it 
seems unlikely to me that dirt build up like this would have been present at the time of the 
inspection  particularly as Miss T suggests she has prevented people using the sofa since 
making the claim. The technician also states there are areas of the sofa where the colour 
has almost completely worn off  which in my view indicates that heavy use, over a period of 
time, has likely caused the damage.In appointing an independent furniture technician to assess the damage before it made a 
claim decision, Amtrust has handled the claim as I would have expected it to. And I think 
Amtrust is entitled to rely on the report because the independent company are experts 
whose role it is to inspect items for insurance claims assessments. I havent seen any 
persuasive, or expert, evidence to suggest that the damage was caused in a one-off event. 
So, based on the available evidence, I think Amtrust has done enough to show that the 
policy exclusion for wear and tear applies in this case. I also havent been made aware of 
anything to suggest that applying this exclusion would be unfair or unreasonable in the 
particular circumstances of this claim.
It follows that I think Amtrusts decision to decline Miss Ts claim is both in line with the terms 
and conditions of her policy and is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, I dont uphold Miss Ts complaint against Amtrust Europe 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2020.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman