DRN-2220053
The complaint
Mr P complains about how Assurant General Insurance Limited dealt with his mobile phone 
insurance claim. My references to Assurant include its agents.
What happened
Mr P has mobile phone insurance through his bank account. Assurant is the insurer. Mr P 
says he had to make two claims for the same fault on his phone. His complaint is that when 
Assurant repaired and returned his phone the second time he noticed some marks on the 
phones back leather cover and a crack on the side of the phone.
Mr P says the phone was in good condition when he sent it to Assurant. He sent us photos 
of his phone taken before it went to Assurant, which he said hed taken as Assurant 
damaged his wifes phone on repair. He also sent us photos of the damage to the phone.
Mr P wants Assurant to replace the phone but he doubts it could find the same limited 
edition. So alternatively he wants Assurant to pay him the amount he paid for the phone. 
Assurant said the policy didnt cover purely cosmetic repair and it didnt accept it had 
damaged the phone.
Our investigator said there was no evidence to support Assurant had scratched the side of 
the phone. But she thought Mr Ps photos showed the phones back had been damaged so 
Assurant should repair that damage or Mr P should send Assurant a quote for the cost of the 
repair which Assurant should pay.
Assurant disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision. It said Mr Ps photo of the 
phones back before he sent the phone was very dark and the two marks wouldnt be visible 
on the photo.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision that I was intending to not uphold this complaint. I said:
I need to decide whether theres evidence that its more likely than not Assurant damaged 
Mr Ps phone while doing the claim repair, and I dont think there is. Ill explain why.
The policy is clear Assurant only covers damage that stops the normal functioning of Mr Ps 
mobile phone and doesnt cover purely cosmetic damage. But I think the policy term is only 
relevant if a consumer makes a claim for cosmetic damage, which isnt the situation here. If I 
thought there was evidence that Assurant had substantively damaged the phone it should 
fairly repair the damage.
Ive seen Mr Ps photos of the phone before and after he sent it to Assurant and Assurants 
photos of the phone taken when it received the phone and when the phone left its repair 
centre.
Assurants photos are of the front and back of the phone, not the side of the phone. Mr Ps 
photos of the side of the phone after Assurant returned it show a short thin scratch line. I 
cant see if the phone is cracked. But his photo of the side of the phone before it was sent to 
Assurant isnt a like for like photo. That photo is too dark and far from the surface to show if 
the scratch was already on the phone before it was sent to Assurant.
Mr Ps photos of the back of his phone when returned from Assurant show two small marks. 
The photo shows a close up of the surface and looks to have a light shone on or near the 
surface so the marks can be clearly seen. But his photo of the back of the phone before he 
sent it to Assurant isnt a like for like photo. That photo is further from the surface and dark. 
From that photo Im not able to clearly see whether or not those very small marks were 
already on the phone.
Assurants photos of the back of the phone are also too dark and too far from the surface for 
me to see if the small marks were on the phone when Assurant got the phone and/or when it 
returned the phone to Mr P.
Its Mr Ps responsibility to provide evidence to support his complaint that Assurant damaged 
his phone. On the evidence Ive seen I cant reasonably conclude that its more likely than 
not Assurant damaged his phone. Assurant doesnt need to take any action.
Mr P mentioned hes unhappy that the fault with his phone happened previously and he had 
to pay an excess for both claims. As Mr P hasnt complained to Assurant about matter its 
not something I can look at as part of this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Assurant said it had nothing to add. Mr P said:
Id stated that he hadnt complained to Assurant, but he had
he hadnt claimed for cosmetic damage to the phone. Hed claimed for a hardware 
fault and the cosmetic damage was caused by Assurant.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ps responses havent changed my mind. I still think Assurant doesnt need to take any 
action. 
My comment that Mr P hadnt complained to Assurant was about his concern that the same 
fault had occurred twice on his phone. I havent seen he complained to Assurant about that 
matter. If he did and thats still in dispute then he can make a separate complaint to us.
For this complaint, I understand Mr P didnt make a claim for cosmetic damage. Ive looked 
at whether theres enough evidence to show Assurant damaged his phone when it was 
repairing the hardware fault. For the reasons Ive given above I dont think there is enough 
evidence that Assurant caused the damage Mr P is complaining about.
For the reasons Ive given in my provisional findings and these findings I dont uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman