DRN-3455008
The complaint
Mrs P complains Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) unfairly charged her an 
excess payment after a claim on her motor insurance policy. 
There are several parties and representatives of Admiral involved throughout the claim but 
for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to Admiral.
What happened
Mrs Ps car was involved in a road accident when being driven by a named driver on her 
policy. 
Although Mrs P understood the accident was the other drivers fault, she contacted Admiral 
to make it aware of the accident. Mrs P didnt want to make a claim due to the policy excess 
of £500, as she thought the repairs would cost less than this. 
Admiral said without her making a claim, it would be difficult to ask the third-party insurer to 
accept liability, as Admiral needed claim costs to issue legal proceedings. 
After further discussion and reassurance from Admiral, Mrs P agreed to proceed with making 
a claim. Repairs to her car were organised with Admirals approved repairer.
After the repairs were completed Mrs P was told by Admiral that she had been deemed at 
fault for the accident. This meant she was liable for the excess of £500.
Mrs P was unhappy and told Admiral that she was previously told the claim wouldnt be 
found as fault. And she would not have progressed with the claim if she knew she could be 
found to be at fault. 
Admiral paid Mrs P £100 compensation for the inconvenience it caused her. It agreed she 
shouldnt have been told the accident would be recorded as non-fault, and it accepted she 
wasnt told her policy excess wouldnt be refunded if the liability decision was at fault. 
As Mrs P was not happy with Admiral, she brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He looked into the case and didnt think Admiral had 
acted fairly with its handling of the policy excess. He agreed the £100 compensation was 
reasonable but said Admiral should also refund the £500 excess to Mrs P.
As Admiral is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for 
a final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs P made the claim to Admiral in June 2021 the day after the accident occurred. She said 
the accident was the fault of the third-party. Admiral agreed it was a non-fault accident and 
the third-party would have to accept liability. Mrs P said she did not wish to progress the 
claim until liability had been agreed.
At the start of July 2021 Admiral called Mrs P to see if she wished to progress her claim and 
she was clear she still did not want to make a claim at this time. She said she still wanted to 
wait until liability had been agreed before proceeding. 
Admiral told Mrs P that there may be a point where she needed to make a claim as it would 
need her repair costs to issue proceedings against the third-party insurer. Admiral advised 
her that she could claim back the excess amount with help from its legal department.
On 16 July 2021 Mrs P agreed to the claim and it was organised for her car to go in for 
repair with Admirals approved repairer towards the end of August 2021. Mrs Ps car was 
returned to her in September 2021. 
At the start of October 2021 Mrs P contacted Admiral to obtain an update as she had not 
heard from it for some time. Admiral checked its records and told her it had received a 
document from the third-party insurer at the end of July 2021. But it had not been able to 
open it. After a number of days the document was opened, and it was then decided the claim 
would be recorded as a fault accident for Mrs Ps named driver. 
This meant Mrs P was liable to pay the £500 excess. 
Mrs P said she was not advised that the claim could settle at 50 / 50 or even fault before she 
made a claim. She said if she had known, then she would not have made a decision about 
progressing her claim until liability had been established. She is also unhappy that Admiral 
didnt contact her to update on any liability decisions and give her the opportunity to respond.
I think that Mrs P made it clear to Admiral from the start of her claim that she was reluctant to 
proceed with a claim due to the liability outcome being in doubt.  Admiral have accepted it 
should not have told her this was a non-fault accident and didnt make her aware the policy 
excess might not be refunded if the liability decision wasnt in her favour. It awarded her 
£100 compensation in recognition of its error. 
Admiral were informed at the end of July 2021, in a document received from the third-party 
insurer, that it disputed liability for the road accident. At this date I think Admiral should have 
contacted Mrs P to inform her of this information and given her the option to continue to 
progress the claim or to stop it. I accept Admiral said it had an IT issue with opening the 
document containing this information but that was not Mrs Ps fault. Admiral hadnt made 
attempts to open it until Mrs P called for an update at the start of October 2021.
Admiral said it did not agree to refund the £500 excess as it was satisfied Mrs P would have 
had the repairs completed, as it was unlikely she would never have had this amount of 
damage repaired.
I acknowledge Admirals point, however Mrs P should have been given the option to 
continue with her claim or to stop her claim once she had been made aware of the liability 
outcome. If based on this information she chose not to progress her claim she could have 
made her own choice of repairer. The repairs did not have to be completed through a claim 
with Admiral. 
Therefore, I uphold Mrs Ps complaint and require Admiral to refund £500 for the excess 
charged to her. I think this is a fair outcome.My final decision
For the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint.
I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to refund Mrs P £500 plus 8% simple interest 
from the date the excess payment was made.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman