DRN-3354262
The complaint
Mr F complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund a transaction and they gave him poor
customer service.
What happened
In June 2018, Mr F paid a third party company nearly £3,000 via his Lloyds debit card for
dental treatment for his wife. In February 2020, Mr Fs wife was meant to have an
appointment with the third party company for ongoing treatment, however, Mr Fs wife did
not receive any contact from the third party and Mr F and his wife could not get in touch with
them. He later found out the firm was in liquidation.
Mr F says that in May 2020 he contacted Lloyds and explained the situation to them. Lloyds
asked for information, which he provided to them. He said the communication was via a
secure portal, which he believed to be flawed as he said once he had looked at a message,
he was unable to see the message at a later date.
Mr F said that months went by without hearing anything from Lloyds. Mr F contacted Lloyds
and spoke to a number of people, who Mr F says told him different things. Mr F made a
complaint and spoke to a complaints manager who informed him that he was out of
timescale as more than 540 days had passed since the payment had been made. Mr F says
that he should have been informed of this when he first contacted Lloyds.
Lloyds upheld Mr Fs complaint. They said they could usually help with chargeback claims
within 120 days of the date he would be due to receive the goods or services  up to 540
days from the transaction date. As Mr F paid for an ongoing service on 1 June 2018, this
meant that Lloyds had until 29 November 2019, to be able to help him get a refund or part
refund.
Lloyds explained that they sent Mr F an email on 17 September 2020, to tell him that they
couldnt help due to the timescales for raising a chargeback passing. They said while they
were unable to say why Mr F didnt receive this email or the follow up email they sent with
the same information, there were multiple times after this for the call handlers to explain that
the claim was outside of the timescales.
Lloyds apologised for Mr F being led to believe they could help him, despite the deadlines
expiring. They also directed Mr F to the third party website where it states that they had
found a solution with another third party to complete outstanding treatments. They offered Mr
F £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience which had been caused.
Mr F brought his complaint to our service. He wanted Lloyds to refund him the £2,900 which
was paid for his wifes treatment and to compensate his wife for the pain and suffering she
had experienced over the previous year.
Our investigator felt the £300 which Lloyds had offered was fair. She explained the
chargeback rules were based on the card scheme rules and werent set by Lloyds. In order
for Lloyds to raise a chargeback on Mr Fs behalf they would need to follow these rules and
as the deadline had expired, Lloyds were unable to get a refund (or a partial refund) for Mr F.
Our investigator said the service levels Mr F received had dropped as Lloyds shouldve told
him their position earlier on, however, had they told him sooner, it still wouldnt have
changed the outcome with regards to them being unable to raise a dispute on his behalf, as
the time to raise a chargeback had already expired when he initially contacted them. She
also agreed that this matter wouldve caused him unnecessary inconvenience as he had to
spend time trying to resolve this with Lloyds.
Our investigator said that when he brought this to Lloyds attention around 29 May 2020,
they had explained in September 2020 that the deadlines were expired. So the £300
compensation reflected the four months it took for them to give Mr F an answer and for the
staff giving him conflicting information.
Mr F asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He said he had been told he was in
the timeframe to make a claim, which is why they started to ask for further information on his
chargeback claim. He also said that there was no acknowledgement or Lloyds system
prohibiting him from seeing emails that have been sent or received and he didnt have a
record of any emails from Lloyds in September 2020. He said that there has been £700
worth of remedial dental work which has since needed to be completed, which wouldnt be
as high as that if Lloyds had told him he was out of time when he first contacted them.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I look into the merits of Mr Fs complaint, I need to be clear to him that I can only
consider the impact Lloyds actions have had on him personally and not his wife. This is
because the account which Mr F is complaining about is in his name only. Based on the
rules we have to follow, Im unable to consider any impact that Lloyds actions may have had
on his wife as Mr F is the only eligible complainant here.
Theres no doubt that Mr F will have been inconvenienced by the events of what happened
here. He spoke to a number of Lloyds staff who gave him conflicting information. An
expectation had been set by Lloyds that they could help with his chargeback claim after they
asked for further information to support his claim  which would indicate he was in time to
raise the chargeback, despite him exceeding the time limit.
Mr F contacted Lloyds on 29 May 2020 regarding the issue. But it was only in September
2020 that Lloyds informed him that he was out of timeframe. I do think this is a long time to
be told his claim was outside of the deadlines. Ive thought about what Mr F has said about
having no record of any emails being sent to him in September. But Ive seen a copy of the
communications which hes had with Lloyds regarding this email.
Lloyds reply to an email Mr F sent them on 7 September 2020. They inform him they could
only dispute transactions which had been made within 540 days. Mr F then replies to Lloyds
to ask them to send the email again as he has changed his password. Two days later, as he
hadnt had a reply, he asks them the same thing. On 14 September 2020, Lloyds sent an
email to Mr F explaining that they cant help him due to the time expiring. Im satisfied that
Mr F received this email as he replied:
With reference to your previous correspondence, if the 540 day transaction / 120 service
rule counted for my situation, surely I would have been notified when I first made contact,instead all I was and have been asked for is confirmation and evidence that the company
providing the service had gone into liquidation!
This still doesnt excuse the fact that Mr F had been told incorrect information, or that it had
taken nearly four months to get to this stage, however, I cant agree with Mr F that it was a
year before he knew that he had missed the deadline. And when Lloyds didnt respond to his
last message then he tried to speak to them by phone again, only to be given the wrong
information.
Next Ive considered what Mr F has said regarding Lloyds secured portal and the issues he
has with not being able to view emails hes sent or received once hes viewed them a single
time. But as our service is not the regulator, it falls outside of my remit of how a business
chooses to communicate with their customers. I did however ask Lloyds about this and they
said that any emails they send from the secure web portal will expire and be deleted after
three months. They said that the emails wouldnt disappear after being viewed for a single
time. Lloyds forwarded me their process which confirmed that the emails would be deleted
after three months. So I cant explain why Mr F is experiencing the issues hes explained, but
it doesnt appear as if Lloyds would be deleting the messages, until after three months.
Finally Ive thought about whether the compensation that Lloyds have offered is fair. As Ive
already explained I can only look at the impact Lloyds misinformation and delays had on Mr
F personally. He will have been inconvenienced by contacting Lloyds on several occasions
and being told different things. This will have set an expectation that his claim could be
successful (or at least considered) when in reality he was out of time to bring such a claim.
But I cant hold Lloyds responsible for the costs of his wifes dental treatment. I know Mr Fs
strength of feeling on this matter and I assure him I have read everything hes said about
this. But the chargeback claim was brought outside of the timeframe in which Lloyds could
have attempted to get a refund for the initial treatment. So I cant say it would be reasonable
for Lloyds to pay £2,900 here, when they would be unable to get this money back at the time
the claim was made.
I note that Mr F has said that due to the time Lloyds have taken to tell him it was outside of
the timeframe that this has added to the costs of the remedial work which needed to be
completed. But Im persuaded that there would always be likely to be significant additional
costs once the treatment wasnt able to be carried out by the third party due to their
insolvency. Mr F has previously told Lloyds and our service that he had contacted numerous
dental surgeons and they all refused to continue the treatment and instead they wanted to
start from the beginning.
So Im not persuaded that it would be proportionate to ask Lloyds to pay for any of these
costs as they arent responsible for what happened with the third party insolvency, for any
advice that dental surgeons would give his wife or for any costs of any further treatment
needed.
Based on Mr Fs personal circumstances at the time  which he had let Lloyds know, Im
persuaded that it would have been distressing for Mr F to find out months later than when he
should have done, that Lloyds were unable to help him. So what I would expect Lloyds to do
here is apologise to Mr F, acknowledged their service failings and to offer Mr F proportionate
compensation for the impact this would have had on him.
Im satisfied that the £300 compensation is fair though. I say this as it recognises that Mr F
has been inconvenienced over a number of months which has led to distress. If Lloyds had
not upheld Mr Fs complaint, then I would have awarded him broadly the same as what
Lloyds did offer him as Im satisfied, for the reasons Ive already given, that thecompensation offered to Mr F is reasonable. So it follows that I intend to ask Lloyds to pay
Mr F £300.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Lloyds responded and said they had no further information to provide. Mr F 
responded and he said that he felt let down, but he begrudgingly accepted the provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider, then my final 
decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
Lloyds Bank PLC has already made an offer to pay £300 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC  should pay Mr F £300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman