DRN-4413630
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that London and Country Mortgages Ltd caused delays with their re-
mortgage. Mr and Mrs C ask for compensation for their additional interest costs and their 
distress and inconvenience.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C took mortgage advice from L&C in May 2022. They wanted to re-mortgage 
and repay a help to buy equity loan. The mortgage completed in early 2023.
From August 2022 Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage was on their lenders standard variable rate 
(SVR). They say this caused them financial hardship and they relied on credit cards for 
expenditure, incurring further interest costs. In late 2022 the solicitors told them there was a 
shortfall in funds  the mortgage loan wasnt enough to repay their existing loan and the help 
to buy loan. Mr C says this was due to L&C applying for the wrong amount.
I sent a provisional decision to the parties in which I said L&C made errors. I said that I 
thought the compensation paid by L&C for the upset and inconvenience caused by these 
errors was fair. I didnt think L&C was solely responsible for Mr and Mrs C having to find 
funds for the shortfall at completion, or that it was fair and reasonable to require L&C to pay 
the shortfall or further compensation for the upset caused. I also said that while I didnt think 
L&C was responsible for all of the delays with the mortgage completing, it should pay 
additional compensation for the delays that I thought it had caused. 
L&C provided calculations for the cost to Mr and Mrs C of being on their lenders SVR for 35 
days rather than the lenders product rate. It pointed out that it had already paid some of the 
compensation it offered to Mr and Mrs C. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree. Ive addressed Mr Cs comments where appropriate below. 
Having done so, Im not persuaded to change my findings or outcome from my provisional 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy about the service provided by L&C, the lender and its solicitors, 
all of which they say contributed to delays with their re-mortgage.
I must be clear that Im only looking into Mr and Mrs Cs complaint about L&C here. Their 
complaint about the lender is being looked into separately. We cant look into Mr and Mrs Cs 
concerns about the actions of the solicitor. I should also explain that where the evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities 
 in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr and Mrs C contacted L&C for mortgage advice in May 2022. They wanted to re-mortgage 
and take out additional borrowing to repay their help to buy loan.
L&C recommended a mortgage and submitted an application to the lender on 20 May 2022. 
Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage completed in late January 2023. They say L&C is responsible for 
the delays.
I think L&C did make errors here, some of which caused delays with the mortgage 
application and/or upset and inconvenience to Mr and Mrs C.
The shortfall in the amount needed to repay the help to buy loan:
In mid-December 2022 the solicitor acting for the lender contacted Mr C to say there was a 
shortfall of about £4,000. L&C asked the lender to increase the mortgage loan but it 
declined. Mr C says this problem arose because L&C applied for the wrong amount.
Under the terms of the help to buy loan, the redemption amount is 20% of the property 
value. When Mr C first spoke to L&C he said the property value was £210,000. L&C 
estimated the cost of repaying the help to buy loan at £42,000.
However, the first mortgage adviser left L&C. L&C accepts the information given to Mr C by 
the second mortgage adviser about the cost of repaying the help to buy loan was unclear. 
And the mortgage application submitted by L&C asked for additional borrowing of £34,000 to 
consolidate the help to buy loan. This wasnt enough. There were opportunities for L&C to 
identify this. I think L&C ought to have been more proactive in asking Mr and Mrs C if they 
could cover the shortfall or if the amount in the mortgage application needed to be 
increased. 
Id note here that Mr and Mrs C hadnt at this point arranged a property valuation for the help 
to buy process. Following my provisional decision Mr C provided a copy of a valuation 
carried out on behalf of the help to buy administrator dated 5 December 2022. The property 
was valued at £195,000. The cost of repaying the help to buy loan would have been about 
£39,000. 
Mr C says if L&C had applied for additional borrowing of £42,000 theyd have been able to 
repay the help to buy loan and receive about £3,000, meaning theyre £7,000 out of pocket. I 
dont agree. Mr and Mrs C didnt lose £7,000. They borrowed £7,000 less than theyd have 
needed to consolidate the help to buy loan had the property been valued at £210,000. 
L&C offered compensation of £150 for the error. Ive taken into account Mr Cs further 
comments, but I dont think its fair and reasonable to require L&C to pay the shortfall or 
further compensation for its error.
First, this wasnt a loss for Mr and Mrs C. They owed the money to the help to buy scheme. 
If theyd increased their mortgage loan (whether the additional borrowing was used to repay 
the equity loan or to provide cash) theyd now have a larger mortgage loan to repay. 
Second, I dont think I can fairly find that the lender would have offered a larger loan. The 
lender assessed the loan applied for as just affordable with a five-year product, and not 
affordable with a two-year product. If L&C had applied for a larger loan, the lender might 
have told Mr and Mrs C it wouldnt lend that amount. They might have had to reduce the 
amount applied for or re-apply elsewhere.
Third, I think Mr and Mrs C also had opportunities to sort the matter out sooner. For 
instance, Mr C emailed L&C on 27 May 2022 asking if the amount to be borrowed was flexible as he wanted to consolidate the help to buy loan and didnt think the current amount 
to be paid had been taken into account. At this point Mr C was dealing with a member of 
customer support who said he thought it was possible to request a larger loan but would 
highly recommend he discuss this with the mortgage adviser to go over the financial details. 
I appreciate that Mr C disagrees, but I havent seen evidence that Mr C did contact the 
mortgage adviser at that time to discuss applying for a larger loan. 
Delays submitting Mr Cs payslips to the lender:
L&C accepts it didnt submit Mr Cs payslips to the lender in early June 2022. It offered to 
cover Mr and Mrs Cs additional interest costs for 25 days in August 2022. It calculated this 
as £348. It offered £150 as an apology.
The lender asked for eight weeks payslips because L&C said in the application Mr and Mrs 
C were paid weekly. Its likely this caused them inconvenience in providing additional 
unnecessary payslips, and added to the confusion regarding the payslips.
L&C should have submitted Mr Cs payslips in early June 2022 and the lender didnt receive 
them until late August 2022. This was a delay of about 10 weeks. There were other matters 
being dealt with, so I dont think its fair to say this delayed Mr and Mrs Cs application by 10 
weeks. But I think the payslips were the most significant matter outstanding, in that the 
lender couldnt progress the application without them.
The lender said it would expect a simple application to be approved within 8 to 10 weeks. It 
took about 15 weeks to approve Mr and Mrs Cs application. I think the problem with the 
payslips was largely responsible for this. I dont think L&Cs offer to pay compensation for Mr 
and Mrs C being on their lenders SVR for 25 days was fair.
I think it would be fair for L&C to compensate Mr and Mrs C for being on their lenders SVR 
for five weeks (35 days) from 1 August 2022. I think this better reflects the delays caused by 
it not submitting Mr Cs payslips until late August 2022.
Misspelling Mr Cs name:
L&C accepts it misspelt Mr Cs name in the application. This wasnt picked up until October 
2022 when the solicitor asked Mr C to verify his name. L&C contacted the lender which 
arranged for a corrected mortgage offer to be sent out the same day. While L&C was 
responsible for the spelling error in the initial application, this doesnt seem to have caused 
any delays. L&C offered £50. I think this is fair and reasonable for the upset caused.
Delays after the mortgage offer was issued:
The mortgage offer was issued in late September 2022 and the mortgage completed in late 
January 2023  four months later. Once a mortgage offer is issued, the work for completion 
is primarily carried out by the lender and its solicitors. The mortgage advisers role is limited.
I dont think L&C was responsible for the delays with the mortgage completing. I think this 
was mainly due to delays in Mr and Mrs C providing documents to the solicitors for the 
redemption of the help to buy loan.
After my provisional decision Mr C confirmed that they didnt arrange a valuation on behalf of 
the help to buy scheme until the end of November 2022. It seems Mr and Mrs C expected 
the help to buy scheme administrator to rely on the valuation instructed by the lender in late 
May 2022. I dont know if the help to buy scheme administrator had said this was acceptable 
(the help to buy scheme rules say valuations for mortgage purposes arent accepted). The scheme rules also say the valuation cant be more than three months old. So even if the 
scheme administrator did accept the lenders valuation, it would have been out of date by 
late August 2022.
The solicitor told Mr C on 11 October 2022 that the help to buy redemption statement had 
expired. The solicitor asked Mr C for the help to buy loan redemption statement in early 
November 2022. This wasnt provided until 12 December 2022. 
The mortgage couldnt complete until the outstanding mortgage and the help to buy loan 
were repaid. There was a period of two and a half months between the issue of the 
mortgage offer and the solicitor receiving the redemption statement for the help to buy loan. I 
cant see that L&C was at all responsible for this delay. 
The solicitors then raised the issue with the shortfall. This wasnt sorted out before the 
redemption statement for Mr and Mrs Cs existing mortgage expired on 20 December 2022. 
A new redemption statement had to be requested.
Its unclear if the mortgage could have completed before 20 December 2022 if there hadnt 
been a shortfall. But, as I said above, I dont think L&C was solely responsible for the 
shortfall. And there were significant delays after the mortgage offer was issued which L&C 
wasnt responsible for.
Putting things right
While I appreciate the situation generally was worrying and stressful for Mr and Mrs C, I 
cant fairly require L&C to pay compensation for this. I can require it to pay compensation for 
the additional upset and inconvenience caused by its errors. L&C offered compensation for 
its errors with Mr Cs name (£50), the delay submitting his payslips (£150) and the unclear 
information about the cost of repaying the help to buy loan (£150). I think this is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
I said in my provisional decision that L&C should pay compensation for Mr and Mrs C being 
on their lenders SVR for 35 days from 1 August 2022. 
Mr C said that L&C should pay compensation for them being on their lenders SVR from 
1 August 2022 to 25 January 2023. I could only fairly require this if I thought L&C was 
responsible for all the delays over this period, and Ive explained why I dont think thats the 
case.
Ive considered whether the delays for which L&C is responsible caused further loss  for 
instance if its errors were the reason that the mortgage didnt complete before 20 December 
2022. I dont think this is likely. There were a number of matters here which meant the re-
mortgage took longer than usual. The lender had concerns about affordability and asked for 
further evidence and a change in the selected product. There was a considerable delay after 
the mortgage offer was issued while a valuation on behalf of the help to buy scheme 
administrator was arranged and a redemption statement issued. And the solicitors then 
needed to complete the legal work and co-ordinate redemption of the mortgage and help to 
buy loan. I dont think I can fairly find that any errors by L&C were the main or only reason 
for completion of the mortgage being delayed. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and order London and Country Mortgages Ltd to 
pay the compensation set out above (it can deduct any amounts already paid). Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman