DRN-3033472
The complaint
Mr B is represented by a Claims Management Company (CMC). The CMC complain that Mr 
B received unsuitable advice when he invested with Bank of Scotland PLC trading as Halifax 
(Halifax) in 2008.
The CMC say that Halifax should have advised Mr B to invest into a different product than 
the one recommended. The CMC say that Mr B was invested into a single asset class with 
no diversification.
What happened
In 2008, Mr B met with an advisor from Halifax to review his financial plans. The advisor 
conducted a fact find with Mr B to understand Mr Bs personal and financial circumstances.
The advisor wrote to Mr B with a summary of the meeting and a financial report. The advisor 
recommended that Mr B invest a total of £50,000 into a Corporate Bond Fund. Mr B went 
ahead with the recommendation.
In 2015, Mr B complained to Halifax as he was concerned that his investment wasnt 
performing as well as expected. Halifax investigated Mr Bs complaint and partially upheld 
the complaint. Halifax said that although they were happy with the recommended 
investment, they thought that Mr B had been advised to invest too much.
Halifax looked to see if Mr B had suffered a financial loss in taking out the Corporate Bond 
Fund. Their calculations found that Mr B had made a proportionate gain and Halifax wrote to 
Mr B and called him to discuss their findings. Halifax say that Mr B was happy with the 
outcome.
In May 2020, the CMC contacted Halifax on behalf of Mr B to say that he was no longer 
happy with the outcome of his 2015 complaint. 
Halifax thought that it wasnt a complaint that they could consider as it had been previously 
brought to them. The service considered jurisdiction and thought that it was a complaint that 
we could consider.
One of our investigators investigated the merits of the case. The investigator looked at the 
original recommendation in 2008 and didnt think that Halifax had done anything wrong in 
recommending the Corporate Bond Fund. The investigator agreed with Halifax that Mr B had 
been advised to invest too much into the fund but was satisfied with their redress calculation. 
The investigator didnt uphold the complaint.
Unhappy with the investigators view, the CMC have asked for an ombudsman to look at the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B but I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator for 
much the same reasons and wont be upholding the complaint.
The CMCs complaint is that Mr B was given unsuitable advice, and this will be the focus of 
my decision. When providing advice, the business need to ensure that they understand the 
personal and financial circumstances of the consumer and make recommendations that fit 
with these facts. 
I am going to take each of these facts in turn to test whether the advice was suitable.
Affordability 
When assessing whether a consumer can afford to invest, a business will look at earnings, 
savings and liabilities. 
I have reviewed the fact find information which was collected in 2008. Mr B had available 
monthly income of £102 and didnt anticipate any changes to this. Mr B also had £62,000 in 
a deposit account and it was this cash that he was looking to invest.
The recommended investment of £50,000 represented 85% of his available cash. As a first-
time investor, I consider this to be high and I think Mr B was advised to invest too much. In 
their complaint response in 2015, Halifax agreed and upheld this part of the complaint. 
Halifax looked at whether Mr B was due any redress and found that as Mr Bs investment 
had increased in value, he had not suffered any financial loss.
At the time, Mr B said that he was happy with Halifaxs response. In their view, the 
investigator has said that as Mr B chose to leave his investment in place, they thought that 
Halifaxs actions were fair and reasonable at the time.
I agree  Halifax made it clear that although they would have advised Mr B to invest around 
half of what he did, he didnt suffer any financial loss as a result of the advice. Im not going 
to ask Halifax to do anything further here.
Financial objectives and attitude to risk 
In order to correctly advise a consumer, the business needs to look at what the financial 
objectives are and how much risk the consumer is looking to take.
The fact find records that Mr B wanted to generate as much income as possible from the 
money you have. It is also noted that Mr B would prefer an above average income with no 
prospect of capital or income growth because you want to maximise the income you can get 
now because you anticipate that as you get older your outgoing may reduce as you become 
less active.
The personal risk profile section of the fact find notes that Mr B was assessed as having a 
cautious/medium attitude to risk. This was described as:
This means that you would be likely to accept some risk with your longer-term investments 
for growth or income if this would give you the potential for higher returns. You would 
probably feel comfortable with an investment that includes a combination of stock market 
linked investments and fixed value securities.I think that Mr Bs financial objectives and attitude to risk can be summarised as wishing 
above average income and he was willing to take a cautious/medium risk in achieving that.
Recommended investment
Having established Mr Bs objectives and risk tolerance, Halifax should have looked at what 
investments fitted with these criteria. Halifax advised Mr B to invest into a Corporate Bond 
Fund. I have looked at the Key Features Document for the fund and see that the fund aims 
to provide an above average income from a diversified portfolio of interest-bearing 
securities.
This would appear to tie in with Mr Bs financial objective of wanting above average income. 
From what I have seen, the advice to Mr B was suitable.
In their submission to the service, the CMC have said that:
there was no requirement whatsoever to limit this income to corporate bonds and Mr B 
could have had an equity holding with its associated risks
we cannot  agree  that this should  have  been  within  a single  fund and would  suggest  
that there  should  have  been  some  true diversification
with a cautious  investment  which  would  have  been  appropriate  and affordable  in our 
client's  circumstances.
I have considered these points and have the following comments:
Mr Bs complaint is that the advice was unsuitable. From what I have seen, the advice 
was suitable for Mr Bs personal and financial circumstances. It may have been that 
Halifax could have recommended other investments that would have been just as 
suitable for Mr B, but it is not the role of the service to suggest what investment Mr B was 
advised to invest in  just whether the advice was suitable.
I have looked at the Corporate Bond Fund that Halifax advised Mr B to invest into. From 
what I have seen, I think the fund had enough diversification. The fund invested across 
different sectors and different asset types.
In summary, I think that the advice provided was suitable and was consistent with the 
personal and financial circumstances of Mr B. The aims and objectives of the recommended 
investment were aligned to what Mr B wanted to achieve.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman