DRN-3936287
The complaint
Miss H complains about the quality of a car she has on finance with Go Car Credit Limited. 
She wants to reject the car.
What happened
Miss H entered into a hire purchase agreement with Go Car in February 2022. The car was 
around eight years old and had covered 54,153 miles at the point of supply. The cash price 
of the car was £6,118, Miss H paid a deposit of £500 and agreed to make 42 monthly 
instalments of £251.05.
In May 2022 Miss H contacted the dealership to let it know she was experiencing a 
rattling/knocking noise from the back of the car. The dealership confirmed there was a 
suspension issue, it replaced the shock absorbers and wishbones. In June 2022 Miss H 
reported that the rattling noise had returned, further suspension repairs were completed. But 
a few weeks later Miss W returned the car to the dealership again in July 2022, as she was 
still experiencing issues, a further suspension repair was completed.
The day after collecting the car from the dealership Miss H reported to Go Car that the 
ABS/traction warning light had come on, she wanted to reject the car. Go Car asked for 
evidence of all the previous repairs, but she was unable to provide this as the dealership 
hadnt provided the job sheets.
 
Go Car said the car needed to be returned to the dealership for the new fault to be 
confirmed, but Miss H had lost confidence in the dealership. Go Car advised Miss H that she 
could get an inspection done by another garage if it was VAT registered. Miss H arranged for 
an independent inspection at the cost of £239 in July 2022. 
The inspection report highlighted several issues that required attention, including, wiper 
blades, the clutch having a limited lifespan, brake disc corrosion, upper engine oil residue, 
corrosion to the undercarriage and cosmetic damage. The recorded mileage at the time of 
inspection was 55,815 miles. When Miss H provided the report, Go Car said the car still 
needed to go back to the garage to confirm the faults.
Go Car said the issues highlighted by the report all related to serviceable components and 
the report didnt indicate the previous repairs had failed. So, it didnt think the outstanding 
issues meant the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. Go Car applied a £75 payment to Miss 
Hs and offered to allow Miss H to swap another car and reduce the interest on the 
agreement, if Miss H agreed to pay another deposit. Unhappy with this offer, Miss H 
complained, Go Car didnt uphold her complaint.
Miss H referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator said the outstanding issues 
related to serviceable components and was normal wear and tear, given the age and 
mileage of the car. So, she didnt think Miss H had the right to reject the car. She 
recommended that Go Car pay Miss H an additional £100 compensation to reflect the 
distress caused by its miscommunication about getting the car inspected.
Miss H disagreed, she asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
We asked Miss H to provide a quote for the outstanding repairs, she provided a quote for 
£849.02. I let Go Car know that in addition to a £100 compensation payment, I also thought 
it should refund Miss H the cost of the inspection report, because the onus was on it to show 
the car was of satisfactory quality. Go Car didnt think it should pay the cost of the report 
because Miss H refused to take the car back to the dealership for inspection, it disagreed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont 
comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about 
it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. And our rules allow me to do this, this reflects our informal, free service as an 
alternative to the courts.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities. 
Miss H acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it. 
The cars quality
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied to Miss H. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of 
goods, Go Car is responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. 
The CRA also says that goods must conform to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed that the fault was present 
when the car was supplied, unless shown otherwise. So, if I thought the car was faulty when 
Miss H took possession of it, and this made it not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and 
reasonable to ask Go Car to put this right.
 
Miss H started experiencing suspension issues within three-months of getting the car and 
following the suspension repairs, an inspection report highlighted other issues within five-
months. 
Cars are complicated machines and there are lots of things that can cause one to go wrong 
within five-months of supply. When Miss H took possession of the car, it was eight years old 
and had just over 50,000 miles on the clock, and I think the £6,118 cash price, reflected this. 
I think a reasonable person would expect an older car with this mileage to have suffered 
quite a bit of wear and tear and to consider that there is a greater risk that a number of 
components could be reaching the end of their serviceable life, than with a newer, less road 
worn car. 
So just because faults occur shortly after supply doesnt mean I can assume it was present 
at the point of supply. Also, its not enough simply for a fault to be present. The car would need to be of unsatisfactory quality because of the faults too, and not just due to normal 
wear and tear.
 
The inspection report made no findings in respect of the ABS traction light and didnt 
highlight any issues with the previous suspension repairs. The report identified the following 
items needed repair; split and incorrect size wiper blade, inoperable rear number plate light, 
inoperable side light left, corroded front/rear brake discs, insecure fog light, damaged wheel 
arch shield, worn front left-hand tyre, limited clutch lifespan, limited exhaust system lifespan, 
and paintwork issues. In the desirable section of the report, it notes some body work issues, 
corrosion to the undercarriage, a cracked front left tyre, cracked bumper and oil residue in 
the upper engine area (no leak found). 
The issues highlighted by the report all relate to wear and tear components, that is parts that 
deteriorate through normal use. Wipers, brakes, light bulbs, tyres are all common wear and 
tear parts that require routine maintenance. Brake discs, clutches and exhaust systems are 
also components with limited lifespans that require replacement at the end of their life 
expectancy. 
The report didnt conclude that any of the components had worn prematurely or had failed 
due to a manufacturing defect. And gave no indication as to the remaining lifespan on the 
clutch, brake discs or exhaust system. So, Ive looked at the average lifespan of those 
components, brake discs usually last around 50,000 miles on average, clutches anywhere 
between 30,000 to 150,000 and exhaust systems can last between five to seven years. So, 
considering the age and travelled mileage when Miss H got the car, I cant fairly conclude 
the components have failed prematurely.
Ive thought about whether the car was durable or not. I can see that the car passed its MOT 
in September 2022 and no advisories were noted. Miss H has provided an undated 
handwritten quote for repairs totalling £849.02. And whilst I appreciate this is an unwanted 
bill, I dont consider this to be excessive, taking everything into account, so I dont think this 
means the car isnt durable. 
I know Miss H will be disappointed with my decision, but as there is nothing to indicate the 
previous suspension repairs failed and the outstanding issues relate to wear and tear items, 
I dont think this means the car isnt of satisfactory quality. So, I have no grounds to ask Go 
Car to accept rejection of the car.
Customer services
Miss H is unhappy with how Go Car handled matters. She says that when she told Go Car, 
she had lost confidence in the dealership and didnt want to return the car to them again, it 
agreed she could get an inspection report from any VAT approved garage. But when she 
provided the inspection report, Go Car then said the car would still need to be inspected by 
the dealership. And I can see that Go Cars notes confirm this.
I think this misinformation caused Miss H some frustration and inconvenience. To reflect this, 
I think Go Car should pay Miss H £100 compensation, in addition to the £75 already 
credited. 
 
I also think it is fair for Go Car to refund the consumer the £239 she paid for the inspection 
report, I say this because the issues were identified within six-months, and in line with the 
CRA, the onus was on Go Car to show the car was of satisfactory quality. And whilst I 
accept that Miss H refused to take the car back to the dealership, I dont think this was 
unreasonable, as shed already taken it back to them on three occasions. In the circumstances, I think it wouldve been fair for Go Car to arrange an independent report, but 
instead it told Miss H to source one. 
In addition to refunding Miss H the cost of the report, I think Go Car should also add 8% 
simple interest a year from the date she made the payment until the date it is refunded, to 
reflect that Miss H has been deprived of that money.
My final decision
My final decision is I partly uphold this complaint and I instruct Go Car Credit Limited to do 
the following;
pay Miss H £100 for frustration and inconvenience caused
refund Miss H the £239 paid for the inspection report, adding 8% simple per year, 
from the date of the payment until the date of settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Karen Dennis
Ombudsman