DRN-3157999
The complaint
Mr G has complained about the service and vehicle valuation provided by Haven Insurance 
Company Limited (Haven) under his motor insurance policy after his car was written off.
What happened
Mr G took out motor vehicle insurance cover with Haven in March 2020. In December 2020, 
Mr G discovered that, unfortunately, his car had been damaged overnight whilst parked 
outside his property. Mr G made a claim on his policy.
Haven declared the car a total loss (or a write off) and in January 2021, it offered Mr G 
£985 in settlement of his claim, less an excess amount of £300. Mr G was not happy with 
this assessment of market value or the delay in providing it and he complained to Haven. He 
was unhappy that hed only had the benefit of a courtesy car for seven days and that it 
wasnt provided until some weeks after the incident. He was also unhappy that Haven 
wouldnt cover the vehicle hire charges hed incurred. Mr G was seeking substantial 
compensation for the delays and time hed wasted in dealing with Haven.
In February 2021, Haven reviewed its valuation and increased its offer to £1,450. Mr G 
remained unhappy with this valuation. In April 2021, Haven said that £1,450 was its final 
offer. Mr G didnt agree with Havens decision and brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator noted that Haven acknowledged that there was a delay in dealing with Mr 
Gs claim and had offered £100 as compensation for the delays Mr G experienced. He 
concluded that he couldnt say that the valuation of Mr Gs car, or the way in which it 
provided a courtesy car, were unfair or unreasonable. He also concluded that Havens offer 
of £100 compensation in relation to delay was fair.
Mr G remains unhappy with the outcome of his complaint. The matter has therefore been 
referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive concluded that Haven has not acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
reaching its valuation and in providing a courtesy car in the way that it did. This accords with 
Mr Gs motor policy terms and conditions. Im also satisfied in all the circumstances that 
Havens offer of £100 in compensation for delays in dealing with elements of the claim is fair. 
Ill explain why.
Ive looked at Mr Gs policy to see what he agreed when he took out his policy. The policy 
says that in the event of a write-off, Haven will pay the Market Value of the car immediately 
before the loss.
I can see that Market Value is defined in the policy terms and conditions as; The cost of 
replacing Your Car with one of similar make, model and specification, taking into account the 
age, mileage and condition of Your Car. To determine the Market Value, we will typically 
request the advice of an engineer and refer to guides and any other relevant sources.
As to provision of a courtesy car, the policy states; In the event that Your Car is rendered a 
total loss, or is stolen and not recovered and the incident occurs within the Territorial Limits, 
We will provide You with a Courtesy Car for Your use for a maximum period of seven days 
only. 
Haven accepted that the initial valuation it provided was incorrect. It said that it had provided 
a fair and reasonable final valuation however, which was in line with relevant evidence and 
which reflected standard trade guide values. Haven also stated that the policy terms and 
conditions allowed for a courtesy car for seven days only in the event of total loss. 
As to the question of delays, Haven explained some of the initial delays in attempting to 
contact Mr G. It agreed however that there had been more of a delay than reasonable in 
other respects and it offered £100 compensation in this respect.
Mr G disputed both the initial and final valuation. In relation to the initial valuation of £985, he 
provided Haven with adverts for the same make and model of vehicle as his own, although 
with lower mileage. He said this showed that a higher valuation for his car was appropriate. 
As to the final settlement figure of £1,450, Mr G said that friends had offered him £2,500 for 
the car as it was in a great condition.
Mr G said that he was not made aware that a courtesy car would only be provided for seven 
days. As for the delays in receiving a courtesy car and not being able to travel to work, Mr G 
said that he lost his job. He was seeking compensation in the region of £10,000.
Ive now considered all the evidence and the position of both Mr G and Haven as 
summarised above. First of all, Ill explain our services approach. Its standard practice for 
the industry to use trade valuation guides to work out the estimated market value of a car 
and this is the approach which Haven took. Although our service doesnt consider this to be 
an exact science, we generally find valuations given in the main motor trade guides do 
provide evidence which is persuasive, reliable and consistent. These guides are based on 
extensive nationwide research of likely, but not actual, selling prices. 
The trade guide evidence produced by Haven shows values of £1,725, £1,480 and £1,450. 
These valuations were based on the specific model, age and mileage of the car and were 
based on the car being in good condition. I see that Haven produced a valuation which was 
at the lowest end of the range, rather than averaging out the valuation figures which were 
produced as we would normally expect. The average of these three figures is £1,551.
On balance however, I cant say that Haven has acted unreasonably, as the figure is within 
the normal range. The higher figure of £1,725 seems to be out-of-kilter with the other two 
figures. The average of the three figures (being £1,551) is also comparable to the figure 
reached by Haven. In addition, I see from the statement of fact and policy schedule dating 
from when Mr G took out his insurance policy, that he bought the car for £1,500 in 2016 and 
that a value of £1,500 was included for insurance purposes in March 2020. I cant say that a 
valuation figure of £1,450 some nine months later was unreasonable.
As to the adverts which Mr G obtained, we find that advertised prices are generally less 
reliable than the trade guides. They vary widely (even more widely than trade guides) and 
tend to have a margin built in for negotiating the price down. Im satisfied also that Mr Gs 
reference to an offer of purchase by friends is not sufficient evidence of market value. From everything Ive seen therefore, Im satisfied that the trade guides have provided a realistic 
figure as to the likely value of the car immediately before the accident.
Ive also carefully considered what Mr G has to say about the condition of his car before this 
incident happened. I accept that the vehicle was in very good condition and this appears to 
be evidenced in the photographs I have seen. Im satisfied that the good condition was taken 
into account however in providing the valuation. I also note that it did also have high mileage 
of 170,000 however and this will also have significantly affected its value. Its therefore not 
unreasonable that the valuation would be at the lower end of the range of figures.
Turning to the question of the courtesy car, the terms and conditions of the policy documents 
form part of the contract between Haven and Mr G. They clearly set out what can be 
expected in this regard. They make it clear that a courtesy car will be provided for a 
maximum period of seven days only in cases of total loss. 
I appreciate that Mr G was frustrated about the time it took to provide a courtesy car and to 
settle his claim. Ive seen the timeline of events from Havens claim notes and I can see that 
there were delays, particularly in ensuring a fair and reasonable valuation of Mr Gs vehicle. 
Im satisfied that Haven acted within a reasonable timescale in declaring Mr Gs vehicle to be 
a total loss however and in trying to accommodate Mr Gs wishes in terms of when provision 
of a courtesy car would start.
Haven accepted that settlement could have been dealt with more quickly. In terms of the 
impact of the delay in obtaining a correct valuation, I appreciate this caused some frustration 
and disappointment for Mr G at the time. I do think that his on-going frustration and upset is 
because he doesnt agree with the valuation. Im satisfied however that the valuation was fair 
and reasonable. In the circumstances, I conclude that a modest sum in compensation is 
appropriate. I agree with our investigator that the claim could have been dealt with more 
quickly, but that it isnt unusual for claims to take longer when further information is required 
to support the claim. I conclude that compensation of £100 is a fair and reasonable figure.
I know that this will come as a disappointment to Mr G. Having considered the 
circumstances as a whole however, I dont think Haven have acted unfairly or provided an 
unreasonable valuation for Mr Gs car or in providing a courtesy car. The level of 
compensation offered is reasonable and I dont expect it to do anything else in response to 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint against Haven Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2021.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman