DRN-2976624
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) declined their
travel insurance claim.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out annual multi-trip travel insurance policy on 10 November 2019. Cover
on the policy started from 1 December 2019 until 1 December 2020. Their intended travel
departure date and return dates were 3 April 2020 and 18 April 2020 respectively.
The policy was issued on 10 November 2019 and they paid a premium of £166. This
included medical conditions for Mrs S and additional cover for Excess Waiver and cover for
Natural Catastrophe/Terrorism.
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 a pandemic.
On 17 March 2020, the FCO advised against all but essential travel abroad and that
guidance remained in place until July 2020.
On 25 March 2020, Mr and Mrs Ss flight provider informed them that flights to their
destination had been cancelled. Mr and Mrs S were refunded for the cost of their flights.
They contacted their travel provider to cancel their trip and seek a refund for accommodation
and vehicle hire on 28 March 2020. The provider said no refund was due because the
cancellation was less than 15 days before travel and its cancellation policy therefore applied.
So, Mr and Mrs S submitted a claim with Great Lakes on 1 April 2020.
Great Lakes declined Mr and Mrs Ss claim. It said that the policy doesnt cover what
happened here. Great Lakes said that Mr and Mrs Ss trip wasnt within seven days of WHO
declaring Covid-19 a pandemic on 11 March 2020, so there was no cover. It said
cancellation due to advice set out by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) is not an
insured event under the cancellation section of the policy. And although the additional cover
option for Natural Catastrophe cover does provide for travel disruption caused by a
pandemic, it declined the claim because the start date of the pandemic was more than seven
days before the start date of Mr and Mrs Ss planned trip.  
Unhappy with Great Lakes response, Mr and Mrs S brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into it. She said she understood why Great Lakes applied the terms,
but shes also considered whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Covid-19 was an unanticipated and exceptional event. The pandemic was current even
before the proposed start date of travel of 3 April 2020. The FCO first advised against all but
essential travel abroad from 17 March 2020 and, from 23 March 2020, it advised UK tourists
to return home. Our investigator upheld the complaint because she thought it was fair and
reasonable to depart from the terms and conditions of the policy. She therefore
recommended Great Lakes pay the claim.
Great Lakes didnt agree and said:
It doesnt believe it is fair or reasonable to depart from the terms of the policy;
The contract the insured entered into was for a set cover and for a set price. It 
wouldnt be fair if Great Lakes provided some customers greater cover than they paid 
for;
The 7-day clause is priced deliberately to offer some cover that isnt open-ended;
The premium charged for the policy reflects the level of risk that it can sustain; and
This isnt a case where the terms and conditions are unclear.
Great Lakes asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, it was passed
to me.
I issued a provisional decision on 10 August 2021. I intended to uphold the complaint for 
slightly different reasons than explained before. My provisional decision was as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the relevant rules and industry guidelines. These say that an insurer has a
responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt unfairly decline a claim.
The key issue I need to decide is whether Great Lakes declined the claim fairly and
reasonably in light of the terms of the policy. In doing so, I also need to decide whether
Great Lakes treated Mr and Mrs S fairly and reasonably.
The policy terms
Its not in dispute by either party that under the cancellation and curtailment section of the
policy, theres no specified cover for the circumstances in which Mr and Mrs S found
themselves.
But Mr and Mrs S took out extra cover for travel disruption resulting from a natural
catastrophe and the policy defines this as:
Natural Catastrophe - Pandemic as declared by the World Health Organisation,
volcanic activity, volcanic ash, earthquake, tsunami, hurricane, cyclone, flooding of
more than 50 square km.
Under this section a further term relating to abandonment of a trip states:
If a Natural Catastrophe or Terrorism Event delays Your departure from the UK for
at least 24 hours from the start of your trip, You can claim up to the amount in the 
Schedule of Benefits for pre-paid transportation and accommodation costs, paid or
contracted to be paid (and are not recoverable from any other source).
If a Natural Catastrophe or Terrorism Event occurs within 20km of your Arrival Point
or Your pre-booked accommodation abroad and the start of your trip is within 7 days
from the Event Start Date, You may be able to claim up to the amount in the
Schedule of Benefits for pre-paid transportation and accommodation costs, paid or 
contracted to be paid (and are not recoverable from any other source).
The event start date is defined as:
The point in time when the Natural Catastrophe or Terrorism Event occurred as
reported in the media. This point in time will be set at Our Discretion.
Was Mr and Mrs Ss claim declined fairly?Great Lakes declined Mr and Mrs Ss claim on the basis that their trip was due to start on
3 April 2020. It says WHO officially confirmed Covid-19 as a pandemic on 11 March 2020.
As it was more than seven days after the pandemic start date and from the start date of the
trip, cover was excluded.
So, looking at this strictly in line with the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ss policy, I can
see why Great Lakes has declined the claim.
Ive carefully considered the terms and conditions of the policy above and gone on to
consider whether theyve been applied fairly. I appreciate why Great Lakes has declined the
claim. Globally, WHO declared Covid-19 as a pandemic on 11 March 2020. So, based on
the policy wording Great Lakes can decline a claim for a trip which wasnt due to take place
within seven days of the date that the pandemic was declared. That means that, strictly
speaking, Mr and Mrs S have no cover under the policy terms and conditions. But my remit
allows me to depart from the terms and conditions if I think its unfair in the circumstances of 
this complaint.
From 17 March 2020, the FCO were advising against all but essential travel abroad. And
from 23 March 2020, it advised UK tourists abroad to return home. Mr and Mrs Ss flight
provider cancelled their flights. And, as a result, the planned trip was cancelled. The travel
restrictions remained in force at least until the date that Mr and Mrs S were due to depart (3
April 2020).
Mr and Mrs S had paid for additional cover to protect them against a natural catastrophe,
including a pandemic. But I think there was a significant limitation on cover as there was only
cover for a week after a pandemic had been declared. So, there was only a narrow window
(between 11 and 18 March 2020) in which Mr and Mrs S could have made a valid claim. I
dont think that limitation was drawn to Mr and Mrs Ss attention so that they could decide if
the policy met their needs. Although the policy summary said that Mr and Mrs S should read
the policy wording, I dont think it would have been sufficiently clear the cover was limited to
a very short time period after a pandemic had been declared.
Mr and Mrs S paid an extra premium for natural catastrophe cover. I dont think it is fair and
reasonable for Great Lakes to reject Mr and Mrs Ss claim simply because the trips start
date was outside the narrow window provided in the policy, particularly bearing in mind that
travel restrictions remained in place at the time of Mr and Mrs Ss planned departure.
Unfortunately, theres no scope to obtain a refund from the travel provider and theres no
other reasonable source Mr and Mrs S can seek to recover their loss from. So, in reaching 
my decision, Ive also taken into account that its likely theyd need to take the travel provider
to court to recover their losses.
I acknowledge all of Great Lakes comments and have considered them carefully. I accept
that the terms and conditions are there for certain situations and to reflect the level of
premium and risk offered paid by the customer.
However, taking everything into account, Im minded to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint as I
think it is fair and reasonable to do so in the circumstances of their complaint.
Putting things right
I propose that Great Lakes should pay the claim in line with the policy terms. I understand
Mr and Mrs S paid an excess waiver on the policy. Excess therefore shouldnt be deducted.
Great Lakes should include 8% simple interest from the date the claim was made to the date
its paid.HM Revenue & Customs requires Great Lakes to take off tax from this interest. Great Lakes
must give Mr and Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
Great Lakes and Mr and Mrs S responded to my provisional decision. 
While Great Lakes expressed disappointment with the outcome that Id reached, it confirmed 
that it accepted my provisional decision. 
Mr and Mrs S said they also accept the outcome Id reached. They re-stated some points 
which they included in their previous submissions and which have already been considered. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have responded and accepted my provisional decision, I see no reason to 
depart from the outcome Id reached. In the circumstances, taking everything into account, 
Im upholding this complaint. 
 Putting things right
Great Lakes should pay Mr and Mrs Ss claim in line with the policy terms and conditions. I 
understand Mr and Mrs S paid an excess waiver on the policy. Excess therefore shouldnt be 
deducted. Great Lakes should include 8% simple interest from the date the claim was made 
to the date its paid.
HM Revenue & Customs require Great Lakes to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Mr and Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one. 
 My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint against Great Lakes 
Insurance SE. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman