DRN-4332146
The complaint
Mr H has complained about marketing correspondence received from Homeserve 
Membership Limited about plumbing and drainage insurance. 
What happened
Mr H says he was receiving excessive marketing material from Homeserve. He called 
Homeserve in November 2022 to ask to be removed from its marketing list, as he did not 
want to receive such material. However, in February 2023, he started receiving marketing 
material about plumbing insurance again. Mr H says the material had the water supply 
company emblem on and so it was unclear who he needed to contact to opt-out of the 
marketing; and Homeserves details only had a claim line number. 
Homeserve says that there was an error and Mr Hs name was not removed from the 
marketing list in November 2022 and he was also not told he would need to remove himself 
from Royal Mail and the water supply companys lists as well. Homeserve said it works with 
various water suppliers who promote its insurance on its behalf, which means its marketing 
material will have details of both it and the water company on it. Homeserve says its 
marketing material is clear and in line with marketing regulations. After Mr H complained, 
Homeserve confirmed it had removed Mr H from its list and offered £50 compensation for 
the trouble caused by it not doing so in November 2022.
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. She did not recommend the complaint be 
upheld, as she was satisfied that Homeserve had made a reasonable offer in response to 
the complaint and did not think it needed to do any more. 
Mr H does not accept the Investigators assessment. He has made a number of points in his 
initial complaint and in response to the Investigator. I have considered everything Mr H has 
said but have summarised his main points below: 
Homserve told him hed have to contact the water supply company to stop the 
marketing leaflets but the water supply company told him it would contact Homeserve 
and ask that his name be removed from the marketing list, which it did. 
Homeserves marketing material has the water suppliers emblem on it and nothing to 
clearly show it is from Homeserve. This is misleading people into thinking it is a water 
company product. 
Homeserve acknowledged that it designs and prints the material, so it is responsible 
for this.
The Investigator has not looked into this and not given an opinion on this practice.
The opt-out details should be clearly positioned on all material and not hidden on the 
back page in small print that requires a magnifying glass to read. 
Homeserve is interrupting peoples lives sending out this material, so it should make 
it clear and easy to opt-out of receiving it. 
The Investigator has also failed to address if this is right or not. 
This complaint has been time consuming and difficult to pursue, especially given his 
own health and his caring responsibilities. 
Mr H wants assurance that his details are permanently removed from all Homeserve 
marketing lists and that he will never receive any such material again; £150 compensation; a 
full explanation as to why his name was not removed the first time and a full explanation as 
to why he started receiving material again in February 2023; and a written apology from 
Homeserve. 
As the Investigator has not been able to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Insurers sell their policies in a variety of ways and are free to brand them in association with
other companies, if they wish.
I have seen some of the marketing material sent to Mr H. This has the water suppliers logo 
at the top but also says, among other things, thats why [we are] writing to introduce you 
to Plumbing & Drainage Plus cover through Homeserve -trusted Home Experts, who weve 
worked with for 25 years. Homeserve is also mentioned throughout the rest of the 
document.
In my opinion, the material makes sufficiently clear that the cover being promoted is an 
insurance policy which will be arranged by Homeserve and I do not consider that sending 
marketing material of this sort is unreasonable in principle. 
Mr H had had enough of these letters however, which prompted him to ask for his name to 
be removed from any marketing lists. I can see that it was probably not immediately clear 
who he needed to contact to get that done. And when Mr H did talk to Homeserve it didnt 
inform him hed need to also remove his name from other lists and his name was not 
removed from its list either. 
Mr H wants a full explanation as to why that was not done and why he started to receive 
marketing material again. I am unable to satisfy this request from Mr H. We do not always 
examine exactly why something happened, as we are not the regulator and cannot require 
businesses to change their practices or systems. Instead, where something has gone wrong, 
it is my role to consider how that might be put right. However, there is no automatic right to 
compensation when things do go wrong. 
I can see this matter has been frustrating for Mr H and he has gone to some trouble to bring 
this complaint and pursue it. 
Mr H has asked for a full written apology from Homeserve. I dont intend to ask Homeserve 
to provide a written apology to Mr H. Even if I thought it had acted unfairly and an apology 
was appropriate, a forced apology would have no meaning. And in any case, it did apologise 
to Mr H in its final response letter dated March 2023. I also cannot require Homeserve to 
guarantee that Mr H will never receive any marketing material in the future, as I do not think 
that such a guarantee can be made. However, Homeserve also said it had shared and 
reviewed what went wrong for Mr H as part of its internal processes, which I think is 
reasonable.
Overall, having considered everything including Mr Hs personal circumstances, I am 
satisfied that the £50 compensation already offered is reasonable for the trouble caused by 
this matter. 
My final decision
Homeserve Membership Limited has already made an offer to pay £50 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. So 
my decision is that Homeserve Membership Limited should pay Mr H £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman