DRN-3092766
Complaint
Mr H has complained about the overdraft charges Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) 
applied to his current account. Hes said the charges were unfair and caused him financial 
difficulty.
Background
Mr Hs complaint was looked at by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think that Barclays had 
done anything wrong and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicator 
and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
Ive separately explained why Im only able to look at the charges applied to Mr Hs account 
from August 2013 onwards. As this is the case, this decision is only looking whether 
Barclays acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr H from August 2013.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts Barclays charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate 
in comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a bank charges for 
services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at Barclayss charging structure per se, it wont have acted 
fairly and reasonably towards Mr H if it applied these interest, fees and charges to Mr Hs 
account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been 
aware Mr H was experiencing financial difficulty. So Ive considered whether there were 
instances where Barclays didnt treat Mr H fairly and reasonably. 
In other words, Ive considered whether there were periods where Barclays continued 
charging Mr H even though it ought to have known he was in financial difficulty or it ought to 
have realised this was the case. Ive looked through the account ledgers provided 
throughout the period concerned. And I cant see that Barclays ought to have been aware 
that Mr H might have been struggling during the period weve looked at. 
Mr H used his overdraft regularly during the period Ive looked at. And while Im not seeking 
to make retrospective value judgements over Mr H expenditure, nonetheless there are 
significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and discretionary transactions 
account going from the account. I know Mr H says he was transferring funds to another 
account to ensure he had enough to meet his bills and essential expenditure. But Barclays 
wont have known this.
I accept neither of these things in themselves (or taken together) mean that Mr H wasnt 
experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt anything in these transactions in themselves 
which ought to have alerted Barclays to potential financial difficulty. 
So, in these circumstances and in the absence of being told anything by Mr H, I dont think 
that it was unreasonable for Barclays to have proceeded adding the charges that it did add 
from August 2013 onwards. And I dont think Barclays charged Mr H in circumstances where 
it ought to have realised that it was unfair to do so. As this is the case, Im not upholding     
Mr Hs complaint.
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr H  especially as it has taken 
sometime for his complaint to reach this stage. But I hope hell understand the reasons for 
my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman