DRN-2941263
The complaint
Mr S complains that National Westminster Bank Plc has unfairly imposed an annual consent 
to let (CTL) fee of £120. He says he paid a one-off fee of £100 in 2016 and his contract cant 
be changed. He would like NatWest to refund the £120 he has paid, and confirm that no 
further CTL fees will be payable.
What happened
Mr S had a residential mortgage with NatWest. In 2016 he had to move for work reasons at 
short notice and, rather than sell his property, he approached NatWest with a view to let it 
out. He paid a one-off administration fee of £100 and obtained consent to let.
NatWest wrote to Mr S in August 2019. It said that it had changed its policy and was 
introducing an annual charge of £120 for consent to let. And it said that Mr Ss first annual 
fee would be due in April 2020.
Mr S contacted NatWest. He explained that his property was untenanted as he was trying to 
sell it. So NatWest agreed to waive the annual charge. And it removed the CTL agreement 
from his account.
In July 2020 Mr S contacted NatWest to say he wanted to let the property again. And 
NatWest wrote to him setting out its conditions for granting consent to let the property. This 
explained that an administration fee of £120 was payable, and confirmed that this fee would 
be charged annually.
Mr S complained to NatWest. But NatWest didnt uphold his complaint. It said, in summary:
The one-off CTL fee of £100 was correct at the time when it gave its original consent 
to let agreement for the property. However, its review of the CTL process had led to a 
revised annual charging structure;
Banking regulations allowed it to make such changes when it was fair and justified. 
And it believed that the annual charge was fair, justified and in line with the charges 
applied by other lenders. As explained in its letter the purpose of the charge was to 
offset the associated costs and exposure to the bank recognising that the mortgage 
was originally granted for a residential property;
It confirmed that the CTL agreement was originally granted in April 2016 and the 
annual fee was payable on the anniversary of that date. This meant that the first 
payment of £120 was due in April 2020. Mr S had called NatWest in March 2020 to 
advise it that he was no longer letting his property and was looking to sell it so the 
CTL agreement had been removed from his mortgage account and he had not been 
charged;
Mr S had now told NatWest he was looking to reapply for a CTL agreement but didnt 
feel that he should have to pay the £120 CTL fee. He had also said he didnt think 
that the CTL agreement should have been removed from the mortgage account in 
March 2020. But it couldnt see that it had made an error. Had the agreement 
remained on his account the CTL fee of £120 would have been applied to his 
mortgage account in April 2020.
Mr S says he paid the annual fee under duress. And he then brought his complaint to this 
service. He wanted NatWest to refund the fee he paid in August 2020 and confirm that no 
further administration fees for consent to let would be charged while he owned the property. 
Our investigator didnt feel that NatWest had made an error. He said, in summary, that 
NatWest was legitimately entitled to review its terms and conditions and make any decisions 
it deems necessary and commercially viable providing suitable notice was provided to its 
customers. He was satisfied that NatWest had given Mr S sufficient notice. And he also felt 
that removing the consent to let from Mr Ss account in March 2020 wasnt unreasonable, 
given that he had informed it of his intention to sell the property. This meant that the fee only 
then became due in August 2020 when he decided to re-tenant the property.
Mr S doesnt agree with our investigators view. He says in particular that it wasnt his 
preference to rent rather than sell. He hadnt realised that NatWest had removed the consent 
to let from the property in 2020. And he doesnt feel that NatWest is entitled to change its 
policy in this way for past sales, especially in his situation, as he is unable to sell or change 
mortgage provider due to issues with the property.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered the circumstances of this complaint Ive reached the same 
decision as our investigator, and for much the same reasons. I appreciate this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr S, so Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Mortgage contracts are long-term contracts and are, by necessity, capable of being varied to 
reflect changes in the economic and regulatory climate. In addition, mortgage contracts have 
attached to them the lenders tariff of fees, which is also capable of being varied from time to 
time. Provided that a lender gives the borrower reasonable notice of any changes it can 
generally speaking consider the borrower to be bound by the changes.
In this situation, the amendment in dispute is the introduction of a new fee to the tariff, an 
annual CTL fee. As Ive explained above, NatWest is entitled to change its tariff of fees, and 
Im satisfied it gave Mr S reasonable notice that it was doing this.
I appreciate that Mr S has explained that he is not able to sell his property at the moment or 
re-mortgage with another lender due to problems with the property. But as Im satisfied that 
NatWest has the right to impose the charge, I am not persuaded that it would be reasonable 
for me to ask it to waive it here. 
My final decisionMy decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Alison Cribbs
Ombudsman