DRN-2947475
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) wont refund several transactions they 
didnt authorise which took place over two months in 2020. 
What happened
In early August 2020, Mrs W spoke to BoS and told it there were several payments from her 
and Mr Ws account they didnt authorise. BoS blocked the card on the account and ordered 
a new one. 
Between then and the middle of August several transactions were attempted on the account 
using the card, but these were blocked by BoS because of the block it had applied. A new 
card was issued to Mr and Mrs W around the middle of August. Mr and Mrs W dispute 
having made six of the transactions with the new card in August 2020. 
Mr and Mrs W and BoS are both aware of the transactions under dispute, and the wider 
banking activity over this period. Our investigator has sent both parties a detailed table of 
these transaction and relevant activity. So I wont be setting out in detail the transactions in 
my decision. 
BoS looked into Mr and Mrs Ws complaint that they had not authorised several payments. In 
summary, BoS said:
The payments were cash withdrawals and debit card payments within the UK. They 
were completed using the debit card and PIN number for the account
As Mr and Mrs W said they have their debit card and nobody else knows their PIN, 
the person who did this would have known the PIN and would have taken and then 
replaced the card
The CHIP in the card cannot be cloned
Unhappy with BoS answer Mr and Mrs W referred their complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into the matter. And, in summary, they found: 
Based on the information BoS had shown them, they were satisfied the payments 
were authenticated
The CHIP was read on most of the payments. But cloning the CHIP part of a card 
hasnt been proven as possible. So they didnt think the card had been cloned. 
As the disputed payments took place in between confirmed genuine payments, its 
difficult to see how someone could have removed the card without Mr and Mrs Ws 
consent and replaced it without them noticing
Their role is to investigate to see if the transactions were authorised or not, and not 
determine who may have committed fraud against Mr and Mrs W. 
They were persuaded it was more likely Mr and Mrs W authorised the payments, or 
gave someone else authority to do so
Mr and Mrs W were unhappy with what our investigator said. The matter has now been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done that, Ive decided to not uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. I know how 
strongly Mr and Mrs W feel about this matter, and my decision will disappoint them. So, Ill 
explain why. 
In short, BoS is required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction. The relevant 
regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 2017). 
Mr and Mrs W say they didnt make eleven payments and are seeking a refund of them. 
BoS have given me copies of its technical records. Having carefully reviewed them I am 
satisfied the genuine card and PIN were used in order for the disputed transaction to take 
place. I say that because whether it was a CHIP and PIN transaction or a contactless one, 
the CHIP was read. So Im satisfied the payments were authenticated in line with what the 
PSRs say.  
But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own, enough to enable BoS to 
hold Mr and Mrs W liable. So I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests its 
more likely than not Mr and Mrs W consented to the transactions being made.
 
I note Mr and Mrs W say they have been targeted by either a close relative, or someone they 
once lent money to. Mrs W has said the close relative has been hacking their phones for 
years and been using very powerful equipment to do this. Mr and Mrs W believe this fraud, 
and others, have been orchestrated by Mrs Ws close relative. 
Mr and Mrs W say the police are investigating this matter. I acknowledge the seriousness of 
what Mr and Mrs W have said. But my role here is to decide whether I think BoS have acted 
fairly and reasonably in holding Mr and Mrs W liable for the payments they dispute. In doing 
so I need to take into account: all relevant law and regulations; regulators rules guidance 
and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been 
good industry practice at the time.  
Having said that, Ive also seen evidence which suggests the police are not investigating the 
matter as they dont have enough information to show Mr and Mrs W are the victims of the 
type of fraud, they say they are. 
That said, Im persuaded its most likely Mr and Mrs W either authorised the payments they 
dispute themselves  or gave authority to somebody else to do so. So I think its most likely 
they consented to the payments. In reaching this finding, Ive taken into account the 
following reasons:
Mr and Mrs W believe their card was cloned. Ive already said Im satisfied 
Mr and Mrs Ws genuine cards were used. And based on what our service has seen 
and the industry guidance available to us, we have yet to see a complaint where the 
CHIP on a card has been cloned. From what weve seen at this service, the magnetic strip part of the card can be 
cloned. But the majority of transactions disputed here involve the CHIP part of the 
card being read and then the PIN entered to authenticate the payment. Similarly, the 
genuine cards would also have to have been presented, and the CHIP read, to carry 
out the contactless payments.
The disputed transactions take place in between other transactions which 
Mr and Mrs W are not disputing. Given the genuine card was used to carry out the 
transactions in dispute, it seems implausible a fraudster would take the card and 
replace it  and do so over a couple of months. 
There is a significant risk of detection here and its most likely Mr and Mrs W would 
have picked up on something like this, especially as some of the transactions 
happened on the same day in between genuine transactions. 
Mr and Mrs W say they never wrote their PIN down or gave it to anybody. Most of the 
transactions in dispute here required a PIN number. Its common practice and 
generally accepted that when withdrawing cash a PIN is required. So as theres no 
information to show how Mr and Mrs Ws PIN could have been compromised, I find it 
difficult to understand how an unknown fraudster would have been able to carry out 
the transactions.     
So, to conclude, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs Ws cards were cloned. I also find it 
implausible that someone, or a group of individuals, unknown to them, were able to steal and 
replace their cards without them knowing  over a period of two months.  
The possibility of this is further diminished by the fact there is no rationale to explain how 
someone knew Mr and Mrs Ws PIN number  and how the transactions took place in 
amongst Mrs and Mrs Ws genuine everyday spend using the same cards without them 
noticing something.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2021.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman