DRN-3547793
The complaint
Mrs W complains about fees charged by Corporate Solutions (Poole) Limited (Corporate 
Solutions) for setting up and managing her investments.
What happened
In January 2018, after meeting with her Corporate Solutions advisor, Mrs W amalgamated 
three separate bonds into one new bond, held with the same provider.
Mrs W complained to Corporate Solutions in March 2020 saying neither the set-up charge 
nor ongoing advisor charges had been made clear to her at the time. Mrs W also said shed 
been told the savings made by paying lower management fees to the provider would easily 
cover any costs involved. However, itd since become obvious that wasnt the case.
Mrs W advised Corporate Solutions shed asked the bond provider to remove them as her 
advisor. In addition, she asked them to compensate her for her losses and the stress the 
episode had caused her.
Corporate Solutions disagreed theyd done anything wrong, saying Mrs W had been made 
fully aware of the proposed changes. They said theyd agreed with Mrs W to merge her 
bonds as a way of preventing her estranged husband at the time from being able to access 
her accounts.
Mrs W remained unhappy, so referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Mrs W said the reason given by Corporate Solutions for the amalgamation of her bonds was 
a misrepresentation of the facts. Instead, she said she was talked into it as a way to save 
charges from the bond provider and had no idea how much Corporate Solutions were taking 
each month.
One of our Investigators looked into things and thought Mrs Ws complaint should be upheld 
in part. She said the ongoing advisor fees paid by Mrs W hadnt changed as a result of the 
new bond and she was satisfied a service had been provided. But she didnt think alternative 
options to meet Mrs Ws needs had been explored prior to merging the bonds.
Our Investigator also wasnt persuaded Mrs W wouldve felt the benefits of one bond being 
easier to manage enough to justify the cost of setting the new bond up, so she said 
Corporate Solutions should reimburse the fee charged.
Our Investigator also said Corporate Solutions should pay Mrs W £200 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
Corporate Solutions disagreed with our Investigators opinion. They said merging the bonds 
was how Mrs W wanted to proceed therefore theyd acted on her instructions. They added 
all the fees involved were agreed with Mrs W prior to the transfers commencing.
As no resolution could be reached, this case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After reviewing the complaint, I sent Mrs W and Corporate Solutions my provisional decision 
on 30 May 2022. In it I explained why I wasnt planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mrs W, Im not currently persuaded Corporate 
Solutions have done anything wrong. It follows Im not minded to say they should reimburse 
the set-up fee charged or pay compensation and Ill explain why.
But first, Im aware Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than has been provided, 
and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
concentrated on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every detail to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And, where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, Ive looked to reach my 
decision about the merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and 
wider circumstances.
Our Investigator said to initially invest in the bonds Mrs W held, required a referral from a 
financial advisor. And she was satisfied an ongoing service was then provided.
Prior to the amalgamation of her bonds, Mrs W was paying Corporate Solutions an ongoing 
advisor charge of 0.70%. This fee remained the same after the bonds were merged into one 
until Mrs W removed Corporate Solutions as her advisor.
Neither Mrs W nor Corporate Solutions have commented on this issue, and I agree with our 
Investigator the advisor fees charged didnt increase because of the bonds merging. I also 
think Mrs W ought reasonably to have known using a financial advisor would come at a cost 
and Im satisfied, from the evidence Ive seen, an ongoing service was provided.
So, I think the ongoing advisor fees charged by Corporate Solutions were done so fairly and 
reasonably in the circumstances of this complaint.
Next, Ive looked at what I consider remains the crux of this complaint. The amalgamation of 
Mrs Ws bonds and the set-up fee charged by Corporate Solutions to do so.
The reason for the amalgamation taking place remains in dispute. So, Ive considered the 
available evidence to come to a decision on what I think is most likely to have happened. 
When doing this Ive attached more weight to evidence from the time. I usually find this more 
persuasive than information given in hindsight sometime after the event.
Corporate Solutions have provided a copy of the suitability report sent to Mrs W at the time 
which show discussions took place. The report says Mrs W sought an easier way to manage 
her money and wanted her income to come from just one bond. This was because there 
were three separate bonds, which for access reasons and simplicity, Mrs W wanted 
combined into one.
The actions taken by Corporate Solutions did this. It meant Mrs W received one annual 
income from a single bond rather than it being spread across three separate investments.
Mrs W says she was approached by her advisor and told to merge her bonds to reduce the 
management fee charged by her provider. And whilst theres no mention in the suitability 
report of this, I can see as a result of having one larger investment, as opposed to three 
separate smaller ones, Mrs W did qualify for a larger discount, and as a result paid a lower 
fee to the provider of the bond.
Im satisfied Mrs W agreed to her bonds being merged, which the evidence from the time 
suggests on balance is what she wanted. Its also important I consider if the advisor outlined 
the costs from the outset and if Im satisfied Mrs W accepted them.Again, Ive looked at the suitability report sent to Mrs W. It sets out the exact initial fee she 
was to be charged for the new bond to be set up and clearly outlines the ongoing advisor 
charges. Im satisfied Mrs W was aware of the charges at the time and because she didnt 
question them, its difficult to see why she progressed if it wasnt something she wanted.
Mrs W believes a delay in one of her bonds merging was to ensure the advisor set up 
charge, which formed part of her withdrawal, didnt cause her to exceed her tax allowance.
The evidence from the time suggests on balance the delayed transfer of one bond was to 
allow for income to be paid before it was cancelled. As the set-up fee was a percentage of 
the fund value and the advisor agreed to waive the charge for the remaining bond to merge, 
Im satisfied Mrs W wasnt financially disadvantaged as a result of a fragmented transfer.
To summarise; Im satisfied the fees and charges were applied fairly and reasonably by 
Corporate Solutions, and that they acted on the instructions they were given at the time 
when merging the bonds. 
It follows, I dont currently intend to uphold this complaint or to require Corporate Solutions to 
do anything to put things right.
Corporate Solutions didnt respond to my provisional decision. 
Mrs W responded to say she didnt agree. Ive considered her comments, but my decision 
remains the same. Ill explain why.
Following my provisional decision, Mrs W said she had no knowledge of the suitability report 
Id referred to. So, I arranged for a copy to be sent to her.
Mrs W says It was entirely the suggestion of Corporate Solutions that these bonds should 
be amalgamated as a way of saving management fees adding I was perfectly happy with 
my three bonds as they were and my annual income from them which Prudential paid as a 
single amount.
Mrs W also says, The crux of the argument as you point out was the financial advantage of 
amalgamation which has subsequently been proven beyond a doubt to be patently untrue.
But my decision isnt based on Mrs W having gained a financial advantage from merging her 
bonds, as Ive explained the suitability report doesnt mention the reduction of fees as being 
a reason for the amalgamation taking place.
Ultimately, Mrs W held three separate bonds which were amalgamated into one single bond 
from which she received an income. I remain satisfied Mrs W was aware of the charges she 
would pay at the time and agreed to her bonds being merged
Having reviewed the copy of the suitability report I arranged to be sent, Mrs W said shed 
never seen the document before and would be extremely surprised if Corporate Solutions 
can prove beyond a doubt that this report was ever received by myself.
Mrs W also says, To produce a report now which I never seen and contains such invidious 
assertions beggars belief.
Looking at the report Ive been provided, it appears to have been correctly addressed and I 
think its more likely than not that it was sent. And, whilst Im certainly not disputing Mrs W 
when she says she didnt receive it; I cant fairly hold Corporate Solutions responsible for the 
safe delivery of mail. 
I understand Mrs W strongly disputes the contents of the report. Unfortunately, Ill never 
know the full extent of the discussions between her and the Corporate Solutions advisor but 
Im satisfied, on balance, the report is a record of the advice given at the time and Im not 
persuaded it has been created some time after the event.In summary, Ive considered the additional information provided by Mrs W along with all the 
evidence presented to me, but Ive seen no reason to reach a different conclusion to the one 
I reached previously.
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I dont consider that Corporate 
Solutions needs to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman