DRN-2631012
The complaint
Mr K had a policy with Admiral Insurance Company Limited in 2019. He says it dealt with a 
claim as though hed accepted liability for it when that wasnt true.
What happened
Mr K called Admiral to report some damage hed seen to the bumper of his neighbours car. 
He thought the neighbour might say he was to blame for it, as when Mr K had first pointed it 
out, the neighbour seemed to assume that was the case. Mr K says he told the advisor that 
he had photos of both cars that showed no damage to his car, but Admiral didnt ask for 
them. It proceeded as though hed caused the damage and settled the claim. When Mr K 
made a  complaint, Admiral said hed accepted liability when he first called it.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ks complaint. She noted that the notes of the first call 
Mr K made to Admiral showed that hed accepted liability. She said there was no reference 
to photos being available - and pointed out that there was no need for them if liability wasnt 
disputed. She also noted that in three further calls to Admiral Mr K only asked about the cost 
of the claim. He didnt say he was unhappy about Admiral settling it or that he didnt cause 
the damage. And when the claim was closed, he only asked about the sum Admiral had paid 
out. The investigator noted that Mr K thought the advisor whod reviewed the claim had done 
so unfairly, as in Mr Ks view, it was closed early, without proper investigation. The 
investigator said shed found no evidence of that. 
Mr K then suggested that Admirals advisors had misinterpreted what hed said to them due 
to their poor understanding of spoken English. He said hed gone along with Admirals 
decision to accept liability before realising it needed evidence to make that decision, which it 
didnt have. Having listened to the available call recordings, the investigator noted that Mr K 
had told one advisor that there was no evidence of the cause of the damage, apart from his 
own admission. Mr K responded to say his only admission was to report the damage. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its very unfortunate that the initial call Mr K made to Admiral on 10 October 2019 
didnt record on its system as normal. But I think the notes made at the time are clear. They 
show that Mr K said hed caused the damage to his neighbours car. Its always possible for 
an advisor to make a mistake. But if that happened here, Mr K had both the time and the 
opportunity to put the error right, well before the claim was settled in November 2019. 
Ive listened to the calls Mr K made after the initial call and I dont think theres evidence of 
any difficulty in communication between Mr K and Admirals advisors. In the call he made on 
21 October 2019 Mr K said there was no evidence of what had happened to cause the 
damage, just my admission. In a call eight days later he queried whether there was any 
update on the sum being claimed for the damage. Having been told the claim was closed, he 
called again in November 2019. The advisor told Mr K the cost of the claim and he then 
asked about his NCD. When told that it would reduce by two years, Mr K didnt protest.
I think Mr K could have said at any point during these calls that he disputed liability for the 
damage. In particular, when he was told his NCD had been reduced, Id have expected Mr K 
to object. He could have pointed out then that he hadnt accepted blame for the accident. He 
could have asked what investigation had taken place and why a decision to hold him at fault 
had been made. It was a full year later when Mr K called Admiral to inform it that hed denied 
from the outset making any contact with his neighbours car. 
In my opinion, the available evidence shows that its more likely than not that Mr K told 
Admiral during the first call he made to it that he was to blame for the damage. So there was 
no reason for Admiral to investigate the claim or to dispute liability. Admiral is entitled to 
settle a claim as it sees fit (as long as it acts fairly in doing so) but it simply wouldnt have 
been in Admirals interests to offer to pay Mr Ks neighbours claim if it could avoid it, or to 
pay more than was necessary. But if an insurer thinks the other partys repair costs are 
reasonable (as Admiral did here) a claim can often be closed quite quickly. 
I think the fact that Mr K didnt say in any of the calls prior to the claims closure that he didnt 
cause the damage is significant. And I think his comment about having made an admission 
can only refer to an admission about having caused the damage. In the context of the call in 
which he made that comment, I dont think any other interpretation makes sense. 
When Mr K brought his claim to us, he said he was concerned that Admiral had allocated his 
claim to a particular advisor with the intention of that advisor closing the claim prematurely, 
without investigation. I dont think Mr K has been able to show that Admiral needed to carry 
out more investigation than it did, or that the claim was closed too early. We checked with 
Admiral and it said Mr K didnt ever raise an issue with it about how the case was assigned, 
or to whom, nor did he complain about the actions of a specific advisor. And in Mr Ks written 
complaint to Admiral, these issues werent mentioned. 
I cant review anything that hasnt been raised with Admiral, as it has to be given the chance 
to respond to each point of concern a consumer may have first. Having reviewed the rest of 
Mr Ks complaint carefully, I dont think hes shown that Admiral did anything wrong, which 
means that I cant uphold his complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the Financial Ombudsman 
Services rules, I must ask Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman