DRN-2077173
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Marshall Motor Group Limited (Marshall Motors) mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy when he bought a car from them on Hire 
Purchase (HP).
What happened
In February 2006 Mr A bought a car on HP through Marshall Motors. At the same time, he 
was sold a PPI policy to protect his repayments in the case of him being unable to work 
through accident or sickness and also to provide life cover to repay the loan. 
In 2019 Mr A complained to Marshall Motors that the PPI policy was mis-sold but it said he 
was too late to complain the PPI was mis-sold, as it was some 13 years since he had bought 
the PPI, not within six years since the policy was sold. And it also said it didnt agree the PPI 
was mis-sold. 
Mr A wasnt happy with what Marshall Motors had said and brought his complaint to this 
service.
We said it wasnt too late to bring the complaint and Marshall Motors then agreed we could 
consider the mis-sale complaint. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld. Marshall Motors disagreed and 
asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr As complaint.
When this complaint was first brought to this service Marshall Motors indicated it considered 
the complaint could not be considered as the event of selling the PPI took place more than 
13 years before the mis-sale complaint was raised. 
Having considered the facts about this we recommended that we should be able to consider 
the complaint and Marshall Motors agreed to this. So I am not considering in detail in this 
decision the issues about jurisdiction relating to the timescale for bringing a complaint about 
the mis-sale of the PPI. I would indicate that I agree the complaint can be considered and it 
is within the jurisdiction guidelines for raising complaints of this sort. 
Turning to the mis-sale issues, Mr A told us he was not aware he had a choice in taking out 
the PPI at the time it was sold to him. He says the salesperson completed the loan 
application which he signed, and also completed a Demands and Needs Statement. Mr A 
says he knew nothing about finance agreements at the time and signed the forms as 
directed by the sales person.
I have seen a copy of the HP agreement that was signed by Mr A at the time. This sets out 
as two elements the total amount he was borrowing. One for the car HP and one for the 
insurance which is described as Insurance Loan. Nowhere on this form is it indicated that 
the PPI insurance is in any way optional. The form only sets out the figures and is an 
application for the total finance but does not include any section about the PPI to indicate it 
was being applied for as a separate product and Mr A had a choice about taking it out. The 
way the figures are set out, only identify what is being borrowed for what reason, and give no 
indication the insurance loan is optional.
I have also considered the Demands and Needs Statement that was completed at the time 
and signed by Mr A. This is not a typical Demands and Needs form. This form has numerous 
short sections about various types of insurance from vehicle and MOT insurance to PPI and 
GAP insurance. In each section there are some questions which have to be answered yes or 
no.
In the section for PPI insurance there are eight questions, each to be answered by ticking 
yes, no, or dont know. The first three are about Mr As eligibility for the PPI, asking to 
confirm he in a specific age range, that he lives in the UK and to confirm he has been 
employed for the last six months. The questions then go on to ask if Mr A was unemployed 
would he be able to maintain his loan repayments; if he was off work sick, would he be able 
to continue making the repayments; does he have any critical illness cover (CIC) insurance; 
does he have life insurance; and would he extend his life insurance policy to cover this 
financial commitment.
The form has been ticked with Yes answers to each of the questions in this PPI section. So 
the indication would be from these answers that Mr A had adequate means to pay for his 
loan already, with CIC and life insurance in place in addition to means to pay if he was off 
work sick or unemployed. 
There is also a Recommendation section on the form, again available for each of the types 
of insurance and products covered on the first part of the question form. In this section for 
the PPI Recommendation, there is only the comment taken out. 
From all of this it is unclear what was recommended to Mr A and why a recommendation to 
take out PPI would be made based on the answers to the questions on the form. It also 
seems Mr A took out cover for accident sickness and life only. The policy he bought did not 
cover unemployment. If he had options about the type of cover he could take, that isnt clear 
from the information provided. It is suggested from the Demands and Needs Statement 
questions that Mr A may have been able to have just disability cover and/or unemployment 
cover and/life cover. However, I have seen nothing to show Mr A was made aware of this if it 
was the case. But in any event. it was clear the PPI cover was not needed at all from the 
information captured on the Demands and Needs Statement.  
I have seen no documentation that may have been completed that shows Mr A was given a 
choice to take out the PPI and he agreed to take it out.
In summary, from the documents and evidence provided, I have seen nothing to show Mr A 
was clearly given a choice and agreed to take out the PPI with the knowledge it was 
optional.I am also not satisfied the PPI was suitable for his particular circumstances. The Demands 
and Needs Statement completed by Marshall Motors clearly indicates he already had 
adequate provision in place to repay his loan and so the PPI wasnt needed. 
Mr A has also said he told the sales assistant he intended to settle the loan within six 
months, which is what he did. This meant with the single premium policy he paid for it in full 
at the start but did not get a proportionate refund when the loan was settled early. And I have 
seen nothing to show Mr A was advised of the restrictions in the terms and conditions of the 
policy about early settlement. If he had, I dont think he would have taken the policy out 
knowing he intended to repay the loan in six months but would be paying for the PPI for 
longer than this.
For these reasons I am satisfied that the PPI was mis-sold as it wasnt made clear it was 
optional, it wasnt suitable for his circumstances and he wasnt informed of the cost 
implications on early settlement that would most likely have affected any decision about 
taking out the PPI. So I am upholding Mr As complaint. 
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive set out, Im upholding the complaint that the PPI policy was mis-sold. 
Therefore, Marshall Motors needs to put Mr A as far as possible in the position he would be 
in if he had not been sold any PPI.
Mr A borrowed an additional £954.87 to pay for the PPI premium and he paid interest on this 
at the loan rate whilst the loan was active. If the loan had run to the full 36 months term Mr A 
would have paid in total £1,183.32. But Mr A settled the loan early and so did get a small, 
but non proportionate, refund of the PPI premium taken off his loan on settlement. 
Marshal Motors should work out what Mr A actually paid for the cost of the PPI, including 
interest paid, and take account of any rebate made on early settlement. From information I 
have seen provided by Marshall Motors it would appear the total cost Mr A paid for the PPI 
was around £677. This should be checked to ensure it includes all payments for the PPI 
whilst the loan was active, including interest paid, and also any of the PPI costs that were 
paid in the settlement figure.
Marshall Motors also needs to pay Mr A compensatory interest for any time he was out of 
pocket for the costs of the PPI. This is worked out from the date Mr A made any payment 
amounts for the PPI, to the date he is repaid the full costs he paid in total. The rate of 
interest for this is 8% simple per year. So this will need to be calculated to the date the 
actual payment is made to him.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Marshall Motors to take off tax from the 8% compensatory 
interest and Marshall Motors must give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its taken 
off, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I am upholding this complaint that the PPI was mis-sold 
by Marshall Motors Group Limited to Mr A. Compensation should be calculated and paid to 
Mr A in line with what I have outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
 Chris Fraser
Ombudsman