DRN-2667214
The complaint
Mr I complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) has reached an 
unfair settlement offer on his claim under his home insurance policy.
Mr I is being represented by a family member in this case, but for the purposes of this 
decision Ill refer to them collectively as Mr I unless otherwise specified.
What happened
In December 2020 Mr I made a claim under his LV home insurance policy for a stolen watch. 
LV had a recorded value for the watch of £9,000 so said it wouldnt pay more than this 
amount for the claim. Mr I said the watch was worth significantly more than this. And that 
during a phone call with LV, he was pressured into giving the figure of £9,000, but he thinks 
he shouldve been advised to get a valuation on the watch before the policy was sold to him. 
LV was unable to locate a recording of the call in question, but said it was a non-advised 
sale. It reviewed call notes from the time which said the figure for the watch was confirmed 
back to Mr I and agreed several times. And it noted that Mr I received two sets of policy 
renewal documentation prior to the loss, which detailed the value the watch was covered for, 
and prompted Mr I to check over the policy documents to ensure the information was 
correct. It concluded Mr I had several opportunities to update the value of the watch before 
the loss occurred to ensure he had the correct level of cover. But he never did this.
Our investigator considered the matter and concluded LV had handled the claim fairly, so 
she didnt uphold the complaint. Mr I disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr Is policy document sets out the limit of cover in place for the items hes covered 
for under the policy. Limit of cover is defined in the policy as; the most well pay in 
respect of any claim.
It seems Mr Is watch was insured under personal belongings and valuables and the 
limit of cover for these items is set out in his policy schedule.
Looking at the policy schedule, it clearly states that the watch hes claiming for is 
covered to a value of £9,000. So this is the most LV will pay in respect of a claim for 
this watch, which seems fair in line with the policy terms and conditions.
But Mr I says he was pressured by LV into giving this figure and so disagrees this 
limit of cover has been fairly applied. 
The call where he says this took place is no longer available as a recording, so I cant 
fairly comment on how it was handled. I have to therefore base my findings on the 
information that is available in this case.
Im aware the watch was added to the policy at some point in 2018. And since then, 
Mr I has been sent two annual renewal letters, detailing the limit of £9,000 for the 
watch, and directing him to check the schedule carefully, letting LV know if anything 
is incorrect as a failure to do so could result in the claim being rejected or not fully 
paid.
So if, as Mr I says, he was pressured into giving a figure on the call, which I cant 
know he was for the reasons already explained, then I fail to understand why he 
didnt update the information, as is his responsibility under the policy, on receipt of 
the renewal letters showing what he says is the incorrect value for the watch. 
With this in mind, Im satisfied LV gave Mr I the opportunity to ensure he had the 
correct level of cover in place for the watch  prior to the loss occurring. But his 
failure to update the amount he says the watch is actually worth, resulted in him 
being underinsured. But I cant fairly hold LV responsible for this based on what Ive 
seen in this case.
On balance of the information available, Im satisfied LV has acted fairly and in line 
with the policy terms and conditions by applying the policy limit of £9,000 for this 
claim as set out in the policy schedule. So I wont be directing it to increase this 
amount.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman