DRN-4310126
The complaint
Ms M complains about the way Acromas Insurance Company Limited (Acromas) have 
handled a claim on her home insurance policy.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ill only summarise 
them here. 
In October 2021 Ms M observed cracks to her home and submitted a claim.
Acromas identified that the damage to the property was caused by subsidence and 
arranged for the movement to be monitored.
Ms M complained to Acromas about the lack of progress with the claim.
In March 2022 Acromas accepted there had been some delays and advised it was 
unable to commence repairs until the cause of the subsidence had been confirmed 
and a remedy completed.
In April 2022 Acromas offered 2 options to resolve the claim, a cash settlement or for 
Acromas to appoint contractors to complete the remedial works.
Ms M opted to have Acromas appoint contractors.
Ms M tells us there were delays and the works didnt progress which was causing 
stress and anxiety.
In May 2023 Acromas apologised for what it described as significant delays that 
could have been prevented and acknowledged progress was only made when Ms M 
chased them. And it paid Ms M £500 as compensation.
Ms M remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service.
Our Investigator explained we couldnt consider the complaint points address in 
Acromas final response dated March 2022 as these were brought to us out of time. 
But we could consider the delays from March 2022 to June 2023 when Acromas 
issued a follow up to its final response dated 23 May 2023.
Our Investigator initially upheld the complaint and concluded Acromas had caused 
unnecessary delays and not progressed the claim as it shouldve done. And 
recommended it pay Ms M £450 which he said would bringing the total compensation 
to £600. He also said Acromas should make the sure the works are progressed as 
soon as possible.
Acromas advised it had paid a total of £700 in recognition of the delays and in a 
second view dated 24 July 2023 our investigator concluded the compensation paid is 
appropriate and Acromas didnt need to pay any more. 
Ms M asked that an ombudsman decide the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator, and largely for the same 
reasons. 
Ms M is represented by a family member, for simplicity Ill refer to Ms M throughout. And 
when I refer to Acromas I include its contractors and others acting on its behalf.
For clarity, in this decision I can only consider the issues Ms M complained about and 
Acromas addressed in its final response dated 23 May 2023 and follow up dated 6 June 
2023. I understand further delays have been experienced and any issues or delays since the 
6 June 2023 could be considered under a new complaint if Ms M has further concerns with 
the way the claim is handled. I note and agree with our Investigators comments in his view 
that Acromas should progress the works as quickly as possible, and would urge it to do so if 
it hasnt already.
Claims of this nature can take some time to be resolved, and a degree of inconvenience is 
inevitable. And I note Ms M took some time to decide whether to accept a cash settlement or 
for Acromas to appoint contractors to undertake the work. However, the extent of the delays 
and inconvenience caused was greater than Id expect in this case, and I find Acromas 
responsible for the delays from September 2022.
Ive considered the delays and the impact on Ms M and agree with our investigator that the 
£700 compensation paid by Acromas is reasonable in the circumstances of this case. So I 
wont be asking it to pay any more under this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman