DRN-3748596
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr P holds with Bradford & Bingley Limited (B&B). Its 
one of a number of individual complaints of his that were dealing with separately from each 
other. Here, Mr P is unhappy that B&B cant (or wont) provide:
a copy of the original offer document in respect of a further advance he took out in 2003; 
and
information on how the account is administered.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr P and B&B. Im also aware that 
the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, a copy of which has been sent 
to all parties, and so I dont need to repeat the details here. Our decisions are published, and 
its important that I dont include any information that might result in Mr P being identified. 
Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont 
be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
The investigator gave her view of the complaint in June 2022; she didnt recommend it be 
upheld. We didnt hear from Mr P immediately, but when we did he asked for the complaint 
to be reviewed by an ombudsman. The investigator gave him a further two weeks to make 
any final comments for the ombudsman to consider. That was on 27 September 2022.  Im 
satisfied Mr P has had ample opportunity to make a further submission and overall fairness 
requires me to bring this case to a conclusion rather than leave it hanging indefinitely.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, these are my conclusions, and the reasons for them.
Its regrettable that B&B cant produce a copy of the offer document from the 2003 further 
advance. However, Im not persuaded Mr P has suffered detriment, financial or otherwise, as 
a result. Theres nothing to suggest the legitimacy of the loan is contested, so there are no 
grounds at all for me to think that any financial loss has occurred. Meanwhile, Id be reluctant 
to criticise B&B if it has not retained a copy of a document that is now nearly 20 years old; 
especially if, as it appears, Mr P has not retained his original copy either.
I appreciate Mr P is frustrated at not being able to satisfy himself about how B&B administers 
the account. But not being sure if things are being run correctly isnt the same as having 
good reason to believe they are incorrect; and Mr P hasnt provided any substantive 
evidence that would cause me to think B&Bs accounting is wrong.
But that doesnt mean Mr P has to take B&Bs word that everything is correct. If Mr P has a 
real and substantive belief (based on something other than his frustration at not being able 
to satisfy himself that his account is being operated correctly, it is open to Mr P to arrange for 
the account to be audited by a suitably qualified and independent party. 
The evidence of the audit could then be used as the basis for a new complaint, but not as 
the basis for this one to be reopened. I make the latter point because B&B would need to be 
presented with the finished audit first, and be given the opportunity to consider and respond 
to it. 
Mr P would have to meet the cost of the audit, albeit if errors were found that were to his 
detriment, we would then expect B&B to reimburse any reasonable cost of the audit as well 
as taking any corrective action the audit revealed to be necessary. But as things stand, the 
available evidence doesnt give me reason to think that B&B has made substantive 
administrative errors on Mr Ps mortgage further advance account. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman