DRN-3882074
The complaint
Mr P complains about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited who declined his claim under his 
home insurance policy. 
What happened
The facts of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again here 
in detail. 
In summary, Mr P has a home insurance policy with Admiral. Mr P made a claim under his 
policy when his watch was lost during a holiday abroad. Admiral declined Mr Ps claim on the 
basis that there was no insurable peril that had occurred. 
Mr P complained to Admiral, he said he believed the watch was stolen and felt the policy 
should cover the claim. He told Admiral he was on a night out and although he wasnt sure 
exactly how the watch was stolen, he felt it was most likely to have happened when he was 
approached by some local street sellers. He also said hed been told this type of theft was a 
common occurrence in the location of his holiday. Admiral didnt think this was enough to 
show an insured event had occurred and said the claim would remain declined. 
Mr P remained unhappy so referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
considered the complaint, but he didnt uphold it. He said Admiral hadnt acted unfairly in the 
way it had dealt with Mr Ps claim. He felt Admiral had acted in line with the policy terms. 
Mr P didnt agree and asked for a further review of the complaint, so it has been passed to 
me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
While Im sorry to hear of the circumstances of this claim, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps 
complaint. Ill explain why.
My role in a complaint like this is to consider whether Admiral has acted fairly and 
reasonably when declining Mr Ps claim. Insurance policies dont cover every eventuality. 
Theyre designed to offer cover against certain defined risks. Its for the policyholder to 
demonstrate that an insured peril happened  in other words, that one of the risks included 
in the policy has materialised.
Ive considered the policy terms and I can see Section 2 of the policy document sets out 
the insured risks under the contents part of Mr Ps policy. It lists twelve causes that the policy 
will cover and the one relevant to Mr Ps claim is Theft and attempted theft. And its for     
Mr P to demonstrate that the loss resulted from this insured risk.
The Claims section of the policy document also sets out what Mr P needs to do when 
making a claim. It states:
 What information do I need to provide when making a claim?

The date and time of the incident that caused the loss or damage, and details of 
that incident
Admiral instructed its agents to investigate the claim and they spoke to Mr P to confirm the 
details of the incident. Ive listened to the call where Mr P gave his recollections of the night 
of the incident. He said he didnt know entirely how and when the watch was taken. He 
assumed it was taken off his wrist outside a bar without his knowledge, and hed only 
realised once he had returned to his hotel room. 
Admirals agents had concerns about how the watch could have been removed without his 
knowledge considering its weight, size and the need for it to have been pulled off over his 
wrist. Mr P said he wasnt sure how it was taken and although he had been drinking alcohol 
that night, he wasnt drunk. 
I dont think its unreasonable of Admiral to rely on the expert advice of its agents when 
deciding whether an insured event had taken place. Admiral werent satisfied with how the 
watch was lost, it hadnt been provided any tangible information on how the incident may 
have taken place and why it wasnt reported sooner. 
I understand that Mr P thinks Admiral should look at the overall circumstances, including 
other similar incidents in the area, but the responsibility is on him to show he has actually 
suffered an insured peril. And Im not persuaded he has because there is nothing in the 
evidence put forward to show how the incident happened. 
I appreciate Mr P reported the incident to the police but that simply confirms that an incident 
took place rather than the insured peril of theft, and nothing further has been provided from 
the police in this regard to confirm the theft of Mr Ps watch. 
Having considered the evidence, along with everything Mr P has provided, Im satisfied that 
Admirals decision to decline the claim was fair and reasonable, in line with the policy. While 
I realise this will be a disappointment to Mr P, I cant say that Admiral treated him unfairly by 
declining his claim for the reasons it gave.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman