DRN-3953093
The complaint
Mrs C complains that New Wave Capital Limited trading as Capital on Tap (CoT) should 
not have accepted her personal guarantee for her companys borrowing as it wasnt 
affordable for her. 
What happened
Mrs C was a director and part-owner of a limited company, which Ill refer to as C. 
In September 2018, C applied for a revolving credit facility. CoT agreed to lend C £2,500. A 
condition of lending was the provision of a personal guarantee. Mrs C signed the 
documentation, including the personal guarantee, electronically. 
In December 2019, Mrs C signed a new set of loan documentation and a new guarantee at 
CoTs request, because it had changed the provider of its credit card.  
In July 2020, Mrs C told CoT that C was struggling in the pandemic and couldnt make a 
payment. 
In March 2022, Mrs C complained about the 2019 guarantee. She said that she hadnt 
properly understood it and it hadnt been explained to her. She said that if CoT had 
undertaken any income and expenditure checks, it would have found that she was on 
benefits at the time of the application. 
CoT didnt uphold the complaint and Mrs C referred it to the Financial Ombudsman. 
In July 2022, C was dissolved.  
One of our investigators looked into what had happened, but didnt recommend upholding 
the complaint. He said that this type of lending was unregulated. He had considered best 
practice at the time, but didnt think CoT had made an error. 
Mrs C disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at the matter again. She said that it 
was unreasonable of CoT to have agreed the facility, because it had never asked for proof of 
income or bank statements from her or C. She pointed out that CoTs agreement said it was 
regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint Mrs C, but Ive reached the same conclusion as our 
investigator. Ill explain why I say that below. 
First, I cant look at the decision by CoT to lend money to C, because C no longer exists so it 
cant make a complaint. What I can consider is the circumstances of the 2019 guarantee. 
The 2019 credit agreement didnt say it was regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(unlike the 2018 one), but even if it had said so, these provisions dont apply to limited 
companies. As a guarantor of her business borrowing, Im afraid Mrs C doesnt get the 
same protections that would apply to, for example, a personal loan. 
As our investigator explained, this type of business lending is unregulated. So there are no 
specific regulations with which CoT had to comply, although I would still expect CoT to 
behave fairly and act in accordance with good industry practice. 
I have taken into consideration the Lending Standards Boards Standards of Lending 
Practice as an indication of good industry practice. These standards contain provisions 
concerning the taking of personal guarantees by business lenders, so I have reviewed these 
carefully. Having done so, I dont consider that CoT has failed to follow any of them in the 
circumstances here. 
The Standards set out that lenders should inform their customers if any security (such as a 
guarantee) is required to support the borrowing and if so, why. They should provide clear 
information to make the guarantor aware of their obligations under the agreement. They 
should ensure the amount of the guarantee isnt disproportionate to the amount borrowed. 
They should also recommend that independent legal advice be sought. 
At the top of the page containing the guarantee, the 2019 agreement had the following note, 
in bold type: 
IMPORTANT - PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING NOTE BEFORE SIGNING THE 
GUARANTEE:
This is a personal guarantee and indemnity. By giving the guarantee contained in this 
guarantee you might become liable instead of or as well as the Borrower.
New Wave Capital Limited will hold this Guarantee as security for the Borrower's debts 
and other liabilities to New Wave Capital Limited as set out in this Guarantee. New 
Wave Capital Limited can, on demand, make you pay all the Borrower's debts however 
and whenever they arise and/or your liabilities under this Guarantee.
We strongly recommend that you take independent legal advice before agreeing to be 
bound by this guarantee and also read the Agreement which this guarantee relates to. 
In my view, this made it very clear that Mrs C was signing a guarantee and that this meant 
that she could be held liable for Cs debts. It was sent to her at home to consider, so she had 
time to look at it without time pressure. It also recommended that she take independent legal 
advice. I also note that she was sent a copy and had already signed a guarantee the 
previous year and received similar explanations and warnings then.
Although I would expect a lender to assess whether the borrower (in this case, C) can afford 
the borrowing, there is no obligation on a provider of unregulated business lending to carry 
out credit checks on a guarantor. So I cant say that CoT made an error by not asking for any 
more information from Mrs C personally at the time. 
I understand that being called on to repay Cs debts has been very distressing for Mrs C and 
Im sorry to hear that it has had an impact on her mental health. But Im afraid I dont 
consider that CoT did anything wrong by requiring and relying on her personal guarantee. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman