DRN-4025988
The complaint
Mr R complains that Scottish Widows trading as Clerical Medical (Scottish Widows) failed to 
correctly carry out his investment fund change instructions to his pension plan. And when he 
asked it to correct its mistakes, it failed to do so on numerous occasions.
While Scottish Widows says it has now corrected its mistake and has offered Mr R 
compensation, Mr R remains unhappy with the amount of compensation hes been offered. 
What happened
The facts and circumstances leading up to this complaint are known by both parties and are 
not disputed. So Ive not set everything out in detail here.
In May 2022, and after referring his complaint to our service, Scottish Widows wrote to Mr R 
saying that it upheld his complaint acknowledging and apologising for the series of errors it 
made in dealing with his investment instructions to his pension. It said it failed to carry out 
his fund switch requests in September 2021 correctly, and despite telling him that things 
were put right in January 2022, it agreed with Mr R that it had not. It said that Mr Rs pension 
investment fund allocations were finally corrected on 28 April 2022, including backdating 
them to 17 September 2021 to ensure Mr R hadnt lost out. Scottish Widows said it would 
pay Mr R £600 by way of an apology.
Mr R wasnt happy with Scottish Widows proposal to put things right  he said hed suffered 
stress and anxiety over the matter and felt the £600 offered wasnt enough. Mr R also said 
that because he felt compelled to transfer his pension away from Scottish Widows, which 
would mean hed incur additional costs, he felt Scottish Widows should contribute towards 
them.
Our investigator considered all of this. They said that while they agreed Scottish Widows 
agreed course of action was the right way to ensure Mr R hadnt lost out, they said Scottish 
Widows should provide Mr R with written confirmation of his fund allocations in an easy-to-
digest format as evidence things had finally been actioned correctly. They said they thought 
£600 offered by Scottish Widows was fair to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused 
including the fact that Mr R made repeated requests to try and put things right. They said it 
was Mr Rs decision to move his pension, so they didnt think it was fair for Scottish Widows 
to pay anything more.
Scottish Widows provided Mr R with monthly statements showing the correct percentage 
fund allocations. But because Mr R remains dissatisfied with the amount of compensation 
hes been offered, the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Correcting Mr Rs investment fund switches
In its letter of May 2022, Scottish Widows agreed that it made a mistake and said that it had 
finally correctly applied Mr Rs investment fund switches in line with his requested 
percentage allocations. In support of this, it provided what can only be described as an 
impenetrable document  a multi-page document - recording the investment fund switches. 
In their assessment of the complaint, our investigator said, and Scottish Widows agreed, that 
it should provide Mr R with evidence of the corrections made in a clear and simple format. I 
can see that Scottish Widows has provided monthly statements, which Im satisfied shows 
Mr Rs regular pension contributions from October 2021 onwards were invested in line with 
his instructions  but it has not provided clear evidence of the corrected fund switches. 
Ive reviewed the multi-page document Scottish Widows provided. And based on this, I think 
the fund switches were finally actioned correctly and backdated to 17 September 2021 as 
Scottish Widows says. But while I accept that Mr R has now moved his pension from 
Scottish Widows, I still think it is fair and reasonable for Scottish Widows to provide Mr R 
with the evidence that it corrected its mistake in a clear and simple format and as it agreed to 
do. I think a good example of this is the Investment Change Confirmation and Investment 
Change Statement it has previously issued to Mr R, showing the fund switch details 
including the name of the fund, the number of units held, the unit bid price on 17 September 
2021 and the value on 17 September 2021. This, or something similar, is what Scottish 
Widows should issue to Mr R.
Fair compensation
The remaining issue for me to decide is whether the amount Scottish Widows has offered 
Mr R to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused him, is 
fair in all the circumstances. And Ive decided it is fair.
Its clear that Mr R was put to great inconvenience by his investment instructions not being 
carried out correctly by Scottish Widows. It also took him time and effort in trying to get 
things sorted out  Mr R had to explain things several times, Scottish Widows said it had 
corrected things when it hadnt and it wasnt until many months after hed given the original 
instructions that Scottish Widows finally put things right. And while this meant Mr R hadnt 
lost out in terms of his investment opportunity, as hes explained to us, this matter has 
caused him a great deal of angst and frustration. So its right that Scottish Widows 
compensates Mr R for this. And taking everything into account, including what Mr R has said 
about the impact this matter had on him, I think Scottish Widows offer of £600 is fair 
compensation in all the circumstances.
I can see that Mr R feels he should be paid more than £600, including compensating him for 
the fact that he felt it necessary to transfer his pension away from Scottish Widows which 
meant he had to incur additional costs. But while I can understand Mr R feels let down by 
Scottish Widows and that his only option was to transfer his pension elsewhere, this was 
ultimately his decision. So I dont think it is fair that Scottish Widows pays anything towards 
the additional costs Mr R says he incurred as a result. 
So taking everything into account, I think Scottish Widows offer of £600 to reflect the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mr R is fair in all the circumstances and so represents 
fair compensation. 
Putting things right
Scottish Widows should:
Provide Mr R with evidence that his investment switches were corrected and backdated to 
17 September 2021 in a clear and accessible format as I have described above.Pay Mr R £600 compensation  if it hasnt previously done so.
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Scottish Widows Limited trading as Clerical Medical 
should put things right, in accordance with above. 
I make no other award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman