DRN-2547218
The complaint
Mr M says TFS Loans Limited lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mr M took out a guarantor loan from TFS on 4 January 2018. It was for £5,000 over 36 
months. The monthly repayment was £242.01 and the total repayable was £8712.36. I 
understand there is an outstanding balance.
Mr M says the loan was unaffordable for him as he already had numerous loans and if TFS 
had checked his bank statements they would have seen numerous gambling transactions. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He said TFSs checks were
not proportionate, and proportionate checks would have shown the loan wasnt affordable for
Mr M.
TFS disagreed with the adjudicators view, so the complaint was passed to me for a final
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when TFS lent to Mr M. Its rules
and guidance, set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), obliged TFS to lend
responsibly. Amongst other things, TFS was required to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of whether Mr M could afford to repay what he owed in a
sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an
affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So TFS had to think about whether repaying
the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr M. In
other words, it wasnt enough for TFS to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr M.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether TFS did what it needed to before agreeing to
lend to Mr M, and have considered the following questions:
did TFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ms
loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a
sustainable way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did TFS make a fair lending decision?
did TFS act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
TFS asked for some information from Mr M before it approved the loan. It asked for details
of his income, his monthly living costs and his existing credit commitments. It checked his
credit file to understand his credit history. It verified his declared income with a recent payslip 
and used an income verification tool. It also asked about the purpose of the loan which
was debt consolidation. From these checks combined TFS concluded Mr M would have 
monthly disposable income (after the repayment of this loan) of £361.97 and so the loan was 
affordable.
But I dont agree that these checks were proportionate. Mr M was applying to borrow a
significant amount of money from TFS. He was entering into a long-term commitment and
would need to make monthly repayments for three years. So I would expect that TFS would
want to gather, and independently check, more detailed information about Mr Ms financial
circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I cant see it verified his declared living costs 
in any way. His credit file from one of the agencies showed that he had unsecured of debt 
over £13,600 - a second report showed it was higher at £17,129. He was close to his 
overdraft limit; one credit card was over limit and four of his credit/store cards had been 
running at or close to their credit limit for several months. So, in the round, I think it would 
have been proportionate for TFS to independently check the actual state of Mr Ms finances 
before agreeing the loan.
However its failure to do so doesnt in itself mean Mr Ms complaint should succeed. I need
to look at what proportionate checks would have shown TFS and consider if it ought to
have realised that Mr M most likely couldnt sustainably afford the repayments.
I have looked at Mr Ms bank statements. This is one way TFS could have gathered the
information I think it needed on Mr Ms financial situation. Mr M also shared these with TFS 
when he made his complaint. The adjudicator set out in his view why he had reached the 
conclusion that the statements showed that Mr M did not have the disposable income TFS 
had calculated, rather he had no disposable income available to spend, or to make this loan 
repayment. He highlighted that Mr M was spending on average more than twice his monthly income on gambling transactions. It followed he concluded the loan was not affordable for 
Mr M.
In response to this TFS shared its analysis of Mr Ms gambling transactions and said it didnt 
agree it was a sign of customer vulnerability or financial difficulty, or of irresponsible lending. 
It argued the gambling transactions, and loan transactions to maintain the gambling, should 
not be included in the affordability assessment. It speculated Mr M could be running a 
professional gambling business. 
From my review of Mr Ms bank statements I think there are a number of concerns that 
should have caused TFS, as a responsible lender, to decline Mr Ms application. I disagree 
with TFSs view that the gambling transactions should not be included in the affordability 
assessment. It argued in its final response letter to Mr M that CONC 5.2A.18 provides for it 
not to consider them as they are discretionary expenses and so could be reduced 
accordingly to service any non-discretionary expenses such as credit commitments. 
But they were a significant and defining factor in Mr Ms financial position. So I find TFS 
needed to consider this expenditure when determining if the loan was sustainably affordable. 
It had to do this to meet its regulatory obligations under CONC 5.3.1(G) which stated - 
1. In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required , a firm
should take into account more than assessing the customer's ability to repay the
credit.
2. The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required  should include the
firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customer's ability to meet repayments
under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner without the customer
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
And I cant find any evidence that there was any likelihood Mr M would no longer gamble on 
receipt of this loan as TFS suggests could happen. The level of Mr Ms spending on 
gambling should have been a clear signal that there was a high risk he might not be able to 
repay the loan sustainably. I also dont think TFS can fairly include the loan payments from 
his guarantor in its review of Mr Ms net position from gambling that led it to say there was no 
sign of financial difficulties. And whilst I note Mr M was employed in a business sector 
adjacent to the gambling industry, I havent seen any evidence to support TFSs claim that 
he was running a professional gambling business.
With regards the other items that I think should have concerned TFS, Mr Ms bank 
statements show that in the month before this application he had taken out over £7,400 in 
high-cost short-term loans/running credit from five different providers  and he was making 
repayments to at least three other high-cost short-term lenders. From this TFS ought to have 
realised Mr M was having problems managing his money. I have considered that Mr M told 
TFS this loan was for debt consolidation but given the total level of his debt, and the clear 
signs of financial instability that I have set out above, this does not change my conclusion 
that TFS was wrong to lend to Mr M. He was theoretically only going to be paying off around 
35% of his overall debt. And it was clear from the level of his gambling that his finances were 
not stable.
Overall I think that if TFS had completed proportionate checks, it would have realised the 
loan was sustainably unaffordable for Mr M and that he was unlikely to be able to repay it 
without borrowing further or suffering other adverse financial impacts. So as a responsible 
lender it would have decided not to approve his application.  
I have also looked at whether TFS acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other way. I
havent found any evidence that it did. Putting things right
Its reasonable for Mr M to have repaid the capital amount that he borrowed as he had the
benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt have
been given to him. So he has lost out and TFS needs to put things right.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on the loan and treat all the payments
Mr M made as payments towards the capital.
As reworking Mr Ms loan account will result in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then TFS should refund these overpayments
with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the
overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to deduct tax from this interest. TFS should give Mr M a
certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one. 
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Ms complaint. TFS Loans Limited must out things right as set out above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman