DRN-4020649
The complaint
Ms K complains that she hasnt been provided with sufficient information about what her 
warranty policy covers by AutoProtect (MBI) Ltd.
What happened
Ms K has an extended warranty for her vehicle that is administered by AutoProtetct. In 
November 2022 she had some problems with her dashboard which she took to the car 
manufacturer to look into. 
She contacted AutoProtect to ask how she should claim if it was found to be an electrical or 
mechanical fault. As part of this she requested further information about the warranty cover 
including a full list of what is and isnt covered.
AutoProtect said it was unable to provide an exhaustive list but that details of what is 
covered is in the warranty document, which it provided a copy of. 
Ms K was unhappy with this and made a complaint to AutoProtect. She also said shed been 
unhappy with the service it had provided on the calls she had made to it. AutoProtect didnt 
uphold her complaint so she brought it to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said she thought the terms 
and conditions of the warranty were sufficient to explain what it covered and shes seen no 
evidence to suggest there was further information that AutoProtect werent providing. She 
also said she didnt agree AutoProtect had provided poor service. 
Ms K didnt accept our investigators outcome. She said our investigator had ignored the 
main point of her complaint. She said the warranty states the list of items not covered isnt 
exhaustive and there would be a list that the insurer uses when assessing claims. She said 
she should have access to that list. She asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms K has said that her main concern is that the warranty document doesnt provide a full list 
of what is and isnt covered and she thinks there must be a list that includes this so feels she 
should be provided with it.
A policy document is designed to outline the type of faults and causes that will be covered 
and those that are excluded. However it isnt feasible for any insurer to include an 
exhaustive list of everything that would and wouldnt be covered, and this service wouldnt 
expect it to do so. As a list of the many eventualities that might occur would be substantial 
and likely incomplete due to the many variations of different vehicles and issues. 
Instead the policy document is designed to outline details of the basis for exclusions and 
inclusions. Then if the need to claim occurs, the insurer will assess the claim in line with 
those terms and determine whether cover would or wouldnt apply to a specific problem. This 
is standard practice across all insurance products. 
Ms K has asked AutoProtect to provide detail of everything that would be covered and its 
provided a copy of the warranty document. While I appreciate she has requested an 
additional exhaustive list of what would and wouldnt be covered, this isnt something wed 
expect any insurer or intermediary to hold or provide. I therefore dont find that AutoProtect 
has acted unreasonably by not providing this.
Ms K has previously also raised issues about the customer service AutoProtect provided. 
Ive listened to the calls she had with its staff and considered its responses to her queries 
and I havent found it delivered poor service. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Ms Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman