DRN-3782611
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as W is unhappy Finch Commercial Insurance Brokers 
Limited directed it to move its legal expenses insurance policy to a new broker during the 
policy year. W says this caused it financial loss and inconvenience. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on providing the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator that the case should 
be upheld. I do so for the following reasons:
While it is clear from the correspondence there was a disagreement between the 
parties, I have seen no evidence that either was rude to the other. As each party 
alleges. 
It is clear W indicated it would move its business to a new broker from the next 
renewal of the policy however it was Finch that asked W to do so as soon as 
possible. 
While it is for a business to choose who it wishes to deal with, in this instance I think 
it would have been reasonable for Finch to have explored other ways of 
communicating with W in the first instance or whether there was another way in 
which its account could be managed. Finch has also not explained why it didnt just 
let the policies run until renewal, as generally, unless there is a claim, limited 
interaction is required between the parties during the year.  
By taking the action it did, Finch put W in a situation where in order to move its 
business to a new broker and have no further dealings with Finch, it had to cancel its 
existing insurance policy and take out a new one. W has said that it could not find a 
new broker that would take on the administration of an existing policy as Finch had 
suggested may be the case. 
I dont think the action Finch took was reasonable in the circumstances and as such it 
caused W financial loss. The policy was non-refundable and therefore W lost out on 
the full cost of the policy premium when it was cancelled. Although I can see from the 
file Finch didnt act on the cancellation request immediately and let W know the policy 
was one it could keep going.  However, by that point, W had already arranged new 
policies through a different broker and it didnt require dual cover. So Im persuaded 
here that Finch should be responsible for covering the proportional amount of 
premium that was in effect unused. 
W was caused inconvenience by Finchs actions in that it had to arrange a new policy 
mid-term and find additional financing for it that it hadnt otherwise anticipated 
needing to do. So, I think Finch should pay W £100 compensation to reflect the 
trouble W was put to.  
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. 
Putting things right
To put things right Finch should do the following:
Make a payment to W equivalent to a pro rata refund of the premium paid, for the 
unused term of the legal expenses policy, with no cancellation charge applied. Plus 
8% simple interest calculated from 6 December 2021, until the date Finch makes the 
payment.
Pay W £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ws complaint against Finch Commercial Insurance Brokers 
Limited. I direct it to put matters right as I have set out in the section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman