DRN-2904206
The complaint
Mr N complains about the settlement hes been paid by U K Insurance Limited (UKI) for a 
claim he made for the costs associated with extending his holiday after he became delayed 
abroad.
What happened
Mr N has travel insurance as a benefit of a packaged account with his building society.
Mr N was abroad on holiday. He was due to return to the UK on 2 April 2020. However, as a 
result of the Covid-19 pandemic, his airline cancelled the return flight. It rescheduled the 
flight for 22 May 2020 and despite embassy advice to try to return sooner; Mr N decided to 
wait abroad until the rescheduled return date. Thats because he said no commercial flights 
were leaving the country he was in. He incurred additional accommodation costs while he 
remained abroad.
However, Mr Ns airline also cancelled the rescheduled flight. So Mr N booked a new return 
flight at his own cost and flew back to the UK on 18 May 2020. He made a claim on his travel 
insurance policy for the costs associated with extending his trip.
Ultimately, UKI settled Mr Ns claim under the travel delay section of the policy, up to the 
applicable limit of £250.
Mr N was unhappy with the settlement and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator thought UKI had handled Mr Ns claim fairly. She didnt think the curtailment 
section covered Mr Ns situation, because it covered unused travel costs, rather than 
additional costs. She considered the travel delay section was the only section which applied 
to the circumstances of Mr Ns claim.
Mr N disagreed. He said hed been able to return and wanted to return to the UK on his 
planned travel date  itd been the airline cancelling his flight while other airlines were still 
running which had led to the delay in his return. He said hed given the airline two 
opportunities to bring him home, but hed been left with no option but to book new flights 
home. He felt this was a classic situation of an insurer trying to avoid its responsibilities and 
he asked what the point of insurance was at all.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr N, I think UKI has settled his claim fairly. Ill 
explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mr Ns policy and the circumstances of his claim to decide whether UKI handled it 
fairly.
It appears that Mr N considers his claim should be settled under the Cutting Short Your Trip 
section of the policy. This sets out what UKI will cover:
You are covered for
We will pay up to £5,000 for each insured person for their portion of the trip costs if you have 
to cut your trip short, including:
 Unused commercially operated accommodation and travel costs.
 Unused car hire.
 Unused excursions and activities.
 Unused kennel, cattery or professional pet sitter costs.
 Unused car parking costs.
 If you have to return home early and you cant use your return tickets we will pay   
reasonable costs for additional accommodation and travel.
In my view, UKI has clearly detailed what costs this section of the policy is designed to 
cover. Most of these are unused holiday costs, with the exception of additional 
accommodation and travel costs if a policyholder has to return home early and cant use 
their pre-booked return tickets.
In this case, Mr N didnt cut short his trip. In fact, his trip was extended due to the 
cancellation of his flight. And while I accept his return flights were cancelled by his airline, its 
clear that Mr N didnt return home early. So I dont think it was unfair for UKI to ultimately 
conclude that it wouldnt settle the claim under the curtailment section of the policy.
However, Im satisfied that Mr N was delayed abroad because his airline cancelled his pre-
booked return flight. So I think it was appropriate for UKI to consider the claim in line with the 
Missed, Delayed or Abandoned Departure section of the policy. This provides cover for 
reasons including if a policyholder is unable to return to the UK on their planned departure 
date. Its clear Mr N didnt miss his departure  as he didnt arrive too late to board his flight, 
it was simply cancelled. And he didnt abandon his trip  as Ive outlined above, the trip was 
extended. 
But Mr Ns return journey was delayed by more than four hours due to the cancellation of his 
flight and was ultimately delayed by almost two months. So I think it was fair and reasonable 
for UKI to pay Mr N delay benefit, in line with the policy terms. These say:
We will pay £10 per insured person after the first two hours and an additional £10 every 
following four hours up to a limit of £250 if you have arrived at your point of departure or 
connection and your pre-booked aircraft, ship or train is delayed. You must have already 
checked in.
As UKI has already paid Mr N £250 delay benefit, Im satisfied its settled the claim in line 
with the contract terms. I do sympathise with Mr Ns position, because I appreciate hes been 
left significantly out of pocket. And I accept that the cancellation of his original return flight 
was outside of his control. But I simply dont think it was unfair for UKI to pay his claim in line 
with the policy terms. So Im not telling it to pay anything more. Its open to Mr N to try and 
obtain a refund of his pre-booked flight costs from his original airline if he hasnt already 
done so.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman