DRN-3590523
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) unfairly recorded a late 
mortgage payment on their credit files. They ask that Halifax accepts it was at fault and 
removes the late payment marker from their credit files.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M make monthly payments to their mortgage account by direct debit. The direct 
debit payment for December 2021 was returned unpaid. Halifax reported a late payment to 
the credit reference agencies. Mr and Mrs M say:
Payments were made from Mrs Ms current account. Mrs M was unwell and couldnt 
check her account. Mr M checked the mortgage account on 29 December 2021 and the 
payment was shown as credited. 
Halifax didnt give them enough notice of the missed payment for them to correct it 
before the end of the month. It wrote to them at the end of December 2021, instead of 
sending an electronic notification. They didnt receive the letter until 8 January 2022.
They only have a few days grace if theres a problem with a payment, as their mortgage 
payment is made on the 25th of each month (or the next business day). They say this is 
unfair compared to people that pay earlier in the month who have longer to sort things 
out.
There was enough money in Mrs Ms account at the start of the day. The problem was 
other payments going out of the account. They say there should be a priority system so 
that mortgage payments go out first.
Halifax paid £50 compensation for incorrectly telling Mr and Mrs M their credit file wouldnt 
be affected if it was able to take the direct debit in January 2022. Our investigator said this 
was fair. She said it wasnt inaccurate or unfair for Halifax to record the late payment.
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree. Mr M said they werent treated fairly. He said as a result of the 
late payment marker their credit card interest rate increased and their application for 
additional borrowing for home improvements was declined.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lenders have a duty to report accurate, complete and up to date information to the credit 
reference agencies. The purpose is to assist third parties  such as other lenders  gain an 
understanding of an individuals existing obligations before offering them credit.
Mr M says the late payment marker is unfair. Essentially, he says it doesnt reflect the way 
they manage their account, that particular circumstances resulted in the payment being late, 
and Halifax should have done more to help them. So I have to decide whether its fair to 
require Halifax to remove the late payment markers. Ive taken the following into account. 
Mr and Mrs M have to make their mortgage payment each month. They didnt make a 
payment in December 2021. The late payment recorded on their credit files is accurate. 
Halifax requested Mr and Mrs Ms direct debit payment. It was returned unpaid because 
there were insufficient funds in Mrs Ms account. 
The statement shows Mrs M transferred money into her account and made a payment 
on 21 December 2021. Presumably, she thought there would be enough money in the 
account for all the payments due. Mr M says there was an extra direct debit payment out 
of the account that meant the mortgage payment wasnt collected. Mr M says Mrs M was 
too unwell to check the mortgage payment was collected from her account.
Mr M provided evidence that hed have had sufficient funds available (by using his 
authorised overdraft) to make the payment from his account, if hed been told in time 
there was a problem. 
Mr M says when he checked the mortgage account online on 29 December 2021 it 
appeared the payment had been received. Its unfortunate that at the point Mr M 
checked the account it didnt show the payment had failed. But I dont think I can fairly 
say that Halifax delayed updating the account. The evidence provided suggests that 
Halifax updated the account to show the direct debit returned unpaid on the same day.
Halifax notified Mr and Mrs M of the missed payment in writing. This is its usual process. 
The payment was due on 29 December 2021 and the letter was sent on 31 December 
2021. I dont think I can fairly say Halifax delayed sending the letter. I cant fairly require 
Halifax to change its systems and notify customers in a different way. 
Mr and Mrs M have to make a mortgage payment each month. Theyve chosen to do this 
on the 25th of each month. If this is a weekend or bank holiday the payment is made on 
the next working day. Due to the bank holidays at the end of December 2021, Mr and 
Mrs Ms payment was requested for 29 December 2021.
If Mr and Mrs M had chosen a payment date earlier in the month theyd have had more 
time to sort matters out after the direct debit failed. This was a choice they made, 
presumably because paying later in the month suited them in managing their finances. I 
dont think, in fairness, Halifax had to allow them further time to make the payment.
Mr M says there should be an automated priority system when there are a number of 
payments due on the same day. Thats not how the direct debit system currently works. 
In any case, while there were direct debit payments from Mrs Ms account the previous 
week, the mortgage payment was the only direct debit shown leaving her account on 29 
December 2021. 
Mr and Mrs M say Halifax told them their credit file wouldnt be affected if the second 
attempt to take their direct debit was successful. This was during a call on 8 January 
2022. As the payment was already late by this time, this didnt change the outcome. 
Its Mr and Mrs Ms responsibility to make their contractual monthly payments. As they pay 
by direct debit they need to ensure theres enough money in the account to cover the 
payment. Ive thought about what Mr M has said, and I appreciate the circumstances were 
unhelpful. But the payment wasnt late due to an error by Halifax. The payment was late 
because there were insufficient funds in the paying account.Halifax gave Mr and Mrs M information about how to add a notice of correction to their credit 
files, to explain what happened. And it paid £50 compensation for the incorrect information 
given to them on 8 January 2022. I think this is fair.
Mr M says it wouldnt be easy for them to change to a payment date earlier in the month as 
this would mean making a payment at the end of one month and another at the beginning of 
the next. I can understand that. If Mr and Mrs M do want to change their payment date, they 
should contact Halifax to discuss this and whether it can help them make the transition. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman