DRN-4367093
The complaint
Mrs S has complained that UNUM Limited (Unum) unfairly declined her claim.
What happened
Mrs S has a group income protection insurance policy via her employer, underwritten by 
Unum. This would pay a benefit after a deferred (waiting) period of 26 weeks if Mrs S was 
unable to carry out her main duties due to illness or injury.
Mrs S made a claim after she became absent from work due to illness. Unum rejected the 
claim and said Mrs S didnt meet the definition of incapacity during the deferred period as 
she was suffering from work related stress rather than an injury or illness.
Mrs S complained and unhappy with Unums response, referred her complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt think Unum had unfairly rejected the 
claim. But he said it should move the deferred period to when Mrs S received a diagnosis 
from her specialist and re-assess the claim. 
Mrs S said she had been incapacitated from the start of her absence.
Unum said the terms didnt allow for the deferred period to be moved and so it couldnt re-
assess the claim with a new deferred period. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree that the claim should be re-assessed with a new deferred period. Ill 
explain why. 
The relevant rules and industry regulations say an insurer should handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy defines deferred period as the period of time from the date that a 
member becomes incapacitated until the date that benefit becomes payable
Incapacity is defined as follows: the member is unable, by reason of his illness or 
injury, to perform the material and substantial duties of his insured occupation 
Actively working or actively at work is defined as: means an individual has not 
received medical advice to refrain from work and is actively following their insured 
occupation, and; is working the normal number of hours required by their contract
In order to be eligible for payment of benefit, Mrs S needs to show, through medical 
evidence, that she is unable to carry out the main duties of her job due to illness or 
injury. 
The medical evidence and GP notes show Mrs S was initially absent due to work 
related stress. Stress isnt an illness and so this wouldnt meet the definition of 
incapacity. Mrs S says she was suffering from anxiety and depression which caused 
her work-related stress but as already set out in some detail by the investigator in his 
opinion, the medical evidence consistently refers to work related issues. And her 
treating professional suggested she would improve if her workplace issues resolved. 
Based on this, I dont think Unum unfairly concluded that Mrs S initial absence was 
related to workplace issues and not an illness. 
Mrs S provided Unum with further evidence and a letter from her psychiatrist who 
confirmed, in November 2021, that her depression was now an illness in its own 
right. In his opinion, Mrs S was not well enough to work. 
Mrs S says her scores on assessments show that she was severely depressed. But 
these assessments are based on self-reporting and the surrounding evidence 
showed that Mrs S was affected by work related issues which were causing her 
symptoms. So Im still persuaded that her initial absence was due to work related 
stress.
Our investigator said Unum should move the deferred period. He said that even 
though Mrs S wasnt actively at work at the time her incapacity began, her initial 
absence is linked to her current absence from work and this is supported by medical 
professionals. Unum said it wasnt able to move the deferred period as the 
policyholder had chosen a non-reviewable policy and so the later version of the 
policy, which would allow the deferred period to be moved, doesnt apply. 
I can step outside the policy terms and conditions if I think it is fair and reasonable to 
do so. In this case, Mrs S has been absent due to the same symptoms which started 
out as work related stress and then developed into an illness. Her symptoms 
worsened and she deteriorated to the point that her specialist has confirmed that she 
is suffering from depression and isnt able to carry out activities of daily living. So I 
dont think its fair for Unum to rely on the actively at work clause in this case as Mrs 
S was at work prior to her absence, even though this started off as work-related 
stress and she didnt meet the definition of incapacity until later. 
I think the fair and reasonable thing to do is for Unum to reassess the claim with the 
deferred period starting on 2 November 2021.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and direct UNUM Limited to re-assess 
the claim with a new deferred period, starting from November 2021. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman