DRN-2891747
The complaint
Mr D complains about the level of service received from Acromas Insurance Company 
Limited following a claim against his motor insurance.
Mr D says Acromas should compensate him further for the service issues, and the time hes 
had to spend dealing with the claim and complaint.   
What happened
Mr D provided detailed submissions to support his complaint about Acromas. Rather than 
repeat in detail what is already known to all parties, in my decision, Ill mainly focus on giving 
the reasons for reaching the outcome I have. 
In summary, Mr D made a claim in 2019. Acromas appointed a garage to assess the 
damage, and it was said the claim would be settled as a total loss due to the repair costs 
involved. 
Mr D wanted his car back and said the courtesy car hed been given wasnt fit for purpose to 
drive to a wedding he was due to attend towards the end of August 2019. Mr D was given 
three options to settle the claim. He suggested a fourth option which was for Acromas not to 
deal with the claim at all. Mr D was also told Acromas could remove certain repairs from the 
claim so the repair costs would be lower than the total loss threshold. 
Mr D was later informed this couldnt be done. But, after he complained, Acromas agreed to 
progress the claim in this way. Mr D discussed the repairs that would be removed from the 
claim with the garage and asked for a copy of the original and revised estimate to satisfy 
himself which repairs would take place. He chased Acromas for this information several 
times. 
When estimates were provided, Mr D raised concerns that it didnt appear anything had 
been removed and more repair works were detailed on the revised estimate compared to the 
original. He also explained the garage had said the intercooler wouldnt be replaced to 
decrease the repair costs, but this wasnt shown on either estimate. Mr D also raised 
concerns about Acromas approach to the total loss threshold should he have repairs carried 
out by a non-approved garage, compared to their approved garage. 
It took approximately three weeks from the claim being raised, to repairs being completed. 
Though, once Mr D received the car back, he said the garage had caused further issues to 
his car. Acromas said they contacted the repairer regarding the further issues Mr D raised. 
And the garage was prepared to investigate the further issues. 
Acromas had awarded Mr D £200 prior to our services involvement. Mr D remained 
unhappy. He said this amount doesnt reflect the amount of time hes taken in dealing with 
the claim and complaint and thinks Acromas should compensate him the amount they pay 
their staff. He also felt Acromas took far too long when investigating his concerns. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and recommended that it be upheld. He felt there 
were service issues throughout the claim and confusion caused to Mr D by Acromas in 
response to him asking for a copy of the original and revised estimates. He suggested that 
as Acromas had already settled the claim, they should pay Mr D £400 in total for any trouble 
and upset caused by how theyd handled things overall. Acromas accepted the investigators 
recommendation. Mr D didnt accept this, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although several issues have been raised, my decision only addresses those issues I 
consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful consideration 
to all the submissions made before arriving at my decision. 
The claim has been settled and repairs were completed approximately three weeks after the 
claim was raised. Mr D also told us a separate claim incident occurred after repairs were 
completed, meaning he no longer has the car. As the claims been settled, my decision will 
focus on how much compensation is appropriate here. 
Service issues and delays 
I accept there were service issues. The claim was initially considered as a total loss due to 
the original repair estimate  Acromas say they no longer hold a copy, as the revised 
estimates had overridden the original when authorised. 
Ive seen there was confusion caused during the claim process as it appears both Acromas 
and the repairer werent completely aligned in what had been discussed, agreed with Mr D 
and the next steps. I say this because Ive seen Mr D had to repeat himself to Acromas and 
the garage, decisions to progress the claim were made and then changed and Mr D was left 
to chase for updates and information. 
I dont think three weeks from the claim being raised to repairs being completed was 
unreasonable  I note Mr D had use of a courtesy car. That said, there were avoidable 
issues here I think contributed to Mr D experiencing a level of distress and inconvenience  
over and above whats naturally expected following a claim. Namely, the confusion around 
the estimates provided by Acromas in order to clarify what was on the original estimate, and 
what had been removed to reduce the repair costs, on the revised estimate. 
Once he received these estimates, Mr D raised concerns about them. He wanted to use 
these to satisfy himself the appropriate repairs were being carried out to his car following the 
claim incident. And he was unable to do this with the estimates provided by Acromas. In fact, 
this caused him more confusion above all else as repairs said to have been removed didnt 
show on either estimate, and the paint work required had increased even though the 
purpose of having a revised estimate was to reduce the costs. 
Acromas said the repairer had sent three versions of estimates prior to the final version 
being authorised. And the final estimate  which didnt include some repairs  was later 
authorised after they received an estimate for further paint work to the bumper moulding. 
Given Mr Ds concerns about the original estimate, and his desire to satisfy himself the 
revised estimate was appropriate, I dont think Acromas acted fairly by failing to provide Mr D 
with the information he requested  on several occasions. 
As above, Acromas said the original repair estimate was no longer available due to the 
system and other estimates being authorised. Mr D argued Acromas took an initial view to settle the claim as a total loss based on an estimate theyve been unable to substantiate. I 
accept Mr Ds concerns here. So, what I need to do is go onto consider what happened next. 
Acromas didnt settle the claim as a total loss. Repairs were carried out under the policy 
using the final revised estimate. Ive seen the costings of this estimate were lower than the 
original costings relied on to suggest Mr Ds car was a total loss. Ive also seen these works 
didnt include the repairs said to have been removed in order to bring the repair costs down 
below the total loss threshold  the repair costs were lower than the total loss threshold as 
the claim wasnt settled as a total loss. 
Whilst I think things could have been handled better as part of the claim process, I find the 
claim was settled fairly in this case as repairs were completed under the policy. Though its 
important I reiterate I dont think Acromas acted fairly by failing to provide Mr D with the 
information he requested several times. 
Further damage was caused by the repair garage 
Mr D said his car was returned to him with further issues. For example, the indicator arm 
was loose, the passenger window switch didnt work and the front of his car that had 
suffered claim-related damage still had damage. 
Within their final response, Acromas said the repair garage were unaware of these issues. I 
take Mr Ds point here  he said the faults were not present prior to the repair, but the 
garage said they hadnt worked on these areas. 
I think the right thing to do here was for Acromas to contact the garage to carry out further 
investigations into the faults Mr D described. Though I also note Mr D told us his car was 
involved in a separate claim-incident and the car is no longer available for inspection as it 
was deemed a total loss. So, whilst I appreciate Mr Ds points, as the car is no longer 
available, it isnt something that now needs to be investigated and put right. 
Difference between the approved repairer and non-approved repairer threshold 
Acromas told Mr D there was a different repair limit for their approved repairers compared to 
non-approved repairers. They said they have more control over their approved repairers and 
therefore set a lower limit for non-approved repairers in order to keep costs reasonable. 
I think the reason for this is because an insurer could consider it more likely than not the 
costs could increase when using a non-approved repairer during the claim process. 
Therefore, the total loss threshold is lower when using a non-approved repairer, so a 
decision on whether the car is a total loss or not can be made sooner  before repairs 
commence. An insurer will generally use an approved repairer during the claim process, and 
I think its fair for them to set different limits given the above. 
Compensation 
Mr Ds said hes had to take a lot of time writing correspondence and making phone calls to 
chase for updates and request information that should have been provided to him without 
delay. 
Whilst Mr D hasnt quantified the amount he thinks is fair, he thinks Acromas should pay him 
the equivalent amount to what they pay their staff to deal with claims and complaints. He 
said the claim and subsequent complaint has taken up much of his time and the 
compensation amount should be increased to take this into account. This service doesnt award compensation based on units of time. So, whilst I appreciate this 
will come as a disappointment to Mr D, I wont be directing Acromas to compensate him in 
line with the amount they pay their staff. 
I accept the claim could have been handled better and think Mr D is due further 
compensation as a result. For what should have been a routine motor claim ended up with 
Mr D experiencing avoidable service issues. 
Ive carefully considered everything Mr D told us about the impact the way things were 
handled had on him, and I agree £400 in total is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Whilst things could have been handled better, I also think the claim was settled within a 
reasonable time from start to finish. 
Putting things right
Acromas paid Mr D £200 to recognise any distress and inconvenience this matter caused 
before our services involvement. So, they need to pay Mr D an additional £200, because I 
think £400 in total is fair and reasonable.  
My final decision
I uphold it and now require Acromas Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr D an additional 
£200 compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2021.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman