DRN-3969744
The complaint
Mr O has complained about his home insurer U K Insurance Limited (UKI) because it put his 
fire claim on hold to wait for the outcome of criminal proceedings taken against the suspect.
What happened
Mr O went to the shops in November 2020 and was notified by a neighbour that his house 
was on fire. His ex-girlfriend was later arrested on suspicion of setting the fire and, in the 
criminal court, in September 2021, she was found guilty. 
Mr O had made a claim to UKI in November 2020. It had begun investigating it. But in 
February 2021 it said that its consideration of the claim would have to go on hold until the 
outcome of the criminal proceedings was known. Once those proceedings concluded in 
September 2021, UKI moved to settle the building and contents claims, including in respect 
of accommodation costs, with Mr O. The building claim and accommodation costs were 
agreed, in mid-September, in a matter of days, but payment took around two weeks. The 
contents claim took longer as UKI then asked Mr O to price the list of damaged contents and 
Mr O felt that was unfair as nearly a year had now passed since the fire occurred. It was 
early December 2021 before a settlement was agreed for the contents items and the claim 
was concluded.
UKI wrote to Mr O. It accepted that it had caused some delay in paying the agreed building 
and accommodation settlements. But it offered no remedy in that respect. It felt it had 
otherwise handled these issues reasonably. It said it had explained why the claim, as a 
whole, had to go on hold to await the outcome of the criminal proceedings and it had been 
reasonable, in the circumstances, for it to do that. It said it hadnt discriminated against Mr O 
and its investigations, including in respect of the questions it had asked him, had been 
necessary. UKI said that asking Mr O to price his damaged contents items was part of the 
normal claim process. It apologised for him having been sent, in error, a copy of the loss 
adjusters investigation report. 
Mr O remained unhappy. He complained to us.
Our Investigator felt that UKI had handled matters reasonably. So he didnt uphold the 
complaint. Mr O asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
The complaint came to me for consideration. I reviewed everything UKI provided. But 
I couldnt see any reasoning that might explain why it would put the insurance claim (a civil 
matter) on hold for the outcome of criminal legal proceedings. I asked it to explain why it had 
felt that was a necessary and reasonable thing for it to have done. UKI said its reasoning for 
taking that step was within the documents it had provided.
On review I felt the complaint should be upheld, with interest and compensation awards 
made against UKI. I issued a provisional decision in this respect. My findings of which were:
I havent seen anything on UKIs file to make me think its investigations were the result of 
any kind of discrimination, I think that the questions it asked and the enquiries it undertook in 
the first few months of the claim were exactly as Id expect to see in any investigation of this 
type. But UKI, in my view, acted entirely without reason and, therefore, unfairly when it put 
the claim on hold pending the outcome of the criminal proceedings. 
Despite my careful review of everything UKI sent me, I couldnt find any reasoning in its file 
that might show why it felt this was necessary; what it thought it would add to its 
investigations and considerations of the claim. And when I gave UKI a further chance to 
explain its views on this issue, it referred me back to its file. In respect of the circumstances 
of the fire, UKIs file shows that the only concern it had by February 2021 was that there had 
been some discrepancies across a few of the things Mr O had told it. But I dont see that the 
criminal proceedings would have been likely to have had any bearing on those concerns at 
all. Thats not least because insurance contracts are civil matters and subject to different 
burdens of proof. But also because insurance contracts are subject to specific terms and 
conditions against which a criminals guilt or innocence usually holds little bearing. It seems 
to me that UKI felt that if the suspect was found guilty then it wouldnt need to worry about 
those concerns. But that doesnt feel right to me  it is up to UKI to investigate, validate and 
settle or decline the claim as appropriate. In my view UKI simply didnt do that here and the 
claim was unreasonably delayed as a result. 
I think its only reasonable that Mr O is compensated because of UKIs delay in handling 
things. Not only in terms of distress and inconvenience caused to himself  but he should 
have had the building and contents settlement sums sooner too. And regarding the contents 
settlement, I also think UKI could have progressed its request to Mr O to price the list in 
November 2021 immediately after the fire. An initial request was made, but seemingly when 
Mr O queried some items he felt were missing, the pricing wasnt pursued. I think that if that  
had been handled better at that time, before the claim was unfairly put on hold in 
February 2021, then it would have been much easier for Mr O to deal with (than it was in late 
2021). Given that settlement for those claims, following confirmation of the outcome of the 
criminal trial being received, were agreed within days and three months respectively, and 
that by February 2021, all that was of concern to UKI were some discrepancies, I think both, 
if handled properly, should have resolved by the end of February 2021. As such Im going to 
require it to make a payment to Mr O in respect of interest on the sum of £70,131.13 
(buildings) and £26,036.00 (contents) from 1 March 2021 until settlement of each sum was 
paid. And as Ive found that the claim settlements should have been paid by the end of 
February 2021  that means the buildings claim was unreasonably delayed by six and half 
months and the contents claim by nine. Ill take that into account when awarding 
compensation for upset.
I note that UKIs settlement for buildings was net of VAT. That isnt unusual in the first 
instance  but Im not sure if UKI has told Mr O that he can claim to it for the VAT sum if he 
incurred VAT on completing those repairs. If it hasnt told Mr O that, it should have done. If 
Mr O presents it with VAT invoices, it should pay the VAT due (up to its maximum liability). 
Plus interest* from the date they were incurred until settlement is made.
The accommodation settlement was for the cost Mr O would likely incur during the work. So 
Im not going to require UKI to add anything to that sum. I know Mr O likely had to stay away 
from home for two weeks longer than planned given the delay in UKIs payment for the 
building work. But hes told us that he didnt incur any extra costs for those two weeks, which 
means I cant reasonably require UKI to pay him more money in line with the agreement they 
had for accommodation costs. Simply put its failure did not result in a financial loss for him in 
this respect. But Mr O has explained hed rather have been able to move home sooner  
which he could have done but for this delay. So Ill take that distress and inconvenience into 
account when awarding compensation. I think UKI otherwise handled the accommodation 
settlement reasonably and I wont ask it to pay anything more.Mr O should not have been sent the report prepared as part of UKIs investigations. It was 
not prepared for his consideration and, as such, it doesnt surprise me that it was upsetting 
for him to read its contents. I dont think there was anything wrong in the content of that 
report  I think it was all detail, reasoning and expert views, all of the like I would expect to 
see in an investigation of this type. But seeing a report like this, with this type of content can 
be distressing for a policyholder. And here this report was sent to Mr O by mistake  he had 
not asked to see a copy of it, so he was not prepared for what it might contain or that its 
contents were not for him to see, meaning they might be upsetting. Ill take this into account 
when I award compensation. 
I think that to make up for the distress and inconvenience UKI caused Mr O, which Ive 
explained above, UKI should pay £1,500 compensation. I think this is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances.
Mr O said he accepted my findings. UKI said it disagreed with them.
UKI said that from the first notification of loss there were several discrepancies in what Mr O 
told it  such that it had concerns Mr O mayve been involved in the incident somehow. UKI 
maintained that its concerns justified the wait for the outcome of the criminal proceedings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Mr O has accepted my findings. Ive considered what UKI has said in reply  but, in 
my view, it doesnt add anything to what I knew when issuing my provisional findings. 
Fraud is a serious concern for insurers, and this service appreciates that sometimes, where 
a claim involves such concerns, legitimate and reasonable enquiries, necessary to satisfy an 
insurer as to the validity of a claim sometimes prolong a claim. And I mentioned in my 
provisional findings that enquiries UKI undertook in the first few months of the claim, with a 
view to determining validity, were, in my view fair and reasonable. But I also said those 
enquiries resolved most of the issues of concern. Those remaining in February 2021, when 
UKI put the claim on hold could not, in my view, have been resolved by the outcome of the 
criminal proceedings, of which Mr O was not a part, whether the suspect was found guilty or 
innocent. Nothing UKI has said makes me think that it had any reasonable expectation that 
the outcome of the criminal proceedings would have been likely to add value to its claim 
validation enquiries. I remain of the view that UKI acted unfairly and unreasonably by putting 
Mr Os claim on hold to await the outcome of the criminal proceedings.  
Having reviewed matters, my provisional view has not changed. As such, my provisional 
findings, along with my comments here, are not the findings of this, my final decision.
Putting things right
I require UKI to pay Mr O:
An amount equivalent to interest* applied to the sums of £70,131.13 and £26,036.00 
from the 1 March 2021 until payment of these sums was made.
An amount, if Mr O has incurred VAT on building repairs, to cover Mr Os VAT costs for 
the building work covered by the settlement of £70,131.13, up to UKIs maximum liability 
for VAT on that work of £14,026.23, plus interest* from the date VAT was paid by Mr O 
until settlement is made.£1,500 compensation.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs requires UKI to take off tax from this interest. If 
asked, it must give Mr O a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out above 
at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman