DRN-4210868
The complaint
Mr Q is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a conditional sale agreement with Hyundai 
Capital UK Limited trading as Hyundai Finance was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
In May 2022, Mr Q was supplied with a new car through a conditional sale agreement with 
Hyundai. He paid an advance payment of £3,500 (which included a £1,000 dealer 
contribution) and the agreement was for £19,324 over 49 months; with 48 monthly 
repayments of £276.24 and a final payment of £8,850.60.
The car broke down on 10 October 2022, after doing 5,915 miles. The recovery company 
said there were issues with the throttle valve and accelerator pedal, which were fixed by the 
supplying dealership. And the car was returned to Mr Q on 1 November 2022.
However, the car broke down again on 9 November 2022 due to an issue with the 
accelerator pedal position sensor. Mr Q had the car recovered to the dealership and he 
raised a complaint with Hyundai. Hyundai said the dealership had the right of repair, but a 
rejection could be considered if the fault reoccurred.
The car was returned to Mr Q on 29 November 2022, and the dealership said theyd chosen 
not to replace the accelerator pedal, as this had been done around a month earlier. They 
also explained there was a software issue and there was no manufacturer update available. 
So, the dealership said they couldnt do anything more.
The car broke down again on 22 February 2023, after it had done 10,107 miles. The 
recovery company said it was a fault with the accelerator pedal sensor that was causing the 
issue, so Mr Q complained to Hyundai again.
Hyundai arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent engineer. The engineer said 
he couldnt identify any fault, so Hyundai rejected Mr Qs complaint. The following day, the 
car broke down again and the recovery company advised Mr Q it wasnt safe to drive. 
Unhappy with this, Mr Q brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator was satisfied there was a recurring fault with the accelerator pedal, which 
Mr Q had evidenced from the breakdown reports and the dealership job cards. She thought 
it was reasonable to expect a new car to be free of such issues, so the car wasnt of a 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr Q.
The investigator said the dealership had already attempted to repair the car twice, and both 
attempts at repair had failed. Given this, she thought that Mr Q should now be allowed to 
reject the car. Mr Q had been provided with a courtesy car while the car was being repaired, 
but not after it broke down in February 2023. So, the investigator said that Mr Q should be 
refunded the £2,500 deposit and any payments hed paid since this date, plus statutory 
interest. She also said that Hyundai should pay him an additional £300 for the inconvenience 
hed been caused.
However, the investigator explained that we couldnt consider the way Hyundai had dealt 
with Mr Qs complaint, as complaint handling wasnt a regulated activity.
Hyundai responded to say theyd unwound the agreement and refunded the £2,500 deposit 
to Mr Q, less a £1,083.20 mileage charge (10,329 miles at £0.35 per mile) in April 2023. 
They also said theyd paid Mr Q £250 compensation.
The investigator explained that Hyundai keeping the payments Mr Q had made until 22 
February 2023 covered any fair usage, and that any additional mileage charges shouldnt be 
applied. She also explained that Mr Q wasnt happy with the redress Hyundai had paid. In 
response, Hyundai said they couldnt accept the investigators view because we have 
proactively resolved this complaint before you issued it [and] because it is outdated and can 
no longer be considered applicable.
Given this, this matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr Q was supplied with a car under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to investigate complaints about it. 
The CRA says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve been of a satisfactory quality 
when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, Hyundai are responsible. Whats 
satisfactory is determined by things such as what a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory given the price, description, and other relevant circumstances. In a case like this, 
this would include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale, and the vehicles 
history and its durability. Durability means that the components of the car must last a 
reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Hyundai can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified 
after the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Mr Q to show it was present when the 
car was supplied. 
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr Q took possession of it, or that the car wasnt 
sufficiently durable, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and 
reasonable to ask Hyundai to put this right.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that, by already taking the car back and unwinding the 
agreement, Hyundai have accepted that it wasnt of a satisfactory quality when supplied to 
Mr Q. As such, my decision will focus on what I think Hyundai need to do to put things right.Putting things right
Its not disputed that Mr Q was provided with a courtesy car for the two periods the car 
supplied by Hyundai was being repaired. And, while this may not have been a like-for-like 
car, Im satisfied that he was kept mobile. Given this, its only fair that Mr Q pay for this. As 
such, Hyundai are entitled to keep all the payments Mr Q made up to 22 February 2023.
Its also not disputed that, when the car broke down in February 2023, Mr Q was advised by 
the breakdown company not to use it. And, as he wasnt provided with a courtesy car after 
this point, its also only fair that any payments he made after 22 February 2023 should be 
refunded to him.
With regards to the fair usage mileage charge Hyundai have applied, Ive seen a copy of the 
agreement Mr Q electronically signed. And this makes no reference to any mileage 
allowance, or that he would be charged for mileage if he terminated the agreement early and 
returned the car (which is the nearest circumstance to what happened thats covered in the 
agreement). As such, Im not satisfied its fair for Hyundai to charge for the mileage Mr Q did 
in the car. While I accept their argument about fair usage, they received payments from May 
2022 to February 2023 (at £276.24 a month) which theyre entitled to keep. As such, Im 
satisfied this is sufficient for any fair usage of the car, and Hyundai shouldnt be allowed to 
apply any further fair usage charges.
Im also satisfied that Mr Q was inconvenienced by what happened. The car supplied to him 
broke down on multiple occasions, with the same fault, and he needed to have it recovered 
on each occasion. And this wouldve been frustrating and annoying. The investigator has 
recommended that Hyundai pay Mr Q £300 to compensate him for this, which is in line with 
what I wouldve recommended. So, I see no compelling reason why I shouldnt adopt this as 
part of my final decision.
Finally, I want to address the monies Hyundai have already paid to Mr Q. And their view that 
this satisfactorily resolved Mr Qs complaint. While they have decided to make this payment, 
I havent seen anything to show me that this was discussed with Mr Q beforehand, nor that 
he agreed to this in resolution of his complaint. Given this, Im not satisfied that Hyundais 
unilateral decision resolved Mr Qs complaint, and he is entitled to continue to pursue this 
through the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Therefore, if they havent already done so, Hyundai should:
end the agreement with nothing further to pay;
collect the car at no cost to Mr Q;
refund the full £2,500 deposit he paid;
refund all payments Mr Q paid on or after 22 February 2023;
apply 8% simple yearly interest on these refunds, calculated from the date Mr Q 
made the payments to the date of the refund ;
remove any adverse entries relating to the agreement from Mr Qs credit file; and
pay Mr Q a total of an additional £300 to compensate him for the trouble and 
inconvenience caused by being supplied with a car that wasnt of a satisfactory 
quality.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Hyundai to take off tax from this interest. Hyundai must 
give Mr Q a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Qs complaint about Hyundai Capital UK Limited 
trading as Hyundai Finance. And they are to follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman