DRN-1581292
 
The complaint
Mr S says Western Circle Ltd, trading as Cashfloat (Cashfloat), irresponsibly lent to him.  
Mr S has told us he had been borrowing from other short-term credit providers and that 
when he got into financial difficulty, he was told by Cashfloat it would contact his employer to 
obtain repayment. He also said felt he had no choice but to accept Cashfloats payment plan 
which was unaffordable for him.                           
What happened
This complaint is about one short-term loan Cashfloat provided to Mr S in July 2018. The 
amount borrowed was £350 and was to be repaid over two monthly instalments at a cost of 
£234.49 per month. At the time Mr S brought his complaint to this service I understand he 
had repaid Cashfloat a total of £330. 
For our latest assessment the adjudicator asked Cashfloat for a copy of the credit report 
information it had obtained prior to agreeing to lend to Mr S. That showed Mr S had taken 
nine loans in June 2018 and ten loans in July 2018. Two of the loans were outstanding. The 
fact the others had been repaid so quickly indicated they were short-term loans, and which 
would suggest Mr S was already in financial difficulty when he applied for the loan. In 
conclusion, the adjudicator didnt think the loan should have been given to Mr S because of 
this.
The adjudicator also commented on how Cashfloat had treated Mr S during the phone call in 
October 2018 and subsequent phone call on 29 March 2019. The adjudicator didnt think 
Cashfloat had acted with the appropriate forbearance and due consideration bearing in mind 
Mr Ss circumstances he had made it aware of. 
Our adjudicator recommended the court fee of £35 should be waived, and which had already 
been agreed by Cashfloat, all interest on the loan should be removed and that the principal 
amount of £20  if it still remained outstanding  should be written off. He also said any 
adverse information about the loan should be removed from Mr Ss credit file and Mr S 
should be paid £100 for the trouble and upset caused to him because of the way hed been 
treated by Cashfloat where it was already clear he was in financial difficulty. 
Cashfloat disagreed with the adjudicator. It said Mr S was happy with the payment plan 
which was affordable for him as was the loan when Mr Ss income and expenditure was 
reviewed at the outset. 
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Cashfloat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Cashfloat was required to establish 
whether Mr S could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint. After doing so, Ive decided to uphold 
the complaint in full. Ill explain why. 
The lending
Cashfloat has told us that as this was Mr Ss first loan with it, the checks it carried out were 
reasonable and proportionate. But as explained in our latest assessment of the case, 
Cashfloat had obtained information from Mr Ss credit report that would suggest he was 
already having problems managing his money. He had taken a total of 19  what appeared to be  short-term or pay day loans within the previous two months and two of those loans 
remained outstanding. And those two loans had been taken within the previous three days. 
Again, as explained by the adjudicator, taking the repayments on those two loans into 
account, Mr Ss recorded monthly household and living expenditure, the cost of servicing his 
other debts and the Cashfloat loan repayment, it looked likely the lending was unaffordable.
Cashfloat said Mr S only paid half of the mortgage (£350), the other half being paid by his 
partner. But I note that Cashfloat also said in earlier correspondence that in advance of the 
loan being given [Mr S] stated that his share of the mortgage repayment was £350. We 
increased this to £771, after verifying this with statistical data gained from his credit file. So 
Cashfloat itself had previously concluded that the mortgage repayment should be recorded 
as £771. 
So, like the adjudicator, I think Cashfloat was sufficiently aware  if it had taken note of its 
own credit checks  that the lending looked likely to be unaffordable for Mr S, and which 
proved to be the case as he got into further financial difficult and was unable make the 
repayments. Consequently, I dont think the loan should have been given to Mr S and I am 
upholding his complaint about this lending. 
Cashfloats treatment of Mr S
Ive listened to both of the phone recordings that Cashfloat has been able to give us  Ill 
precis what was said.
The call of 12 October 2018 
Cashfloats representative explained that the loan was in default and there was the potential 
for legal recovery of the debt. Mr S explained that he wanted to repay the loan but Cashfloat 
was not his only creditor. He wanted to repay over 12 months, but the representative 
suggested £70 per month over the next ten months and Mr S agreed. He was warned the 
debt would accrue further interest and that Cashfloat could go to court. It was agreed the first 
payment would be taken on Mr Ss next pay day.
Mr S was only able to make two payments.
The call of 26 March 2019 
Cashfloats representative calls Mr S at work after he has sent it an email and said Cashfloat 
was seeking legal recovery. Mr S explained that he had an astronomical amount of debt so 
it was a case of seeking repayment of his loans or him considering bankruptcy. The 
representative said Cashfloat could seek an attachment of earnings via Mr Ss employer 
and obtain the loan repayment direct from his salary. Mr Ss employer would be notified of 
the unpaid debt. The representative offered six monthly repayments of £94 or legal recovery. 
Mr S explained he was juggling all of his debts and that his situation was dire. He 
suggested making payments of £70 over the next eight months. This was agreed and a 
payment was taken that day.
Mr S made one further payment of £120 on 23 August 2019.
Before the first call Mr S had already missed his first and second loan repayments so 
Cashfloat was already aware Mr S was potentially having financial problems. And during that 
first call Mr S explained Cashfloat wasnt his only creditor. Taking this into account Cashfloat 
should have taken into consideration Mr Ss overall financial circumstances to establish 
whether Mr S was in a position to afford the repayment plan. And as Mr S has explained to us, he felt that he had to accept the plan even though it was unaffordable for him. I think Mr 
Ss comments during the calls suggested it was more of a matter that he couldnt afford the 
current repayments rather than he wouldnt make any repayments. 
I also note that during the second call the representative initially asked Mr S to commit to a 
payment plan of £94 per month. But this was after it was already clear that Mr S couldnt 
afford the payment plan of £70 per month as agreed in the first call. 
The regulator  as outlined in CONC 7.3  expects, when a consumer is in arrears, for that 
consumer to be treated fairly and with forbearance. Cashfloat should have looked to 
understand Mr Ss financial circumstances in order to arrange an affordable payment plan. 
And by referring to legal recovery, and of it informing Mr Ss employer of the unpaid debt and 
seeking repayment direct from his salary, added unnecessary pressure to get Mr S to agree 
to the proposed repayment plan. So, I dont agree that Mr S was treated fairly by Cashfloat 
when it was seeking repayment and further, I think Mr S suffered because of that unfair 
treatment. Because of this I am awarding a payment for the trouble and upset caused to Mr 
S and as part of that award, the outstanding principal amount of the loan should be written 
off by Cashfloat. 
So, Im upholding the complaint in full and Cashfloat should put things right.
Putting things right  what Cashfloat needs to do
Cashfloat should remove the £35 court fee  it has not already done so.
 
Cashfloat should recalculate the outstanding balance on the loan by removing all 
interest and charges applied to the loan from the outset, and by taking into 
consideration what has been repaid to date.
 
If this results in Mr S having paid more than the principal loan amount borrowed of 
£350, Cashfloat should refund what has been repaid in excess of that loan amount, 
along with 8% simple interest* calculated from the date Mr S originally made the 
overpayment, to the date the complaint is settled. 
 
If, after carrying out the above, I believe Mr S still owes Cashfloat an amount of £20, 
it should write off this amount in order to draw this matter to a close.
 
Cashfloat should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ss credit file in 
relation to the loan.
 
Cashfloat should pay Mr S £100 in recognition of the trouble and upset that was 
caused to him by Cashfloat during its attempts to arrange a repayment plan and after 
he had already made it aware of his dire financial position. 
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat 
must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Ss complaint. Western Circle Ltd should put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2020.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman