DRN-3256846
The complaint
Mr S complains that a car acquired with finance from Close Brothers Limited (CB) wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
In May 2021 Mr S was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale agreement 
with CB.
Mr S experienced issues with the car within the first month of getting it. The engine 
management light illuminated, and the car went into limp mode.
Mr S reported the issues to CB, who arranged an independent inspection. The inspector 
found fault codes but said he didnt think the faults would have been present at the point of 
supply.
In June 2021 Mr S arranged for a mobile mechanic to carry out a diagnostic on the car. The 
mechanic found that the glow plug wiring harness was faulty, as well as other electrical 
faults.
In July 2021 Mr S arranged for a further diagnostic on the car. This also found an electrical 
fault in the glow plug cylinder, as well as issues with the camshaft position sensor and the 
engine control unit. The mechanic advised Mr S not to drive the car.
Mr S complained to CB but it didnt uphold the complaint, so he contacted this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said she was satisfied that the car had a fault at 
the point of supply and that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. She said that because Mr S 
had reported the issue within the first 30 days, he should be allowed to exercise his short 
term right to reject the car.
CB didnt agree. It said the inspection report confirmed that the issues were electrical faults 
and said that these could occur at any time. It said the inspection had found that the faults 
werent present at the point of supply and therefore it wasnt responsible. CB said that the 
mileage covered by the car didnt have the same significance in terms of durability in the 
case of electrical (as opposed to mechanical) faults.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. The legislation says that the quality of the 
goods includes their general conditions as well as other things including fitness for purpose, 
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
At the point of supply the car had covered around 41,300 miles. Id expect a second hand 
car such as this to require repairs and maintain more often than, say, a brand new car. So, in 
order to uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that there was something wrong 
with the car which made it of unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply, as opposed to an 
issue which was due to general wear and tear.
An engineers report can help determine whether a car is of satisfactory quality. Ive 
reviewed all of the engineering evidence. The inspection report produced by ACE found fault 
codes relating to the electrics. It said that these faults wouldnt have been present at the 
point of supply and that they were wear and tear related. The diagnostic report obtained by 
Mr S identify electrical fault codes and electrical faults. 
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that there was a fault with the car. The fault occurred 
within the first month of the point of supply. Under the relevant legislation, its presumed that 
goods which dont conform to the contract within the first 6 months dont conform to the 
contract at the point of supply. Its for the business to show otherwise in these 
circumstances.
 CB has said that the independent inspection report is enough to rebut the presumption. I 
dont agree. Mr S reported a fault within the first 30 days. Whilst I would expect a second 
hand car to have a degree of wear and tear, its still the responsibility of the business to 
supply a car which is of satisfactory quality. I dont think a reasonable person would expect 
to experience several electrical faults in the first few months. The independent inspection 
doesnt say why the engineer thought that the faults wouldnt have been present at the point 
of supply. Given the age and mileage of the car, I think durability is an issue here. CB has 
said that durability doesnt apply to electrical faults in the same way that it does to 
mechanical faults , but the number of fault codes affecting Mr Ss car as evidenced by the 
diagnostic reports suggests to me that there is were inherent electrical faults present at the 
point of supply, and not a sudden electrical fault which occurred due to wear and tear. 
Because of this, I dont think the car was of satisfactory quality when supplied.   
Putting things right
To put things right, and because the faults occurred within the first 30 days, I think CB 
should allow Mr S to reject the car.
Mr S stopped using the car in July 2021 following the second diagnostic report. I think it was 
reasonable of Mr S to do so, as this was on the advice of a mechanic.  I dont think its fair to 
expect Mr S to pay for a car he hasnt used, so all payments hes made since this date 
should be refunded. Prior to July 2021 Mr S was able to use the car, so I wont be asking CB 
to refund any payments made prior to this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Close Brothers Limited must:
Allow Mr S to reject the car and end the agreement
Refund the deposit and pay 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
Refund the diagnostic fee of £60
Refund all payments made by Mr S since August 2021 and pay 8% simple interest from the 
date of payment to the date of settlementUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman