DRN-3355181
The complaint
Miss Cs complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC returned 12 months worth of payments 
instead of two months. And this meant she was chased for payment by a third party 
business. Shed like compensation for the impact. 
What happened
On 28 May 2021 Miss C spoke to Barclays via live chat and asked them to refund two 
months of payments to S, a media provider.  
Instead of Barclays requesting a chargeback for two months of payments, they accidentally 
asked for 12 months and Miss Cs account was credited with almost £1,000. 
Miss C was unhappy with Barclays error and complained to the bank. Miss C explained that 
she suffered distress as S were chasing her for unpaid bills  and due to the reversal of the 
payments she was left with a debt to S of £1,600.
Barclays looked into Miss Cs complaint, and accepted theyd made an error in returning 
12 months worth of payments. They paid £200 compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
 
Our investigator looked into Miss Cs complaint, but didn't think Barclays needed to do 
anything further. He explained that on the funds crediting Miss Cs account she contacted 
Barclays to query them. However on the Barclays member of staff saying they'd raise a 
complaint for Miss C, she advised the bank that shed speak directly with S. He therefore 
thought Barclays shouldn't have taken further action to return the overpaid funds - and 
thought the £200 offer was fair.
 
Miss C didnt accept our investigators view, so its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I realise this will be disappointing to Miss C but I'm afraid Im satisfied that 
the bank have acted fairly.  
The bank has accepted they made an error in returning 12 months' of payments to Miss Cs 
account, instead of 2 months', so this isn't in dispute. What's in dispute is their actions after 
this, and the impact on Miss C from the payments that were returned. I've seen a copy of the 
online chat that Miss C had with Barclays - and I can see that after the bank said they'd 
'raise a claim' Miss C replied 'Its ok Im going to be speaking to the company to see what 
happened'. Miss C argues that this isnt what she meant, and she thought the bank was 
going to look into her complaint. But, I'm satisfied it was reasonable for the bank to conclude 
they didn't need to take any further action at this point. Miss Cs explained that she followed 
this up to see what was happening with her complaint  but because this was outside of the 
10 day window Barclays had to amend or cancel the claim they were unable to contact S 
and return the funds. 
 
I appreciate that Miss Cs experienced significant distress from the return of the payments, 
including S increasing the debt Miss C owed them to just over £1,600 - however it's 
important for me to consider whether there's anything Miss C could have done differently to 
avoid the impact she experienced. It's clear Barclays made the initial error - in returning 
12 months' of payments to Miss C - however Miss C was advised of this on 1 June 2021 
when she spoke with the bank. And at this point, despite Barclays offering to do so, Miss C 
didn't ask the bank to contact S or return the money. Im confident if Miss C had agreed for 
Barclays to contact S, and return the funds, she wouldnt have been left with a debt of 
£1,600.
Ive thought about Miss Cs request for Barclays to pay the debt she owes to S. However, 
Miss C hasnt directly lost out because of Barclays actions. The funds which Miss S owes to 
S were returned to her Barclays account and therefore I think she could have paid what was 
owed directly to S without losing out. 
 
I think that Barclays did cause Miss S inconvenience in initially returning 12 months' of 
payments, however I think the £200 paid by the bank is in line with what I'd expect. And I 
wont be asking them to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman