DRN-2510295
The complaint
Mr S complains that Brewin Dolphin Limited (Brewin) failed to provide him with sufficient 
information when it gave him advice on his pension and ISA investments in March 2018. In 
particular it failed to tell him that he would need to maintain a relationship with a financial 
advisor in order to use its Discretionary Investment Management Service (DIMS).  
What happened
I issued a provisional decision regarding Mr Ss complaint in November 2020. In that 
decision I explained why I thought Brewin had treated Mr S unfairly, and set out what 
I intended to direct Brewin to do in order to put things right. Both parties have received a 
copy of that provisional decision, but I include an extract from the decision for clarity;
In its final response letter to Mr S, Brewin appears to have accepted that it didnt tell him 
that it would be mandatory to use a financial advisor in order to have his investments 
managed by DIMS. However Brewin says that its interpretation of the current 
regulations mean that a suitably qualified person should be providing on going advice. It 
also pointed out that it at no stage had told Mr S that he would be able to cancel or 
suspend the financial planning service at some point in the future.
Mr S isnt complaining about the advice he was given. But as well as advice Brewin 
needed to give Mr S sufficient information in order for him to decide whether he wished 
to proceed with the recommendations. It seems to me that in the financial planning 
document that Mr S was given by Brewin the charges for the two services  the ongoing 
financial planning service and DIMS  were shown separately. So I think that might 
reasonably have led Mr S to a conclusion that he didnt need to retain the ongoing 
financial planning service in order to benefit from DIMS.
But actually that is what Brewin is saying. It has told Mr S that he doesnt need to take 
its ongoing financial planning service. But it has said that if he doesnt continue with that 
service he needs to take a similar ongoing service from another advisor. So I dont think 
it is unreasonable that the charges for the two services were shown separately in the 
original financial planning document.
I dont know whether Mr S thought it possible he would choose to not continue with the 
ongoing financial planning service when he was first advised by Brewin. From what he 
has told us his recent decision appears to have been made in response to some poor 
market returns, and in an attempt to protect the capital he had invested in his SIPP. He 
said that he didnt make any withdrawals from the SIPP for the same reasons. So it 
does seem to me that it is possible that the decision to cancel the ongoing financial 
planning service wasnt entirely foreseen by Mr S. And so it might not have been 
something that he specifically thought he needed to clarify when accepting Brewins 
recommendations.
But I cannot say that Brewin reasonably gave sufficient information to Mr S about the 
need for ongoing financial advice when he agreed to take DIMS. The advice that Mr S 
accepted was paid for by a 2% charge on the assets he was moving. So I think it 
reasonable that Mr S might have expected that to be a one-off long term decision, and 
one made in full knowledge of the facts. I cannot reasonably exclude the likelihood that, 
had Mr S been aware he would need to pay an ongoing financial advisor fee to utilise 
DIMS, he might have made a different decision.
Mr S clearly finds DIMS an attractive proposition. Throughout this complaint he has 
been clear that he values the service and would like it to continue. However he feels that 
his financial situation, in terms of his goals and objectives, is relatively stable. And so he 
doesnt think he needs, at this time, the sort of advice that he might get from the ongoing 
financial planning service.
But it is entirely reasonable for Brewin to decide the terms on which it is willing to do 
business. And for Brewin to interpret the regulatory environment to ensure that the 
services it provides are aligned with those regulations. So I cannot conclude that I 
should direct Brewin to set aside its requirement for Mr S to receive on-going advice, 
either from Brewin or another external advisor, when he is utilising DIMS for his pension 
savings. It will therefore be up to Mr S, now he is aware of the need to retain an advisor, 
to decide whether he wishes to continue his use of DIMS in the future. Brewin has told 
Mr S that it would be happy for him to do so, providing he either retains his financial 
planning service with Brewin, or appoints an alternative external advisor. Or it has told 
him that he could switch to its model portfolio service that doesnt have the same 
advisor requirement.
I do however need to bear in mind that in order to reach the position he is now in, Mr S 
paid a fee to Brewin both for the initial advice, and its implementation. It doesnt appear, 
from the documentation Brewin has provided to us, that Mr S had agreed to pay any 
part of that fee if he chose to reject the advice from Brewin. Looking at the switching 
comparison reports I can see that Brewin details a 0% advice charge if Mr S decided to 
leave his pension savings with their original providers. So it is entirely possible that, had 
Brewin clearly set out the need for Mr S to pay for an ongoing advice service, he might 
have declined the recommendation, either leaving his pension savings in situ or seeking 
an alternative solution from another provider.
I asked both parties to provide me with any other comments or evidence that they wished 
me to consider before reaching my final decision. Disappointingly Brewin hasnt responded 
to my provisional findings. But Mr S has provided some further comments. Although I am 
only summarising here what he has said, I want to reassure Mr S that I have read his full 
response carefully. Mr S said;
In my provisional decision I accepted that Brewin failed to provide sufficient information as to 
the contractual terms and conditions at the inception of the SIPP in 2018. Mr S doesnt think 
it reasonable that Brewin can subsequently enforce a requirement for him to take a financial 
planning service that hadnt been set out at the beginning. Mr S says that the financial 
planning service adds very little value to him given his background in corporate finance and 
planning. He says that the financial planning meeting he was required to attend with Brewin 
largely consisted of him outlining his plans for the next couple of years with no meaningful 
input from the firm.
In terms of the redress I proposed, Mr S thinks that putting him back into the position he 
would have been in, if no error had occurred, should require Brewin to continue to provide 
him with DIMS without the need for him to take a financial advisory service. But should I not 
agree with that approach, Mr S also comments on the basis he would wish to see any 
transfer away from Brewin be managed. He notes that I have proposed Brewin should 
refund any initial advice fees he needed to pay to a new firm, up to the value of the advice 
fee it received in 2018. He also asks that Brewin should be required to pay any transaction costs that arise from a transfer, and that Brewin reimburse any fees Mr S has paid for the 
financial planning service since April 2018. He says that he has no need to receive the 
payment I proposed in respect of the trouble and upset this matter has caused to him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained in my provisional decision Ive taken into account the law, any relevant 
regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time when deciding this complaint. I have 
also carefully considered the submissions that have been made by Mr S and by Brewin, 
including those from Mr S in response to my provisional decision. Where the evidence is 
unclear, or there are conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the 
surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have 
happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Having considered what Mr S has said carefully, I am not persuaded that I should change 
my provisional findings on this complaint. But it is right that I should provide some further 
explanation about the matters that his response raised.
Mr S has said that he considers a reasonable reflection of being put back into the position he 
would have been should no error have occurred would mean that he was able to continue 
with DIMS without the need to take ongoing financial advice. But I dont agree. The error that 
was made by Brewin was not making it clear to Mr S that he would need to take that ongoing 
advice. So what would have happened if nothing had gone wrong is that Brewin would have 
provided that information to Mr S. He would always have been required to take ongoing 
financial advice if he wished to use DIMS. So I dont think it reasonable to expect Brewin to 
offer DIMS to Mr S without him having an ongoing advice relationship either with the firm, or 
a third party advisor.
I understand why Mr S feels that his financial background means that he would gain little 
from an ongoing advice relationship. But as I explained in my provisional decision Brewin is 
generally entirely free to set the terms on which it wishes to do business. It has no ongoing 
responsibility to offer DIMS to Mr S provided it gives him the required notice. And so, even if 
I did require Brewin to provide DIMS without Mr S having an appointed advisor, it could 
withdraw the DIMS offering at any time.
Mr S has told us that he finds the benefits offered by DIMS to be of use to him. A 
requirement of using DIMS is that a consumer takes ongoing financial advice so I think it is 
entirely reasonable that Mr S pays for the ongoing advice service that Brewin has provided 
since 2018.I cannot be sure what Mr S would have done in 2018 had he been told that he needed to 
retain an ongoing advice relationship, with Brewin or another firm, as a pre-requisite of 
taking DIMS. So that it why I have formulated the redress as I set out in my provisional 
decision. The aim of that redress would effectively allow Mr S to wind back the clock if he 
wanted and place his investments under the management of another firm. And the redress 
I proposed, and will now direct below, means that any advice, or transfer transaction, 
charges Mr S incurs as a result are refunded by Brewin up to the level of the initial advice  
charge that it took. 
And I do think it is right, should Mr S choose to remain with Brewin, that the trouble and 
upset he has been caused is recognised. So I will still direct Brewin to pay Mr S £300 in that 
regard, although Mr S is of course free to pass that onto a charity of his choosing should he 
not wish to accept the payment.
Putting things right
Within six months of his acceptance of my final decision Mr S should notify Brewin whether 
he intends to continue with DIMS, and if so whether he will continue to take the Brewin 
provided ongoing financial planning service or take a similar service from an external 
provider. I think it reasonable that Brewin should be able to engage with any external 
provider chosen by Mr S to satisfy itself that the external provider is providing a sufficient 
level of ongoing advice.
If Mr S continues to use Brewin to manage his investments, either through DIMS or by use of 
the model portfolio offering, Brewin should pay him £300 for the trouble and upset this matter 
has caused to him.
If Mr S decides to engage another firm to take over it is likely that he will need to pay a fee to 
that firm for the transfer advice and implementation of any recommendations, and charges 
for the transfer transactions. Brewin should pay Mr S an equivalent amount to any transfer or 
advice charges that he incurs up to a maximum of the advice charge it received from Mr S in 
2018.
Mr S asked that I provide further instructions to Brewin to direct that it should ensure any 
transfer is facilitated in-specie. Whilst I would expect Brewin to provide all reasonable 
assistance to Mr S at the time of any transfer I accept that the majority of the responsibility 
will fall between the SIPP provider and Mr Ss new advisor. So I am not making any 
directions in that regard.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint and direct Brewin Dolphin Limited to put 
things right as detailed above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 14 February 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman