DRN-3901447
The complaint
Mrs H, through her representative, complains that Valour Finance Limited, trading as 
Savvy.co.uk, lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
In August 2020, Mrs H was approved for one loan repayable over 15 months. After various 
checks were carried out Valour offered Mrs H a £2,000 loan. She reduced it to a £1,500 loan 
and the repayments were fifteen lots of £200 each month. Mrs H repaid the loan on time and 
with no missed payments. The total paid was £3,000. 
Mrs H said: By continuing to approve loans that were unaffordable, I got into further debt 
and suffered financial hardship as a result. 
After Mrs H had commenced the complaint, Valour replied with its final response letter (FRL) 
in which it gave reasons why it considered it had carried out sufficient checks and had rightly 
approved the loan as Mrs H could afford it. It spoke to Mrs H on the telephone and that 
recorded call has been provided to us. Valour had access through Open Banking to her 
current account into which her salary of around £2,700 a month after tax was paid. It had 
carried out a search of her credit file and the details in that search also showed up as 
payments out of her bank account as transactions. 
Mrs H, through her representative, referred it to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of 
our adjudicators looked at all the information Valour provided to us and decided that Mrs H 
had too many credit commitments and usual household bills to be able to afford this £200 a 
month for the Valour loan. 
Valour disagreed and gave reasons as to why. I have reviewed them and our adjudicators 
response to those. 
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Valour needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs H 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure. 
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Valour should 
fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the 
consumer. 
These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a level of income);
having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time (reflecting 
the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. But as Mrs H took one loan only from 
Valour then this does not really apply to her complaint. 
Valour was required to establish whether Mrs H could sustainably repay her loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. The 
loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the 
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
to do that.
I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Hs complaint. I have decided to uphold Mrs Hs 
complaint. And I have not seen fit to decipher on which sums were added into which 
calculation. Ive made it simpler than that. By using the credit search results Valour carried 
out in August 2020 and by reviewing the full transaction lists Mrs H provided to Valour then 
I can see Mrs H was not able to afford this loan without the figures being very tight indeed. 
Mrs Hs credit file reveals that she was committed to pay each month:
£730 a month for her mortgage (and this shows as just under £762 on her bank 
transaction lists in August 2020)
£447 on a second secured loan 
£399 on another loan
£397 on another loan
£18 on a recently taken loan
£22 and £10 on two loans which had (comms) marked next to it and on the 
transaction lists I have seen that Mrs H was paying for two sets of telephone bills.
In addition to the above, which comes to £2,023 (when using the smaller mortgage payment 
of £730), then Mrs Hs credit file records obtained by Valour show that she had around 
£14,635 over four credit cards. Three of those cards were close to their credit limits. And a 
minimum payment would have had to have been paid to each of these cards each month. 
And at the absolute minimum of 3% that calculates to around £439 a month. Reviewing Mrs Hs transactions on her bank statements I have been able to identify regular 
payments which often added up to around £350 a month and so she was almost achieving 
those minimum payments for those four credit cards.
So, the total outgoings for all the above added up to £2,462. 
On top of all these commitments, Mrs H was also making payments to utility bills, 
insurances, petrol and food and some general living expenses. 
Miss Hs income was around £2,700 a month after tax was paid. In my view Valour had 
enough information to realise that Mrs H was not able to afford the £200 a month at all, or 
not able to afford it easily. 
And so, I consider that the loan ought not to have been approved for her. I uphold the 
complaint. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Valour should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it had not lent to Mrs H, as Im satisfied it ought not to have. Clearly 
there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mrs H may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, they may 
have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to reconstruct now accurately. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real 
and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mrs H in a 
compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Mrs H would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Valours liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has 
done wrong and should put right.
Valour ought to do as follows: 
refund all interest and charges Mrs H paid on this loan;
pay interest of 8% simple a year* on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative payment information about this loan from Mrs Hs credit file;
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Valour to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Hs complaint and I direct that Valour Finance Limited, 
trading as Savvy.co.uk, should put things right for Mrs H in the way I have listed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman