DRN-2885588
The complaint
Mr C complains about a loan from Bamboo Limited, trading as Bamboo Loans, (Bamboo), 
which he says was unaffordable. The complaint has been brought to this service on Mr Cs 
behalf by a claims management company. But for ease, I shall refer below to all actions 
being taken by Mr C.
 
What happened
Bamboo provided Mr C with a loan of £4,000 for home improvements on 20 February 2019. 
The loan was secured by a guarantor who would be responsible for repaying it if he failed to 
make his repayments. The interest rate was 49.7%. The loan was to be repaid over 36 
months with monthly repayments of £194.78. If Mr C made each payment when it was due, 
hed pay £7,012.14 in total. The loan hasnt yet been repaid.
Mr C says that Bamboo ought to have known that he could not afford to repay the loan and 
in order to repay the loan, he would have to borrow from other lenders which resulted in 
trapping him in a debt spiral.
In its final response letter Bamboo said that it had completed a thorough review of Mr Cs 
credit report. This showed that he had largely good credit profiles going back several years, 
including a well-paid hire purchase account. Furthermore, he had not defaulted on any line 
of credit in over 63 months and was within all of the credit limits available to him. Bamboo 
said that this indicated that he was managing his finances well. It did see that he had some 
adverse historic small balances and that he had no active payday loans. Based on this 
information Bamboo considered that Mr C was creditworthy for a loan of this size.    
Bamboo also said that Mr C declared a monthly income of £2,400 and it noted that he was 
self-employed. It said that Mr C had declared no accommodation costs. It assessed Mr Cs 
monthly living expenses of £435.20 from statistical data and his monthly credit commitments 
of £631 from its credit checks. It calculated Mr Cs disposable income as £1,333.80. Bamboo 
said that after the proposed loan payment of £194.78, there was an excellent buffer in case 
of emergencies, irregular expenditure or a change in his circumstances and showed that the 
payments should have been affordable for him.  Bamboo appreciated that self-employed 
income could be erratic, but it had comfort that Mr Cs average monthly disposable income 
was high enough to be able to even out any low earning periods. Bamboo also said that as 
Mr C had passed all its automated checks and the loan was demonstrated to be sustainably 
affordable for him, it had no requirement to ask for any additional proofs, such as bank 
statements or payslips. 
Although Bamboo didnt think it had done anything wrong, it said that it was prepared to offer 
Mr C a reduction of £500 to his outstanding balance as a full and final settlement of his 
complaint. 
Our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and recommended that it be upheld. She said that 
Bamboos credit checks pointed to the fact that Mr C was struggling with his existing credit
commitments and was unable to repay these in a sustainable manner. Shed noted two 
defaults and a County Court Judgement, (CCJ), on the checks. In these circumstances, 
she thought Bamboo ought to have realised it was unlikely Mr C wouldve been able to 
sustainably repay this loan.
.
Bamboo disagreed and responded to say, in summary, that:
 The two defaults the adjudicator had referred to were from six years prior to the application 
date. The CCJ shown in its credit checks was in 2015 which was over three years prior to 
the application. The CCJ was registered at a former address. In Bamboos experience it 
wasnt unusual for some consumers to be unaware of registered CCJs at previous 
addresses. The combined value of the defaults and CCJs was just £800 which was a third of 
one months net pay for the consumer.
 There was evidence on Mr Cs credit file that he was making larger repayments than the
minimum which would have been required, demonstrating that he did have sufficient 
disposable income and suggesting a degree of financial discipline on his behalf.
 Mr C had paid the Bamboo loan perfectly. So, no detriment had been caused to the 
consumer by its decision to lend.
 It had obtained a new credit report on Mr C to assist its investigation and this had
shown that there was no evidence that the consumer had had to borrow from other creditors 
such as payday lenders or other high cost short term loan providers to enable him to make 
his Bamboo loan repayments.
 There was some new adverse information on Mr Cs credit file. This could be explained by
an unfortunate post loan change of circumstances, which Bamboo was aware of. 
 The consumers debt to net income ratio was considered reasonable at 58% and a 
significant proportion of his credit was on a hire purchase account, which he was paying 
perfectly. 
 The adjudicator hadnt provided any evidence to prove that the loan was unaffordable. 
Bamboo hadnt seen any retrospective bank statements. But the fact that Mr C had paid it 
well and the new credit report identified that he hadnt borrowed from other creditors would 
suggest that the loan was affordable and he had manged to make his repayments from his 
disposable income.
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, as an ombudsman, 
to review and resolve. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr C 
and to Bamboo on 19 May 2021. I summarise my findings:
I firstly said that I was sorry to learn about Mr Cs health difficulties, and that this must be a 
very difficult time for him. 
I noted that when Bamboo lent to Mr C the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority 
and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). 
Bamboo was entering a regulated credit agreement. So, it had to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of Mr Cs creditworthiness before it entered the agreement. This meant that 
Bamboo had to consider both the risk to it that Mr C wouldnt make the repayments under 
the agreement when due, and the risk to Mr C of not being able to make these repayments. 
In particular, Bamboo had to consider Mr Cs ability to make repayments under the 
agreement as they fell due over the life of the agreement, without him having to borrow to 
meet the repayments, without him failing to make any other repayment he had a contractual or statutory duty to make, and without the repayments having a significant adverse effect on 
his financial situation. 
The rules didnt set out any specific checks which must be completed to assess 
creditworthiness. But the lender should take into account the borrowers income (over the full 
term of the loan) and their ongoing expenditure for living expenses and other debts. Whilst it 
was down to the lender to decide what specific checks it wished to carry out these should be 
reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit being provided, the length of 
the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments and the total cost of the credit. So, a 
lenders assessment of creditworthiness needed to be flexible and what was appropriate for 
one person might not be for another. And what might be sufficient for a borrower in one 
circumstance might not be so for the same borrower in other circumstances. 
In general, Id have expected a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential 
risk to the consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for 
example, Id expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
 the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 the longer the period of time a borrower would be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of credit was likely to be greater and the borrower was required to make 
repayments for an extended period). 
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Cs case, Id considered the 
following questions:
 - Did Bamboo complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Cs loan 
application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? If 
not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
 - Did Bamboo make a fair lending decision? 
Did Bamboo complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Cs loan 
application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
As set out above, Bamboo had gathered some information from Mr C about his income and 
accommodation expenses before it agreed the loan. It had also carried out a credit check. 
Mr C told Bamboo he was self-employed, lived with his partner who worked, and that his 
monthly income was between £2,300 and £2,500. But I thought the fact that Mr C was self-
employed meant that his income might have been sporadic or likely to fluctuate. His 
declared income might not have been his available income and might not have been net of 
all tax, national insurance and business expenses. There was also an element of uncertainty 
 especially as Mr C was unlikely to receive any sick pay or holiday pay. So, I thought this 
might have caused Bamboo to take additional care when reviewing Mr Cs loan application. 
 
Mr C also told Bamboo that he owned his house and had no mortgage. Bamboo didnt ask 
Mr C for any information about his living costs. It had assessed these according to statistical 
information. The lender had also assessed Mr Cs credit commitments. Bamboo calculated 
that Mr C had a disposable income of £1,333.80. 
Id reviewed Bamboos credit check. Id noted that this showed that Mr C had 15 active credit 
accounts and that four of these had been opened in the previous six months. There were also 17 credit searches made in the previous 12 months. Mr C had a total balance 
outstanding of £16,700.
Bamboo was likely to be aware from its credit check that there was a CCJ dated    
December 2015. There were also two defaulted accounts from April 2013 and         
November 2013. Although the defaults and CCJ werent recent, I could see that Mr C had 
been making repayments towards the respective balances. But these had stopped for one of 
the defaulted accounts in November 2018 leaving a balance of £120, and they had also 
stopped for the second defaulted account in October 2018 leaving a balance of £197. I 
thought these might have caused Bamboo concerns as Mr C didnt appear to be managing 
the debts well in recent months.
More worryingly, I could see that Mr C had opened five credit card accounts in 2018, two of 
which had been opened in December 2018. This suggested a recent need for credit. Mr C 
had been making numerous cash advance withdrawals on each of the five credit cards in 
recent months. The credit check showed £3,780 had been withdrawn in the previous twelve 
months from his credit cards. There were six cash withdrawals totalling £330 in          
January 2019, the month prior to his loan application. This was an expensive form of 
obtaining cash and I thought Mr Cs frequent use of credit cards to obtain cash ought to have 
caused Bamboo concerns, and ought to have also caused it to question Mr Cs disposable 
income. 
Id also seen more evidence of Mr Cs recent increasing need for credit on the credit check. I 
noted that Mr C had borrowed £2,000 in April 2018. This was repaid on 30 October 2018.  
Mr C then took out a larger loan for £4,250 on the same day that his April 2018 loan was 
repaid. I thought it was likely that the April 2018 loan was repaid from the proceeds of the 
larger loan. I also noted that the balance due on the £4,250 loan had increased in     
February 2019 which suggested possible arrears or fees added. 
I also noted that Mr C had taken out a further loan for around £3,000 in October 2018 and a 
loan for hire purchase for £7,000 in May 2018.
Altogether I thought Bamboos credit checks ought to have caused it concerns as Mr Cs 
finances appeared to be under pressure and indicated that Mr C was likely struggling to 
manage his money. This was shown by Mr Cs relatively recent need for credit shown by the 
five new credit card accounts in 2018, the four new loans in 2018, his numerous cash 
advances on all his credit cards, the possible arrears on his £4,250 loan and the pause in 
repayments on his defaulted accounts.
Overall, I thought Bamboo ought to have been concerned about Mr Cs ability to repay its 
loan out of his usual means, without borrowing, as he wasnt managing to do so with his 
existing debt. It was clear that his finances were already pressured. In the four months prior 
to his loan application, Mr C had taken out loans totalling around £7,250 and opened two 
new credit card accounts. It wasnt likely he would be able to meet further debt sustainably if 
he was just servicing his existing debt. 
On balance, I didnt think Bamboo treated Mr C fairly when it agreed to lend to him based on 
the information it would have seen on its credit checks because this showed it was likely that 
agreeing more credit for him would simply add to his debt levels. I thought the amount and 
extent of Mr Cs recent borrowing ought to have caused Bamboo concerns. I also thought it 
might have been concerned as to why someone with such a large proportion of available 
income (according to its own calculations) would need to borrow so much expensive credit 
so recently. Bamboo estimated that Mr Cs disposable income each month was around 
£1,334 which I didnt consider to be consistent with the amount of debt he had, nor the need 
for a further high cost loan.I also didnt think it was reasonable for Bamboo to rely on statistical information about Mr Cs 
living costs without verifying it. Bamboo used ONS data, which was based on the finances 
and expenditure of the average consumer, to estimate Mr Cs living expenses. But Mr Cs 
multiple recent credit applications meant that Bamboo knew it was providing a loan to 
someone who fell outside this average portfolio. I didnt think that using ONS data  which 
was unlikely to reflect the existing commitments and expenditure of someone in Mr Cs 
circumstances was fair, reasonable and proportionate. 
I also noted that Mr Cs total existing credit repayments (as calculated by Bamboo) would 
take up around 26% of Mr Cs declared (but unverified) self-employed monthly income, and 
that they would take up over 34% of Mr Cs income once the loan had been provided. I 
thought that Mr Cs expenditure on credit repayments represented a significant proportion of 
his income and was likely an indication that he was experiencing financial difficulties. 
So overall, I thought Bamboo was irresponsible to have agreed to lend to Mr C based on the 
information it already had. I didnt think Bamboo had a complete picture of Mr Cs financial 
circumstances when it agreed to provide this expensive loan to him. He was, after all, 
committing to repay £7,012.14 over 36 months. And I thought that it had made an unfair 
lending decision here. 
Subject to any further representations by Mr C or Bamboo, my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint. I intended to order Bamboo to put things right as shown 
below.
Putting things right  what Bamboo needs to do
I understand that the loan hasnt been repaid but I can see from Bamboos transactions 
statement that Mr C has repaid more than the capital amount of £4,000 he borrowed for his 
loan. In line with this Services approach, Mr C shouldnt repay more than the capital amount 
of £4,000.
If Bamboo has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back if it is able to do so or chooses 
to do so and then take the steps listed below. If Bamboo isnt able to buy the debt back or 
chooses not to, then it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined 
below.
1. Remove any interest and charges applied to Mr Cs account from when it was 
opened;
2. Treat all payments made by Mr C as payments towards the capital amount.
3. If Mr C has made payments above the capital amount, then these should be 
refunded to him, along with simple interest at the rate of 8% per year on these 
amounts from the date they were paid to the date of settlement*;
4. If there is a shortfall in repayments which leaves a capital amount outstanding, 
then Bamboo needs to treat Mr C sympathetically and fairly, which might include 
coming to a new arrangement about how best to repay this; and 
5. Bamboo should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Bamboo to take off tax from this interest. Bamboo 
must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one. 
Mr C hasnt provided any further information in response to my provisional decisionBamboo responded to my provisional decision to say that it had requested the removal of 
negative payment information from Mr Cs credit file and calculated that Mr C was due a 
refund.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Mr C has given me nothing further to consider, and it appears from Bamboos 
response to my provisional decision that it has accepted it, I see no reason to depart from 
the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold this complaint 
and require Bamboo to pay Mr C some compensation and take the steps as set out above 
under the heading Putting things right  what Bamboo needs to do.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint I order 
Bamboo Limited, trading as Bamboo Loans, to pay the compensation and take the steps set 
out above under the heading Putting things right  what Bamboo needs to do.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman