DRN-3469869
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy with how Nationwide Building Society handled their chargeback 
claim when they fell victim to an investment scam. 
The disputed transactions were made by Mrs A, so for ease Ive referred to her throughout 
my decision.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to the parties, so I wont repeat them in detail 
again here. Instead, Ill provide an overview of what happened and focus on giving my 
reasons for my decision.
In summary, in December 2020, Mrs A came across an investment opportunity and set up 
an account with CoinStock Trading (who later turned out to be fraudulent). To facilitate 
trading on her account, Mrs A first sent money from her Nationwide account to another 
business called Simplex. It converted her funds into cryptocurrency and then sent it on to the 
intended destination as instructed by Mrs As account manager at CoinStock Trading.
The following payments were made to Simplex from Mrs As Nationwide debit cards:
Date Debit card used Amount
14 December 2020 Sole account £1,000
17 December 2020 Sole account £2,350
17 December 2020 Sole account £200
17 December 2020 Joint account £300
17 December 2020 Joint account £1,280
Total loss £5,130 
Shortly after making the payments, following a discussion with her account manager, Mrs A 
realised that shed been scammed. She reported the matter to Nationwide and requested its 
assistance in recovering her funds.
Nationwide raised chargebacks on these transactions but things went wrong along the way 
there were delays in logging one of the chargebacks, the temporary credit was provided for 
an incorrect amount, one of the chargebacks was logged for an unrelated transaction, the 
updates provided to Mrs A werent always helpful, etc. 
Mrs A complained and Nationwide accepted it had made mistakes. It offered £200 
compensation in recognition of this which she accepted. Ultimately, the chargebacks were 
successfully defended, and the temporary credits were reversed. 
Our investigator concluded that Nationwide had already fairly compensated Mrs A for the 
mistakes it made in relation to the chargebacks. And it wasnt unreasonable for it to have 
reversed the temporary credits. The investigator also considered whether Nationwide could 
have done more to prevent the payments from being made in the first instance. It was her 
view that Nationwide hadnt acted unfairly in this regard either.
Mrs A didnt agree, and the matter was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Thinking first about the recovery of Mrs As funds once Nationwide became aware of 
the situation, I can see that it has already accepted things didnt go as they should 
have. Clearly, this added to Mrs As frustrations. When thinking about whether the 
amount of £200 Nationwide has already paid in recognition of this is fair 
compensation, I also need to consider whether the outcome of the recovery attempts 
would have been any different had things gone the way they should have. 
Mrs A used her Nationwide cards to pay Simplex  a legitimate company  for the 
purchase of cryptocurrency, which was duly received. The loss shes complained 
about occurred when she transferred the cryptocurrency to the fraudulent company. 
In the circumstances, Mrs A wouldnt have been able to claim that she didnt receive 
the goods or services paid for from her Nationwide account; that being the purchase 
of the cryptocurrency. The fact that her funds were subsequently transferred on to a 
scammer doesnt give grounds for a chargeback against Simplex. This is precisely 
why the chargebacks were ultimately successfully defended by Simplex. 
So, even if Nationwide hadnt committed errors, Im not persuaded that recovery of 
funds would have been successful. In the circumstances, I consider that the amount 
of £200 fairly reflects the additional inconvenience and distress Mrs A experienced 
because of Nationwides actions. So, I wont be making a further award in relation to 
this. 
Given the chargebacks failed, I dont consider it unreasonable or unfair for 
Nationwide to have reversed the credits it had applied to Mrs As accounts. They 
were temporary while it awaited the outcome of the chargebacks. And it gave notice 
before debiting the funds.
Ive also considered whether Nationwide ought to have intervened before letting the 
payments go through. The disputed transactions were authorised by Mrs A using her 
legitimate credentials. So, under the relevant regulations, shes considered liable 
unless theres evidence that Nationwide could and should reasonably have done 
more to protect her against the risk of fraud and scams, and that this would have 
made a difference to her decision-making. 
Nationwide ought to have been: monitoring accounts to counter various risks; having 
systems in place to identify unusual transactions or other indicators that its customer 
was at risk of fraud; and, in some situations, making additional checks before 
processing payments or declining them altogether to protect its customer from 
possible financial harm from fraud. 
In Mrs As case, I dont think there was a reason for Nationwide to have challenged 
any of the disputed payments. She paid a legitimate business and there were no regulator warnings about it at the time the payments were authorised. I also dont 
consider the transaction amounts to be particularly unusual or suspicious based on 
Mrs As spending activity such that Nationwides fraud detection systems ought to 
have been triggered, and that it should have properly questioned her about the 
payments before releasing them. A payment service provider, like Nationwide, must 
balance the extent to which it intervenes in payments to try and prevent fraud against 
the risk of unnecessarily inconveniencing or delaying legitimate transactions.  
In summary, I know that Mr and Mrs A will be disappointed with this outcome. Not least 
because the matter has been ongoing for some time. But for the reasons stated above, 
I dont consider it would be fair or reasonable to hold Nationwide liable for their loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman