DRN-3341132
The complaint
Ms R complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) has wrongly 
charged her for damage to her car at the end of a hire purchase arrangement.
What happened
In November 2018 Ms R entered into a four-year hire purchase agreement with MBFS for a 
new car. It was valued at some £44,000, and Ms R was to make monthly payments of just 
under £700, followed by a lump sum payment if, at the end of the four years, she wanted to 
keep the car. 
The hire purchase agreement said that, if the car was returned to MBFS (either at the end of 
the term or otherwise), it must be returned in a condition in line with the Vehicle Return 
Standards. It set out at some length the type of damage that would be acceptable as wear 
and tear and what would not be acceptable. Any damage outside the Standards would be 
payable by Ms R. 
Ms R returned the car in November 2021. It was inspected briefly at the time of collection 
(when some paint chips were highlighted), and a more detailed inspection was subsequently 
arranged by MBFS. That inspection, MBFS said, revealed some small dents, paint 
scratches, interior scuffs, and a scratched wheel rim. In addition, one of the tyres had a cut 
and one had been replaced with an inferior specification. In total, MBFS sought an additional 
payment of £1,224.46 to cover the damage. 
Ms R challenged the charges. She said that some of the damage was wear and tear and 
was within the Vehicle Return Standards. MBFS agreed to remove some of the charges  in 
respect of two dents and the wheel rim. This reduced the charge to £1,044.46. Ms R did not 
think this went far enough and offered to pay £500 to resolve matters. MBFS did not accept 
that offer, and so Ms R referred the matter to this service. 
Our investigator did not recommend any further reductions. Having reviewed the inspection 
report and the photographs included in it, he thought the charges had been applied fairly. Ms 
R asked that an ombudsman review the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, however, I have reached the same overall conclusion as the investigator 
did, and for broadly the same reasons. 
There is of course no substitute for a physical inspection of the car at the time it was 
returned to MBFS. I am not in a position to carry out such an inspection, but I am satisfied 
that the car was inspected by an experienced professional who described the damage 
accurately and provided photographs  which I have considered carefully. Having done so, I 
believe they do show the damage described in the inspection report. I believe too that the 
damage described and evidenced and for which MBFS has made a charge falls outside the 
Vehicle Return Standards, and that the charges are reasonable. 
In the circumstances, I do not believe it would be fair to require MBFS to reduce the charge 
any further.   
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited to do anything more to resolve Ms Rs complaint.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman