DRN-3600421
The complaint
F, a firm, complains about the difficulties it had using internet banking at Clydesdale Bank 
Plc.
What happened
F is part of a business grouping with some limited companies. Access to the bank accounts 
online for these businesses was being co-ordinated through the director and partner in F 
who represents the business grouping in this complaint.. 
In 2020 he realised that any payments made using online banking were showing in the 
narrative as being made by F. So, this raised an issue about the source of the funds for a 
transaction. F brought a complaint about this and was paid £200 in compensation for not 
being told about the issue and as an initial response hadnt addressed its concerns. 
The director then tried to migrate all the businesses to a new internet banking system. He 
was unhappy with the administration involved and that access to the system for all 
businesses was lost for a period and not all the firms were added. He wanted a company to 
be the lead business on the system. As there were issues a further complaint was raised this 
time in the name of that company. Clydesdale considered the overall issues with the 
business grouping and paid that company £300 in compensation.
A different company raised a further complaint because it seemed in error to have been 
made the lead business for internet banking and when this was altered was unable to make 
online payments. It raised this with Clydesdale and in the meantime had to make payments 
by CHAPS which caused further administration and not all its payees accepted payments in 
this way. It made eight such payments at a cost of £25 and Clydesdale had refunded five of 
them. It also paid that company £100 in compensation. 
Our investigator considered the specific issues for F. He said that in 2018 Clydesdale had 
made systems changes. This meant that the remitter for a payment could no longer be 
chosen. It then defaulted to the name of the lead account, which then was F. There was 
unclear information about how to resolve this. He thought that the compensation paid was 
fair.
F didnt agree and wanted its complaint to be referred for an ombudsmans decision.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 15 June 2022 and detail below what I said.
I needed to set out first how Ill approach this complaint. As I stated above this is one of 
three complaints for the same business group. But these have been dealt with by Clydesdale 
as I understood it by the main business entity that brought each one. The issues are clearly 
overlapping. But I thought its reasonable to think that dealing say with access to internet 
banking had common issues across all businesses and that the compensation reflects the 
actions in the main of each lead business dealing with a particular issue. 
We provide informal dispute resolution and we dont regulate business processes. And if, as 
it seems here, systems changes removed some functionality we wouldnt be asking that it be 
restored. We would look at how that was communicated, and any changes handled. In terms 
of any awards our role isnt to be punitive but to reflect what happened. 
I looked here at the complaint by F. I am looking separately at the complaints by the other 
two companies. I said I was issuing a provisional decision so that F can make any comments 
on my approach and how Ive dealt with the issues.
In this complaint I wanted to highlight in particular the following specific impacts for F as part 
of the service issues:
- The communication of changes to online banking.
- The way in which the businesses had been linked leading to the issue with the 
reported source of the funds.
The points about the process for migrating all businesses, the manual changes and the loss 
of access to online banking and payments are being considered under the complaints by the 
two companies to avoid duplication. I took the view as I will explain that the resolution for F 
dealt with the overall impact of its complaint points for the business group. It is a matter for 
that group to decide how to disperse that if it wants to.
Clydesdale accepted that although it had issued emails and notifications on its website about 
changes to its systems it regretted that F wasnt aware of this. It said that as the parts of the 
business grouping were separate the accounts should not be linked under one ID on 
internet banking. The ID used to log in to internet banking is the one shown as the remitter 
for payments from any account. F had never been registered for business online banking 
and had been using a system that had migrated into Retail Internet Banking. It could use this 
even as a business, but Clydesdales Business Internet Banking was specifically designed 
for businesses. F would need to register for Business Internet Banking if it wanted to use 
that service and I understood that it had started the process to do so.
In summary it said that the issues F was experiencing were administrative not technical. And 
that when these accounts from separate businesses were initially linked, [it] could have 
identified the subsequent issues this would cause you. 
It has offered £200 to reflect what happened. I noted that the payments were being shown 
from F rather than a specific company and involved an enquiry about the source of money. I 
take that into account and the communication with F. Having done so I considered that the 
compensation offered for these issues is reasonable. As I said I will be looking at what 
happened subsequently in the complaints from the other companies.
I appreciated that F wants any action to have more of an impact for Clydesdale. Id explained 
that this isnt our role. I thought that this compensation in light of my separate assessment 
for the two companies fairly compensates F.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Clydesdale said it accepted my decision.The representative of both F and the other two complainants made some further comments. 
These were grouped as general and specific.
General
The internet linked accounts facility worked perfectly well from 2006 to 2018. It was only 
when the changes were made that the failures occurred. There were none when these were 
first linked in 2006.
The decisions are written as if the representative had decided which entities complained 
about which issues. That was something Clydesdale decreed.
In terms of the general points I recognised that the problems arose due to the systems 
change in 2018. I also accept that Clydesdale chose how to respond to the complaints and 
decided which was the main business entity each time. I have had to issue separate 
decisions for the different legal entities.
Specific
The representative wanted confirmation that some specific points had been taken into 
account and if not asked that they could be. 
I am going to deal with the following specific comment under the complaint for F. This is that 
Clydesdale refused to assist and evidence the correct source of funds in a property 
transaction required for money laundering checks the agent needed to comply with.
In considering this complaint I can confirm that I have taken into account everything that the 
representative has said. And in particular he had produced a timeline of events in a detailed 
document and had highlighted which points related to which complainant. It wasnt practical 
or in my view necessary to detail every issue in my provisional decision and I formed my 
own view about what was reasonable.
I note that the document set out that there was incorrect notification to recipients of the 
rouse of funds and no assistance to resolve my immediate difficulty. And that I spoke with a 
help desk who confirmed that there was nothing that could be done to provide accurate 
source evidence on the Internet Banking (IB) platform.
Having reviewed everything again I remain of the view that the compensation for F is 
reasonable for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision. So, I wont be departing from 
that.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint in the sense that Clydesdale Bank Plc 
need do no more than it has already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 Michael Crewe
Ombudsman