DRN-3481942
The complaint
X is complaining Nationwide Building Society hasnt refunded an amount she paid for a new 
kitchen. She part paid for the kitchen on her Nationwide credit card and she brings the claim 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
What happened
X contacted a kitchen supply company  who I shall refer to as P  to design, supply and 
install a new kitchen. P visited her property to design the kitchen and presented the designs 
to her. It quoted her £25,750 for the kitchen which she agreed to. She paid a deposit of 
£9,900 on her Nationwide credit card and paid the remainder later once the work had 
started.
One of the requirements as part of the agreed kitchen design was that the fuse board 
needed to be moved. X separately contracted with the kitchen fitter P used to install the 
kitchen  who I shall refer to as J  to move the fuse board. However, it later became 
apparent that it wasnt an easy task to move the fuse board. X arranged for her own 
electrician to inspect the fuse board to review the work J had done to date and to advise 
whether it was possible to move the fuse board. The electrician concluded the following:
Regarding moving the CD, I'm having doubts as to how easy it will be without significant 
upheaval. The main power from your meter box outside to this unit comes up the wall just 
behind the big red on/off switch in thick cables we call 'tails' (you can just about see one 
going down out the hole in the back of the box). When installing electrics we have 'safe 
zones' that tell us where it is safe to run cables so that other trades won't run the risk of 
drilling into them. One way we mark zones is by having accessories (plug sockets, switches, 
CDs, etc), on the surface where they run. Since these tails run up behind that red switch, we 
need something in the location of the switch showing where these cables could be. This is 
particularly important with these tails as they have minimal protective devices on them 
before they reach this CD - anyone drilling into them could be in serious trouble.
I've already mentioned that one approach to allow moving this CU would be to have second 
connection box in the location of the big red switch, and then cables coming from this going 
to the moved CU. The only safe approach to not having a connection box in this location 
would be to move the tails too. To do this, you'd really want to use armoured cable (which is 
unlikely to be accidentally drilled through) - this would need to be run on the outside of the 
house from your meter box, up the wall, and then through the kitchen wall at the required 
location. This would be very thick cable. You would also need to extend all the other cables 
coming from the box  these currently seem to go straight up from the CU and into the 
ceiling void. To extend these, you will need to cut into the ceiling to access the void, and this 
would need re-plastering afterwards. I can't realistically quote on this second approach 
without doing more diagnostic work - I'd want to open the ceiling up to see what access we 
have for extending the cables, and assess the suitability of bringing the armoured cable in 
and through the wall. However, I'll hazard a guess that you're looking at least £900- 
£1000ish, and 2-3 days work. You will also need someone to repair any damage/decorating 
to the plaster work.
X complained to P that it hadnt designed the kitchen correctly and was unhappy it had 
required her to move the fuse board. She asked it to stop doing any further installation of the 
kitchen and she wants P to refund everything shed paid for it. P said it wasnt liable under 
the terms of the contract for the electrical work. It also said it presented X with three designs 
which included an option to not move the fuse board. But it said X chose the design which 
required the fuse board to move because this design had a wider opening around the hob 
area. It said this design looked neater than the version which allowed the fuse board to 
remain in position as the extractor housing was smaller.
X disputed that P gave her three designs and maintained it only presented the design she 
agreed to. She also said the proposed new location of the fuse board was in breach of 
building regulations. P disputed this as it says its internal records showed that three designs 
were created and printed off. It also said it wouldnt make sense for it to not provide a design 
that didnt require the moving of the fuse board. It said the moving of the fuse board was 
possible and complied with building regulations, so it didnt think it had breached the terms of 
the contract with X. However, it said it was willing to refund £3,068 which it said was the cost 
of the remaining works that it hadnt completed.
X has also taken J to court for losses arising from the installation of the kitchen and work 
hed done on the electrics. 
Nationwide didnt uphold Xs S75 claim as it didnt think there was anything to show P had 
breached the terms of its contract with X. However, it later processed a chargeback claim for 
the £9,900 X had paid on her credit card and it temporarily refunded this amount onto the 
credit card. P didnt defend the chargeback, so the refund became a permanent refund.
I issued a provisional decision not upholding this complaint and I said the following:
X partly paid for the supply and installation of the kitchen on her Nationwide credit card. S75 
sets out that in certain circumstances, as the finance provider, Nationwide is jointly liable for 
any breach of contract or misrepresentation by P. Im satisfied those circumstances apply 
here.
Ive considered whether X has a valid claim under both misrepresentation and breach of 
contract. I shall set out my thoughts on both separately. 
Misrepresentation
As I said above, S75 says Nationwide can be held liable for any misrepresentation by P. But, 
further to this, section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 has the effect of making P the 
agent of Nationwide during the antecedent negotiations leading up to X entering into the 
loan agreement, starting from when she was first approached by P. But essentially, this 
means Nationwide is responsible for the acts or omissions of P in relation to the sale of the 
loan to X. In other words, Nationwide has to stand behind the things P said, didnt say, or 
did/didnt do during the sales process.
In thinking about whether P has misrepresented the service or contract, I need to think about 
whether P gave a false statement of fact that induced X into doing something she wouldnt 
have done. Ive also thought about whether P didnt say something it should have done. 
Theres no dispute the design P presented to X, that she accepted, required the fuse board 
to be moved. Im satisfied P would have explained to X shed need to move the fuse board 
as part of the works. However, the terms of the contract are clear that P isnt responsible for 
any electrical work required. So the key thing I need to think about here is whether I think P 
gave X any assurances about the moving of the fuse board.Ive read the reports X has provided from her electrician. While I do not dispute the moving 
of the fuse board is a more than minor task, it is possible to do. And I dont think X has given 
me anything to say moving the fuse board would breach building regulations. Im satisfied 
that, on balance, I think its more likely than not that P would have presented more than one 
design option and Ive found Ps testimony around why X chose the design she did to be 
plausible and persuasive. Its explained X preferred this option because it created a wider 
opening by the extractor hood. I also think its unlikely P wouldnt have provided an option 
that didnt require the fuse board to be moved. So on balance, I think P did give X a choice 
on designs and she chose the design she did.
I recognise that the size of the work required to move the fuse board was more than X 
expected. But, as I said, P wasnt required to arrange the moving of the fuse board. So it 
was ultimately for X to understand the extent of the work required before the contract 
started. And I havent seen anything to show that P advised X how much it would cost to 
move the fuse board, or provided any guidance on the feasibility of doing so.
Ultimately, I havent seen anything to show that P gave X any false statements of facts in 
respect to the cost or feasibility of moving the fuse board. So I dont think it was unfair for 
Nationwide to say it wasnt liable for any misrepresentation by P.
Breach of contract
Under the contact with X, P had agreed to design, supply and install a kitchen. Legislation  
in this case the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA)  implied a number of terms into the 
contract. But in particular P needed to do the following:
It had to supply a kitchen that was of satisfactory quality; and
It needed to initially design it and then install it with reasonable care and skill.
X hasnt raised any concerns regarding the quality of the kitchen itself. So I havent 
commented on this any further. She doesnt think P should have designed a kitchen that 
required the moving of the fuse board. Shes also expressed concern that Ps kitchen fitter 
has caused further damage to the fuse board.
As I said above, P wasnt responsible for the moving of the fuse board. It was ultimately Xs 
responsibility to do so and it was for her to understand the cost and feasibility to do so. Im 
also persuaded it would have given X a design option which didnt involve the moving of the 
fuse board, but X chose the design that meant the fuse board needed to be moved.
However, Ive considered whether P should have presented a design that required moving 
the fuse board. P wouldnt have inspected the entirety of the electrics to understand the 
feasibility of the move and I wouldnt have expected it to do so.
I accept it wasnt a simple job to move the fuse board, but it was possible to do so. Further to 
this, I havent seen anything to show the design would have breached any building 
regulations. I think this is the critical point as there isnt anything to show that the design 
wasnt fit for purpose.
Ultimately, Ps responsibility was to design a kitchen to fit into the space of Xs house. I 
appreciate X is unhappy at the cost of moving the fuse board. But this doesnt mean that P 
didnt fulfil its responsibility as the kitchen it designed was effective and Im satisfied it did 
design it with reasonable care and skill. As I said above, it was for X to ascertain the cost of 
moving the fuse board and I cant hold P responsible if she didnt do so.
I note X has also expressed concern about the work that was done to the fuse board by J. But P wasnt liable for any work that was needed to be done on the electrics. So I cant hold 
P responsible for Js actions in this respect.
Chargeback claim
But, even if I thought P had misrepresented or breached the terms of the contract, Im not 
persuaded Nationwide would be required to do anything to put things right given the amount 
X has received back through the chargeback process. Nationwide processed a chargeback 
claim for the amount X paid on her Nationwide credit card  £9,900  and P didnt defend 
this claim. So X has already received a refund of £9,900.
I understand the work that remained outstanding on the kitchen was the fitting of the work 
surfaces, two wall cabinets and the extractor fan. P has set out that the cost of this work was 
£3,068 which is significantly less than the amount X has already received back.
I note X has said shes removed the original kitchen and is looking to install a replacement 
kitchen, so she thinks she should receive a full refund. But, even if I thought there was a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract  which I dont  theres still a responsibility on X to 
look to mitigate her losses. So I need to think whether it was reasonable for X to do what she 
did. I havent seen anything to show that the kitchen itself wasnt fitted with reasonable care 
and skill or that the quality of the items installed werent of satisfactory quality. So I dont 
think it was necessary to remove the kitchen to put things right and I think there were more 
cost-effective ways to do so. So, even if I thought Nationwide had a liability under S75 here, I 
dont think I could reasonably require it to refund the full cost of the kitchen. And I think the 
£9,900 that X has already received back was more than fair to enable her to put things right.
X disagreed with my provisional decision. She said, as P refused to change the design of the 
kitchen, their only option was to remove the kitchen P installed and install a new one.
Nationwide didnt respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge X feels strongly about whats happened and feels P should refund everything 
shes paid. But she hasnt added anything new to what shes set out before and Im satisfied 
my provisional decision sets out why I havent upheld this complaint. I appreciate X is 
unhappy that P wouldnt change the design. But it wasnt required to do so, given X had 
already chosen the design of the kitchen and the majority of the kitchen had already been 
installed. So I dont have any further comment to make in addition to what I previously set 
out. My final decision
For the reasons I set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2022. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman