DRN-3259939
The complaint
Miss S complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund the money she lost when she was the 
victim of a scam.
What happened
I sent Miss S and Monzo a provisional decision on 6 December 2021 to explain why I wasnt 
intending to uphold this complaint. An extract from my provisional decision is set out below:
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer even though they 
authorised the payment.
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether Monzo 
should have reimbursed Miss S under the provisions of the CRM code and whether it ought 
to have done more to protect Miss S from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. The 
CRM code places a level of care on Miss S too, so Ive considered whether she met this.
The CRM code
As I mentioned above, Monzo has committed to follow the Lending Standards Board 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM code) although it isnt a signatory. The CRM 
code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of Authorised Push 
Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited number of circumstances. And it is for the 
firm to establish that a customer failed to meet their requisite level of care under one of the 
listed exceptions set out in the CRM code.
Under the CRM code, a firm may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that:
The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
othe payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
othe payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
othe person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions within the CRM code, but these dont apply here.
In this case, I think Monzo has been able to establish that it may choose not to reimburse 
Miss S under the terms of the CRM code. Im persuaded one of the listed exceptions to 
reimbursement under the provisions of the CRM code applies in the circumstances of this 
case, specifically that Miss M lacked a reasonable basis for belief that the payments were for 
a genuine service or that the person she was paying was legitimate.
This was clearly a cruel scam and Im sympathetic towards Miss Ss position. But I need to 
consider not just whether Miss S believed what she was being told, but whether it was 
reasonable for her to do so.
Miss S was told an initial investment of £600 would return at least £3,000 within four hours 
and that there was no risk of her losing her initial investment. And I think this offer was too 
good to be true. I appreciate Miss S may not have invested previously, but I think a 
reasonable person would still find this return unusually high, particularly in such a short 
period of time. And while Miss S was given an explanation of why the scammer could offer a 
no loss guarantee, I think this is an unrealistic feature of any investment opportunity and 
should have caused her some concern.
Miss S says she was told the scammer worked for a legitimate trading company, and that 
she looked up the trading company online to check it was legitimate. But she doesnt appear 
to have checked that the scammer worked for the company or been sent anything showing 
the scammer was connected with the company in any way before sending the first payment. 
She also doesnt appear to have questioned why she was asked to make the initial payment 
to an individuals account, rather than to a company account, or why the name of that 
individual didnt match the name of the person she thought she was speaking to.
So I dont think Miss S had a reasonable basis for belief that the first payment of £600 was 
for genuine services or that the person she was paying was legitimate. And I dont think 
anything that happened after that could have given her that belief in making the later 
payment of £1,000 either.
Miss S was sent a table showing her initial investment and the profit it had generated. But its 
not clear exactly what trades took place to generate this profit and the other numbers on the 
table dont appear to relate to each other. For example, the amount listed as 20% 
commission isnt equal to 20% of any of the other numbers in the table and the pending 
account balance doesnt equal the trade surplus minus the trade deficit.
After being sent the table, Miss S was also told she needed to pay a release fee before the 
profits could be paid to her. But it doesnt appear this fee was mentioned before Miss S 
made the initial investment, so I think this new fee should have caused her further concern.
So I dont think Miss S had a reasonable basis for belief in making any of the payments.
Should Monzo have done more to try to prevent the scam and protect Miss S?
The CRM code says that, where firms identify APP scam risks, they should provide effective 
warnings to their customers. The code also says that the assessment of whether a firm has 
met this standard or not should include consideration of whether compliance with that 
standard would have had a material effect on preventing the scam.
Im also mindful that, when Miss S made these payments, Monzo should fairly and 
reasonably also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other 
signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things).
Miss S made two payments as part of the scam in a relatively short period of time. But 
neither of them was for particularly large amounts in comparison to other transactions on her 
account and I dont think they would have stood out enough that Monzo should have been 
concerned that she might be at risk of financial harm. So I dont think Monzo was obliged to 
provide an effective warning under the CRM code and I dont think it acted unfairly by 
allowing the payments to proceed.Monzo also tried to recover the funds once it had been alerted to the scam. But Ive seen 
evidence which shows the payments were removed quickly after they were received. So, 
while its possible Monzo could have acted faster to recover the funds, I think its unlikely this 
would have led to the recovery of Miss Ss funds.
Im satisfied Monzo hasnt made an error by declining to refund Miss S under the CRM code, 
processed the payment correctly and did everything it ought reasonably to have done once it 
was aware of the fraud. So I dont think it would be fair to ask Monzo to refund Miss Ss loss.
I know this will be very disappointing for Miss S. Theres no dispute that shes been the 
victim here and its not my intention to make her feel any worse about what happened. But I 
hope she will understand the reasons why Ive reached my decision that I dont have 
grounds to ask Monzo to reimburse her the money she lost.
Monzo has paid Miss S £75 as compensation for the poor customer service it provided her 
and the delays in dealing with her complaint. And I think this offer is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances. So I dont think it would be fair to require Monzo to pay anything further.
I said Id consider anything further Miss S and Monzo sent in following the provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Miss S nor Monzo sent in any further information or evidence following the 
provisional decision. So I still the think the findings I set out in the provisional decision are 
correct, and for the same reasons.
I dont think it would be fair to require Monzo to refund the money Miss S lost, or to pay her 
any further compensation.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 February 2022. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman