DRN-4024303
The complaint
Mr W complains that FMB Insurance Services Ltd sold him a buildings warranty to cover 
works done by an unsuitable builder.
What happened
In 2017 Mr W bought a warranty through FMB Insurance Services for an extension he was 
building to his property. It covered works carried out by a builder Ill refer to as C, at both 
pre-completion and post-completion stages. C was a member of the membership 
organisation linked to FMB Insurance Services, that I will refer to as F.
Shortly after the policy incepted Mr W reported problems with the work C was completing on 
the build. And in January 2018 the builder left the site and refused to return. In March C was 
expelled from membership of the organisation. Following this a claim was raised on the 
warranty for the work that hadnt been completed.
However Mr W was unhappy that FMB Insurance Services had provided a warranty with a 
builder who was unsuitable. He said hed looked into the companys history and it didnt 
meet Fs criteria to be a member, as it hadnt been trading for a year when it joined. And he 
said hed found that the directors previous company had gone into liquidation and had large 
debts. He made a complaint to FMB Insurance Services as he said it hadnt carried out the 
relevant checks to ensure the builder was suitable to meet their criteria to be an approved 
builder. He also made complaints to the underwriter of the policy and F.
FMB Insurance Services didnt uphold the complaint as it said it had carried out all its usual 
vetting procedures when agreeing to provide the warranty for Cs work. Unhappy with this, 
Mr W brought his complaint to this service to investigate. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said she was satisfied FMB 
Insurance Services carried out reasonable due diligence when agreeing to place a warranty 
to cover Cs work so she didnt think it had acted unfairly. 
Mr W didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As an insurance broker, it is the role of FMB Insurance Services to provide a suitable 
warranty for Mr Ws requirements. And as part of this it provides cover for builders who are 
members of F. 
When selling a warranty policy, this service would expect FMB Insurance Services to carry 
out relevant checks to ensure the builder it is placing the warranty with is suitable and likely 
to be able to complete the work. While I appreciate that this subsequently didnt happen, to 
decide if FMB Insurance Services acted fairly and reasonably at the point of sale, I need to 
consider the checks it carried out at that time without the knowledge of what happened next.
FMB Insurance Services has provided information about the checks it carries out on a 
builder before placing the warranty. It says the company needs to be a member of F and that 
F has its own vetting process. It also checks if the builder has any open disputes with F and 
that its membership fees are up to date. It then carries out its own credit check. 
When FMB Insurance Services provided the warranty, C was a member of F, with no 
disputes or issues at that time. And it found no adverse credit records related to C. 
Its of note that FMB Insurance Services are a separate entity to F. And only FMB Insurance 
Services are regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. That means that this service can 
only consider the actions of FMB Insurance Services when placing the warranty and not the 
actions of F. F have their own vetting checks that they are responsible for carrying out. And 
FMB Insurance Services only checks that a builder is a member of F, and not Fs vetting 
process. As FMB Insurance Services arent involved with these vetting procedures I cannot 
consider whether these were carried out correctly as part of this complaint.
Based on this Im satisfied FMB Services Limited carried out fair and reasonable due 
diligence when placing the warranty for Mr W. And that the results of these checks provided 
no reason for it to be put on notice that C may not complete the work required. I therefore 
dont find that it did anything wrong in the sale of the warranty to Mr W. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman