DRN-4046107
The complaint
Mr C complains about a default recorded on his credit file in 2019 by Link Financial 
Outsourcing Limited.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Mr C complains about a default recorded on his credit file in 2019 by Link Financial 
Outsourcing Limited.
In March 2015 Link wrote to Mr C to advise it had purchased a credit card debt in his name 
from a business Ill call B. At the time, the was an outstanding balance of £6,899.35 and Mr 
P was subject to a Debt Management Plan (DMP) with payments of £68.42 a month agreed 
by the DMP supervisor. The DMP payments were maintained at that level until October 2015 
when they dropped by over half to £33.80. Payments were maintained around that level until 
September 2017 when they increased to £54.06.
In November 2018 the DMP payments reduced to £17.90 and in March 2019 Link issued a 
Notice of Default. The account was ultimately closed with a default recorded on Mr Cs credit 
file. Mr C continued to make payments via his DMP.
Last year, Mr C complained to Link that it had waited too long to close and default his 
account. Mr C says the other businesses included in his DMP applied defaults at a much 
earlier point. As a result of the approach Link took, the default will remain on Mr Cs credit 
file until 2025. Link responded to Mr Cs complaint but didnt agree it had made a mistake or 
treated him unfairly.
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Cs complaint. They asked Link to explain how 
arrears arose up to the point of default in March 2019. The investigator also asked Link to 
consider whether it was appropriate for it to record the default when it did. Link responded 
and said offers made by the DMP administrator in 2019 had led to arrears being accrued. 
The investigator responded and highlighted sections of CONC (industry regulations) that talk 
about how businesses should treat customers. The investigator didnt think Link had applied 
its default fairly. Link didnt agree, so Mr Cs complaint has been passed to me to make a
decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Cs told us he entered into the DMP in 2012 and made reduced payments from that point. 
But here, Im looking at Links actions, not the original lender. Link purchased the debt at the 
beginning of 2015. So Im going to focus on whether Link acted fairly from that point.
Ive looked at the Notice of Assignment Link sent Mr C and it confirmed the outstanding 
credit card balance was £6,899.35. At this point, the credit card account hadnt been closed. 
We havent been sent a copy of the original credit agreement. But. taking the size of the 
credit card debt into account, I think its more likely than not that the DMP payment of £68.42 
Mr C was making at that time was less than the contractual minimum payment he was 
required to make. As Ive noted above, in October 2015 Mr Cs DMP payments reduced to 
£33.80, less than half the original amount he was paying. The DMP payment remained at 
that level until September 2017.
Ive looked at the level of payments Mr Cs made over time and Ive found it hard to get an 
understanding of why Link waited until 2019 to apply the default. Links final response says 
the November 2018 DMP offer was below the minimum it was able to accept for the monthly 
payment. But I havent seen anything that shows the contractual monthly payment was being 
collected. Its not clear what threshold Link used to decide whether Mr C was making 
sufficient payments towards the balance or how arrears were calculated.
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) issues industry guidance that sets out when 
its appropriate to apply a default. The guidance is available online and says A default 
normally occurs when you have not met the terms of a credit agreement and your account is 
three to six months in arrears. As Ive said, its not clear to me what the contractual monthly 
payment was, as per the credit agreement. I think its fair to use Mr Cs first agreed DMP 
payment of £68.42, which was made until October 2015, as the starting point. In October 
2015 Mr Cs DMP payment reduced by over half when it was revised to £38.80. Payments 
were made at that level for almost two years.
In my view, October 2015 appears to be a reasonable date to say arrears were accruing on 
Mr Cs account with Link. And the industry guidance says defaults normally occur when an 
account is between three and six months in arrears. Given Mr C was already in a DMP and 
making reduced payments, I think the fairest approach would be for Link to backdate the 
default to April 2016  six months after the lower DMP payment started. I think thats a fairer 
reflection of the payments made to Mr Cs debt while he was party to the DMP. Im not 
persuaded that the approach Link has used in Mr Cs case is a fairer way to report how Mr 
Cs account was managed.
Defaults are recorded on a consumers credit file for six years. By backdating the default to 
April 2016 it will have the effect of dropping off Mr Cs credit file.
As Ive said above, based on the available information Im not satisfied the current default 
date of March 2019 is a fair way for Link to record how Mr Cs credit card debt was 
managed. Having considered all the available information, I think a fairer approach would be 
for Link to back date its default to April 2016.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments or information they wanted 
me to consider before I made my final decision. Mr C confirmed he had nothing further to 
add. We didnt hear back from Link.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided new information for me to consider, I see no reason to change 
the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I still think Mr Cs complaint should be 
upheld, for the same reasons. My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint and direct Link Financial Outsourcing Limited 
to backdate the default recorded on his credit file to April 2016.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman