DRN-3845967
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans was 
irresponsible in its lending to her.
What happened
Mrs M was provided with three loans by Everyday Loans between 2017 and 2020. She says 
at the time she had other borrowings showing her dependency on debt and had missed 
payments on her other credit commitments.
Everyday Loans says that the first loan was provided in September 2017 and was for debt 
consolidation. The monthly repayments were around £210 and before lending it gathered 
information about Mrs Ms employment, residential status and dependents. It says it 
reviewed a payslip and two months of bank statements and carried out a credit check and 
job check. The second loan was provided in November 2019 and had monthly repayments 
of around £156. As with the previous loan, checks of Mrs Ms bank statements and payslips 
as well as a credit check were carried out. It also used external data to estimate Mrs Ms 
expenses. The third loan was provided in October 2020 and had monthly repayments of 
around £242. Similar checks took place before this loan was provided. Based on its checks 
Everyday Loans say the loans were affordable.
Our adjudicator didnt think that loans 1 and 3 should have been provided.
Everyday Loans didnt agree. It provided further comments about its calculations and noted 
that debt consolidation was part of the reason for the loans.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Before providing the loans, Everyday Loans asked Mrs M about her employment and 
verified her income through payslips and bank statements. It also asked about her 
residential status and dependents and carried out a credit check. For the second and 
third loans it used external data sources to estimate her expenditure and would also 
have had information available to it about her previous repayment history. I also 
noted that Mrs Ms expenditure would be seen from her bank statements. 
Considering the information Everyday Loans gathered I thought the checks were 
proportionate. 
While I thought the checks were proportionate that didnt necessarily mean that I 
considered the lending was reasonable. So, I considered what the information 
gathered told Everyday Loans about Mrs Ms situation and whether this meant it 
should have considered the loans affordable.
Loan 1
Everyday Loans credit check showed that Mrs M had numerous outstanding credit 
commitments, including several payday loans. However, Mrs Ms reason for the loan 
was debt consolidation so I considered whether she was in a position to afford the 
loan over its duration based on her using the funds to repay other debts and whether 
the debt consolidation would put her in a better financial position. 
Mrs Ms bank statements showed payments excluding her credit commitments for 
costs such as food, transport and other living costs of around £900. Mrs M was 
recorded as a homeowner but said she wasnt responsible for the mortgage. This left 
around £560 which could be paid towards her credit commitments. On the basis that 
Mrs M used the loan to repay her payday loans, which appeared to be the case, I 
looked at the amount that could be repaid based on the settlement amounts, and the 
amount of commitments this left outstanding. On this basis I thought that loan 1 
would have appeared affordable. 
I also thought it reasonable to accept that Mrs M would have been in a better position 
by taking on the new loan to repay existing, potentially higher rate, loans.
Loan 2
Loan 1 had been repaid before loan 2 was provided. Loan 2 was for a smaller 
amount than loan 1 (£1,500). The information gathered before the loan was provided 
showed that Mrs M had active credit card accounts, other loans and commitments for 
communications providers. However, taking the repayments for these and her other 
living costs into account I didnt find I had enough to say this loan should have been 
considered unaffordable.
Loan 3
Loan 3 was used to repay loan 2 and to provide just under £2,000 of new credit. This 
was the third loan provided to Mrs M and while she had made her repayments, I 
thought that there could have been a pattern developing which might raise concerns 
about dependency on the debt. However, at this stage, I thought the checks carried 
out were reasonable and so I considered what these showed.
Everyday Loans calculated Mrs Ms income based on the previous four weeks 
figures which I found reasonable. I looked at the information received about Mrs Ms 
credit commitments at the time of the loan and compared these to her commitments 
at the time she applied for loan 2. There were two additional credit cards which 
increased Mrs Ms total debt, she also had higher loan amounts. However, I didnt 
find that this meant the loan shouldnt have been provided but clearly the costs of the 
credit needed to be included in the affordability assessment. Having looked at the 
income and expenses figures and noting the net increase in the repayments from 
loan 2 to loan 3, it appeared that the repayments under the new loan were affordable 
and so I didnt find that I had enough to say that this loan shouldnt have been 
provided.
No new information was provided in response to my provisional decision 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Our general approach to complaints about unaffordable or irresponsible lending  including 
the key rules, guidance and good industry practice  is set out on our website.
As has been explained, the rules dont set out any specific checks which must be completed 
to assess creditworthiness. But while it is down to the firm to decide what specific checks it 
wishes to carry out, these should be reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of 
credit being provided, the length of the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments, 
and the total cost of the credit.
As I set out in my provisional decision, I think the information gathered before the loans were 
provided was reasonable and proportionate. I note that the first loan was used for debt 
consolidation and I have considered this as part of my assessment. I have looked at all the 
information gathered and what this shows regarding Mrs Ms income and expenses at the 
time of the loans. Based on this I do not find I can say that the loans should have been 
considered unaffordable.
As no new information was provided in response to my provisional decision, my conclusions 
havent changed, and I do not find that I have enough to uphold tis complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman