DRN-3847369
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as E has complained that Society of Lloyd's (Lloyds) unfairly
turned down its business interruption insurance claim.
Mr B, a director of E has complained on Es behalf through a representative. For ease of
reading, Ill refer to E throughout.
Reference to Lloyds will also include anything done by the underwriting syndicate.
What happened
E held business interruption insurance with Lloyds. E claimed on its policy after its business
was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the pandemic. Lloyds
declined Es claim as it said the interruption to Es business wasnt as a result of damage
which was required in order for the policy to provide cover.
Unhappy with Lloyds response, E brought its complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Es complaint and thought it should be upheld under the clause
for murder, suicide or disease. She didnt think the requirement for damage made sense
within the clause and was therefore likely to be a drafting error. She thought a reasonable
policyholder entering into the contract would interpret the clause to not require damage and
on that basis the extension would provide cover. She therefore recommended that Lloyds
pay Es claim.
E didnt provide any further comments in response, but Lloyds disagreed and provided a
detailed response. In summary, Lloyds said:
The interruption to Es business would need to have been caused by damage arising
            from any of the insured perils at a) to e). The clause has the word damage
            highlighted in bold and specifically refers the reader to the definition of damage
            elsewhere in the policy. Damage is also referred to at the end of the clause. Both of
            these things indicate that Lloyds intended there to be a requirement for damage.
If the word damage was deleted from the end of the clause there would be no
            workable indemnity period which supports that there wasnt a drafting error.
The business interruption cover as a whole only responds if there has been damage,
            indicating that the insurer only wanted to provide cover where damage has occurred.
            If this clause didnt require damage it would be an anomalous outlier.
The wording of the extension is clear to the policyholder entering into the contract
            that damage is required and therefore Lloyds is entitled to rely on it.
It is not fair and reasonable to re-write the extension to say something it doesnt say.
The extension does provide additional cover to the core business interruption cover
            within the policy and there could be circumstances where it provided cover. However,
            even if it was redundant, legal principles mean that wouldnt be a reason to interpret
            the contract in a different way.
E had a benefit of advice from a broker who would have known that non-damage
            denial of access (NDDA) cover was widely available.
E didnt pay for cover for NDDA and Lloyds didnt agree to provide it.
Lloyds asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 23 November 2022 explaining why I 
didnt intend to uphold this complaint. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Es business. However, I dont intend to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if Lloyds has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Es claim.
As the remaining terms within the policy dont appear to be in dispute, I have focused my 
decision on the extension for murder, suicide and disease.
The extension says:
Murder, suicide or disease
We shall indemnify you in respect of interruption of or interference with the
business caused by damage, as defined in clause 8.1, arising from:
a) any human infectious or human contagious disease (excluding Acquired
Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) or an AIDS related condition) an outbreak
of which the local authority has stipulated shall be notified to them manifested by
any person whilst in the premises  or within a twenty five (25) mile radius of it;
b) murder or suicide in the premises;
c) injury or illness sustained by any person arising from or traceable to foreign or
injurious matter in food or drink provided in the premises;
d) vermin or pests in the  premises;
e) the closing of the whole or part of the premises  by order of a competent public
authority consequent upon defect in the drains or other sanitary arrangements at
the premises .
The insurance by this clause shall only apply for the period beginning with the
occurrence of the loss and ending not later than three (3) months thereafter
during which the results of the business shall be affected in consequence of the
damage.
Section 8.1 sets out how the policy will provide cover if there is damage to property used by 
E at its premises. The policy defines damage as, physical loss, physical damage, physical 
destruction.
The General Definitions page of the policy says that any word in bold will have the same 
meaning throughout the policy. Therefore, I think for the extension to provide cover, the 
interruption to the business must be caused by a physical loss, physical damage or physical 
destruction.
As a starting point, Ive considered what a reasonable reader, with all of the background 
knowledge which would reasonably have been available to them, would reasonably have thought when entering into the contract. Having done so, in my view, the wording of the 
policy is clear to the parties entering into the contract that there is a requirement for damage 
to have occurred in order for this extension to apply.
I do find it difficult to think of many scenarios where a disease which occurred within a 25 
mile radius of the insured premises would cause physical damage at the premises. However, 
I accept Lloyds point that other parts of this clause could provide cover which wouldnt be 
covered elsewhere. For example, interruption caused by vermin chewing through cables 
wouldnt be covered under the core business interruption insurance section (as the damage 
would be excluded under the property damage section) but would be covered by point d) of 
this clause.
In my view, given the meaning of the clause is clear, that some parts of it provide limited 
cover isnt a reason to conclude that it should be interpreted as a non-damage denial of 
access clause.
I have also considered whether there was an obvious error in the drafting, but I dont think 
there was. The wording referring to 8.1 hasnt been inserted into every part of 8.2 which 
indicates to me that its likely the reference to 8.1 was put deliberately into those clauses 
where Lloyds intended it to apply. Also, the other extensions within the policy require there 
to have been damage, which indicates to me that Lloyds intended to cover business 
interruption only as a result of damage. Many insurance policies only cover business 
interruption as a result of damage and Im not aware that E paid any additional amount for 
non-damage cover.
When considering the policy as a whole, on balance, Im persuaded that Lloyds intended to 
draft the policy as its written, which requires there to have been damage. I recognise that 
this isnt the outcome E was hoping for, given that parts of this clause appear to provide very 
limited cover. However, given that I think its likely the policy was intended to provide cover 
in the way it was drafted, that there isnt an obvious error, that the meaning is clear, and that 
this is the agreement E and Lloyds entered into, I dont think it would produce a fair and 
reasonable outcome for me to uphold this complaint.
Lloyds accepted my provisional decision and didnt add any further comments. E disagreed 
with the outcome and asked me to reconsider my decision, although it didnt provide any 
further comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have noted that E disagrees with my decision, but I havent received any further comments 
to persuade me to depart from the outcome I reached in my provisional decision. Therefore, 
it remains that I think Lloyds acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy when declining Es claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman