DRN-3771498
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with how Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (Virgin Money) have 
handled his request for help to recover money following the cancellation of airline flights. 
What happened
In November 2019 Mr H booked flights for him and his partner using his Virgin Money credit
card. He booked the flights directly with the airline, who Ill refer to as B. The total amount
paid was £1,577.84 and the flights were scheduled for the end of March 2020.
A week before Mr H was due to travel, B emailed him to tell him that the flights had been
cancelled due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The email also explained that B were offering
Mr H a voucher for the amount he had paid for his flight tickets and provided a link for him to
click to obtain the voucher. Further down the email from B it explained other forms of refund
could be requested. Mr H has said he clicked on the link to obtain a voucher as he was
unable to find any information from B about receiving a refund.
A couple of weeks later, Mr H has said he was informed by a friend that he was entitled to a
refund of the money he had paid for his flights. He contacted B and when he didnt get any
success with them, he contacted Virgin Money. Mr H completed Virgin Moneys dispute form
and returned it to them with supporting documents. Virgin Money raised a chargeback claim
on his behalf at the beginning of August 2020, and temporarily credited his account with two
amounts of £788.92 for the flights while the chargeback claim was considered by B.
B defended the chargeback claim. They said Mr H had accepted the voucher and the terms
and conditions connected to the voucher confirmed it was a complete and definitive refund
and it couldnt be exchanged for cash at a later date. Virgin Money informed Mr H of this and
asked him to supply any additional documents if he wanted to appeal the decision. Virgin
Money also re-debited £788.92 from Mr Hs credit card account at this point. The second
credit applied was left in Mr Hs account.
Virgin Money considered the additional information Mr H had supplied but it didnt change
the outcome. They said the chargeback scheme rules confirmed that Mr H and B had
reached an amicable resolution when he accepted the voucher, and this meant that no
chargeback right existed.
Mr H complained to Virgin Money about this. They looked into his complaint but didnt uphold
it. They reconfirmed to Mr H the email from B explained he had another option if he didnt
want to accept the voucher, and the chargeback scheme rules confirmed there was no
chargeback right once the voucher had been accepted. At this point Virgin Money confirmed
to Mr H that only one of the flight payments of £788.92 had been re-debited from his
account. As this was their error, Virgin Money confirmed in their final response to Mr H that
the additional credit of £788.92 would remain in his account, despite it having been declined
by B.
Mr H brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator upheld it. She said that she didnt
think Mr H had reached an amicable resolution with B by accepting the voucher. She said
she was more persuaded that he had accepted it as he didnt think there was any other
alternative available to him. She said the fact he complained to B so soon after accepting the
voucher indicated he was never satisfied with it as an option. She felt that, had Virgin Money
defended the chargeback declinature from B it would have had a reasonable chance of
success. So, she asked Virgin Money to refund the cost of the flight ticket along with 8%
interest from the date the chargeback was declined.
Mr H accepted. Virgin Money did not. They said the chargeback scheme rules guidance
issued was clear that by accepting a voucher Mr H and B had reached an amicable
resolution to the dispute.
As Virgin Money didnt agree, it was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 10 October 2022. Prior to that, I contacted Virgin Money 
and Mr H. I explained to Virgin Money that I agreed with their explanation and reasoning why 
the chargeback claim was defended. But I explained to them that I thought they should have
considered a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) as Mr H had
used his credit card to purchase the tickets. And I asked Virgin Money if they would be
willing to refund Mr H the £788.92 hed paid (and not recovered) as Bs Conditions of
Carriage dont say a voucher may be provided instead of a cash refund if B cancels the
flight. Virgin Money didnt respond to me. Mr H did and he agreed with what Id said.
My provisional decision said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant
laws and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of
practice.
Chargeback
There are different ways that a bank can assist customers who have had issues with goods
or services not being provided. In some cases, a bank may be able to request a refund from
the supplier through the chargeback scheme. This is a way in which payment settlement
disputes are resolved between cardholders and suppliers/merchants. They are dealt with
under the relevant card scheme rules, in this case thats Mastercard. In certain
circumstances the process provides a way for Virgin Money to ask for a payment Mr H made
to be refunded.
There are no obligations for a card issuer to raise a chargeback when a consumer asks for
one. But I would consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right
exists and there is a reasonable chance of success.
When a chargeback is raised, the scheme allows a given period of time  usually around a
month  for the supplier to reply to say whether or not they agree to the refund. And when a
supplier does defend a chargeback; this can lead to further representations by the
cardholders bank. The process then allows for further representations to be made if parties
do not agree for the issue to be decided by the scheme in a process known as arbitration.
In Mr Hs case Virgin Money did raise the chargeback for him. But it was defended by B. In
May 2020 Mastercard issued some updated guidance for consumers and businesses to help
to try and settle disputes that had arisen from the COVID-19 pandemic. That guidance
included some scenarios for consumers and businesses to read, and which confirmed
whether a chargeback claim right would exist. One of those scenarios was:Question: The merchant has cancelled services and the cardholder accepted a
reasonable alternative for future service from the merchant, such as a voucher or
merchant-branded gift card. Is there a chargeback right if the cardholder later
changes their mind, asks for a refund and is denied a refund by the merchant?
Answer: No. There is no chargeback right if the merchant and cardholder had
reached an amicable solution where the cardholder accepted the reasonable
alternative and the reasonable alternative is usable as described, even if the original
reservation was refundable.
Mr H has said that he never reached an amicable resolution and only accepted the voucher
as he didnt know there was any other alternative. He has said he only realised he could get
a refund when a friend of his let him know a couple of weeks later. But looking at the
guidance I can understand why B defended the chargeback claim. At the time of accepting
the voucher, Im satisfied Mr H was reaching an amicable resolution with B. He did change
his mind, following a conversation with his friend, but as per the guidance issued that doesnt
give right to a chargeback claim. So, Im satisfied that the chargeback claim was dealt with
correctly in this case by Virgin Money. Had they represented the chargeback again to B Im
not persuaded it would have been successful.
Section 75
In this case the relevant law includes Section 75 (S75) of the CCA. S75 says that in certain
circumstances the borrower under a credit agreement has an equal right to claim against the
credit provider if theres either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of
goods or services. This is subject to certain criteria that need to be satisfied such as the
claim has to be within specific financial limits and the existence of debtor-creditor-supplier
(DCS) relationship between the parties.
Virgin Money have told our investigator that they didnt consider a S75 claim for Mr H as he
didnt request it when he raised his dispute. But Mr H didnt specifically say he wanted to
raise a chargeback claim either, and as he had used his Virgin Money credit card for the
flight purchases I would have expected Virgin Money to have thought about S75 once the
chargeback claim had been defended by B. However, had they done so I think they would
have declined his claim. And, in the circumstances I dont think that would have been unfair.
Ill explain why.
B defended the chargeback claim by saying they offered, and Mr H accepted, a voucher
instead of a cash refund. And they said that the terms and conditions of the voucher said it
was a complete and definitive refund and it couldnt be exchanged for cash at a later date,
as I mentioned above. B said they hadnt breached those terms and conditions.
When I asked Virgin Money to consider refunding Mr H the remaining £788.92, I wanted
them to consider the matter afresh  and on the basis that Bs Conditions of Carriage dont
say they may provide a voucher instead of a cash refund if they cancel the flight.
As Virgin Money havent responded, I must carefully consider everything thats been
provided  including Mr Hs testimony about how he came to accept the offer of a voucher 
to decide whether I think Virgin Money should refund the money under S75 of the CCA.
It's accepted that B cancelled the flight and that Mr H would, ordinarily, be entitled to a cash
refund. And its not in dispute that Mr H accepted a voucher. The question is: having
accepted the voucher, does Mr H still have a claim against B for breach of contract and, by
extension, a like claim against Virgin Money such that it would be fair for me to tell Virgin
Money to pay Mr H a cash refund?When Mr H referred his complaint to our service, and in correspondence with Virgin Money,
he confirmed that he was aware that Bs email said alternative forms of refund were
available if the voucher wasnt acceptable. He said he followed the link provided, which took
him to Bs website. He told our investigator that it wasnt clear from the website how he could
obtain a cash refund  so he felt he had no choice but to accept the voucher. Its not clear to
me if Mr H accepted the voucher before or after he visited the website or what attempt, if
any, he made to speak to B to discuss the alternatives that were available. However, on
balance and based on the evidence Ive seen so far, I think that when Mr H accepted the
voucher, he was aware there was potentially an alternative. And as he accepted the
voucher, I think its unlikely a court would now tell B to pay Mr H a cash refund. At the very
least, the matter is no longer clear-cut. As Im considering the liability of Virgin Money for a
like claim, it must follow that I dont think it would be fair to tell them to pay Mr H a cash
refund when I think its unlikely he could now get one from B.
I know that Mr H will be very disappointed  even more so as he knows I asked Virgin
Money to consider refunding him the remaining £788.92. But for the reasons Ive given, I
dont think it would be fair for me to tell them to do this.
Virgin Money didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr H did and he didnt agree with it. 
He said that he was never told a refund of the flights was available, so felt he had no choice 
but to accept the voucher. He also said that he felt the initial email offering the voucher from 
B was misleading, as it indicated he could receive a refund by first accepting a voucher.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has reiterated parts of my provisional decision and given his arguments to those points. 
But, having read what hes provided, Im satisfied Ive already considered the majority of 
Mr Hs comments when issuing my provisional decision.
One thing Mr H has mentioned is the email he received from B offering him the voucher 
when the flights were cancelled. The email said:
For your convenience, we offer you the possibility of getting a refund of your booking 
<reference> through a voucher for the amount of your tickets.
Mr H feels this implies that he would be able to obtain a refund for the flights if he obtained 
the voucher first. But I dont agree. Im satisfied that B are explaining the voucher is a 
convenient alternative to a refund  I say this because the email that confirmed the voucher 
was available also said that Mr H needed to contact B if he wanted to discuss any other form 
of refund. So, Im not persuaded that Bs offer of a voucher implied Mr H would subsequently 
be entitled to a refund if he accepted. 
Mr H has mentioned that he never received a valid voucher from B, and the only voucher he 
did receive referenced his partner at the time. But, whilst Mr H has said he contacted B 
about this during 2021, Ive not seen any evidence to suggest what he was told by B and 
whether he complained about this at the time. I also cant say whether the voucher was 
invalid or not as Mr H didnt attempt to use it prior to its expiry  and for that reason I cant 
say it would be fair for Virgin Money to refund him for it. 
I really do understand Mr Hs strength of feeling here. He has explained his argument clearly 
in his correspondence with our service. But, on balance, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision, in that I said I think its unlikely that a court would now tell B to pay Mr H 
a cash refund. And I said that this matter is no longer clear-cut, to which I havent seen 
anything since to persuade me otherwise. What Im considering here is the liability of Virgin 
Money for a like claim, and if I think its unlikely Mr H would get a cash refund from B now it 
continues to follow that I dont think it would be fair to ask Virgin Money to refund him. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr H. But Im not asking Virgin Money to do 
anything more here. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman