DRN-4383436
The complaint
Mr A has complained that BISL Limited unfairly cancelled his motor policy returning the 
premium, less any time on cover plus paying him £250 compensation. 
What happened
Mr A bought his motor policy online on 1 May 2023 with cover starting on 30 May 2023 for a 
year. His premium was quoted as being £771.02. 
BISL became aware that Mr As policy was part of a number of policies affected by an 
internal pricing scheme error, which meant the premium quoted was incorrect. In most 
instances the premium quoted was too low for the varying underwriters or indeed the risk 
presented wasnt acceptable to those underwriters. This was specific to the schemes BISL 
had with several underwriters given BISL is an intermediary. 
Therefore, BISL not only cancelled Mr As policy but several other newly purchased policies 
at this time, since they were all affected by this error. In consultation with this service BISL 
was advised to also offer compensation of £250 to all such affected policyholders. 
So, BISL notified Mr A on 25 May that his policy would be cancelled on 10 June. It returned 
his premium instalment which he had paid, less any time on cover, which meant Mr A 
received a refund of £64.27 plus the £250 compensation. 
Mr A was upset at the trouble and upset that having to buy a new policy caused him. Plus, 
he implied that his new policy cost more and was indeed with the same underwriter so he 
couldnt understand why his policy was cancelled. And he didnt consider BISL was entitled 
to cancel his policy anyway. He felt he should receive a further £500 compensation. 
So, he brought his complaint to us. The investigator didnt think BISL needed to do anything 
more. Mr A disagreed so his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why. 
Its clear from BISLs evidence, that there was an error in the premium pricing system. 
Therefore, the premium quoted for several policies not just Mr As, was incorrect. In that 
situation, the law, industry practice and indeed the policy terms and conditions permit the 
cancellation of the policy, with the return of any premium less any time on cover. 
In Mr As policy, like virtually every other motor policy, there are terms which permit an 
insurer to cancel the policy. Normally thats to do with something the customer might have 
done wrong, but every policy will have a more generic term which cover grounds like what 
happened here. Mr As policy specifically provides the following: We may cancel your policy 
if there are serious grounds to do so.
BISL is an intermediary for several motor insurance underwriters and several different brand 
names. Each underwriter will have detailed conditions by which BISL can place a policy. If 
errors were found in the pricing system, its perfectly reasonable to cancel the policy simply 
because the premium being paid for the consumer is wrong. In this case it was wrong to the 
business disadvantage, but it could have easily been wrong to the consumers disadvantage 
too. Regardless of which party to the insurance contract it was a disadvantage, I consider its 
only right it should be identified. 
Here, the only reasonable way to deal with the issue was to cancel all affected policies to 
include Mr As policy. In these circumstances, I consider there was nothing wrong with BISL 
cancelling Mr As policy refunding any premium paid, less any time on cover. Further the 
cancellation isnt recorded anywhere, which means it doesnt affect Mr A and he doesnt 
need to disclose it to further insurers. I consider this is also reasonable. 
Obviously, unexpectedly having your motor policy cancelled causes a level of inconvenience 
in having to get a new one. Consequently, the payment of compensation is warranted. I 
consider the sum of £250 compensation to be relatively large for such inconvenience given 
setting up a new policy isnt that difficult to do. Many people do it annually, like Mr A has 
indicated he does. 
Therefore, I consider the compensation also compensates for the possibility of having to pay 
a little more for the new policy given premium levels on offer change all the time. Mr A 
implied his new policy cost more, but Ive not seen evidence this was actually the case. 
Regardless of that, I do consider the compensation paid goes a long way to help in that 
situation. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman