DRN-4136988
The complaint
Mr Gs complaint relates to his trading account with StoneX Financial Ltd. Hes raised 
various issues including the functionality of its app and the way margin calls worked, but hes 
primarily concerned that he was allowed to continuing trading having communicated his lack 
of understanding and the health issues caused by his trading.
What happened
The background to and circumstances of the complaint will be familiar to both parties, so I 
wont go over them again in detail here. 
Our investigator considered Mr Gs complaint and while looking into the specific issues hed 
raised also went beyond this to consider whether it had been appropriate for StoneX to have 
provided Mr G with the trading facility from the outset.
In this respect, she looked at the account opening process in light of the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys rules, as set out in its Code of Business Sourcebook (COBS). These rules say, in 
brief, that before an account is opened a firm must gather evidence to assess whether the 
customer has the relevant knowledge and experience to understand the risks involved. The 
investigator was satisfied StoneX had sought sufficient information from Mr G to determine 
that it was appropriate for him to trade, so it had generally acted reasonably in opening the 
account.  
Turning then to the issue of the apps functionality and various margin close outs that 
occurred, the investigator looked carefully at the screen shot evidence Mr G had provided. 
But she wasnt persuaded StoneX had acted incorrectly. 
She noted that Mr G had been advised to reinstall the app to try and fix any problems. But 
she said that, in any event, as with any type of on-line trading, it was likely there would be 
occasional technical issues and the terms of the account provided for such circumstances, 
setting out that the service wasnt warranted to be uninterrupted or error free. She was also 
satisfied that any margin close outs on the account had been the result of the margin 
requirements not being met rather than technical issues. 
But in respect of allowing Mr G continued trading access, the investigator did feel StoneX 
had acted unreasonably. She noted COBS rule 2.1.1, which says A firm must act honestly, 
fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client, and having 
listened to a number of phone calls Mr G had with StoneX, she concluded it wouldve been 
reasonable for it to have put restrictions on the account from 27 September 2021, when 
during a call with StoneX hed been upset and indicated he didnt understand the margin 
process. The investigator therefore recommended Stone X reimburse Mr G for any losses 
made on the account after this point. 
StoneX initially agreed to do so, but then provided some further comments and asked for the 
matter to be reviewed by an ombudsman. In brief, it noted Mr Gs overall trading history, 
including from several years ago on a previous account, and felt this showed it was likely he 
had a reasonable understanding of how margin requirements worked during the period in 
question. As such, it felt thered not been sufficient cause at the point of the 27 September 
2021 call to justify restricting his account access. However, it did accept that a restriction 
shouldve been put in place sooner that it eventually was, almost a year later in August 2022. 
Mr G also didnt entirely accept the investigators view. In brief, he felt StoneX had failed to 
fully provide all the information it had available and considered that this information wouldve 
shown thered been reason to restrict account access prior to the September 2021 call.   
As no agreement could be reached, the matter was referred to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to assure Mr G that Ive carefully noted all the evidence hes provided and have 
listened to the calls he had with StoneX, and those with our investigator. I understand this 
has been a difficult and challenging time for him. But having looked at everything in detail, I 
find Im in agreement with the conclusions reached by the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
Im satisfied it was appropriate in the first instance for the account to be provided to Mr G, 
given the information obtained by StoneX about his level of knowledge and experience of 
trading. Further, Ive not seen there were any systemic issues with StoneXs app that 
wouldve led to Mr G incurring losses. Where margin close outs occurred, this was because 
the account didnt meet the margin requirements. As the investigator highlighted, there may 
have been instances when errors or glitches occurred, but the service  as is the case with 
all trading platforms - wasnt guaranteed to be fully functional 100% of the time. 
But I do have concerns regarding StoneX not taking steps sooner to restrict trading access 
on his account. I appreciate what its said about Mr Gs knowledge of margin requirements 
how, despite his comments to the contrary, his trading history showed he had experience 
that would, or at least should, have provided him with an understanding of the fundamentals. 
And that earlier concessions provided to him in respect of margin close outs may have, in 
part at least, motivated his communications to StoneX when further close outs occurred.
But its nevertheless the case that, for whatever reason, Mr G was communicating a lack of 
understating in his calls to StoneX and this was coupled with clear distress and references to 
stress and anxiety caused by his trading and resulting losses. 
I accept that the call of 27 September 2021 could be considered as the start of an escalation 
that continued with subsequent calls and emails in October 2021 and beyond, as opposed to 
an event in its own right that should reasonably have prompted the account to be restricted. 
But in the specific circumstances of this case, and particularly against a background of 
StoneXs initial agreement to compensate Mr G from 27 September 2021 (and him being 
informed of this), I think its fair and reasonable to use this date for the basis of calculating 
compensation. 
I note what Mr G has said about events earlier than this. But Ive not seen anything that 
persuades me that StoneX should reasonably have restricted trading before 27 September 
2021.Putting things right
To resolve the complaint, StoneX should reimburse Mr G for any losses he incurred on his 
account from 27 September 2021 until trading was restricted in August 2022.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct StoneX 
Financial Ltd to pay compensation to Mr G as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman