DRN-3221130
The complaint
Mr H complains that goods he purchased through a fixed sum loan with Omni Capital Retail 
Finance Limited (Omni) were not received and Omni are charging him for them. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Omni, but I agree with the investigators view. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a fixed sum 
loan, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr H made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
Im persuaded there has been a breach of contract here as I dont think theres sufficient 
evidence that the item Mr H ordered was delivered to him.
Omni have provided a copy of a screen shot that suggests the item was delivered to the city 
Mr H lives; his correct address is also listed on that proof of delivery. But Id expect them to 
be able to show the parcel was received by Mr H at that address either through a signature 
or a photograph of the parcel in an open door. But that evidence hasnt been provided.
Mr H has explained that he cancelled the order before it was delivered to him and I havent 
seen evidence to show he was told the item would be delivered anyway. So, I dont think Mr 
H would have been expecting the delivery and it wouldnt be fair to expect him to have made 
any arrangements for someone to be present to take the delivery. Mr H has also explained 
that his front door opens on to a busy city centre street and I can understand that if the 
parcel was left on the doorstep or in an unsecured area it may have been taken by a passer-
by.
On balance, I think its more likely that Mr H didnt receive the item and I dont think he can 
fairly be held accountable for the goods being mislaid.  
Putting things right
Omni will therefore need to cancel the fixed sum loan agreement and refund any monies    
Mr H has paid, with interest. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Omni Capital Retail Finance 
Limited to:
Cancel the finance agreement with nothing further to pay.
Refund any deposit and any payments that may have been made towards the 
agreement, adding 8% simple interest to any refund from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Hs credit file in relation to 
this issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman