DRN-2835642
The complaint
Ms M complains that Ferratum UK Ltd lent to her irresponsibly. Ms M is represented by a 
third party.
 
What happened
It has been difficult to establish exactly what has taken place at the time of the lending. Any 
details I set out here in this background section of the decision are from the final response 
email sent to Ms Ms representative in January 2021, after Ms M had referred her complaint 
to this Service. 
In the FRL, Ferratum gave these details and considering the disjointed information I have in 
relation to this complaint then Ill proceed on what I have been sent. 
Loan Start Date Paid Back Date Loan Amount Interest Paid
1 07/05/2014 20/06/2014 £100.00 £53.40
2 20/06/2014 26/06/2014 £200.00 £18.20
3 27/06/2014 09/02/2015 £300.00 £216.28
An offer was made by Ferratum to put things right for Ms M, which was for some of the 
interest she had paid on loan 3 to be repaid, and to remove that loan from her credit file. 
Ms Ms representative informed us in March 2021 that she had decided to reject that offer. 
We have been told by Ferratum that the offer has been withdrawn.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and did not think that Ferratum needed to do 
anything to put things right.
Ms M disagreed and sent to us additional information  copy bank statements for an 
account. These did not alter our adjudicators view. 
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Ferratum needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms M 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure.
 
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Ferratum should 
fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the 
consumer.
 
These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a level of income);
having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time (reflecting 
the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ferratum was required to establish whether Ms M could sustainably repay her loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the 
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
in order to do that.
I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Ms complaint, but as I outlined in the background 
section of the complaint I have limited information from both parties. 
Ill start by saying that this was a difficult complaint to decide. This was because neither party 
has sent to us clear or chronological information. Ms Ms representative has said that what 
has been sent to us is all that she can send now and it has asked that the complaint be 
passed to me now, and for a decision to be reached quickly due to Ms Ms condition. So, 
I am proceeding on what I have. 
The basis of Ms Ms complaint was that her income was low, her expenses were high and 
her credit report at the time in 2014 would have demonstrated to Ferratum that she had 
other debts and a judgment debt registered against her from a few years before loan 1. So, 
her representative maintained the loans ought never to have been approved. However, Ms M has not supplied any credit file for me to review and trying to obtain one now 
would not result in a credit file report which covered that period of time as they usually go 
back for a six year period. Ferratum has no record of any credit search to send me. 
Ms M has sent us some bank statements from 2014 but
 
- they are not in a format where I can be satisfied that the account to which these 
statements relate is hers; and
- even if they were hers they show an account in credit to several thousand pounds 
around the time of the lending; and
- there are many payments to several individuals which are not explained; and
- many credits which are not explained; and
- there are transfers from another account into this account, and so details of the 
contents of that account would have been relevant but not been sent to me. 
The information from Ferratum is brief, disjointed and it explains that the reason for not being 
able to provide us with much, is that either it has not retained the information from 2014, or 
what it has sent is only part of what it has retained. 
The consumer credit agreements Ferratum has sent to us cannot be opened on this 
computer, cannot be sent to us in a different format and even if I was able to open them, 
Ferratum has said they are example agreements only. Ferratum has described them to me 
as 
They are running credit accounts however we still issue a new credit agreement for 
each loan. The loan amount is determined by the credit check, the amount on the 
credit agreement is not the actual loan amount.
So, I am unclear, and not able to check, exactly what sort of credit agreement Ms M took 
and what the terms were which is unsatisfactory when considering a complaint such as this. 
And no copy of any credit check carried out  if it was  by Ferratum has been sent to me 
and likely is not available to send me.  
And what I have received from Ferratum does not seem to entirely correspond with the 
information Ms Ms representatives received when it asked for a Data Subject Access 
Request (DSAR) from Ferratum. 
The DSAR has been sent to us and it gives details that Ms M was retired, receiving her 
pension and was in receipt of benefits. In a section entitled financialData  there are a series 
of figures which say: 
loanExpenses 465
monthlyIncome 1501
monthlyLiabilities 0
paymentType BANK_ACCOUNT
incomeSourceType PENSION
This is followed by continuing information giving nextpaydate with an August 2014 date next 
to it and so I am satisfied that the financial data was for the period around  July 2014 which 
may have been information gathered after the loan was approved in late June 2014. 
The DSAR does not refer to the first two loans Ferratum has outlined in its FRL. But it does 
include what looks to be requests for money by text which may or may not have been 
approved for Ms M, and a microloan and a PLP3v2 type loan which appear to have been 
rejected in 2018. Its likely these are irrelevant as they post-date the lending period I am 
looking at.  
So, this DSAR information from 2014 leads me to think that Ferratum had records which told 
it that Ms M was receiving £1,501 and had some expenses of £465 which calculates to just 
over £1,000 a month. A screenshot of a text to Ms M at the time loan 3 was approved 
indicated that at end of July 2014 she had been told that she had to repay the whole sum 
plus the interest of around £417. 
 
However, the FRL from Ferratum included a screenshot saying Ms M had declared her net 
income as £2,100 a month with no expenses and cited her employer and that her 
employment status was permanent.  
This is such different information, both of which appear to have been held by Ferratum at the 
time, that I would have expected that for loan 3 it would seek to clarify Ms Ms financial 
position at least in relation to income, outgoings and if she had other loans to repay. But I do 
not think it did that. 
In order to see what it was that Ferratum would have seen if it had carried out checks on her 
income and outgoings and other loan commitments, Id have needed evidence from Ms M to 
demonstrate it. So, looking at the bank statements sent to me, if I proceed on the 
assumption they are for an account belonging to Ms M (and in her sole name), those give 
me the impression of an account in credit, with additional funds being paid into it. And so, 
this does not lead me to think that Ms M was not able to afford loan 3. 
 
Having thought about it all carefully, I have decided that theres not enough evidence to 
decide that Ferratum lent to Ms M irresponsibly, and what I do have suggests that she may 
have been able to afford it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman