DRN-3357425
The complaint
Mr F complains that Octopus Investments Limited (Octopus) provided misleading 
information about the Enterprise Investments Scheme (EIS) he invested in.
What happened
Mr F invested £50,000 into an Octopus Enterprise Investment Scheme (OEIS 18) in 2015. 
The EIS was focused on investing in energy companies, particularly reserve power. Mr F 
invested directly with Octopus without receiving advice from a financial adviser. 
By October 2020 the value of his investment had declined substantially, and Mr F 
complained to Octopus. Mr Fs complaint is that:
He was looking for a low risk investment and thought the EIS met that objective, with 
only a small part of his capital potentially at risk. Octopus marketed the EIS as capital 
preservation and he thought the underlying investments were low risk. Mr F relied 
heavily on the EIS brochure and anyone reading it would think it was a low risk, rather 
than high risk, investment. 
Before going ahead with his investment, Mr F spoke to Octopus in a phone call. 
They offered him the choice of two investments, an EIS focused on smaller companies 
and OEIS 18, which was described as lower risk. Mr F says he was persuaded to invest 
in OEIS 18 because it was described as capital preservation and met his objective of a 
low risk, sustainable investment with tax benefits. The other EIS has performed better 
than Mr Fs investment. 
Mr F does not accept that all EIS investments are high risk. He says the evidence is that 
a diversified portfolio of EIS companies is no higher risk than a diversified portfolio of 
large companies.
The marketing material spoke about portfolio diversification but Octopus have failed to 
achieve this. He thought Octopus would spread his investment across more companies 
to reduce the risk. 
Octopus charged him a 5% upfront fee and charged each investee company a 5% loan 
fee. The loan fees were not disclosed to him and meant that the investee companies 
stood little chance of success.
The marketing material said the investee companies would benefit from Government 
subsidies, but hes seen no evidence from the companies published accounts that they 
did.
The EIS brochure said that four months after the start of trading, HMRC tax certificates 
would be issued to investors so they could claim back tax. This process happened very 
slowly with tax certificates taking between eight months and almost three years to be 
issued.  
Octopus have said, in summary: 
All EIS investments are high risk and that was stated in multiple places in their brochure.  
Capital preservation was the objective of OEIS 18, but it was not guaranteed. In his 
application, Mr F confirmed he had read the brochure and understood the risks and that 
he was able to withstand any fall in the value of his investments. That is not consistent 
with someone who thought it was a low risk investment. 
The phone call took place after Mr F had submitted his application. Octopus contacted 
Mr F because in his suitability form, he had said his objective was to achieve capital 
growth as well as tax benefits and the objective of OEIS 18 was capital preservation. 
During the call, Mr F confirmed he was looking to invest for capital preservation and that 
he viewed the tax reliefs as amounting to growth. Their representative said OEIS 18 was 
less risky than the EIS focused on smaller companies but made clear that all EIS 
investments were considered high risk. Mr F said he was comfortable with investing in 
OEIS 18 and that he could withstand the value falling from £50,000 to £20,000. There is 
no evidence they told Mr F it was a low risk investment
The performance of Mr Fs investment is the result of significant and largely external 
post-investment developments the combination of which wasnt foreseeable at the time 
he invested. The investee companies and investment proposals were subject to robust 
due diligence and Octopus are satisfied they have acted in line with the investment 
mandate. 
The EIS brochure said an investors funds would be invested in one or more companies 
in one or more sectors. They invested in 13 companies for OEIS 18. 
The EIS brochure made clear that Octopus might benefit from fees paid by the investee 
companies.
The investee companies were able to, and did, benefit from available government 
subsidies. The subsidies will not have been shown separately on any of the company 
accounts because there is no requirement to do so. Octopus made no definitive 
statements in their pre-investment literature about the level of government subsidies that 
would be received. 
The EIS brochure explained that the timing of the receipt of EIS certificates could not be 
guaranteed.
Our investigator thought the information provided to Mr F had been clear, fair, and not 
misleading and she didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr F disagrees and has 
asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision Ive focused on what I consider to be the key factors in reaching a fair and 
reasonable outcome. Octopus were not responsible for giving advice to Mr F about his 
investment. So, it wasnt for them to decide whether the risks and other features of the EIS 
were suitable for him. Octopus were responsible for providing information to Mr F so he could make an informed 
decision about whether to invest in the EIS. Once Mr F had invested, Octopus had a 
mandate to make decisions on his behalf and had to ensure their actions were consistent 
with the strategy set out in the EIS brochure.  
Capital preservation and risk
Mr F says he relied heavily on the EIS product brochure when deciding to invest. The cover 
of the brochure described the EIS as an investment that targets capital preservation and 
multiple tax reliefs. The Welcome to Octopus section at the start of the brochure said:
But before you read any further, we want to make sure youre aware of the risks 
involved with investing in smaller companies. An EIS isnt for everyone and should be 
viewed as a high risk investment  even though we target capital preservation, your 
capital is placed at risk.
The section of the brochure explaining the key risks included a similar message:
Investment risk: Octopus EIS invests in small unquoted companies that have a 
higher risk profile than larger companies. This is because smaller businesses have a 
higher failure rate than more established businesses, such as those that have their 
shares quoted on the London Stock Exchange Official List. In addition, smaller 
companies can change value more quickly and more significantly than larger
companies. Your capital is at risk and the investment return is not guaranteed.
The accompanying brochure Details of underlying investments had a separate page 
headed Focus on capital preservation. It explained that Octopus looked to invest in energy 
companies with attractive and stable revenues, many of which benefited from a variety of 
government support mechanisms. It said the EIS offered investors an investment strategy 
that targeted capital preservation, but it also repeated the information on risk that I have 
quoted above.   
Overall, I think the brochures made clear that while capital preservation was the aim, it was 
not guaranteed. They explained clearly that the EIS was still a high risk investment that put 
an investors capital at risk. 
I think Mr F understood the risks and was prepared to accept them because he filled out an 
application form and suitability questionnaire, in which he agreed to the following statements:
I am able and prepared to withstand any fall in the value of my investments.
My objective is to achieve capital growth in the long term as well as the tax benefits. 
Im willing to accept substantial fluctuation in the capital value of the investments in 
order to achieve this. 
Octopus called Mr F to discuss his application because he had indicated his objective was to 
achieve capital growth but had applied for OEIS 18 targeting capital preservation. 
The Octopus representative explained that there was another EIS that targeted growth, but 
which was higher risk.
During the call, Mr F said hed rather invest in something that was lower risk. At that point, 
the Octopus representative explained that an EIS, regardless of whether it was targeting 
capital preservation or growth, would still be considered a high risk investment. From his 
responses, I think Mr F understood that and decided to go ahead with his application for 
OEIS 18. He said:Im comfortable with this. £50,000 is a small part of my investment to be honest so 
even if it went to £20,000, it wouldnt be the end of the world. I wouldnt like but it 
wouldnt be the end of the world. 
Taking account of both the brochures and the phone call, Im satisfied that Octopus made 
sufficiently clear that there was a distinction between the aim of capital preservation and the 
inherently high risk nature of the EIS investment. I think Mr F was prepared to accept the 
risks involved and decided to go ahead with his investment on that basis.       
Diversification
The EIS brochures said that Octopus would invest in a portfolio of energy companies. I note 
that the risks section of the EIS product brochure also said:
Portfolio concentration: Octopus EIS may invest in one or a small number of 
companies and all investments may be in one sector. Therefore, there is
likely to be limited diversification which could increase the risk for investors.
Octopus have said they invested in 13 companies for OEIS 18. Mr F has provided 
information on the proportion of his funds that was invested in each of the companies. He is 
unhappy with the amount of diversification and that just £77 (0.16% of his funds) was 
invested in each of two of the companies. 
Based on the information Ive seen it appears that about 92% of Mr Fs funds were spread 
evenly across seven of the investee companies. The remainder was put into the other six 
companies, with some of the investments being extremely small as Mr F has identified. 
But Octopus have invested Mr Fs funds in a portfolio of companies and overall, I dont think 
I can fairly say they have failed to act in the line with the mandate they were given. 
Fees
Mr F accepts that Octopus made clear they would charge a 5% upfront fee when he 
invested. But he complains he didnt know Octopus would be charging the investee 
companies a loan fee.
The fees section of the EIS product brochure said that the investee companies would in the 
course of their day-to-day operations pay other fees to Octopus and companies related to 
Octopus. Under conflicts of interest, the brochure also explained that the investee 
companies may borrow money from sources that Octopus may manage or have a financial 
interest in.   
I think the EIS brochure made clear that investee companies might borrow from sources that 
Octopus had a financial interest in and pay fees to Octopus. So, I dont think I can fairly say 
that Octopus have done anything wrong on this point. 
Government subsidies
The EIS brochure said the investee companies would benefit from Government support, but 
Mr F says hes seen no evidence they have done so. Octopus have said the companies 
have benefited from government subsidies, but these are not shown separately on any of the 
company accounts because there is no requirement to do so.
I note that, as Octopus have said, the EIS brochure did not make any definitive statements 
about the level of Government support that investee companies would receive. And it did highlight the risk that changes in legislation could affect the revenue streams of the 
companies.
It was a matter for the investee companies themselves to take advantage of the Government 
support available to them. Based on what Ive seen, I think it is likely that some or all of the 
companies benefited from that support. On this point, I think the information Octopus 
provided in the EIS brochure was sufficiently clear, and I dont think I can say they have 
failed to manage Mr Fs investment in line with the mandate they were given. 
Tax certificates
The relevant section of the EIS brochure explained that an investor would need an EIS 3 
certificate from each investee company to claim their tax reliefs. It said that, after the 
companies had been trading for four months, they would apply to HMRC for permission to 
issue the certificates. The brochure also said:
Although Octopus cannot guarantee how soon EIS 3 certificates will be issued, we 
work closely with the investee companies and HMRC to send them to you as
soon as possible.
We expect it may take up to 12 months after the date on which we make the 
investment for investors into investee companies to receive their EIS 3 certificates. 
However, when you receive the certificates doesnt affect the relevant tax year 
against which you can claim income tax relief. Its the date when the investment is 
made that counts.
 
I can understand why Mr F is frustrated that it has taken longer than expected to receive the 
certificates. But I think the brochure explained clearly how the process worked and that 
Octopus could not guarantee how soon the certificates would be issued. So, I dont think 
Octopus have done anything wrong on this point. 
Summary
I would like to reassure Mr F that Ive looked carefully at everything he has said. I can 
understand why he feels strongly about what has happened to his investment. But I dont 
think I can fairly say that Octopus failed to provide sufficiently clear information to Mr F 
before he decided to invest, or that they have failed to manage his investment in line with the 
mandate they were given. I realise this will be a very disappointing decision for Mr F, but I 
wont be upholding his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint 
against Octopus Investments Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Matthew Young
Ombudsman