DRN-3983416
The complaint
Mr H complains that Nationwide Building Society blocked and closed his account. 
What happened
Mr H had a personal account with Nationwide. He used the account to pay bills via direct 
debits and receive income.
In December 2021, a payment of just under £10,000 was made into Mr Hs account.  
Following this, Nationwide reviewed Mr Hs account and asked Mr H to provide information 
about the credit that had been paid into his account. Mr H told Nationwide that the money 
had come from his partners account with another bank and that he intended to use the 
money to buy cryptocurrency. He provided screen shots to Nationwide of his partners bank 
account to support his explanation. 
Whilst it completed its review Nationwide blocked the account  which meant Mr H couldnt 
access the funds in it. Nationwide released Mr Hs account balance on 28 January 2022 and 
unblocked the account on 10 February 2022. After it had completed its review, Nationwide 
decided to close Mr Hs account. Nationwide wrote to Mr H and gave him 60 days notice to 
make alternative banking arrangements. 
Mr H complained to Nationwide about the block and closure of his account. He said because 
of the block he was left without access to money over the Christmas period which made 
things very difficult at home for him and his family including not being able to buy presents 
for his child. Hes also explained that a number of direct debits werent paid despite 
Nationwide telling him that the block wouldnt affect the payments. And says Nationwide 
gave him conflicting information about how long its review would take to complete. Mr H also 
says Nationwide didnt call him back when it had promised to do so. Overall, he said he was 
treated like a criminal and his mental health has been impacted so much so that his doctor 
prescribed him medication. He wants Nationwide to explain why it blocked and closed his 
account. He also wants Nationwide to pay him compensation for the trouble and upset hes 
been caused as a result of Nationwides actions.
In response, Nationwide said it hadnt done anything wrong when it has blocked Mr Hs 
account and asked him for information about the money which had credited the account. it 
said it had acted in line with the terms of the account and relevant regulations when it did so. 
Nationwide said it wasnt obliged to provide Mr H with an explanation for why it had blocked 
his account. However, it accepted that it had provided Mr H with poor service. Nationwide 
said it had given Mr H wrong information about how long its review would take to complete 
and when it told him that his direct debits wouldnt be affected by the block. It apologised and 
offered Mr H £100 compensation. It also offered to refund Mr H any late payment charges 
relating to missed direct debits and to write a letter for Mr H to show to the businesses 
related to the missed direct debits, setting out that the payments werent made due to an 
error made by Nationwide.
Mr H wasnt happy with Nationwides response. He wants Nationwide to provide a proper 
explanation for why it blocked and closed his account. Hes also said that the amount of 
compensation doesnt adequately reflect the amount of trouble and upset he suffered. So, he 
brought his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint. She thought Nationwide hadnt done 
anything wrong when it blocked Mr Hs account. She said theyd acted in line with their legal 
and regulatory obligations. And said it had treated Mr H fairly when it decided to close his 
account. She also said that Nationwide had done enough to put things right and didnt 
recommend further compensation. 
Mr H disagreed. He wants Nationwide to provide a proper explanation for why it closed his 
account. He said Nationwide took too long to complete its review and return his funds to 
him. And he wants more compensation for the trouble and upset hes been caused. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised the events in this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking this 
approach. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me 
to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im satisfied I 
dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome. I do stress however that Ive considered everything that Mr H and Nationwide 
have said before reaching my decision.
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains 
security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the information 
Nationwide has provided is information that we considered should be kept confidential.
Firstly, as the investigator has already explained, Nationwide has extensive legal and 
regulatory responsibilities they must meet when providing account services to customers. 
And to fulfil these obligations they may need to review activity taking place on accounts and 
ask customers for information, for example about payments, and information about the 
individuals operating the accounts  its entitled and obliged to carry out such checks. The 
terms of Mr Hs account also permit Nationwide to review an account and ask its customers 
for information. 
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances 
for Nationwide to block Mr Hs account and ask him for information about a payment coming 
into his account. I say this because this was a newly opened account and having looked at 
the usual activity on the account the payment was out of character.  So, I can understand 
why Nationwide had concerns. Nationwide has explained that this was its standard 
procedure, and I accept that it was. Im satisfied that in blocking Mr Hs account and asking 
him for information Nationwide were complying with its legal and regulatory obligations. So, 
whilst I accept,  Nationwides actions caused Mr H trouble and upset I cant say  Nationwide 
has treated him unfairly in taking these actions.I understand that Mr H wants Nationwide to explain the reason it applied the block to his 
account in the first place. But Nationwide doesnt disclose to its customers what triggers a 
review of their accounts. And its under no obligation to tell Mr H the reasons behind the 
account review and block, as much as hed like to know. So, I cant say its done anything 
wrong by not giving him this information. 
Mr H says Nationwide took too long to complete its review of the account. He says 
Nationwide should have done things more quickly. And hes pointed out that he provided the 
information Nationwide wanted pretty quickly. I do accept that it took around six weeks for 
Nationwide to release the funds held in the account and remove the account block. But I 
dont consider that it would be right for me to conclude it shouldnt have taken in excess of 
any particular or specific timeframe. Because Nationwide was entitled  as a matter of 
principle  to do what it did in order to comply with its legal and regulatory obligations. 
Ive looked at the timeline and can see that Nationwide didnt cause any unnecessary delays 
and were trying to complete its enquiries as quickly as possible. I appreciate that 
Nationwides actions caused Mr H real inconvenience. It wouldnt, however, be appropriate 
to make an award for compensation for that, since I dont believe that Nationwide acted 
inappropriately in taking the actions that it did.
I then turn to the banks decision to close the account. Its generally for banks to decide 
whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually 
say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed. As long as they reach their decisions about that in a legitimate manner, 
this service wont usually intervene. Im satisfied here that the Nationwides decision to stop 
providing Mr H with banking facilities was reached legitimately and fairly.
Banks and financial businesses should, however, give reasonable notice before closing an 
account. Usually, that means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the 
circumstances. In this case Nationwide gave Mr H 60 days notice of its intention to close his 
account. The bank wrote to Mr H on 28 January 2022, letting him know the account would 
close. So, it was entitled to close the account as it has already done. 
Finally, Ive looked at the service Mr H was provided. Nationwide has paid Mr H £100 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused by it telling him incorrectly that his direct 
debits would be unaffected by the block not calling him back when it said it would and taking 
longer than it said it would to complete its enquiries. Nationwide also offered to refund any 
late payment charges he incurred as a result of his direct debits not being paid and wrote 
him a letter which he could use to show businesses if necessary. Mr H has said this isnt 
enough to reflect the trouble and upset hes suffered. He said he wasnt able to make his 
investment and wants more compensation.
Ive considered what Mr H has said about how Nationwides actions impacted him. And Ive 
looked at the information hes provided regarding his visit to his GP. Ive no doubt this was a 
worrying and upsetting time for Mr H but for me to award more compensation Id have to be 
satisfied that the delays and poor service caused an unreasonable level of inconvenience 
and financial loss. 
Having looked at the evidence Mr H has provided Im not satisfied that this shows Mr H lost 
out financially. I havent seen any evidence that Mr H had made any arrangements to invest 
the money that was paid into his account. So, it wouldnt be fair of me to tell Nationwide to 
pay financial loss or compensation for something theres no evidence of.  Mr H has explained that he had to chase Nationwide and his mental health was impacted 
due to how long he had to wait for Nationwide to release his funds. Mr H has explained that 
he couldnt buy presents for his child and things for him, and his family were very tough over 
Christmas. So, I can appreciate this wouldve been inconvenient and upsetting for Mr H. And 
its only right that Nationwide recognises this. Mr H has said that the compensation offered 
by Nationwide doesnt go far enough. He is seeking a higher amount of compensation and 
has explained that he suffered anxiety and stress as a result of what happened. I dont doubt 
that he did. 
Mr H has drawn my attention to another complaint that was brought to our service where a 
higher amount of compensation was awarded than he is being offered. I understand the 
point Mr H seeks to make in doing so. But each complaint is considered on its own individual 
circumstances. The Financial Ombudsman Service publishes on its website information 
about the awards we made for distress and inconvenience, or non-financial loss. Having 
looked at all of the circumstances of this complaint Im satisfied that £100 compensation is 
fair and reasonable in this case and is in line with awards made in similar circumstances. So, 
I wont be asking Nationwide to do anything more.
In summary, its clearly caused Mr H inconvenience and stress when he wasnt able to use 
his account. And I appreciate it must have been a worrying and frustrating time for him. So, I 
realise he will be disappointed by my decision. But having looked at all the evidence and 
circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied that Nationwide have done enough to put 
things right and I wont be asking them to do anything more to resolve Mr Hs complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont require Nationwide Building Society to do anything 
more to resolve Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman