DRN-3502279
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that a transfer from their Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin 
Money bank account wasnt received by the intended recipient. 
What happened
On 18 December 2020 Mrs M set up a new payee via her mobile banking facility to pay for a 
kitchen. Mrs M gave the payee a name beginning was A (A2). Mrs M went on to transfer 
£1,200 in the belief it would go to A2. 
On 21 December 2020 Mrs M contacted Virgin Money as the funds for the kitchen hadnt 
been received. During the call, Mrs M checked the payee details with a call handler at Virgin 
Money. The call handler confirmed the transfer hadnt been sent to A2 and looked at the 
account. The call handler confirmed the account number and sort code that the £1,200 
transfer had been sent to which was different to the new payee details Mrs M had input for 
A2. 
On 22 December 2020 Mrs M spoke with Virgin Money again. The call handler couldnt 
explain why Mrs Ms transfer hadnt gone to her intended recipient. 
Virgin Money carried out an investigation and found the transfer had been sent to an old 
payee with the same name as A2 (A1). The old payee was set up on Mr and Mrs Ms 
account and used to make a transfer of £250 in March 2019. Virgin Money contacted the 
A2s bank and was told the recipients account only had around £6 in it. Virgin Money gave 
Mrs M information setting legal options for recovering the transfer. 
Mrs M complained and Virgin Money apologised that shed been given some confusing 
information during the process of looking at her transfer. But Virgin Money said Mrs M had 
two payees set up with the same name and that shed selected the original payee on 18 
December 2020 (that shed paid in March 2019) when sending the £1,200 transfer. Virgin 
Money didnt agree to refund the missing transfer. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mrs Ms complaint but thought Virgin Money had 
dealt with it fairly. Mrs M asked to appeal and said she remained unclear as to how funds 
were sent to a previous payee that wasnt showing on her current payee list. Mrs M also said 
shed been prompted to approve the transfer with a password but the funds had still ended 
up in the wrong account. As Mr and Mrs M have asked to appeal their complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs M are so frustrated and upset by whats happened. I dont 
doubt that Mrs M intended to send funds to A2 on 18 December 2020. But, I havent found 
any evidence that Virgin Money made an error in this case. Ill explain why. 
Virgin Money has provided evidence from its payments systems that shows payee A1 was 
set up in March 2019 and that a £250 payment was made to them. Mrs M has explained she 
didnt recall sending the payment in question at the time she complained. But has later found 
the recipients details. Ive looked at the payment systems information and account 
statements and Im satisfied Mr and Mrs Ms current account was used to send a payment to 
A1 in March 2019. Im also satisfied A1 was an active payee in December 2020 when Mrs M 
wanted to send a transfer to A2. 
On 18 December 2020 (around 20 months later) Mrs M sent the £1,200 payment in question 
after setting up another payee - A2. Both A1 and A2 had the same name on the payee list. 
When Mrs M went on to instruct the £1,200 payment the payee details for A1 were selected, 
not the new payee details for A2. 
My view is reinforced having listened to Mrs Ms call with Virgin Money on 21 December 
2020. During this call, the call handler read out the sort code and account details use for Mrs 
Ms transfer on 18 December 2020. And the sort code and account details matched the 
payee details for A1, not A2. Im satisfied the information in question shows the payment 
details for A1 were selected when instructing the transfer of £1,200 on 18 December 2020 
which is why the payment wasnt sent to A2. 
Mrs M has asked why A1s details werent showing on her current payee list on 18 
December 2020. But I think the evidence here shows their details were listed on the current 
payee list which is why the payment was sent to them. And, as Ive said above, Virgin Money 
has sent in payment systems evidence that shows Mr and Mrs M had payee details set up 
for both A1 and A2. 
Ive listened to Mrs Ms calls with Virgin Money when she raised concerns over the missed 
payment. Its clear the call handlers couldnt immediately tell what had happened. But I think 
that confusion reflects that there were two payees with the same name set up. I havent seen 
any evidence that shows Virgin Money made a mistake in this case that led to Mr and Mrs 
Ms transfer being sent to the wrong payee. 
Virgin Moneys terms and conditions say it wont refund a payment if the instruction was 
incorrect. Im satisfied its fair for Virgin Money to decline a refund in this case. The terms 
also say Virgin Money will take reasonable steps to try and record a payment sent in error. I 
know it was only able to secure £6 from the recipients account, but Im satisfied it did take 
reasonable steps to try and obtain a refund. I can also see that Virgin Moneys provided 
guidance to Mr and Mrs M concerning potential legal action they may wish to take to recover 
their money. Im satisfied thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Virgin Money paid Mr and Mrs M £25 for providing poor service after Mr and Mrs M got in 
contact about the issues raised. In my view, thats a fair way to resolve Mr and Mrs Ms 
complaint and fairly reflects the service issues raised. As Im satisfied Virgin Money dealt 
with Mr and Mrs Ms complaint fairly, Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Marco ManenteOmbudsman