DRN-3648109
The complaint
Mr F and Ms W complain National House-Building Council (NHBC) hasnt treated them fairly 
after they made a claim on their building warranty policy.
What happened
Mr F and Ms W bought a new-build apartment in 2016. Their property is covered by a ten-
year building warranty policy. 
 
In January 2019, Mr F and Ms W made a claim for loose coping stones. The coping stones 
are a common part of the building, and there are ten apartments in the building that share 
responsibility for the common parts.
During the last eight years of the policy, i.e. years 3-10, section 3 covers physical damage if 
caused by the builders failure to comply with NHBC requirements when building certain 
parts of the property.
NHBC accepted the issue with the coping stones was covered under section 3. However, 
NHBC declined the claim on the basis the minimum claim value (MCV) hadnt been met. 
The policy terms explain how the MCV is calculated, and for Mr F and Ms Ws claim, the 
MCV is £1,600.
Because the area damaged, i.e. the coping stones, is a common part of the building, each of 
the ten leaseholders have to claim for their share of the repair costs under their own building 
warranty policy. This means the repair costs needs to exceed the collective MCV of £16,000, 
i.e. 10 x £1,600. NHBC estimated the repair costs to be £13,217. In other words, Mr F and 
Ms Ws claim for their share (£1,322) didnt exceed their individual £1,600 MCV.
The managing agent went on to commission its own survey. To summarise, the report noted 
the following:
- The coping stones are loose and pose a health and safety risk. The cement bedding 
and the mortar joints are heavily eroded, cracked, and damaged. Previous repairs 
have been undertaken using mastic sealant, which isnt suitable. All of the coping 
stones should be removed, cleaned, chemically refixed and repointed. A mastic 
sealed expansion joint also showed signs of cracking and failure.
- No drip detailing has been installed to the copings, which should be installed where 
appropriate.
- The lead flashing is allowing moisture to disperse under the coping stones and into 
the cavity, saturating the masonry. 
- There are large areas of damp/saturated brickwork. Further investigation is required 
to determine the cause around the guttering and downpipe.
- Movement has occurred to the masonry brick banding below the coping stones, 
which is most apparent at chimney level and eaves level due to the aggressive 
stepped cracking. Previous repairs have been carried out using mastic sealant. 
Appropriate repairs should be undertaken to the masonry where affected. 
- Both chimney stacks are showing signs of potential structural movement, with a 
prominent lean visible. This has caused cracking to the mortar joints below the 
chimney stacks. The chimney stacks need to be taken down and rebuilt.
The report also estimated the following repair costs, which didnt include professional fees or 
VAT:
- Welfare facilities (two weeks): £300.
- Scaffolding (two weeks): £11,300.
- Coping stones: £3,000.
- Brickwork: £1,250.
- Chimney stacks: £4,000.
- General repairs: £500.
- Total: £20,350.
In response to the report, NHBC made the following observations:
- The MCV applies to each item claimed for. NHBCs cost assessment for the loose 
copings to the three gables didnt meet the collective MCV. The costs included 
removal, re-bedding, and mechanically fixing all the copings.
- The loose corbel brickwork and the two leaning chimneys are separate issues. They 
would need to be assessed as two new claims with their own collective MCV of 
£16,000.
- Resealing of cracked expansion joint sealant wouldnt be considered 'damage', and 
nor would damp brickwork below the downpipe and guttering. Those issues should 
be dealt with as part of the maintenance repairs.
- The saturated brickwork could be related to drainage issues from the main roof into 
the guttering, however, damage caused by defective above ground drainage isnt 
covered by the policy.
Mr F and Ms W went on to make a complaint. They were unhappy with NHBCs response, 
so they referred their complaint to our service. Ill summarise the points they made when 
contacting us:
- The £16,000 MCV is too high. They have also asked NHBC where in the policy terms 
its specified that each defect is a separate claim subject to its own MCV, but NHBC 
has failed to answer their question.
- NHBCs publicity material  which is designed to give peace of mind to buyers of new 
homes  makes exaggerated and overstated claims, which in some cases are false 
and misleading.
- Communication from NHBC has been very poor. Although Mr F and Ms W are the 
policyholders, NHBC would only deal with the managing agent. NHBC knew the 
managing agent wasnt communicating with the apartment owners in a timely 
manner.- The owners of another apartment in the building have made a claim for internal water 
damage to their apartment, caused by defective flashing. NHBC has accepted the 
claim and offered a cash settlement. Mr F and Ms W say NHBC isnt offering to 
complete the repairs, and the cash settlement offer isnt enough for the quotes 
received. They say NHBC requires all ten leaseholders to accept the cash 
settlement, so they have a right to complain about the offer.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt think it should be upheld. 
Because Mr F and Ms W disagreed, their complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision, explaining I intended to uphold the complaint. In my 
provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered Mr F and Ms Ws submissions. However, it isnt my role to comment 
on every point raised. Its for me to determine the crux of their complaint, and to address the 
issues I consider relevant to its outcome. Where Ive not directly commented on points, this 
isnt intended as a discourtesy. But rather, its a reflection of the informal nature of our 
service, its remit, and my role in it. 
Has NHBC applied its policy terms fairly?
Mr F and Ms W believe the collective MCV for a common parts claim is too high. However, in 
respect of building warranty policies, its not unusual for each leaseholder to have their own 
MCV, or their own excess to pay, in relation to their common parts claim for their share of 
the repair costs. Importantly, I find Mr F and Ms Ws policy terms to be clear in respect of 
each leaseholder having their own MCV for their own common parts claim.
Nonetheless, Im not persuaded NHBC has applied the policy terms fairly by separating the 
damage to the common parts into separate claims. The policy covers damage. So, in my 
view, where theres a single type of damage, or the damage results from a single type of 
defect, or the damage is linked, those issues ought reasonably to be dealt with under a 
single claim.
Mr F and Ms Ws claim was initially for loose coping stones. NHBC based its assessment on 
photos provided by the managing agent. The managing agent went on to provide a report 
which highlighted three further issues: cracked brickwork beneath the coping stones; two 
leaning chimney stacks; and water ingress into the cavity. I havent seen that NHBC has 
commented on the water ingress into the cavity. But it concluded the brickwork and the 
chimney stacks would be two further claims.
Im not persuaded NHBC has shown the coping stones, brickwork, and chimneys ought 
reasonably to be treated as three separate claims. NHBC hasnt shown there are three 
separate types of damage, or three separate causes, and notably, the coping stones, 
brickwork, and chimneys are all in the same area (on the gable walls) and seemingly 
suffering similar issues.
Mr F and Ms W recently provided an email from a contractor that highlights water damage to 
the timber structure due to issues with the gable wall and the coping stones. Ive shared that 
email with NHBC, along with my observation that all the damage to the common parts 
appears to be related. In response, NHBC didnt provide anything that supports the damage to the coping stones, 
brickwork, chimneys, and timber structure is unrelated. So, based on the information that 
has been presented to us, on balance, Im persuaded its reasonable to consider those 
issues to be related. 
Therefore, it follows that I intend to decide NHBC should now reconsider the damage to the 
common parts and treat it as a single common parts claim (meaning only one collective 
MCV, of £16,000, would apply).
I can only make a direction in relation to Mr F and Ms W. However, it follows NHBC should 
move the other leaseholders common parts claims forward on the same basis, to avoid 
similar complaints. 
I also intend to award Mr F and Ms W £250 compensation. Ive seen from their submissions 
that having to pursue this matter has caused a fair amount of inconvenience and upset.
Should NHBC be communicating with Mr F and Ms W directly?
Mr F and Ms W complain NHBC is only communicating with the managing agent. Whilst their 
claim is a common parts claim and the managing agent will need to be involved in respect of 
access and repairs, the managing agent isnt the policyholder. Where a policyholder has 
requested updates, or to be sent correspondence about their claim, NHBC ought to be 
accommodating the request. NHBC would need to bear this in mind going forward.
Has NHBC offered a fair settlement for the neighbours demised claim?
With regards to NHBCs proposed settlement for the neighbours demised claim, thats not 
something I can consider as part of Mr F and Ms Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Each leaseholder has their own building warranty policy. The policies cover damage, and the 
damage in question was limited to Mr F and Ms Ws neighbours property. So, although the 
defect that caused the demised damage was in a common part (i.e. the flashing), the claim 
was made solely under the neighbours policy. The other leaseholders didnt need to make 
claims under their policies because the damaged apartment isnt their property, and unlike 
the common parts of the building, they have no responsibility for the damaged apartment. 
Whilst the defective flashing will need to be put right to provide an effective and lasting repair 
to the damaged apartment, the claim remains a demised claim. This is because the damage 
is located in a demised property, not the common parts. 
Mr F and Ms Ws neighbours demised claim is different to the scenario where theres also 
damage to the common parts. If theres also damage to the common parts (i.e. not just a 
defect), then individual claims need to be made under each leaseholders policy for their 
share of the repair costs (like the claim for the coping stones, brickwork, chimneys, and 
water damaged structure).
Ultimately, if Mr F and Ms Ws neighbours are unhappy with NHBCs proposed settlement for 
their demised claim, or if they are unhappy that NHBC requires the other leaseholders to 
accept the settlement, they need to make their own complaint about those issues.
Both parties accepted my provisional decision. However, Mr F and Ms W also noted I hadnt 
commented on their point about NHBCs marketing material, and they reiterated several 
points in relation to their neighbours demised claim.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties accepted my provisional decision and no new points have been made. So, it 
follows that my final decision remains the same as my provisional decision, for the same 
reasons.
In relation to Mr F and Ms Ws point about NHBCs marketing material, as I explained in my 
provisional decision, it isnt my role to comment on every point raised. But rather, its for me 
to determine the crux of the complaint, and to address the issues I consider relevant to its 
outcome. Ultimately, its not necessary for me to consider NHBCs marketing material in 
order to reach a fair and reasonable outcome in this case.
In relation to Mr F and Ms Ws neighbours demised claim, I can only reiterate what I said in 
my provisional decision. If Mr F and Ms Ws neighbours are unhappy with NHBCs handling 
of their demised claim, they need to make their own complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint. 
My provisional decision is National House-Building Council should:
- reconsider Mr F and Ms Ws claim for their share of the repairs to the coping stones, 
brickwork, chimneys, and structure  treating the damage as a single common parts 
claim; and
- pay Mr F and Ms W £250 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman