DRN-2548352
The complaint
Mrs W complains Revolut Ltd failed to properly investigate fraud on her account. She wants 
to know more detail about the merchant to which two contactless payments were made.
What happened
The facts of this complaint are well known to both parties. Mrs W says she didnt make two 
payments which debited her Revolut account on different days, and she doesnt recognise 
the name of the merchant. Revolut says Mrs W likely made the payments. Its records show 
the payments were contactless, so her physical card must have been used. Mrs W also still 
had the card in her possession the same days both payments were made. But even so, 
Revolut decided to refund the payments as a gesture of goodwill.
Mrs W wasnt happy with the adequacy of Revoluts response, so brought her complaint to 
our service.
An investigator considered Mrs Ws complaint and decided it should not be upheld. They 
found Revoluts record of the payments was reliable, and Mrs T made genuine payments 
using her card on both days. Some merchants are small and dont have much of an online 
presence, so the lack of information about the merchant wasnt sufficient to conclude Mrs W 
didnt make the payments.
Mrs W disagrees and says Revolut and our service needs to provide more information about 
who the merchant is. She has asked for a final decision from an ombudsman, so the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain why:
Our services role isnt to investigate fraud on behalf of a complainant. Instead, our 
role is to provide a fair and reasonable answer to a complaint about a firm. And in 
reaching a fair and reasonable outcome, we have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and where 
appropriate, what the ombudsman considers to have been good industry practice at 
the relevant time.
Mrs W believes Revolut should know and have access to more information about the 
merchant. But Revolut can only provide the information Mrs W is aware of. All it has 
is the merchants address and name, and that the merchant is registered under the 
VISA card scheme. 
Neither our service, nor Revolut hold the powers of the police. So, we cannot compel 
information or evidence from third parties, such as the merchant in question. Mrs W 
may wish to report the payments as a crime to the police, which is something she 
may have already done.
I dont doubt Mrs W doesnt recall making the payments. But merchants can use 
different trading names and references. So, its possible Mrs W made the payments 
to a merchant whose name differs substantially to the one which was recorded, and 
as a result she doesnt recognise them.
Mrs W acknowledges using her card the day of the payments. And she said her card 
was in her possession. I find this is an important fact. Based on what she has said I 
doubt someone could have obtained her card, made the two payments, and then 
replaced the card without her noticing. 
I doubt Mrs Ws card was cloned. Our service has yet to come across a complaint 
where we believe a contactless CHIP was successfully cloned and used to defraud a 
customer. And, even if this were possible, it would have taken some considerable 
time and effort alone with Mrs Ws card, which is unlikely given the card was with her 
at the time.
Mrs W pointed to the possibility of a device being used to intercept her card. But its 
unlikely someone could have gotten so close to Mrs W with a functioning chip and 
PIN machine to engage the contactless feature of her card. Mrs W would likely have 
noticed such an individual due to how close they would have needed to be to her. 
Taking this kind of action would seem very risky considering the low value of the 
payments and the high chance of being apprehended.
On balance, Im satisfied Revolut reasonably concluded Mrs Ws physical card was 
used to make contactless payments. I have no reason to doubt the authenticity of its 
records. And, as Mrs W had the card in her possession that day, I find it was also 
reasonable for Revolut to conclude it was likely her who made the payments. I dont 
find it needs to do anything more than it has already.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I have decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2021.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman