DRN-3091142
The complaint
1. Mr H has complained that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance (BPF), has unfairly turned down his claim under 
sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
The background
2. In April 2011 Mr H, alongside his wife, entered into an agreement for a trial 
membership with Club La Costa (CLC). CLC is a business that operates 
international holiday resorts and hotels and provides its customers with different 
types of holiday products, including timeshares and forms of property ownership. 
The trial membership let Mr and Mrs H take five weeks of holidays at CLC resorts 
(plus an additional prelude week) over a period of just under three years. This 
cost £3,995, which was paid for by a loan provided by a business other than BPF.
3. In October 2011 Mr and Mrs H were staying at a CLC property overseas when they 
attended a sales meeting, during which they upgraded their trial membership. Mr 
and Mrs H joined CLCs Fractional Points Owners Club (FPOC) which, amongst 
other things, provided them with points they could exchange for holiday 
accommodation, but also with an interest in a property overseas, known as the 
allocated property. Their membership was set to run for 16 years, after which the 
allocated property would be sold and they would be entitled to a share of the 
proceeds of sale.
4. Mr and Mrs Hs membership of the FPOC was agreed in a Purchase Agreement 
dated 4 October 2011 (the Purchase Agreement), which they jointly and severally 
entered into with a CLC sales company, Club La Costa Leisure Limited. That sales 
company had the right to promote and sell fractional rights in the FPOC and was 
the supplier for the purposes of the CCA. Under the Purchase Agreement, Mr and 
Mrs H agreed to be bound by the rules of the FPOC (the Rules) and by the 
management agreement relating to the club (the Management Agreement).
5. The FPOC membership cost £18,899. Mr and Mrs H were given a £3,000 trade in 
value for their trial membership and the balance, £15,899, was paid for using an 
interest bearing loan taken out with BPF in Mr Hs sole name. The rate of interest 
was 17.6% per year and the term was 15 years, so if the loan ran to term it would 
have cost £42,845.40. Mr H paid off the loan in full on 31 August 2012.
6. Mr and Mrs H have said it was important to them at the time they took out FPOC 
membership that they could holiday in Jerusalem and that they were told by CLC 
representatives that it had access to apartments there. They also said CLC 
presented FPOC as an investment, as they would become joint owners of a 
property which would be sold later at a profit, and that CLC told them the annual 
maintenance fees would remain at the same level during the time they were FPOC 
members.
7. Mr and Mrs H say what they were told turned out not to be true. In particular, CLC 
was not able to provide them with holiday accommodation in Jerusalem as 
promised. In 2016, Mr and Mrs H attempted to give up their FPOC membership 
and they did not get any money back, so it did not work as an investment1  they 
were concerned that they did not actually have an interest in a property as 
promised. And the cost of the maintenance fees did rise over the years. Unhappy 
with the FPOC, they raised a complaint.
8. The complaint was made to BPF, so was brought in Mr Hs name only as the credit 
agreement was in his name.2 He said that BPF was liable to him under the CCA for 
the things he said CLC did wrong. BPF responded to Mr Hs complaint, but did not 
uphold it. It said, in short, that CLC had told Mr and Mrs H that it did not have 
apartments in Jerusalem, but they could use their FPOC points in a third party 
points exchange scheme to book apartments there. And since then Mr and Mrs H 
had used their membership on several occasions, so BPF thought they must have 
been happy with what they bought.
9. BPF also said the documents available from the time of sale make clear that the 
FPOC was not sold as an investment, in fact the documents made plain that 
membership was for the sole purpose of taking holidays and not an investment 
vehicle. The documents also showed that CLC did not offer any buy back scheme 
for their points and that the maintenance fees could go up or down over time.
10. Unhappy with BPFs response, Mr H brought his complaint to our service. Initially 
he was represented by a professional claim management company (CMC), but 
he now represents himself. In addition to what had been said before, it was pointed 
out that Mr and Mrs H had to pay to join the points exchange scheme every year 
after the first year of membership. They said this was not made clear to them when 
they were told they would have access to accommodation in Jerusalem. And when 
they tried to book there, the points exchange scheme could only find 
accommodation in Tel Aviv, which was not what they wanted. They accepted they 
used the FPOC membership to go on holiday, but this was because they had paid 
a lot of money for it and wanted to make some use of it.
11. Mr and Mrs H said that they had not read the documents at the time they took out 
FPOC membership as Mrs H, who dealt with the documents, did not have her 
reading glasses with her and could not read the information. Also, the CLC 
customer compliance officer did not read aloud the members declaration to them, 
so they were not aware of what it contained when it was signed.
12. One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and did not think BPF needed to 
do anything further. He considered the evidence provided by Mr and Mrs H and 
BPF and in summary he thought:
Mr and Mrs H ended up buying the product they thought they were buying 
and they did have an interest in the property set out on their FPOC 
agreement.
1 In response to my provisional decision, BPF has explained that Mr and Mrs H did not in fact give up 
their membership as they thought they had. I will deal with this issue later on in my decision.
2 In this decision I will refer to Mr and Mrs H as both were present at the sale, but the complaint 
brought is in Mr Hs name only.The contract makes clear that the product was to be bought for the 
purposes of going on holiday and not as an investment, so he did not think 
the FPOC was sold as an investment.
The contract states that the maintenance fees can go up, so there was no 
breach of contract or misrepresentation when they were later increased.
The evidence suggests that a number of different holiday destinations were 
discussed, not only in Jerusalem, and the adjudicator would not have 
expected someone to take out FPOC membership if they only wanted to go 
to one place for holiday.
13. Mr H did not agree with what our adjudicator said, so asked for the complaint to be 
looked at again by an ombudsman.
14. But before that happened a new investigator looked at the complaint again. He 
considered everything Mr and Mrs H and BPF had told us, as well as a sales 
presentation that CLC had used around the same time the FPOC product was sold 
to Mr and Mrs H. He thought this was a complaint that should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Based on the sales process, it is likely the resale value of the FPOC was 
presented as an important feature of the club. So it is likely FPOC 
membership was presented as an investment.
CLC did not provide sufficient information to Mr and Mrs H about the 
scheme so they could make a balanced and informed assessment of the 
transaction they were entering.
The sales process was geared toward highlighting the positives of the 
scheme and little information was given about the negatives. It was also 
front loaded, so more time was spent giving presentations and talking about 
the scheme than was given to read the paperwork.
Based on the available evidence, it is likely a court would find there was an 
unfair debtor-creditor relationship under s.140A CCA. He suggested a 
remedy was for BPF to refund what Mr H paid toward the loan, with interest.
15. BPF disagreed with the investigators view. It provided lengthy submissions setting 
out its position, along with six witness statements to support what it was saying. 
Those witnesses were:
PR  CLCs Group Sales Operation Director
DF  CLCs Sales Administration Director
NW  One of CLCs Customer Liaison Officers
MB  CLCs Signature Concierge Manager and the Sales Representative 
who sold FPOC membership to Mr and Mrs H
PB  the Legal Services Director at the trustee that had legal title to the 
properties that backed the FPOC
MO  a solicitor in private practice, who undertook work for CLC
16. BPF said, in summary:
FPOC was not sold to Mr and Mrs H as an investment  this was 
specifically banned by the rules and regulations that govern the sales of 
timeshares.
The documents available from the time of sale show that this was not an 
investment  they make it clear the purpose of membership was to take 
holidays.Mr and Mrs H were not given the sort of information they would get if they 
were taking out an investment, for example the value of the property 
interest they were buying or the potential growth they could expect to see.
The evidence suggests that Mr and Mrs H were not pressured into taking 
out FPOC membership  they were given time to think about everything 
and in fact Mr H returned the day after the presentation to finish signing all 
of the documents.
There is evidence that Mr and Mrs Hs CMC encouraged a different client of 
theirs to make false claims in a court case, so this service should treat Mr 
and Mrs Hs claim with caution.
This service has no jurisdiction to make an order under s.140A CCA, only a 
court can do that.
17. As BPF did not agree with our investigators view, the complaint was passed to me 
for a decision. 
18. Having considered the complaint, I concluded that it was one that should be upheld 
in Mr Hs favour. But the reasons I came to that conclusion, and the suggested 
remedy, differed from what our investigator thought, so I issued a provisional 
decision setting out my provisional findings and inviting both parties to let me have 
any further evidence or arguments they wished me to consider. 
19. My provisional findings were:
BPF were concerned that Mr and Mrs Hs CMC had behaved poorly in the 
past in relation to another consumers claim and I should treat Mr and Mrs 
Hs claims with scepticism. I thought I was able to properly weigh up all of 
the evidence available to come to a fair and reasonable answer to the 
complaint.
I thought the evidence available suggested that Mr and Mrs H did not only 
wish to holiday in Jerusalem, and I did not think that the availably of 
holidays there was misrepresented to them.
I thought that FPOC membership was sold to Mr and Mrs H as an 
investment, but I did not think this amounted to a false representation as 
there was indeed an investment element.
I did not think the evidence suggested that Mr and Mrs H would have been 
told that the maintenance fees would not change over time. So in 
conclusion I did not think BPF acted unfairly in turning down the claim 
under s.75 CCA.
I went on to look at the claim under s.140A CCA and I explained that it was 
relevant law that I had to take into account, and I had to consider whether I 
thought it was likely a court would find the relationship unfair.
Having considered the evidence available from the time of sale, I did not 
think there was sufficient information to conclude that Mr and Mrs H had 
been unduly pressured into taking out FPOC membership.
I looked at the contractual terms that set out the fees and charges that 
could have been levied against Mr and Mrs H, as well as the consequences 
of not making the demanded payments. Having done so, I concluded that a 
court would likely find those terms were unfair.
I thought that CLC did not provide sufficient information to Mr and Mrs H in 
contravention of the Timeshare Regulations meaning they could not 
properly weigh up the cost and benefit of taking out FPOC membership.
In light of the provisional findings I made, I thought it was likely a court 
would have found that the debtor-creditor relationship was unfair.I thought that, had there not been breaches of the various regulations and 
an imbalance of knowledge, Mr and Mrs H would not have bought FPOC 
membership. So to remedy the unfairness I thought BPF needed to refund 
the payments Mr H made under the loan, with interest, and to pay back 
some of the maintenance fees Mr and Mrs H paid, with interest, but not all 
of them to reflect that they had used FPOC membership to take some 
holidays. 
20. Mr H responded to my provisional decision to say he agreed with my findings and 
had nothing further to add.
21. BPF responded to say it disagreed with my provisional decision. It provided two 
further witness statements from:
EM  CLCs Group General Counsel
JL  a CLC Project Director
22. In addition to what it had said before, BPF set out further submissions. They were:
From the available material, the courts would not reach the decision I 
thought they would, and I had erred in this regard.
It was a perverse conclusion, on the evidence before me, that CLC sold or 
marketed the product as an investment.
I had variously erred in law, erred in fact and reached an irrational 
conclusion in finding that CLC failed to provide sufficient information.
I had erred in law in concluding that the terms of the Fractional Product 
relating to ongoing charges are unfair.
I had erred in law and reached a perverse conclusion in finding that the 
purported failure to provide information and the inclusion of the supposedly 
unfair terms gave rise to unfairness under s.140A CCA.
Even if the relationship was unfair (which BPF denied) the suggested 
redress was inappropriate and irrational and contrary to the spirit of s.140B 
CCA.
23. As my provisional decision was not agreed by the parties, I have reconsidered the 
complaint before issuing a final decision. So I have set out below what I 
provisionally decided, BPFs responses and out my final conclusions on this 
complaint.
My findings
24. I have again read and considered all the available evidence and arguments to 
decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. When doing that, I am required by DISP 3.6.4 R of the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Handbook to take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what [the ombudsman] considers to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time.25. Where I have needed to make a finding of fact based on the evidence, I have 
made my decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means 
when I make a finding that something has happened, that is because I think it is 
more likely than not that that thing did happen.
26. As set out above, I have to take into account the relevant law and regulations. So it 
is necessary that I set out the legal framework behind Mr Hs complaint.
The legal framework
Consumer Credit Act 1974
27. Mr H paid for the FPOC membership by giving up trial membership and with a 
£15,899 BPF loan. The proceeds of the loan were not paid to Mr H for him to 
choose what to do with them, but they were paid to CLC directly. This was known 
as a restricted-use credit agreement, which meant certain parts of the CCA apply. 
The relevant sections read:
28. Section 11: Restricted-Use Credit and Unrestricted-Use Credit
(1) A restricted-use credit agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement -

(b) to finance a transaction between the debtor and a person (the supplier) 
other than the creditor
29. Section 12: Debtor-Creditor-Supplier Agreements
A debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement 
being -

(b) a restricted-use credit agreement which falls within section 11(1)(b) and is 
made by the creditor under pre-existing arrangements, or in contemplation 
of future arrangements, between himself and the supplier
30. Section 19: Linked Transactions
(1) A transaction entered into by the debtor or hirer, or a relative of his, with any 
other person (the other party), except one for the provision of security, is a 
linked transaction in relation to an actual or prospective regulated agreement 
(the principal agreement) of which it does not form part if -

(b) the principal agreement is a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement and the 
transaction is financed, or to be financed, by the principal agreement
31. Section 56: Antecedent Negotiations
(1) In this Act antecedent negotiations means any negotiations with the debtor or 
hirer -

(c) conducted by the supplier in relation to a transaction financed or proposed 
to be financed by a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement within section 12(b) 
or (c),
and negotiator means the person by whom negotiations are so conducted with 
the debtor or hirer.(2) Negotiations with the debtor in a case falling within subsection (1)(b) or (c) shall 
be deemed to be conducted by the negotiator in the capacity of agent of the 
creditor as well as in his actual capacity.

(4) For the purposes of this Act, antecedent negotiations shall be taken to begin 
when the negotiator and the debtor or hirer first enter into communication 
(including communication by advertisement), and to include any representations 
made by the negotiator to the debtor or hirer and any other dealings between 
them.
32. Section 75: Liability of Creditor for Breaches by Supplier
(1) If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 
12(b) or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any 
claim against the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of 
contract, he shall have a like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, 
shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor
33. Section 140A: Unfair Relationships Between Creditors and Debtors
(1) The court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it determines that the relationship between the creditor and the 
debtor arising out of the agreement (or the agreement taken with any related 
agreement) is unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following -
(a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of his rights 
under the agreement or any related agreement;
(c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
(2) In deciding whether to make a determination under this section the court shall 
have regard to all matters it thinks relevant (including matters relating to the 
creditor and matters relating to the debtor).
(3) For the purposes of this section the court shall (except to the extent that it is 
not appropriate to do so) treat anything done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, 
or in relation to, an associate or a former associate of the creditor as if done (or 
not done) by, or on behalf of, or in relation to, the creditor.
(4) A determination may be made under this section in relation to a relationship 
notwithstanding that the relationship may have ended
34. Section 140B: Powers of Court in Relation to Unfair Relationships
(1) An order under this section in connection with a credit agreement may do one 
or more of the following -
(a) require the creditor, or any associate or former associate of his, to repay (in 
whole or in part) any sum paid by the debtor or by a surety by virtue of the 
agreement or any related agreement (whether paid to the creditor, the 
associate or the former associate or to any other person);
(b) require the creditor, or any associate or former associate of his, to do or not to do (or to cease doing) anything specified in the order in connection with 
the agreement or any related agreement;
(c) reduce or discharge any sum payable by the debtor or by a surety by virtue 
of the agreement or any related agreement;
(d) direct the return to a surety of any property provided by him for the 
purposes of a security;
(e) otherwise set aside (in whole or in part) any duty imposed on the debtor or 
on a surety by virtue of the agreement or any related agreement;
(f) alter the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(g) direct accounts to be taken, or (in Scotland) an accounting to be made, 
between any persons.
(2) An order under this section may be made in connection with a credit agreement 
only -
(a) on an application made by the debtor or by a surety
(3) An order under this section may be made notwithstanding that its effect is to 
place on the creditor, or any associate or former associate of his, a burden in 
respect of an advantage enjoyed by another person.
(4) An application under subsection (2)(a) may only be made -
(a) in England and Wales, to the county court
(9) If, in any such proceedings, the debtor or a surety alleges that the relationship 
between the creditor and the debtor is unfair to the debtor, it is for the creditor to 
prove to the contrary.
35. Section 140C: Interpretation of Sections 140A and 140B

(4) References in sections 140A and 140B to an agreement related to a credit  
agreement (the main agreement) are references to -
(a) a credit agreement consolidated by the main agreement;
(b) a linked transaction in relation to the main agreement or to a credit 
agreement within paragraph (a)
36. In addition to the CCA, there are several regulations that I need to consider. Most 
of these regulations apply primarily to CLC, rather than BPF. In my provisional 
decision I explained that it is not my role to decide what CLCs liability, if any, 
would be for any breaches of the regulations set out below. But it is important to 
consider whether there are likely to have been breaches as, in my view, the 
regulations set out the reasonable standard of conduct expected of CLC in dealing 
with Mr and Mrs H. And it is possible that if CLCs conduct fell below the standards 
expected, that could lead to unfairness as per s.140A CCA. BPF has not disagreed 
with this approach.
Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999
37. The Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999 (UTCCR) covered Mr 
and Mrs Hs agreement with CLC at the time of sale. The relevant regulations read:
38. Regulation 5: Unfair terms(1) A contractual term which has not been individually negotiated shall be regarded 
as unfair if, contrary to the requirement of good faith, it causes a significant 
imbalance in the parties' rights and obligations arising under the contract, to the 
detriment of the consumer.
(2) A term shall always be regarded as not having been individually negotiated 
where it has been drafted in advance and the consumer has therefore not been 
able to influence the substance of the term.

(5) Schedule 2 to these Regulations contains an indicative and non-exhaustive list 
of the terms which may be regarded as unfair.
39. Regulation 6: Assessment of unfair terms
(1) Without prejudice to regulation 12, the unfairness of a contractual term shall be 
assessed, taking into account the nature of the goods or services for which the 
contract was concluded and by referring, at the time of conclusion of the 
contract, to all the circumstances attending the conclusion of the contract and 
to all the other terms of the contract or of another contract on which it is 
dependent.
(2) In so far as it is in plain intelligible language, the assessment of fairness of a 
term shall not relate
(a) to the definition of the main subject matter of the contract, or
(b) to the adequacy of the price or remuneration, as against the goods or 
services supplied in exchange.
40. Regulation 7: Written contracts
(1) A seller or supplier shall ensure that any written term of a contract is expressed 
in plain, intelligible language.
(2) If there is doubt about the meaning of a written term, the interpretation which is 
most favourable to the consumer shall prevail but this rule shall not apply in 
proceedings brought under regulation 12.
41. Regulation 8: Effect of unfair term
(1) An unfair term in a contract concluded with a consumer by a seller or supplier 
shall not be binding on the consumer.
(2) The contract shall continue to bind the parties if it is capable of continuing in 
existence without the unfair term.
42. Schedule 2: INDICATIVE AND NON-EXHAUSTIVE LIST OF TERMS WHICH 
MAY BE REGARDED AS UNFAIR
1. Terms which have the object or effect of -

(d) permitting the seller or supplier to retain sums paid by the consumer where 
the latter decides not to conclude or perform the contract, without providing 
for the consumer to receive compensation of an equivalent amount from the 
seller or supplier where the latter is the party cancelling the contract;
(e) requiring any consumer who fails to fulfil his obligation to pay a disproportionately high sum in compensation;
(f) authorising the seller or supplier to dissolve the contract on a discretionary 
basis where the same facility is not granted to the consumer, or permitting 
the seller or supplier to retain the sums paid for services not yet supplied by 
him where it is the seller or supplier himself who dissolves the contract;

(l) providing for the price of goods to be determined at the time of delivery or 
allowing a seller of goods or supplier of services to increase their price 
without in both cases giving the consumer the corresponding right to cancel 
the contract if the final price is too high in relation to the price agreed when 
the contract was concluded;
Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008
43. There are also the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008 
(CPR) that again applied to Mr and Mrs Hs contract with CLC. The relevant 
regulations read:
44. Regulation 3: Prohibition of unfair commercial practices
(1) Unfair commercial practices are prohibited.
(2) Paragraphs (3) and (4) set out the circumstances when a commercial practice 
is unfair.
(3) A commercial practice is unfair if
(a) it contravenes the requirements of professional diligence; and
(b) it materially distorts or is likely to materially distort the economic behaviour 
of the average consumer with regard to the product.
(4) A commercial practice is unfair if
(a) it is a misleading action under the provisions of regulation 5;
(b) it is a misleading omission under the provisions of regulation 6;
(c) it is aggressive under the provisions of regulation 7; or
(d) it is listed in Schedule 1.
45. Regulation 7: Aggressive commercial practices
(1) A commercial practice is aggressive if, in its factual context, taking account of 
all of its features and circumstances -
(a) it significantly impairs or is likely significantly to impair the average 
consumers freedom of choice or conduct in relation to the product 
concerned through the use of harassment, coercion or undue influence; 
and
(b) it thereby causes or is likely to cause him to take a transactional decision 
he would not have taken otherwise.
(2) In determining whether a commercial practice uses harassment, coercion or 
undue influence account shall be taken of -
(a) its timing, location, nature or persistence;
(b) the use of threatening or abusive language or behaviour;(c) the exploitation by the trader of any specific misfortune or circumstance of 
such gravity as to impair the consumers judgment, of which the trader is 
aware, to influence the consumers decision with regard to the product;
(d) any onerous or disproportionate non-contractual barrier imposed by the 
trader where a consumer wishes to exercise rights under the contract, 
including rights to terminate a contract or to switch to another product or 
another trader; and
(e) any threat to take any action which cannot legally be taken...
Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010
46. The Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 
2010 (Timeshare Regulations) came into effect shortly before Mr and Mrs H 
bought FPOC membership. They cover the sale of holiday accommodation 
contracts, including timeshares, long-term holiday products and exchange 
contracts, so apply to Mr and Mrs Hs agreement with CLC. The relevant 
regulations read:
47. Regulation 12: Key information
(1) Before entering into a regulated contract, the trader must -
(a) give the consumer the key information in relation to the contract, and
(b) ensure that the information meets the requirements of this regulation.
(2) The trader must comply with paragraph (1) in good time before entering into 
the contract.
(3) The key information in relation to a contract means
(a) the information required by Part 1 of the standard information form (see 
regulation 13(2)),
(b) the information set out in Part 2 of that form, and
(c) any additional information required by Part 3 of that form.
(4) The information must be -
(a) clear, comprehensible and accurate, and
(b) sufficient to enable the consumer to make an informed decision about 
whether or not to enter into the contract.
(5) The information must be provided -
(a) in the standard information form, completed in accordance with regulation 
13(1),
(b) in writing,
(c) free of charge, and
(d) in a manner which is easily accessible to the consumer
48. Regulation 13: Completing the standard information form
(1) The standard information form must be completed as follows -
(a) the information required by Part 1 of the form must be inserted in the 
appropriate places (without deleting the existing text in that Part),(b) Part 2 of the form must not be amended, and
(c) the information required by Part 3 of the form must be inserted in the 
appropriate places in accordance with any applicable notes (which may 
then be deleted).
(2) The standard information form means the form set out in -
(a) Schedule 1, in the case of a timeshare contract
49. Regulation 14: Marketing and sales
(1) Any advertising related to a regulated contract must indicate how the key 
information in relation to the contract can be obtained.
(2) A trader must not offer an opportunity to enter into a regulated contract to a 
consumer at a promotion or sales event unless -
(a) the invitation to the event clearly indicates the commercial purpose and 
nature of the event, and
(b) the key information in relation to the proposed regulated contract is made 
available to the consumer for the duration of the event.
(3) A trader must not market or sell a proposed timeshare contract or long-term 
holiday product contract as an investment if the proposed contract would be a 
regulated contract.
(4) The references to key information in this regulation are references to key 
information which meets the requirements of regulations 12(4) to (7)
50. Regulation 15: Form of contract
(1) A trader must not enter into a regulated contract unless the contract complies 
with the requirements of this regulation.
(2) The contract must be in writing and include -
(a) the identity, place of residence and signature of each of the parties;
(b) the date and place of conclusion of the contract.
(3) The contract must set out the key information in relation to the contract which is 
required under regulation 12.
(4) That key information must be set out -
(a) as terms of the contract, and
(b) with no changes, other than permitted changes.

(7) The contract must include the standard withdrawal form set out in Schedule 5.
(8) If a trader contravenes paragraph (1)
(a) the trader commits an offence, and
(b) the contract is unenforceable against the consumer.
51. Schedule 1: Standard Information Form for Timeshare contractsPart 1
Identity, place of residence and legal status of the trader(s) which will be party to 
the contract:
Short description of the product (e.g. description of the immovable property): Exact 
nature and content of the right(s):
Exact period within which the right which is the subject of the contract may be 
exercised and, if necessary, its duration:
Date on which the consumer may start to exercise the contractual right:
If the contract concerns a specific property under construction, date when the 
accommodation and services/facilities will be completed/available:
Price to be paid by the consumer for acquiring the right(s):
Outline of additional obligatory costs imposed under the contract; type of costs and 
indication of amounts (e.g. annual fees, other recurrent fees, special levies, local 
taxes):
A summary of key services available to the consumer (e.g. electricity, water, 
maintenance, refuse collection) and an indication of the amount to be paid by the 
consumer for such services:
A summary of facilities available to the consumer (e.g. swimming pool or sauna): 
Are these facilities included in the costs indicated above?
If not, specify what is included and what has to be paid for:
Is it possible to join an exchange scheme?
If yes, specify the name of the exchange scheme: Indication of costs for 
membership/exchange:
Has the trader signed a code/codes of conduct and, if yes, where can it/they be 
found?
 
Part 3
Additional information to which the consumer is entitled and where it can be 
obtained specifically (for instance, under which chapter of a general brochure) if 
not provided below:

4. INFORMATION ON THE COSTS
- an accurate and appropriate description of all costs associated with the timeshare 
contract; how these costs will be allocated to the consumer and how and when 
such costs may be increased; the method for the calculation of the amount of 
charges relating to occupation of the property, the mandatory statutory charges (for 
example, taxes and fees) and the administrative overheads (for example, 
management, maintenance and repairs),
- where applicable, information on whether there are any charges, mortgages, 
encumbrances or any other liens recorded against title to the accommodation.
5. INFORMATION ON TERMINATION OF THE CONTRACT-where appropriate, information on the arrangements for the termination of ancillary 
contracts and the consequences of such termination,
-conditions for terminating the contract, the consequences of termination, and 
information on any liability of the consumer for any costs which might result from 
such termination.
6. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
-information on how maintenance and repairs of the property and its administration 
and management are arranged, including whether and how consumers may 
influence and participate in the decisions regarding these issues,
-information on whether or not it is possible to join a system for the resale of the 
contractual rights, information about the relevant system and an indication of costs 
related to resale through this system
Relevant Case Law
52. There are a number of relevant cases that set out how the courts have approached 
the issues in Mr and Mrs Hs complaint, in particular the interpretation of s.140A 
CCA.
53. Some general principles were set out by Hamblen J in the judgment in the case of 
Deutsche Bank (Suisse) SA v. Khan and other [2013] EWHC 482 (DB v. Khan). 
At paragraph 346, the judge set out a summary of how the test of unfairness had 
been considered in other cases:
These authorities suggest that the matters likely to be of relevance include the 
following:
(1) In relation to the fairness of the terms themselves:
a. whether the term is commonplace and/or in the nature of the product in 
question (Rahman [277]);
b. whether there are sound commercial reasons for the term (Rahman 
[278]);
c. whether it represents a legitimate and proportionate attempt by the 
creditor to protect its position (Maple Leaf [288]);
d. to the extent that a term is solely for the benefit of the lender, whether it 
exists to protect him from a risk which the debtor does not face (Maple 
Leaf [289]);
e. the scale of the lending and whether it was commercial or quasi-
commercial in nature (Rahman [275]) (a court is likely to be slower to 
find unfairness in high value lending arrangements between commercial 
parties than in credit agreements affecting consumers); and
f. the strength (or otherwise) of the debtors bargaining position (Rahman 
[275]);
g. whether the terms have been individually negotiated or are pro forma 
terms and, if so, whether they have been presented on a "take it or 
leave it" basis (Rahman [275]);
(2) In relation to the creditor's conduct before and at the time of formation:
a. whether the creditor applied any pressure on the borrowers to execute the agreement (if an agreement has been entered into with a sense of 
urgency it will be relevant to consider to what extent responsibility for 
this lay with the debtor, as distinct from the creditor) (Maple Leaf [274]);
b. whether the creditor understood and had reasonable grounds to believe 
that the borrower had experience of the relevant arrangements and had 
available to him the advice of solicitors (Maple Leaf [274]);
c. whether the creditor had any reason to think that the debtor had not 
read or understood the terms (Maple Leaf [274]); and
d. whether the debtor demurred at the time of formation over the terms he 
now suggests are unfair (this point has particular force if he did 
complain over other terms) (Maple Leaf [274]; Rahman [276]).
(3) In relation to the creditor's conduct following formation and leading up to 
enforcement:
a. whether any demand was prompted by an "improper motive" or was the 
consequence of an "arbitrary decision" (Paragon Mortgages [54(b)]);
b. whether the creditor has shown patience and, before leaping to 
enforcement, has taken steps in the hope of reaching some form of 
accommodation (for example by attending meetings, engaging in 
correspondence and/or inviting proposals) (Rahman [280-281]); and
c. whether the debtor has resisted attempts at accommodation by raising 
unfounded claims against the creditor (Rahman [280-281]).
54. The Supreme Court considered s.140A CCA in Plevin v. Paragon Personal 
Finance Ltd [2014] UKSC 61 (Plevin). This case concerned the sale of a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy alongside a loan where a significant part of the 
PPI policy cost was made up of commission. The issue for the court to decide was 
to what extend the failure to disclose the level of commission could render the 
credit agreement unfair. There are a number of important passages in the judgment 
that I will refer to throughout this decision.
55. The Court of Appeal also considered s.140A CCA in Scotland and Reast v. British 
Credit Trust Limited [2014] EWCA Civ 790 (Scotland and Reast). This judgment 
considered, amongst other things, the interaction between s.140A and s.56 CCA.
56. The High Court considered both s.140A CCA and the interaction with the UTCCR 
in the case of Link Financial v. Wilson [2014] EWHC 252 (Ch). This case 
concerned the operation of a term in a timeshare agreement that the court 
determined breached the UTCCR. It was held that unfairness of the contractual 
term gave rise to an unfairness under s.140A CCA.
57. In response to my provisional decision BPF gave me details of four other County 
Court cases concerning timeshares. BPF said it was only aware of four such cases 
reaching trial in recent years and these outcomes demonstrate both courts 
approaches to timeshare cases, as well as the need to property test consumers 
evidence through cross-examination. I have considered these cases and, where 
provided, the relevant judgments.
58. One of these was Hitachi v. Topping (20 June 2018, Nottingham County Court, 
HHJ Owen QC) (unreported). BPF has explained that in this case, Mr Topping had 
initially been represented by the same CMC that initially represented Mr H. Under 
cross-examination, Mr Topping conceded that the majority of allegations he had 
made in his signed Deed/Power of Attorney did not relate to his claim and were inaccurate, that this was prepared by the CMC and he did what the CMC told him 
to do to get out of the timeshare agreement. After he gave evidence, and following 
a steer from the trial judge, Mr Topping discontinued his claim. No judgment was 
given on the merits of this claim and I have not seen a transcript of the cross-
examination or what the judge said. But I do have the recollections of MO, who 
was present in court, in his witness statement. This case was referred to by BPF 
before I issued my provisional decision and I considered what I had been told 
about it in that decision.
59.  I have been provided with an approved transcript of the judgment in Brown v. 
Shawbrook (18 June 2020, Wrexham County Court, HHJ Howells) (unreported). 
This claim considered a fractional ownership model from a different provider from 
CLC. BPF has drawn my attention to two particular passages, one where the judge 
questioned the role that the CMC involved in that case had in persuading the 
Claimants that something had gone wrong and one passage where the judge held 
that a technical breach of the Timeshare Regulations may not have given rise to an 
unfair relationship. 
60. BPF has also provided an approved transcript of the judgment in Wilson v. 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (t/a Barclays Partner Finance) (19 July 
2021, Portsmouth County Court, DDJ Pain) (unreported). In this case the judge 
rejected the Claimants claim under s.140A CCA, finding that the representations 
alleged to have been made by the timeshare provider were not made out on the 
evidence. The judge went on to say that even if the representations had been 
made and gave rise to an unfair relationship, he would not have exercised his 
discretion to make an order under s.140B CCA.
61. Finally, BPF provided the approved judgment in Gallagher v. Diamond Resorts 
(Europe) Limited (21 July 2021, The County Court at Lancaster, HHJ Beech) 
(unreported). This claim was brought by Mr Gallagher to rescind a timeshare 
agreement due to alleged misrepresentations  the timeshare was not provided by 
CLC. The judge found that Mr Gallaghers allegations were not proven, so his claim 
did not succeed. This case did not concern the operation of the CCA.
Other relevant information
62. As set out above, the rules that explain how I must consider complaints say I need 
to take into account what I consider good industry practice at the relevant time, 
where that is appropriate. I think the following industry codes are relevant when 
considering CLCs agreement with Mr and Mrs H. And, if CLC breached these 
codes, I think this would be relevant when deciding whether the relationship 
between BPF and Mr H was unfair.
63. In his witness statement, DF pointed to two industry codes that CLC had voluntarily 
signed up to. The first of those was the Organisation for Timeshare in Europe 
(OTE) Code of Ethics from March 2005. DF has explained that this code of ethics 
prohibited the sale of timeshares as an investment, so that had been standard 
industry practice from at least 2005.
64. DF has explained that the European Commission adopted OTEs ban on marketing 
timeshares as investments when it banned that practice in the Timeshare, Long-
Term Holiday Product, Resale and Exchange Contracts Directive 2008/122/EC, 
which was implemented in UK law in the Timeshare Regulations as set out above. 
So this aspect of the voluntary code from 2005 had legal effect from the 
implementation of the Timeshare Regulations in February 2011.65. In 2009, the OTE became the Resort Development Organisation (RDO). It 
describes itself as the trade association for vacation ownership across Europe 
and issued its own code of conduct in January 2010  this was the code in force at 
the time of Mr and
Mrs Hs sale. The relevant sections read: PART I: GENERAL
1. OBJECTIVE

The Code is designed to complement and reinforce all applicable laws as well 
as to establish RDO and industry best practice standards.

PART II: PRINCIPLES
1. Trading Principles
1.1 RDOs Members will ensure that consumers can make informed 
purchase decisions when contracting with a RDO Member.
1.2 RDO Members in particular will ensure:
1.2.1 Appropriate disclosure of all elements of the product and/or 
service to the consumer and in a manner the consumer fully 
understands;
1.2.2 Adequate delivery of the contracted products and/or services to 
the consumer;
and
1.2.3 Adequate treatment of any complaints by the consumer.
2. Sales and Marketing Principles
2.1 RDO Members will in no case mislead a consumer into believing that 
a product or service has other features and/or benefits than those laid 
down in the contract.
2.2 RDO Members will in particular ensure:
2.2.1 Appropriate marketing techniques that make it clear what the 
object of the approach to the consumer is;
2.2.2 Appropriate selling methods that threat the consumer with 
respect and allow the consumer choice between purchasing 
and reflection; and
2.2.3 The provision of any necessary assistance to consumers to 
enable them to make an informed decision
66. In response to my provisional decision, other than mentioning 
the four County Court decisions referred to above, BPF did not make any 
submissions on the legal framework that I need to consider. BPF has set out its 
position on how that framework should be applied to Mr and Mrs Hs complaint, so 
I will consider those submissions. But I do not think it is in dispute that the 
framework identified above applies to this complaint.
How the complaint was brought
67. In my provisional decision, before I set out how the legal and regulatory framework 
applied to the facts of Mr Hs complaint, I dealt first with the concerns BPF had 
about how the complaint was brought to our service.
68. When Mr and Mrs H first raised a complaint with BPF they were represented by a 
CMC. It was based in Spain and sent a number of documents setting out the 
complaint. Those included a letter setting out on broad terms the nature of the complaint, a one page statement signed by Mr and Mrs H giving their version of 
events and a power of attorney that gave the CMC power to act for them in legal 
proceedings in Spain.
69. MO, a solicitor who has acted for CLC in the past, explained that a similar claim 
brought by a consumer was dismissed by a County Court (Hitachi v. Topping). In 
that case the consumer had initially brought a complaint using the same CMC as 
Mr and Mrs H used. Under cross-examination, the consumer confirmed that the 
power of attorney had been prepared for him by the CMC, that the details 
contained in it were inaccurate and did not relate to his claim and he did what the 
CMC told him to do to get out of the timeshare agreement.
70. BPF said that this CMCs conduct had been so poor that we should treat any 
allegations it makes on behalf of its clients with significant scepticism. In particular 
BPF said that Mr and Mrs Hs power of attorney closely resembled the one used in 
the court case that was dismissed. It was also pointed out that the particular CMC 
was wound up by the High Court following a petition issued by two clients that had 
successfully brought a claim against the CMC for misrepresentation and breach of 
contract.
71. BPF also asked me to consider case law that explained how a court should place 
weight on a witness recollections and evidence. It pointed to the judgment in 
Gestmin SGPC S.A. v. Credit Suisse (UK) Limited [2013] EWHC 3560 (Comm), 
where it was held (at paragraph 22):
the best approach for a judge to adopt in the trial of a commercial case is, in 
my view, to place little if any reliance at all on witnesses recollections of what 
was said in meetings and conversations, and to base factual findings on 
inferences drawn from the documentary evidence and known or probable 
facts.
BPF has noted that this approach has been adopted in non-commercial cases too.
72. I looked at the power of attorney that Mr and Mrs H signed alongside the one from 
the court case MO referred to. I saw that the documents followed the same format 
and were similar. I thought that unsurprising as both documents were drafted by 
the CMC to give them power to conduct litigation on their clients behalf, so I would 
expect a standard template to be used.
73. Both documents had a section titled Statement (Misrepresentation or 
unfulfilled promises during the sales presentation) which contained details of 
the actual complaint brought. A lot of the wording was similar, but had been altered 
to reflect the circumstances of each case  for example, both documents say there 
was a pressured sales meeting, but neither gave any specific examples of the 
pressure and Mr and
Mrs Hs document says the meeting lasted over six hours and the other documents 
says the meeting lasted over eight hours.
74. Both documents contained the same wording in parts, for example both say:
We were told that our purchase would be an investment but which in reality is 
a liability.
75. But both documents also contained specific, and differently worded, allegations, for 
example only Mr and Mrs Hs power of attorney document set out what they say they were told about holidaying in Jerusalem.
76. In many of the complaints brought to our service, consumers have used the 
services of professional CMCs. Many of the complaint points raised on behalf of 
consumers are often set out in standard form documents. I stated in my provisional 
decision that I did not think this was surprising given that the complaints tend to be 
about similar problems and I would expect CMCs to express the same concerns in 
broadly the same terms.
77. I explained that my role is to determine what I think on balance happened, based 
on the evidence available to me. And I do so in a similar manner to the approach 
set out in the judgment to which BPF referred me. Here, I looked into the concerns 
raised by Mr and Mrs H, but their recollections were far from the only evidence I 
considered. Instead I had to weigh up what they said alongside the evidence 
available, including all of the documents from the time of sale, to see what I 
thought was most likely to have happened.
78. So although I considered BPFs concerns over the way the CMC has presented 
other cases in the past, I thought there was sufficient evidence available for me to 
properly consider Mr Hs complaint in addition to what the CMC said had 
happened.
79. In response to my provisional decision, BPF raised some further concerns. It said a 
large number of complaints are driven by CMCs and the County Court cases 
referred to demonstrate that allegations are found to be groundless when the 
Claimants are cross-examined on their evidence. In Mr and Mrs Hs case, these 
concerns are greater due to the involvement of their particular CMC following the 
outcome of Hitachi v. Topping. BPF were also concerned that, as I had not 
accepted all of the allegations Mr and Mrs H raised or all of their recollections, their 
claim would likely not succeed if it was heard by a court. 
80. In light of that, BPF requested that I hold a hearing under DISP 3.5.6 R so that Mr 
and Mrs H could give oral evidence and for that evidence to be tested. In the 
alternative, it asked me to dismiss this complaint without considering the merits 
under DISP 3.3.4A R. It said this as a court would be able to properly test the 
evidence and if I made a final decision without an oral hearing, I would deprive 
BPF the opportunity to cross-examining Mr and Mrs H. 
81. I responded to BPF to explain that I did not think I needed to hold an oral hearing 
to fairly determine this complaint. I thought BPFs concerns appeared to be about 
claims brought by CMCs in general and did not appear to be specific to Mr and 
Mrs Hs actual complaint. I noted that I had the benefits of statements and 
recollections from Mr and Mrs H as well as from BPFs witnesses alongside a 
number of documents relevant to the sale. BPF had access to all of this evidence 
and has provided significant submissions on it.
82. I should also explain that the Financial Ombudsman Service is set up to decide 
complaints informally and we do not have an adversarial approach, so we do not 
normally hear oral or sworn evidence from complainants, nor do parties normally 
cross-examine each other. I am mindful that the findings I reached in my 
provisional decision are not simply based on Mr and Mrs Hs recollections, but I 
have looked at all of the evidence available, including the documents that relate to 
the sale, to decide what I think was most likely to have happened. And I have 
voluminous submissions and witness evidence from BPF to explain those 
documents and how I should assess them. It follows, I think I am able to fairly determine this complaint without the need for an oral hearing.
83. I have also considered whether to dismiss this complaint without considering the 
merits. DISP 3.3.4A R gives me the power to dismiss a complaint for a number of 
reasons, including if I thought a complaint was more suitable to be decided by a 
court. BPF has said that only a court has the power to make an order under s.140B 
CCA, and to try to predict what a court would do deprives BPF the chance to test 
the evidence. It has said that the Financial Ombudsman Service is an inappropriate 
jurisdiction for these types of claims and the procedure is manifestly unfair.
84. The Financial Ombudsman Service is asked to consider many complaints that 
could be dealt with either by our service or by a court. Our service is different to a 
court, without the same formal rules of evidence and procedure. I am required to 
determine complaints by reference to what is, in my option, fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the case (DISP 3.6.1 R). And, as explained above, I must 
take into account relevant law when considering what is fair and reasonable (DISP 
3.6.4 R). In Mr and Mrs Hs complaint, that means I must consider the legal 
framework set out above and in doing so I think it is helpful to determine what I 
think a court would likely decide if it considered their complaint. 
85. Mr and Mrs H have asked this service to determine their complaint and, for the 
reasons set out in the decision, I think I am able to do so based on the evidence 
and arguments before me. In the circumstances I do not think it is more suitable for 
a court to determine this complaint, so I will not dismiss this complaint without 
considering its merits. 
The claim under s.75 CCA
86. As set out above, because of the way FPOC membership was financed, BPF can 
be held jointly and severally liable under s.75 for a claim for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation that Mr H may have against the supplier.
87. For any claim for misrepresentation to be successful, Mr H would need to 
demonstrate that there was a representation of fact made to him by the supplier, 
that the representation was untrue and that representation induced him to take out 
FPOC membership. Or for a breach of contract, that the supplier failed to abide by 
the terms of the agreement.
88. Mr and Mrs Hs specific allegations are:
They only wished to go on holiday to Jerusalem and CLC said it had 
apartments available there.
They were told that FPOC membership was an investment that could be 
sold at any time or they could wait for 16 years and it would be sold at a 
profit.
They were told they were buying an interest in property, but they actually 
only bought a timeshare right.
They were told that the maintenance fees would not rise over the term of 
the agreement.
I will deal with each in turn.
Did CLC say it had accommodation in Jerusalem
89. Mr and Mrs H said that they made it clear to CLC that they only wished to go on holiday to Jerusalem and CLC mislead them when they were told apartments were 
available there. But when they tried to make a reservation they were told they 
could get a booking in Tel Aviv, using the third party holiday points exchange 
company.
90. It was not a term of the contract that CLC would always be able to provide 
accommodation wherever a customer wished to stay  plainly that would not be 
possible. But saying that it had access to accommodation at a specific location 
could amount to a misrepresentation if that was not true.
91. In my provisional decision I said, having seen the documents available at the time 
of sale, I saw there was some discussion about holidaying in Jerusalem. There is a 
form filled out titled HOLIDAY PLANNER that appeared to show examples of the 
types of holidays Mr and Mrs H could have taken with their FPOC points. For 2012 
it showed possible holidays in Florida for two weeks (I said that I understood this 
was booked under Mr and Mrs Hs trial membership) and for two weeks in 
Jerusalem. For 2013 it showed a possible holiday in Turkey. So I thought holidays 
in both Jerusalem and at other destinations were discussed at the time of sale. And 
when I looked at the holidays Mr and Mrs H actually took between 2011 and 2016, 
they visited Spain, Florida, Tenerife, Turkey, the UK and Mexico.
92. I had also seen an email from Mr H to CLC Central Reservations dated 6 October 
2011. In the email he enquired whether CLC would be able to arrange flights for 
him and his wife to Florida for the following June. The email is jovial in tone and I 
could not see Mr H had expressed any disappointment at holidaying somewhere 
other than Jerusalem.
93. Although I had no doubt Mr and Mrs H were interested in taking a holiday in 
Jerusalem, as it was discussed, I said I would be surprised if they were told by a 
CLC representative that it had apartments there. I said that as CLC has never had 
its own properties in Israel and that was easily verifiable. But I thought it was more 
likely that they were told they could book there using the third party exchange 
programme. BPF provided screenshots to show that there was accommodation 
available through the exchange programme, so I did not think BPF mislead them 
about this.
94. After taking out FPOC membership, it did not appear that Mr and Mrs H actually 
booked to go to Jerusalem, so it was possible that they tried to book 
accommodation in Jerusalem, but none was available as they said happened. But 
CLC would not be responsible if accommodation was not available at the time Mr 
and Mrs H wished to stay in Jerusalem as it was dependent on other timeshare 
owners depositing their rights into the exchange scheme. I did not think this could 
amount to a breach of contract.
95. I also did not think Mr and Mrs Hs actions were consistent with them only wanting 
to stay in Jerusalem. They had already taken out CLC trial membership and 
upgraded to FPOC membership, both being schemes that were designed to allow 
people to stay at multiple resorts. And they had booked to go to Florida before they 
joined the FPOC, so I did not think they only wished to visit Jerusalem. I said this 
did not fit with what Mr and Mrs H had said, but I thought memories can and do 
fade with time. So it was possible they were mistaken in their recollections of the 
conversation that took place around ten years ago.
96. Neither party asked me to reconsider this part of the findings, so for the reasons I 
have given I do not uphold this part of the complaint.What was the nature of FPOC membership and were they told it was an 
investment?
97. Mr and Mrs H have said that they were told FPOC membership was an investment 
(and it was sold to them as such) and that they were told they could sell it at any 
time or wait for 16 years, when it would be sold at a profit. They say they were also 
told that they would be joint owners of a property, but they found out they only had 
a timeshare right. But BPF do not accept this was the case. Having reviewed 
everything, in my provisional decision I said I thought Mr and Mrs H were told 
FPOC membership was an investment and they did buy an interest in real 
property, so I did not think this was misrepresented to them. However, although it 
was not a misrepresentation for CLC to sell Mr and Mrs H FPOC membership as 
an investment, by doing so it may have breached Regulation 14(3) of the 
Timeshare Regulations, which prohibits the marketing or selling of timeshares as 
investments.
98. The nature of FPOC membership and how Mr and Mrs H had an interest in a 
property is set out across a number of different documents.
99. There is a FRACTIONAL PROPERTY OWNERS CLUB APPLICATION AND 
PURCHASE AGREEMENT dated 4 October 2011. It is between Mr and Mrs H 
and CLC Leisure Limited. Under the agreement, it says:
I/We apply to purchase from the Sales Company the exclusive rights of use 
(Fractional Rights) for the number of Weekly Periods in the Allocated Property 
and I/we agree to deposit these Fractional Rights in return for a number of 
Fractional Points to use in the Exchange Facility all as detailed below at the 
price stated and according to the conditions of this Agreement. I/We agree to 
be bound by the Rules and Project Regulations.
100. It sets out that the Allocated Property is MDS 3-C-3 Marina Del Sol for 2 
weeks from 2012. It says that there were 1,290 points and the total due was 
£15,899, made up of the £18,899 purchase price and a £3,000 trade in for their trial 
membership.
101. Attached to the application and Purchase Agreement is the FRACTIONAL 
PURCHASE AGREEMENT TERMS AND CONDITIONS. They are two pages 
long and are also dated 4 October 2011. Extracts of them read:
A. Purchase agreement: this is a Purchase Agreement as defined in the Rules 
and in the Project Regulations. The Applicant hereby agrees to be bound by 
the Rules, and in addition the management agreement (entered into between 
CLC Resort Developments Limited and CLC Resort Management Limited 
(Manager) (Management Agreement)), copies of which have been given to the 
Applicant.
Except as defined herein and where the contact otherwise requires, the 
meaning and interpretation of all words and phrases in this Agreement shall be 
as defined and interpreted in the Rules
D. Default: in the event of the Applicant failing to make any payment due within 14 
days of being given written notice to that effect by the Sales Company or on its 
behalf, the Sales Company may, at the Sales Companys option, rescind this 
Agreement whereupon all monies paid by the Applicant will be forfeited to the 
Sales Company and the Sales Company shall be under no further liability to the Applicant
E. Fractional Rights deposit: the Applicant agrees to release to and deposit with 
the Manager until the Sale Date all the Owners rights to use his Fractional 
Rights in Weekly Periods in the Allocated Property or other Properties in return 
for an annual number of Points to be used as a currency to redeem against 
holidays in the Exchange Facility, or for other Benefits, all as detailed in the 
Project Regulations. The Applicant confirms that he has all rights, privileges 
and entitlement in the Fractional Rights, that they are not charged as any form 
of security and that they have not been deposited anywhere else
G. Ownership: an Applicants Fractional Rights and Points arising shall continue 
until the Sale Date when the Allocated Property is sold or when he sells or 
transfers his Fractional Rights or ceases to be an Owner, whichever happens 
sooner
H. Management charge: the Applicant hereby agrees to pay the Management 
Charge together with any Value Added Tax or other similar tax thereon. The 
Management Charge for the first year is due and payable on receipt of a 
statement in respect of that charge by the Applicant. Management Charges are 
thereafter due on demand in each year in accordance with the Rules. Failure to 
pay Management Charges when due will lead to suspension of rights and may 
lead to the sale of the Fractional Rights
102. There is also a MEMBERS DECLARATION, also dated 4 October 2011 
and signed by Mr and Mrs H. It runs to one page and relevant parts read:
1. We understand that we will have Membership of Club La Costa Fractional 
Property Owners Club (Project) for fractional rights (Fractions) as detailed on 
the Purchase Agreement (Agreement), subject to item 2 below.
2. We understand that our Fractional Rights will be deposited for the duration of 
the scheme in return for 1290 Points to use in the Club La Costa Vacation Club 
Exchange Facility as detailed in the Agreement which may be used each year 
for Vacation Club accommodation provided that all annual fees are paid up to 
date, as detailed below.
3. We understand that currently the annual Management Charge is £898.00 for 
2012 and that an invoice will be sent for this within 3 months of full payment of 
the Agreement and thereafter by 1st January each year. In addition the Vacation 
Club transaction fee is 10p per point used up to a maximum of £200, per week. 
The basis of these dues is set out in the Rules and Project Regulations.
4. We understand that Club La Costa does not and will not run any resale or 
rental programs and will not repurchase Fractions (or Vacation Club Points) 
other than as a trade in against future property purchases (see Paragraph 5 
below)
6. We understand that the purchase of our Fraction is for the primary purpose of 
holidays and is not specifically for direct purposes of a trade in and that CLC 
makes no representation as to the future price or value of the Fraction
8. We understand that we have access to RCI for the first year of membership 
and as referred to in the Agreement and within the Information Statement a fee will be charged for using the RCI exchange system. Membership after one year 
will be at the then applicable rates and membership conditions
12. We understand that this Members Declaration, together with the Agreement, is 
the entire written contract between the parties, anything additional shall only be 
valid if signed and stamped on behalf of the Company
14. We have received a copy of our Agreement together with the notices and 
Information Sheet (which we have had adequate time to review before signing) 
required under the EU Timeshare Directive 2008/122/EC.
15. We have fully read and fully understand all of the above.
There is a signature next to each of the numbered paragraphs.
103. I have read the witness statement of PB, who was the Legal Services 
Director at the trustee that held legal title to the properties that backed the FPOC. 
He has explained how the membership worked and the role of the trustee who, 
amongst other things, was to safeguard the interests of the consumers. In 
summary, the freehold title to the properties CLC used as allocated properties in 
the FPOC scheme were transferred to a company controlled by the trustee. Once a 
customer decided to take out FPOC membership they were matched to an 
allocated property and that was recorded on the trustees systems  this was done 
after a customer indicated they wished to purchase membership, but before they 
signed the agreement. The trustees role included being able to step in and run the 
FPOC if for some reason CLC was unable to do so. But it was also responsible for 
marketing and selling the properties at the appropriate time. It then distributed the 
net proceeds of sale to the FPOC members, following the payments of all legal and 
contractual disbursements.
104. Having read PBs statement alongside the attached deed of trust and other 
sale documents, I thought Mr and Mrs H had an interest in the net sale proceeds of 
their allocated property. So they did have an interest over and above a standard 
timeshare right to use a timeshare companys accommodation for periods of 
occupation. Mr and Mrs H were concerned that they thought they were buying an 
interest in property and this was not the case, but I thought they were mistaken in 
their concerns. Although I said that I had no doubt they did not fully appreciate the 
exact legal nature under which they held such an interest.
105. In summary, Mr and Mrs H bought an interest in the sale proceeds of a 
defined property, but they gave up any rights to occupy it in exchange for points. 
They had an obligation to pay maintenance fees on the upkeep of the property and 
they would receive a payment when it was eventually sold. I said that on the face 
of it, that looks like an investment. So I looked at all of the available evidence to 
see whether I thought CLC described it as such.
106. BPF referred me to the point-of-sale documents that appear to show FPOC 
membership was not sold as an investment, for example there is a document titled 
CLUB LA COASTA FRACTIONAL PROPERTY OWNERS CLUB INFORMATION 
SHEET. It is twelve pages long and contains some details about Mr and Mrs Hs 
specific purchase, including the price paid, as well as standard information that 
applies to FPOC purchases more generally. It has been signed by Mr and Mrs H. 
The following are extracts from the information sheet:
6. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION1. Title
The title to an Allocated Property is held by First National Trustee Company 
(FNTC), a professional, independent trustee company
5. Primary Purpose
The purchase of Fractional Rights is for the primary purchase of holidays and is 
neither specifically for direct purposes of a trade in nor as an investment in real 
estate. CLC makes no representation as to the future price or value of the 
Allocated Property or any Fractional rights
107. Taken on its own, the primary purpose paragraph makes it clear that the 
FPOC is not intended as an investment in real estate. But on the same page it 
says:
11. Investment advice
The Vendor, any sales or marketing agent and the Manager and their related 
businesses (a) are not licensed investment advisors authorized by the 
Financial Services Authority to provide investment or financial advice; (b) all 
information has been obtained solely from their own experiences as investors 
and is provided as general information only and as such is not intended for use 
as a source of investment advice and (c) all purchasers are advised to obtain 
competent advice from legal, accounting and investment advisors to determine 
their own specific investment needs; (d) no warranty is given as to any future 
values or returns in respect of an Allocated Property.
So although CLC say the membership is not an investment, it is suggesting its 
clients take independent legal and investment advice about the product. I thought 
that suggested it recognised FPOC membership looked like an investment or had 
features of an investment.
108. Mr and Mrs H said they were told FPOC membership was an investment 
that they could sell at any time or wait for 16 years when the property was sold and 
they would make a profit. This does not fit with what was set out in the point of sale 
documents they signed, so I thought it was important to consider how FPOC 
membership was presented to Mr and Mrs H before they saw those documents.
109. I saw a series of slides that CLC used to market FPOC membership. PR, 
CLCs Group Sales Operations Director, has said that he was responsible for 
overseeing the development of product and sales materials. In response to our 
investigators view, he said:
In the View, [the investigator] cites paragraphs from the slides that he notes 
may have been used by the sales representative at the sales presentation with 
Mr and Mrs [H]. All of the information in the slides was accurate.
And in DFs witness statement, he said:
[The investigator] chooses to rely on the copy of the presentation provided by 
CLC, which is referred to the Slides and annexed to the View. However, there 
is nothing in the Slides which could be said to be false or misleading given the 
purpose and nature of the [FPOC] product.
I took it from this CLC accepted that either these slides were the ones used in Mr and Mrs Hs sale, or they were very similar to the ones used.
110. PR has said he does not think any of the promotional material created an 
expectation that a customer would get their money back at the time of sale, rather 
the purpose of membership was for holiday experiences. He thought that only 5-
10% of the presentation was focused on the ownership structure and the rest was 
focused on the holidays customers could take. PR said, the return the customers 
receive at the end of the fixed term when the property is sold is a further benefit of 
the particular type of timeshare ownership, but he said the amount received is 
likely to be less than the money paid for CLC membership. He also said if a 
customer wanted to invest in property, CLC had a real estate department that 
could offer apartments for purchase.
111. Having seen the promotional slides used, I said I disagreed with how PR 
thinks FPOC was presented. The first slide shows that CLC trial members can 
upgrade to two other CLC products, Destinations Club and FPOC. The second 
slide it titled Why Fractional? and presents three choices. Choice 1 is RENT 
YOUR HOLIDAYS and presents three positives and three negatives. The 
positives are Choice, Flexibility and Convenient, the negatives are Quality  hit 
and miss, Dead Money and 100% Loss. Choice 2 is BUY A HOLIDAY HOME 
and the positives are Investment, Quality Guarantee, Use/Enjoy/Sell and Money 
Back, the negatives are Large Capital Outlay, Fixed Location, Not Flexible and 
May be Unused. Choice 3 is FPOC and it says, Have the BEST OF BOTH 
WORLDS.
112. This slide is the first one that presents any information about FPOC and I 
thought it clearly said that FPOC combines the best of choices 1 and 2, i.e. it gives 
both choice, flexibility and is convenient, but also is an investment you can use, sell 
or enjoy and you get money back.
113. The following two slides are titled How It Works and have a series of 
pictures. The first one says YOU BUY A FRACTION OF A CLC PROPERTY and 
the next one says 16 YEARS LATER the property is sold YOU RECEIVE YOUR 
SHARE OF THE SALE OF THE PROPERTY. The following slides go on to say 
CLC provides points to use to book holidays for 16 years. After the first slide, the 
next three are about how a customer buys an interest in a property and the 
following five are about actually taking holidays. So I thought there was a fairly 
even split at the start of the presentation between marketing FPOC membership as 
a way to buy an interest in property and as a way of joining a club to take holidays.
114. In his statement PR said all presentations followed a prescribed series of 
steps, including using a multimedia presentation to show the basis of FPOC 
membership and how it works. So in Mr and Mrs Hs case, I thought it was likely 
that the sales presentation followed the lines set out in the slides, in other words 
the presentation started with the ownership model being explained before 
discussing how to take holidays. From those slides, I thought buying a fraction of a 
property and having an interest in a sum of money at the end was central to the 
way the product was sold. And DF, CLCs Sales Administration Director, said it is 
correct to say that receiving the net proceeds of sale is presented as an important 
feature of the club. It is plainly one of the distinguishing features of the product. I 
also noted that the word investment was used in the slides when discussing the 
positives of owning a holiday home, so I thought that word was used in the 
presentation Mr and Mrs H would have attended when discussing the positives of 
FPOC membership.115. Mr and Mrs H have also provided a two page document they say was from 
the time of sale and written by a CLC representative. It is on CLC headed paper, 
but the contents are handwritten. It appeared to me that this was used to compare 
the difference between the two forms of membership as set out in the slides  
Destinations Club and FPOC.  There is a comparison in the cost, the number of 
weeks holidays available as well as the number of available resorts and duration of 
the contract. But in the column for Destinations Club it says £0 Return and next 
to it, in the column for FPOC, it says £MONEY BACK.
116. In his witness statement PR says the written note shows the difference 
between the two products CLC offered. He thought the parts I referred to above 
were simply that the FPOC product would provide members with the proceeds of 
sale of the allocated property at the end. And DF thought in his witness statement 
that the reference to money back meant that at the end of the 16 year period they 
would receive a share of the sale proceeds, but he noted there was no written 
suggestion that they would receive a profit.
117. Mr and Mrs H say this document was produced by a CLC representative 
and BPF has not argued otherwise, so I thought it was likely that was the case. 
This handwritten document does talk about the holiday based benefits of 
membership, but as with the slides, I thought the possibility of a financial return 
was presented as an important selling point of the product.
118. I saw a witness statement from MB who was the CLC Sales Representative 
who dealt with Mr and Mrs Hs sale. She said that she does not remember the sale 
itself, but describes how she normally sold FPOC membership. I was not surprised 
that she did not recall Mr and Mrs Hs sale as it happened nearly ten years before 
she was asked to provide a statement and it was likely she dealt with many 
customers during that time. But she had helpfully set out her normal sales process.
119. MB said that she would not have referred to membership as an investment 
and she had specific training relating to that. But I could not reconcile what MB said 
with the content of the slides referred to above, where the word investment was 
used. I also thought about the investment elements of FPOC membership as well 
as Mr and Mrs Hs memories of the sale. On balance, I preferred the evidence of 
Mr and Mrs H on this point. I thought the sales information shows it is more likely 
than not that FPOC membership was presented as an investment  in fact I 
thought MB would have found it hard to present membership in any other way.
120. PR explained that the sales process was such that a Sales Representative 
(that was MB in Mr and Mrs Hs sale) went through the oral sale process and then, 
if a customer showed an interest, documents would be drawn up. The customer 
was then taken though the documents separately by a Customer Liaison Officer. In 
Mr and Mrs Hs sale that was NW. NW does not specifically recall Mr and Mrs Hs 
sale, and for the same reasons that MB did not recall the sale, I was not surprised 
by that.
121. NW has said he would have gone through the documents that Mr and Mrs H 
needed to read and sign, and he would have explained them all. He says he would 
have asked questions to find out why Mr and Mrs H were joining the FPOC and if 
he thought it was for an investment, he would have made it clear that it was not a 
financial investment and he would not have allowed them to complete the sale. I 
looked at the documents to see what they say about FPOC membership being an 
investment.122. As set out above, I thought the information sheet is ambiguous on the matter. 
On one hand it states that the primary purpose is for the purchase of holidays and 
membership is not specifically for direct purposes of a trade in nor as an 
investment in real estate. But on the same page CLC feel the need to explicitly 
state that any information given by its sales staff was done so using their own 
experience as investors and customers are advised to seek their own investment 
advice. I failed to see the need to spell this out if FPOC membership was not 
presented as an investment.
123. In the members declaration set out above it says a similar thing:
6. We understand that the purchase of our Fraction is for the primary purpose 
of holidays and is not specifically for direct purposes of a trade in and that CLC 
makes no representation as to the future price or value of the Fraction
This states that the primary purpose was for holidays, but I did not think this was to 
the exclusion of FPOC membership being an investment or having investment 
elements.
124. Having looked at the sales documentation, I did not think it was explicit that 
FPOC membership was not an investment. Instead I thought the documentation 
was trying to position the main purpose for membership as the taking of holidays 
and that the product was not primarily an investment. But I did not think the 
documentation went as far as saying that it has no investment element. And I did 
not think the documentation could have gone that far as Mr and Mrs H were buying 
an interest in a property they could not use, but they would get some return on later 
when the property was sold. I failed to see when making my provisional decision 
how this element of FPOC membership could be described as anything other than 
an investment.3 So although I read what NW had said about the sales process, I 
did not think it fit with the other available information from the time of sale. I thought 
part of the membership was presented as an investment in the sales process prior 
to the documents being drawn up and NWs involvement. So I did not think it was 
likely that the sale would have been stopped if Mr and Mrs H thought there was an 
investment element to membership as it had already been presented that way.
125. But I could not see anything in the sales slides or handwritten note to give the 
impression that FPOC membership would generate a profit. And I thought the 
written documentation was sufficiently clear to say the CLC do not give any 
indication of the future value of Mr and Mrs Hs interest. So, although I agreed with 
them that it is most likely that the membership was presented as an investment, I 
did not think there was sufficient evidence for me to say there was any promise of 
a profit.
126. Similarly I could not see anything in any of the slides, hand written note or sale 
documents that suggests Mr and Mrs H would have been able to sell the points 
back to CLC or cash in their investment early. The slides make clear that the 
property would be sold after 16 years and that is when Mr and Mrs H would get 
their share of the proceeds of sale. And point 4 of the members declaration set out 
above makes it clear that CLC did not run a resale programme or buy back the 
FPOC membership.4 The slides do say, when setting out the positives of holiday 
home ownership, Use/Enjoy/Sell and Money Back, so I thought it was possible Mr 
3 On reflection, I disagree with my provisional finding on this point and will address it later on in this 
decision
4 This is also referred to in the Information Sheetand Mrs H had an impression that they could sell FPOC membership in the future. 
I said that would be understandable as they were buying an interest in an allocated 
property, so they may have assumed FPOC membership had some intrinsic value. 
But I did not think there was sufficient information for me to conclude that Mr and 
Mrs H were explicitly told they would be able to sell FPOC membership before the 
16 years was up.
127. Having decided that FPOC membership was presented as an investment, I 
thought about whether that was a misrepresentation  in other words, was it an 
investment?
128. I thought FPOC membership has many of the characteristics of an investment. 
Mr and Mrs H bought an interest in an underlying asset, here the allocated 
property. The nature of that interest was financial: a right to receive an agreed 
share of its net proceeds of sale. There was a risk associated with it as they would 
not know what the sale proceeds would be when the property was sold in the 
future. And they did not have instant access to the money they had put in as they 
were not able to just take it out when they wanted. So I did not think CLC 
misrepresented the nature of FPOC membership when it was presented as an 
investment.
BPFs response to my provisional findings
129. In my provisional decision I explained how it appeared to me that membership 
was presented, taking into account Mr and Mrs Hs recollections, the witness 
statements provided by PR, DF, MB and NW, the slides used by CLC at or around 
the time of sale, the note written on CLC headed paper, as well as the other 
documentation available relating to the sale. In response BPF provided two further 
witness statements, as well as setting out its arguments why it disagreed with my 
findings. So I need to consider whether the new information provided changes my 
thoughts on this issue. 
130. EM has said that Mr and Mrs H did not refer to the slides when bringing their 
complaint and I have made an error in placing significant reliance on those slides. 
EM has said that the slides are only a part of the presentation which would have 
been used. 
131. JL has provided a witness statement giving more information about how the 
slides were presented to customers. He is currently a project manager for CLC, but 
he joined CLC around three months before Mr and Mrs H made their purchase and 
at the time was a sales representative. He has clarified that the slides I referred to 
were print outs of slides contained within a manual produced for the training of 
sales managers. The slides were part of what was displayed in an Electronic Sales 
Aid (ESA) and were presented to all customers, including Mr and Mrs H. JL has 
explained that the slides do not contain the entirety of the sales presentation, for 
example at stages throughout the presentation a sales manager would join in the 
presentation and answer questions from consumer and ensure the presentation 
was proceedings as intended. 
132. It is JLs view (as it is PRs too) that only 5-10% of the sales presentation 
focused on the ownership structure. JL has explained that topics were discussed 
within the ESA presentation that were not necessarily covered in the slides that I 
had seen. For example, JL explained that at the start of the presentation a video 
was shown and information was given about CLCs various divisions, including 
CLC Estates that offered freehold investments. If a customer expressed an interest in investing in a property, a real estate consultant would have discussed that with 
them. I note that JL has said a customer would have been asked if they wanted to 
buy a property which would provide them with an investment and rental income, 
which is different to FPOC membership which was not set up to provide a rental 
income. So I think the types of investments sold by CLC Estates were of a different 
nature to the sale I am considering.
133. JL has explained that at various points in the ESA presentation the sales 
representative would break off and discuss matters outside of the slides. For 
example, at one stage in the presentation, 20 to 30 minutes would be spent going 
through the locations CLC offered as holiday destinations and how customers 
could use their FPOC points to stay there  this information was not contained in 
the slides.
134. I accept what JL has said about the length of the presentation and that the 
slides I have seen did not cover the entirety of what was discussed. But that does 
not change what I had previously said about the slides. I thought there was a fairly 
even split at the start of the slide presentation between presenting FPOC 
membership as a way of buying an interest in a property and a way of taking 
holidays. But I do accept that other matters were discussed after this, including the 
variety of holidays available and parts of the role of the scheme trustee.
135. But the question I have to consider is whether CLC presented FPOC 
membership to Mr and Mrs H as an investment. And I have not seen anything to 
change my findings from my provisional decision. PR said in his statement the 
return the customers receive at the end of the fixed term when the property is sold 
is a further benefit of the particular type of timeshare ownership, and I think it was 
the way in which this benefit was presented that meant FPOC membership as a 
whole was presented as an investment. DF said in his statement, it is correct to 
say that receiving the net proceeds of sale is presented as an important feature of 
the club. It is plainly one of the distinguishing features of the product. The 
highlighting of the net proceeds of sale as a feature of FPOC membership, along 
with the use of the word investment in the way set out above and the contents of 
the handwritten note, persuaded me that it is more likely than not that FPOC 
membership was presented as an investment. 
136. I have also considered what EM has said about Mr and Mrs H not referring to 
the slides in their complaint. But I have seen from the witness statements of PR 
and JL that it is not in dispute that they would have been shown these slides, so it 
is appropriate to look at the contents of the slides when considering what Mr and 
Mrs H say they were told  that FPOC membership was presented as an 
investment  even if they did not specify the precise medium in which that 
representation was communicated.
137. In conclusion, I find that Mr and Mrs H were told that FPOC membership was 
an investment, but I do not find they were told it could be sold at any time or after 
16 years for a profit. I also find they were told they were buying an interest in 
property. For the reasons set out above, I do not find those statements were 
untrue.Were Mr and Mrs H told the management fees would not rise over the term of the 
agreement?
138. Mr and Mrs Hs recollections are that they were told the maintenance fees 
would not rise over the 16 years they were due to have FPOC membership. As 
with the evidence of what they were told about membership being an investment, I 
have looked at the information available at the time to see what I think they were 
told.
139. On the slides referred to above there are some details of the management fees 
that were charged. On one slide it says, Management fees from £399 to £749 per 
week share owned. This slide does not state that the costs could go up from this 
and appears to be a fixed price. And on the HOLIDAY PLANNER form the CLC 
costs are at £898 for both 2012 and 2013. Finally, on the hand written note it just 
says £898 maintenance.
140. The contractual documents have some information on the maintenance fees, 
but I said in my provisional decision that I did not think they were as clear as they 
could have been. The purchase agreement states, at paragraph H:
Management charge: the Applicant hereby agrees to pay the Management 
Charge together with any Value Added Tax or other similar tax thereon. The 
Management Charge for the first year is due and payable on receipt of a 
statement in respect of that charge by the Applicant. Management Charges are 
thereafter due on demand in each year in accordance with the Rules. Failure to 
pay Management Charges when due will lead to suspension of rights and may 
lead to the sale of the Fractional Rights
But this does not make clear what the charge would be or how it was worked out. 
Similarly, the members declaration only sets out the charge for 2012 and does not 
say it could increase the following year. But in the Information Sheet it says:
4. INFORMATION ON THE COSTS
Management and fees
The Managerentered into an agreement with the Vendor (Management 
Agreement) to manage and administer the Project, the Property and generally 
the arrangements and relationship with the Fractional Rights as set out in the 
Management Agreement.
The Manager is responsible for providing management, repair and 
maintenance of the Property. Owners will be required to contribute to those 
charges by means of an annual charge called a Management Charge 
(Charges), payable whether weeks are used or not. These Charges will be 
allocated among Owners in a particular Allocated Property in a fair and 
equitable manner, decided by the Manager, and in proportion to the number of 
weekly periods an Owner is entitled to use each year according to his 
Fractional Rights Certificate (the Charges will also include an element for 
managing and administering the Trustee).
In addition as with any apartment or community there are provisions for a 
sinking fund to be established for major refurbishments of the Allocated 
Property during the term of the Project. In exceptional circumstances special 
charges may be needed as with any property.Full details are contained in the Rules and Management Agreement. Charges 
will be budgeted annually and will be subject to increase or decrease as 
determined by the costs of managing the Project and are payable annually in 
advance each year. Non- payment will result in suspension and may eventually 
lead to the permanent loss of the Fractional Rights.
Other than the expenses, fees , Charges and the costs set out in the 
Agreement there are no other costs involved in the purchase other than those 
taxes imposed by law
141. That information was on page seven of twelve, so it is possible Mr and Mrs H 
did not fully understand that the fees could increase, but I thought that information 
was contained in the documentary evidence they had at the time of sale. I also 
noted they signed the document to say they had received this information.
142. Based on the information available I thought it was possible they were told that 
the maintenance fees were £898 and it was not made clear they could increase 
over time. But I did not think it was likely they were told the fees would not increase 
at all. I said that because the fees were set up in such a way that they were likely 
to increase and I thought the documents Mr and Mrs H signed say that the fees 
could increase. So although I thought this could have been made clearer to them, I 
could not say they were actually given false information that the fees would remain 
static. It follows I did not think there was a misrepresentation about this made to 
them. Neither Mr and Mrs H nor BPF asked me to reconsider these findings.
Conclusion
143. My provisional conclusion on the s.75 CCA claim was that there was 
insufficient evidence that CLC misrepresented the agreement to Mr and Mrs H, nor 
had they pointed to any terms of the agreement that they say had been broken. 
144. Having considered the further evidence and arguments supplied by BPF, for 
the reasons set out above, I still think BPF acted fairly in turning down the claim 
under s.75 CCA.
The claim under s.140A CCA
145. BPF has argued that this service has no jurisdiction to make a finding of 
unfairness under s.140A CCA as only a court can do so. It is correct that it is for a 
court to exercise the discretion under s.140A and 140B CCA, but it is relevant law 
that I must consider when coming to my decision about what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of this complaint. It follows I need to consider whether I 
think it is likely a court would find the relationship between Mr H and BPF unfair 
and, if it did, what the possible legal remedies would be.
146. It is not in dispute that the BPF loan was a regulated restricted-use credit 
agreement that gave rise to a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement under s.11 and 
12 CCA. I explained in my provisional decision that means there are further 
consequences for Mr Hs complaint. It means the Purchase Agreement was a 
linked transaction under s.19 CCA, and therefore a related agreement under 
s.140C(4)(b). And it means that things said or done by the supplier in relation to 
selling FPOC membership form antecedent negotiations for the purposes of s.56 
CCA, which mean they are deemed to have been conducted by the supplier in the 
capacity of BPFs agent. BPF did not question my findings on this part of the legal framework.
147. This was considered by the Supreme Court in the Plevin case. In his 
judgement, Lord Sumption held, at paragraphs 29-31:
29Section 140A was undoubtedly intended to introduce a broad definition of 
unfairness, in place of the narrowly framed provisions which had previously 
governed extortionate credit bargains. That much is clear from section 
140A(1)(c), whose effect is to extend the concept of unfairness beyond cases 
where the terms or the way that the creditor applied them makes the 
relationship unfair. Under that subsection, it extends to any case whatever in 
which human action (or inaction) produces unfairness. The only limitation on 
the extreme breadth of sub-paragraph (c) is that the action or inaction in 
question must be "by or on behalf of the creditor". Putting the matter at its very 
lowest, those words envisage a relationship between the creditor and the 
person whose acts or omissions have made the relationship unfair. If it had 
been intended to extend the sub-paragraph to any conduct beneficial to the 
creditor or contributing to bringing about the transaction, irrespective of that 
person's relationship with the creditor, it would have been easy enough to say 
so, and very strange to use the language which the legislator actually 
employed.
30. In their ordinary and natural meaning the words "on behalf of" import 
agency, which is how the courts have ordinarily construed them...I would 
accept that a special statutory or contractual context may require the phrase 
"on behalf of" to be read more widely as meaning "in the place of", or "for the 
benefit of" or "in the interests of"But there is nothing in the present statutory 
context to suggest any of these wider meanings, and much that is inconsistent 
with them. In the first place, the full phrase is "by or on behalf of the creditor". In 
other words, acts or omissions "on behalf of" the creditor are treated as 
equivalent to acts or omissions "by" the creditor. They refer to things done or 
not done either by the creditor itself, or by someone else whose acts or 
omissions engaged the creditor's responsibility as if the creditor had done or 
not done it itself. They indicate as clearly as language can do that sub- 
paragraph (c) applies only where the "thing" is done or not done by someone 
whose acts or omissions engage the responsibility of the creditor. They are 
used in the same sense throughout the Consumer Credit Act whenever it refers 
to some act such as the execution of a document or the receipt of a notice or 
the occurrence of any other act which the legislator intends to engage the 
responsibility of the creditor.
31. Secondly, the Consumer Credit Act makes extensive use of the technique 
of imputing responsibility to the creditor for the acts or omissions of other 
parties who are not (or not necessarily) the creditor's agents. But when it does 
this it invariably does it in express and clear terms. A notable example appears 
in section 140A itself. Subsection (3) is ancillary to subsection (1)(c). It provides 
that things done or not done by an associate or former associate of the creditor 
are to be treated as if they were done or not done "by, or on behalf of, or in 
relation to, the creditor". An "associate" includes certain categories of relative 
or, in relation to a body corporate, its controller or another body corporate 
under common control: see section 184. This provision is pointless except on 
the footing that otherwise subsection (1)(c) would have been confined to the 
acts of the creditor or his agents. More generally, section 56 provides that 
where antecedent negotiations for a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement are 
conducted by a credit-broker or the supplier, the negotiations are "deemed to be conducted by the negotiator in the capacity of agent of the creditor as well 
as in his actual capacity". The result is that the debtor's statutory rights of 
withdrawal from prospective agreements, cancellation and rescission may arise 
on account of the conduct of the negotiator whether or not he was the creditor's 
agent: see sections 57, 67, 69, 73 and 102. Sections 56 and 140A(3) provide 
for a deemed agency, even in a case where there is no actual one. Section 75 
does not provide for a deemed agency, but it imposes liability under a debtor-
creditor-supplier agreement for the misrepresentations and breaches of 
contract of the supplier. These provisions are there because without them the 
creditor's responsibility would be engaged only by its own acts or omissions or 
those of its agents. None of them is applicable to the present case. Sections 56 
and 75 apply only to debtor-creditor-supplier agreements, and not to 
agreements for unrestricted use credit like the one that Mrs Plevin entered into. 
Nor has any remotely comparable legislative technique been adopted in 
section 140A, except for the acts or omissions of "associates" or agents of 
associates, a category which does not include LLP.
148. This was also considered by the Court of Appeal in the Scotland and Reast 
case. Lord Justice Kitchin held, at paragraph 74:
I accept that there is no reference in s.140A to s.56(2). On the other hand, 
there is nothing in the wording of s.56(2) to suggest any legislative intent to 
limit its application so as to exclude s.140A. Moreover, the words in 
s.140A(1)(c) "any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the 
creditor" are entirely apposite to include antecedent negotiations falling within 
the scope of s.56(1)(c) and which are deemed by s.56(2) to have been 
conducted by the supplier as agent of the creditor. Indeed the purpose of 
s.56(2) is to render the creditor responsible for such statements made by the 
negotiator and so it seems to me wholly consistent with the scheme of the Act 
that, where appropriate, they should be taken into account in assessing 
whether the relationship between the creditor and the debtor is unfair. In 
expressing this view I recognise that s.140A(3) makes specific provision in 
respect of the activities of associates or former associates of the creditor but, 
as Mr Butters submitted, s.140A(1)(c) shows that this is clearly not exhaustive 
of the circumstances in which responsibility may be attributed to a creditor for 
the conduct of others.
149. In summary s.140A contains a broad definition of unfairness, and it extended 
the concept of unfairness from how the creditor applies its own terms to any case 
whatever in which human action (or inaction) produces unfairness. So far as 
pre-contractual dealings are concerned the action or inaction must be by or on 
behalf of the creditor and, in Mr Hs complaint, the operation of s.56 CCA means 
CLC are deemed to be acting as BPFs agents during the antecedent negotiations. 
The judgment in the Scotland and Reast case makes plain that acts or omissions 
of CLC done on behalf of BPF under s.56 CCA should be taken into account when 
considering s.140A CCA.
150. When considering how the acts or omissions of CLC could render the 
agreement with BPF unfair, the case of Link Financial v. Wilson is of assistance. 
There the court considered a claim brought by a consumer who had purchased a 
timeshare (provided by CLC, but not FPOC membership) using a loan. Under the 
terms of the timeshare agreement, the provider was entitled to rescind the contract 
and keep all monies paid by the consumer, if the consumer failed to pay any 
management charges within 14 days of the sums falling due. It was found that 
happened, and the consumer claimed that there was an unfair credit relationship between herself and Link Financial because of the effect of the clause.5 David 
Railton QC, sitting as a Deputy High Court Judge, held that the term that allowed 
CLC to rescind the agreement on the non-payment of maintenance fees was unfair 
for the purposes of the UTCCR. He held:
70. In these circumstances it is necessary for me to make a fresh 
determination under s.140A of the Act. In my view the relationship between GE 
(and hence Link) as creditor, and Mrs North Wilson as debtor, arising out of the 
credit agreement, taken with the Acquisition Agreement (as a related 
agreement), is unfair to Mrs North Wilson. In view of the discussion set out 
above, I can express my reasons comparatively shortly.
71. In my view the unfairness created by the operation of clause D6 is such that 
it gives rise to an unfair relationship. This is not offset, either individually or 
cumulatively, by the matters which have been relied on by Link, including the 
facts (as found by the Judge) concerning the circumstances in which the 
arrangements were entered into, or the fact that there has been no breach of 
the Timeshare Act, 1992
151. Having considered the legislation and the case law, I thought it was appropriate 
to consider the conduct of CLC to see whether they were likely to have breached 
any of the regulations I set out above or otherwise behaved unacceptably. In doing 
so I looked at the terms of FPOC membership to see whether any of the terms 
could be considered unfair or in breach of any of the regulations. I also considered 
how FPOC membership was sold to Mr and Mrs H, in particular whether CLC did 
what it was supposed to under the regulations and industry standards set out 
above. I explained that if I found there were likely to have been breaches or other 
unacceptable conduct, I would consider whether those could render the 
relationship with BPF unfair.
The terms of FPOC membership
152. Mr and Mrs H raised a concern about the increases in their annual 
maintenance fees. I considered these concerns, but as detailed above, I did not 
think they were falsely told that the annual costs would not rise over time. But I set 
out in my provisional decision some of the concerns I had about the way CLC set 
up the fee structure, such that I did not think Mr and Mrs H would have been aware 
of by how much the costs could have risen.
153. The documents that Mr and Mrs H signed set out some information about the 
ongoing charges that were due. In particular, as set out above, there is paragraph 
H of the Purchase Agreement, paragraph 3 of the Members Declaration and Part 
3, section 4 of the Information Sheet.
154. I thought these three documents show that there was a management charge to 
be paid, the cost of that charge in 2011 when Mr and Mrs H entered into the 
agreement and that there could also be a sinking fund or special charges to be 
paid on top of the management charge. But I said these documents do not set out 
how those charges were to be calculated or full details of them. Instead Mr and Mrs 
H were directed to other documents.
5 In his witness statement EM states this was factually incorrect, and Mrs Wilsons membership had 
been suspended and not terminated. He says this information was not put before the court at trial.
6 The clause that entitled CLC to rescind the contract on the non-payment of maintenance fees. 155. The charges that Mr and Mrs H were liable to pay were set out across several 
documents, which Mr and Mrs H agreed to be bound by as a term of the Purchase 
Agreement. I was provided with a document titled RULES-DEED OF TRUST-
MANAGEMENT AGREEMENT PROJECT REGULATIONS that runs to 40 pages. 
On page 6 of that document, in a section titled RULES, it reads:
4. OWNER RESPONSIBILITIES
Each Owner hereby undertakes with each other, and as a separate obligation, 
with the Vendor and the Manager as set out below. Unless specified to the 
contrary, the following provisions relating to any accommodation occupied by 
the Owner or his guests in exercising Fractional Rights and the Exchange 
Facility (Accommodation) apply equally to the Allocated Property.

4.4 To pay within 30 days of the date of the demand by the Manager, the 
Owners share of the Management Charges as stated in the budget for the 
forthcoming year, including any shortfall in respect of the accounts of 
Management Charges relating to the expenses of the Property and the 
Vendor for the previous year and including any contribution towards any 
sinking fund which is established, or any special charge which is requested 
by the Manager in exceptional circumstances, and further to pay any 
shortfall in the Owners individual account relating to amounts payable by 
the Owner for specific services provided to him by the Manager and/or the 
Vendor. Any contribution to the sinking fund shall not be refundable to an 
Owner upon ceasing to own the Fractional Rights. Further, the Owner will 
pay for the Management Charges due on any Weekly Periods he is 
permitted to use before the actual First Year of Occupation
Here, the Vendor and the Manager refer to two separate companies, both of 
which are part of the CLC group of companies.
156. And on page 8 it said:
5. MANAGEMENT CHARGE

5.3 In addition to the Management Charge, each Owner shall pay to the Manager 
such special management charge and additional charges (including, without 
prejudice to the generality, contributions towards any sinking fund established by 
the Vendor and/or the Manager in respect of any capital expenditure on a Property, 
default charges for non or late payment of the Management Charge and any 
shortfall in respect of such Management Charges for the previous year) as may be 
levied on him by the Manager pursuant to and in accordance with the Management 
Agreement.

5.5 Failure to pay:
5.5.1 In particular, if an Owner has not paid his annual Management Charges 
(including any special or additional charges) within 30 days of the date of despatch 
of invoice, the Owners Fractional Rights (including any rights to use the Exchange 
Facility) shall be suspended until such default is remedied. The Manager may 
charge interest on the amount outstanding at the rate of 2 per cent per month 
above Bank of England base rate, or such other reasonable amount as the 
Manager shall determine. During such period of suspension the Manager may use 
or rent out the Fractional Rights for such time and on such terms in its absolute 
discretion to recover all or part of the monies due. If such default is not remedied within 30 days, the Manager shall send a final invoice to the Owner advising that 
failure to discharge in full the arrears (including any arrears and interest that have 
arisen since the date of invoice) within 30 days will result in permanent cancellation 
of the Owners Fractional Rights and no further correspondence shall be entered 
into. If the arrears as specified are not discharged within that period of notice, the 
Owners Fractional Rights shall be cancelled and shall revert to the Manager who 
shall give the Vendor first option to make good the arrears and on the exercising 
thereof those Fractional Rights shall be transferred to the Vendor.
5.5.2 In addition to any remedies in the previous sub-clause, in the event that any 
Owner has failed to pay any amount due in respect of the Management Charges or 
additional charges within 30 days of demand, the Manager shall be entitled to 
require the Owner to provide payment in advance in respect of future Management 
Charges as deemed by the Manager as appropriate in its reasonable discretion, 
before reinstatement of the relevant Owners Fractional Rights.

5.7 If Management Charges (other than any special or additional management 
charges as described in Rule 5.3) are increased by more than inflation (as set out 
in clause 4.5 in the Management Agreement) and the Owner considers any 
increase to be unjustified he must notify the Manager in writing within 30 days of 
the date of invoicing. If the number of Owners giving such notification exceeds 15% 
of all Fractional Rights Certificates, the Manager shall either (a) refer their 
calculation of the Management Charge to an independent firm of auditors 
nominated by the Trustee, whose decision as to whether the proposed 
Membership Fee has been calculated in accordance with these Rules shall be final 
or (b) the Manager may accept the Management Charge increased only in 
accordance with the rate of inflation and accordingly reducing services provided to 
the Owners.
5.8 Notwithstanding the above, the proposed Management Charge shall still be 
payable in its entirety in accordance with the Management Agreement and any 
excess collected shall be credited against the Owners Management Charge for the 
following year
157. Under rule 5.3 set out in the Rules, it appeared that there were a number of 
different possible charges Mr and Mrs H could be liable to pay. They were:
the management charge;
the special management charge;
additional charges including - 
contributions to the sinking fund; 
default charges, and;
any shortfall in Management Charges from previous years.
158. To understand what each of these five different charges covered and how 
much they could be (or how the cost could be calculated), I had to read a number 
of different documents. In my provisional decision I dealt with each charge in turn, 
considering in particular whether the terms were sufficiently transparent to comply 
with Regulation 7 of the UTCCR, which requires terms to be in plain, intelligible 
language.
159. In approaching that question I had to bear in mind that the Court of Justice of 
the European Union (CJEU) has explained the requirement of transparency found 
in Regulation 7 consistently with its consumer protection purpose.160. As regards the importance of the requirement that terms be in plain intelligible 
language (which is to be judged from the perspective of the average consumer 
who is reasonably well-informed and reasonably observant and circumspect) the 
CJEU has said:
Information, before concluding a contract, on the terms of the contract and the 
consequences of concluding it is of fundamental importance for a consumer. It 
is on the basis of that information in particular that he decides whether he 
wishes to be bound by the terms previously drawn up by the seller or supplier. 
(Case C-92/11, at paragraph 44).
And also:
The requirement of transparency of contractual terms laid down by Directive 
93/13 cannot therefore be reduced merely to their being formally and 
grammatically intelligible. (Case C-26, at paragraph 71).
161. CJEU case law has also emphasised the importance of the transparency of a 
term as part of an assessment of whether a term is fair or not. This requires the 
term to set out clearly and intelligibly how it operates, so that the consumer can 
foresee how it will work in practice. For example, on terms that allow the seller or 
supplier to change its charges under the contract, the CJEU has said:
Consequently, in the assessment of the unfair nature of a term, within the 
meaning of Article 3 of the Directive, the possibility for the consumer to foresee, 
on the basis of clear, intelligible criteria, the amendments, by a seller or 
supplier, of the [contract] with regard to the fees connected to the service to be 
provided is of fundamental importance. (C-472/10, at paragraph 28)
And similarly:
As regards the assessment of a term that allows the supplier to alter 
unilaterally the charges for the service to be supplied, the Court has previously 
stated that  it is of fundamental importance for that purpose, first, whether the 
contract sets out in transparent fashion the reason for and method of the 
variation of the charges for the service to be provided, so that the consumer 
can foresee, on the basis of clear, intelligible criteria, the alterations that may 
be made to those charges and, secondly, whether consumers have the right to 
terminate the contract if the charges are in fact altered. (C-92/11, at paragraph 
49)
(1) the management charge
162. The first of the five types of charge which Mr and Mrs H could be required to 
pay was the management charge. In order to understand the contractual terms 
allowing the Manager to impose and increase the management charge, it is 
necessary to understand the meanings of some of the contracts defined terms. In 
the FPOC Rules, there were a number of such defined terms, including:
Allocated Property
means the individual Property which is allocated to an Owner pursuant to each 
Fractional Rights Certificate.
Management Chargemeans the annual charge payable by Owners in respect of the management
and maintenance of the Property and administration of the Project, in 
accordance with Rules 4 and 5.
Project
means this shared ownership club constituted and governed by the Project 
Documentation relating to the Properties and Resorts.
Property
means the completed and furnished accommodation units at the Resorts where 
such units have been selected by the Vendor as Allocated Properties and are 
vested in the Trustee (or its wholly owned subsidiary) and are held in trust for 
the Vendor and the Owners, as the case may be. Any provisions relating to the 
term Property shall apply equally to the Allocated Property.
Resort
Means those resort operations which have been selected by the Vendor to 
participate in the Project and from which units become Allocated Properties to 
be vested in the Trustee. 
163. It appeared to me from the above definitions that the management charge was 
designed to cover the management and maintenance of all of the allocated 
properties that formed part of the FPOC scheme, as well as the costs of running 
that scheme. So this charge covered all of the allocated properties, not just the 
property in which Mr and Mrs H had an interest.
164. Also in the RULES-DEED OF TRUST-MANAGEMENT AGREEMENT 
PROJECT REGULATIONS document was the Management Agreement and it 
said, at page 28:
4.1 Before the 31st October each year, the Manager shall supply to the 
Vendor a budget for the forthcoming year (and whilst not all of the Fractional 
Rights have been acquired, together with proposals for contributions, if any, to 
the Sinking Fund) including any adjustments to the Management Charges on a 
particular Allocated Property to reflect the direct costs of that Property and the 
accounts of the previous year relating to the expenses of the Property and the 
Vendor set out in clause 2 (above) which are not debited to the Owners 
individual accounts under clause 3 (above) and the Managers remuneration 
provided for by clause 6 (below).
165. I thought this implies that the management charge can be adjusted for owners 
of rights in an allocated property to reflect the direct costs associated with that 
specific property. It appeared this would be in addition to the charge also covering 
the cost of maintaining the entirety of the allocated properties and running the 
scheme.
166. The Information Sheet that Mr and Mrs H signed at the time of sale says that 
the management charge would be allocated among Owners in a particular 
Allocated Property in a fair and equitable manner. I did not think this made it clear 
to Mr and Mrs H that they would be expected to contribute to the upkeep of 
allocated properties other than their own in addition to having the fee adjusted to take into account direct costs related only to their allocated property. Or that the 
cost would be based on a budget prepared by the Manager without any say from 
FPOC members about the need for specific works to allocated properties.
167. I thought that none of the available documents, either individually or read 
together, explained how the management charge was to be divided between 
FPOC members. Plainly this could be important, for example, if one allocated 
property needed significant work, it is a reasonable question to ask whether the 
work was to be paid for by the membership as a whole or only the members who 
had been allocated an interest in that property. This could be particularly unfair as 
it appeared that CLC clients did not actually choose which property they were 
allocated nor did they stay in them, rather the properties were allocated at the point 
of sale based on which were available at the time. So I thought there was a tension 
between a member paying for possible significant work to properties that were not 
their own, but also having a significant charge to pay for work on their property 
that in effect they had not specifically chosen to purchase, but in which they had an 
interest.
168. For Mr and Mrs H to have understood these issues, in addition to the 
documents they signed at the time of sale, they would have needed to read the 40 
page RULES- DEED OF TRUST-MANAGEMENT AGREEMENT PROJECT 
REGULATIONS document, cross referencing sections and defined terms across a 
number of documents. Regulation 7 of the UTCCR requires written terms of 
contracts to be expressed in plain, intelligible language and I did not think that 
was the case here. I thought it more likely that not that a court would conclude CLC 
breached the requirements of Regulation 7 of the UTCCR.
169. Having identified what the management charge was said to cover, I also 
needed to consider how the cost could rise or fall. Some information is supplied in 
the Management Agreement at clause 4.5. It was fixed for the first two years at the 
amount set at the time of purchase (in Mr and Mrs Hs case that was £898). But 
after then it was the initial fixed sum, plus:
(b) an increment of such percentage of the Management Charge as is equal to 
the percentage increase in the figure at which the Spanish consumer prices 
index (or its nearest equivalent) is published at each last anniversary of the 
date of commencement of the Management Period over the Index figure of 
such Index at the 1 August 2011. No fall in the figure at which the said 
Index stands shall cause a variation to be made in the Management Charge 
or in the amount of any increment previously so determined. In the event of 
any change in the reference base used to compile the said Index, the figure 
taken to be shown in the said Index after such change shall be the figure 
which would have been shown in the said Index if the reference base 
current at 1 August 2011 had been retained PROVIDED THAT in the event 
of it becoming impossible by reason of any change after the date hereof in 
the method used to compile the said Index, or for any other reason 
whatsoever, to calculate the said additional sum payable in any year by 
reference to the said Index, or if any dispute or any difference whatsoever 
shall arise with respect to the amount of such additional sum, or with 
respect to the construction or effect of this Clause, the determination of the 
additional sum or other matter in difference shall be determined by an 
expert appointed in pursuance of the terms of this Agreement and he shall 
have full power to determine on such date, as he shall deem appropriate, 
what would have been the increase in the said Index had it continued on 
the same basis and given the information assumed to be available for the operation of this Clause.
(c) in exceptional circumstances the increase may be greater than described in 
clause 4.5 (b) above where any Sinking Fund already set aside is 
insufficient or there has been an extraordinary increase in costs directly 
related to the Project/Resort that could not have been contemplated at the 
date of entering into this Management Agreement.
170. From the above, it can be seen that any increase in the Spanish consumer 
prices index is to be passed on to FPOC members, but not any decrease. And it 
appeared that increases are cumulative and compounded, so a charge increase 
from one year will set the base level from which any increase is to be calculated in 
the following year. Also the management charge can be increased, irrespective of 
inflation, to cover exceptional circumstances.
171. If the management charge was increased by more than Spanish inflation, it was 
possible for FPOC members to challenge that, but only in specific circumstances 
as set out in the FPOC Rules at Rule 5.7:
If Management Charges (other than any special or additional management 
charges as described in Rule 5.3) are increased by more than inflation (as set 
out in clause 4.5 in the Management Agreement) and the Owner considers any 
increase to be unjustified he must notify the Manager in writing within 30 days 
of the date of invoicing. If the number of Owners giving such notification 
exceeds 15% of all Fractional Rights Certificates, the Manager shall either (a) 
refer their calculation of the Management Charge to an independent firm of 
auditors nominated by the Trustee, whose decision as to whether the proposed 
Membership Fee has been calculated in accordance with these Rules shall be 
final or (b) the Manager may accept the Management Charge increased only in 
accordance with the rate of inflation and accordingly reducing services 
provided to the Owners.
172. This could have some effect, but only if 15% of all FPOC members contacted 
CLC within 30 days of receiving their invoice, so Mr and Mrs H would have no 
power to question the charge on their own. And if any increase were to affect only 
one allocated property, it would still need 15% of all FPOC members to object, 
which may not be likely if the increase was not passed on more widely. This way of 
challenging the management charge was only applicable to that part of the overall 
management charges. So FPOC members could not use this provision to 
challenge any of the other charges that could be levied (that is the special 
management charges, sinking fund contributions, or charges in respect of 
management charge shortfalls) despite the potential uncapped increases that 
those charges could attract.
173. As set out above when I dealt with the claim under s.75 CCA, I thought the 
explanatory documents Mr and Mrs H signed at the time of sale were sufficient to 
show there may be an increase in the annual fees they would have to pay. But I did 
not think it was made clear to them what the increases could amount to or how 
they could go about challenging them. Again, the information they needed to know 
was set out over several other documents and was not made clear to them at the 
time they took out FPOC membership. I thought it was likely CLC breached 
Regulation 7 of the UTCCR in not setting out in plain, intelligible language how the 
management charge was to be calculated, increased, and apportioned between 
FPOC members and how they could challenge any increase.(2) the special management charge
174. The second type of charge Mr and Mrs H could be made to pay was the 
special management charge or special charge. This is referred to in parts 4 and 
5 of the FPOC Rules, but I could not see that it was defined in those rules or any of 
the other documentation that I had seen. Part 2 of the Management Agreement 
reads:
THE SERVICES
The manager undertakes to provide or procure the following services:

2.14 the calculating and giving notice as necessary to each Owner of their 
share of expenses to be paid, including any special charge which may be 
necessary in exceptional circumstances, requesting them to pay such sum to 
the Manager
From this and Rule 4.4 it appeared that the special management charge is 
something that can be invoiced as needed in exceptional circumstances. 
Exceptional circumstances is not a defined term in any of the contractual 
documentation, so I looked at everything to see when I thought this charge could 
be levied.
175. Rule 5.3 set out that the special management charge was in addition to the 
management charge, which indicates it is something that covers something outside 
of the normal day to day budgeted expenditure. But clause 4.5(c) of the 
Management Agreement set out above indicates that the management charge 
itself could be increased in exceptional circumstances to cover an extraordinary 
increase in costs directly related to the Project/Resort that could not have been 
contemplated at the date of entering into this Management Agreement. It also 
appears once an increase in costs had been added to the annual management 
charge, there was no provision to automatically remove that element of the 
management charge in the following years, so it may also have been rolled over 
from year to year and subject to any increases in the Spanish consumer prices 
index.
176. From these two provisions, it appeared to me that there are two types of 
special management charge  one that gave rise to a charge over and above the 
management charge and one that was added to and included in the management 
charge. I thought that none of the documentation made clear how these work in 
practice and the charges appear to be largely at the discretion of the Manager and 
not capped in any way. I did not think the terms in the contract that dealt with 
special management charges were in plain, intelligible language, therefore I 
thought there was likely to have been a breach of Regulation 7 of the UTCCR.
(3) contributions to the sinking fund
177. The third type of charge for which Mr and Mrs H were potentially liable under 
Rule
5.3 were contributions towards a sinking fund. FPOC members had to pay into a 
sinking fund if established by the Manager. More information about the sinking fund 
is set out in the Management Agreement, in particular under part 2:
The manager undertakes to provide or procure the following services:
2.12 the establishment and maintenance of a Sinking Fund sufficient for the 
replacement of furniture, equipment, refurbishment, interior re-paintings at 
intervals to be decided by the Vendor in consultation with the Manager, and the 
external painting of the Allocated Property, having regard to the need to 
maintain the Property and its contents in good condition and repair at all 
times
178. I thought the wording of clause 2.14 of the Management Agreement meant that 
the sinking fund is linked to specific allocated properties, so FPOC members 
payments would be held in a sinking fund earmarked to be used in the property 
allocated to them.
179. Part 3 of the Management Agreement made clear that the sinking fund is to be 
paid into an account to be maintained by the Manager and is to be kept separate 
from the Managers other assets. Rule 4.4 made clear that this is not refundable if 
the member leaves the scheme before the allocated property is sold and the fund 
not used.
180. I felt this was somewhat confusing, as the management charge described in 
the Rules was an annual charge for the management and maintenance of the 
properties included in the FPOC, which would imply that the types of expenses 
detailed in clause 2.14 were already covered by the management charge. So it 
appeared to me that there was a risk of a member being charged for the same 
expenses in two different ways: once under the annual management charge for 
maintaining all the properties and once to create a sinking fund for maintaining 
their own allocated property. And, in Rule 4.5(c), it says the management charge 
can be increased in exceptional circumstances when any sinking fund is 
insufficient. As with the special management charge, it appeared that any increase 
for this reason could well form part of the ongoing overall management charges as 
there was no provision for it to be reduced the year after an extra demand.
181. I thought that the use of the word any in Rule 4.5(c) within the phrase any 
sinking fund implies that the management charge for all members could be 
increased due to the sinking fund for any given allocated property being 
insufficient. So, although the matter is left unclear, it appeared that one member 
could have their annual management charge increased to enhance the sinking 
fund for the refurbishment or repair of an allocated property that was not allocated 
to their membership.
182. I could not see anything in the contractual documents that set out when an 
expenditure should come out of a sinking fund or the general maintenance charge 
 as explained above, the stand-alone management charge appeared to cover the 
upkeep of the allocated properties. Given that, I thought it was unclear why Mr and 
Mrs H needed to pay into a separate sinking fund to cover future expenditure over 
and above the management charge that was designed to cover all allocated 
properties in any event.
183. If the sinking fund was not actually used, FPOC members could get a rebate of 
any unused part of the sinking fund. But that was only after the allocated property 
was sold. This was potentially unfair for people in Mr and Mrs Hs position as they 
left the FPOC scheme early and therefore were not entitled to any refund from the 
sinking fund. So their unused sinking fund contributions would either be distributed 
to other members that subsequently bought their FPOC rights or to CLC if the 
rights remained unsold.184. As with the management charge and special management charge, the details 
of how the sinking fund operated can only be seen from reading a number of 
documents and cross referencing parts of the text. I did not think this was clearly 
explained in the contractual documents, so I thought it is likely that this breached 
Regulation 7 of the UTCCR.
(4) default charges
185. The fourth category of charges were default charges. Rule 5.2 states that 
members may have to pay default charges for non or late payment of the 
Management Charge . Rule 5.5.1 set the charge as 2 percent per month above 
the Bank of England base rate, or such other reasonable amount as the Manager 
shall determine if payments were outstanding after 30 days. These chares 
concerned me less than the others and I did not say anything more about them.
(5) any shortfall in management charges from previous years
186. The last of the five types of charge for which Mr and Mrs H could be liable 
under Rule 4.3 is the shortfalls in management charges from the previous year. I 
said that it is necessary to read the documents closely to understand the nature of 
the shortfalls that Mr and Mrs H might be required to make up, because these 
appear not to be confined, as might otherwise be expected, to their own past 
failures to meet the charges imposed on them (although those are also, separately 
covered).
187. Under Rule 4.4 members had to pay the Owners share of the Management 
Charges as stated in the budget for the forthcoming year, including any shortfall in 
respect of the accounts of Management Charges relating to the expenses of the 
Property and the Vendor for the previous year. I noted that the use of the words 
accounts of Management Charges implies that an individual member could be 
liable to pay for a share of any shortfall in all of the management charges that fell 
due from all FPOC members in the previous years. That is supported by the 
phrase relating to the expenses of the Property, because Property includes all 
the completed and furnished accommodation units at the Resorts where such 
units have been selected by the Vendor as Allocated Properties and are vested in 
the Trustee (or its wholly owned subsidiary) and are held in trust for the Vendor 
and the Owners. So, it seemed to me that shortfalls across the whole portfolio of 
properties are recoverable. Rule 4.4 also adds a requirement to pay the shortfall in 
any expenses of the Vendor from the previous year, which I found hard to 
understand because the Manager, not the Vendor, was made responsible for 
running the Resorts.
188. Similarly, Rule 5.1 states:
The Owners shall be invoiced for the Management Charge by 30 November in 
each Year and each Owner shall pay his appropriate share, any shortfall of the 
Management Charge and/or any shortfall relating to any previous year on the 
Owners individual account within 30 days of the date of the demand or 1st 
January, whichever is earlier. [my emphasis]
189. And clause 4.3 of the Management Agreement states:
The Owners shall be invoiced for the Management Charge by 30 November in 
each Year and each Owner shall pay his appropriate share, any shortfall of the 
Management Charge or sinking fund and/or any shortfall relating to any previous year on the Owners individual account within 30 days of the date of 
the demand or 1st January whichever is earlier. [my emphasis]
190. These clauses both draw a distinction between an individual member being 
asked to pay any shortfall on their individual account and being asked to pay the 
shortfall in management charges more generally, and say that the member can be 
required to pay either or both of these shortfalls. Which again means members 
could be asked to make up the shortfall in charges paid by other members of the 
FPOC.
191. I thought that the effect of this was for FPOC members to indemnify the 
Manager (and Vendor) for any shortfall in their recoveries against operating costs 
from previous years. It also meant that the inflation limit set on any increase in the 
management charge at clause 4.5 of the Management Agreement could be 
rendered ineffective, as a shortfall against the running costs in one year that could 
not have been covered by an increase in the basic management charge could be 
recovered the following year as a shortfall charge. And it meant it was not 
foreseeable by members what the charge in the following year could be, as that 
was dependant on both the actual operating costs of the FPOC and also the 
contribution history of their fellow members.
192. None of this was made clear in the explanatory documents presented to Mr and 
Mrs H at the time of the sale. I thought it was important to have this information 
clearly set out as this created an uncapped liability. And, unlike with the 
management charge, there did not appear to be any route to question the charge 
levied, such as the limited challenge available under Rule 5.7. It follows I thought 
there was likely to be a breach of Regulation 7 of the UTCCR.
could the obligations to pay charges amount to unfair terms?
193. Under the agreement, Mr and Mrs H had to pay any charges that fell due until 
the allocated property was sold. This was due to be 16 years after they purchased 
membership, but it could be delayed under certain provisions in the Rules for up to 
two years. And if the annual costs went up, Mr and Mrs H were not able to 
voluntarily end their FPOC membership and realise their interest in the allocated 
property.
194. I thought that meant Mr and Mrs H were tied into FPOC Membership for at 
least 16 years with an ongoing duty to pay charges which were likely to increase, 
at an uncapped amount. I thought Mr and Mrs H did not have any control over how 
the Manager and Vendor set the budgets or the size of any charges levied against 
them, save for the limited power to collectively question the management charge 
element as described above.
195. Regulation 5 of the UTCCR applies to the terms of the agreement relating to 
ongoing charges, as they were not individually negotiated by Mr and Mrs H, but 
formed part of a standard form agreement. For the reasons set out above, I 
thought the terms setting out the management charge, special management 
charge, sinking fund contribution, and shortfall payments did not meet the 
requirements of being in plain, intelligible language. The obscurity of the terms and 
their interaction was such that, even after a good deal of study, I was still uncertain 
how they were intended to operate and interact with each other, but I had done my 
best to set out my understanding. I explained that if I had misinterpreted any of 
them, I thought that was probably because their drafting and presentation made 
them so hard to understand. In any event, I did think under these terms there was a significant imbalance in the rights and obligations of Mr and Mrs H and CLC, 
contrary to the requirements of good faith, meaning that I was of the view that it is 
a likely a court would conclude that the terms covering the ongoing charges were 
unfair.7
196. When assessing the unfairness of a contractual term, Regulation 6(1) of the 
UTCCR states that the court should take into account the nature of the goods or 
services for which the contract was concluded and by referring, at the time of 
conclusion of the contract, to all the circumstances attending the conclusion of the 
contract and to all the other terms of the contract or of another contract on which it 
is dependent.
197. Whilst I understood it is reasonable and necessary for the manager of a 
timeshare property or resort to charge the owners for the upkeep and management 
of the properties, in this case I found there were a number of different, but 
overlapping, charges for the maintenance of Allocated Properties and for all of the 
other Allocated Properties and resorts as a whole. With the exception of the default 
charges, as dealt with as the fourth type of charge above, I thought the charges 
were not clearly defined and were drafted in such a way as to make their 
respective effects difficult to understand or predict.
198. Further, the charges appeared to be capable of having consequences that I 
thought a FPOC member was likely to find surprising. They can make owners 
liable without limit for the Managers (and even the Vendors) past budgetary 
shortfalls and, via sinking fund contributions, for the future costs of maintaining 
their own Allocated Property, as well as for changes in expenditure across the 
resorts that are judged exceptional.
199. Whilst there is a clause fixing increases to the first type of charge, the 
management charge, to the rate of Spanish inflation (unless prices fall), this 
restriction applied only to that element of the charges and appeared to be 
enforceable by owners only if they act on a collective basis. The other charges 
were not limited to inflation, or capped in any other way.
200. I thought the way these charges were presented to consumers before they 
entered into a contract with CLC, as well as in the actual agreements, was far from 
transparent. I said the average consumer might find it hard to understand the basis 
for each of the charges and the particular criteria for changing it and fixing its 
amount, let alone be able to foresee how it could operate.
7 See the Judgment of Lord Bingham in Director General of Fair Trading v. First National Bank plc
[2001] UKHL 52 when discussing at paragraph 17:
The requirement of good faith in this context is one of fair and open dealing. Openness 
requires that the terms should be expressed fully, clearly and legibly, containing no concealed 
pitfalls or traps. Appropriate prominence should be given to terms which might operate 
disadvantageously to the customer. Fair dealing requires that a supplier should not, whether 
deliberately or unconsciously, take advantage of the consumer's necessity, indigence, lack of 
experience, unfamiliarity with the subject matter of the contract, weak bargaining position or 
any other factor listed in or analogous to those listed in Sch 2 of the regulations. Good faith in 
this context is not an artificial or technical concept; nor, since Lord Mansfield was its 
champion, is it a concept wholly unfamiliar to British lawyers. It looks to good standards of 
commercial morality and practice
Although this relates to The Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1994, this is something 
to be considered when assessing good faith under the UTCCR.201. So I thought Mr and Mrs H were exposed to unforeseeable and largely 
unconstrained year-on-year increases throughout the term of the contract without 
enjoying any right when charges were increased to terminate, let alone recover an 
appropriate part of their initial investment or reduce the borrowing with which the 
purchase price was funded.
202. Schedule 2(1)(l) of the UTTCR states that a term that has the object or effect of 
providing for the price of goods to be determined at the time of delivery or allowing 
a seller of goods or supplier of services to increase their price without in both cases 
giving the consumer the corresponding right to cancel the contract if the final price 
is too high in relation to the price agreed when the contract was concluded  is an 
indicative unfair term. I thought the terms setting out the management charge, 
special management charge, sinking fund contribution, and shortfall payments 
were analogous to Schedule 2(1)(l) and that these terms caused a significant 
imbalance in the rights and obligations of Mr and Mrs H and CLC, contrary to the 
requirements of good faith. It follows, I thought it was likely a court would conclude 
that those terms were unfair.
203. That unfairness was, in my view, compounded by the operation of terms that 
set out what CLC can do if a FPOC member failed to pay the charges, which I went 
on to consider in my provisional decision. I thought that such failure could quickly 
lead to the forfeiture of all the owners rights, without compensation, irrespective of 
the relation of the default to the amount paid for those rights or any investment 
value attached to them. So the consequences of being unable to pay any 
increased charges were significant.
what happened if a member did not pay the charges?
204. The consequence of failing to comply with a term can also have a bearing on 
whether the term is or is not unfair. Rules 5.5.1 and 5.5.2, as I have already set out 
above, covered what would happen if a member failed to pay their charges.
 
205. Under those rules, if Mr and Mrs H failed to pay the annual management 
charges, special management charges or additional charges within 30 days of the 
invoice date, their FPOC rights would initially be suspended. Default charges could 
be applied to the outstanding balance at the Managers discretion.
206. If, after 30 days, Mr and Mrs H had still not paid, the Manager had the 
discretion to ask for future payments in advance before the FPOC rights were 
reinstated  in other words, Mr and Mrs H may have been required to pay more 
than their initial missed payment to have access to their holiday rights again. The 
Rules then state:
 the Manager shall send a final invoice to the Owner advising that failure to 
discharge in full the arrears (including any arrears and interest that have arisen 
since the date of invoice) within 30 days will result in permanent cancellation of 
the Owners Fractional Rights and no further correspondence shall be entered 
into. If the arrears as specified are not discharged within that period of notice, 
the Owners Fractional Rights shall be cancelled and shall revert to the 
Manager who shall give the Vendor first option to make good the arrears and 
on the exercising thereof those Fractional Rights shall be transferred to the 
Vendor.
207. I thought a term allowing the Manager to recover outstanding unpaid charges is doubtless necessary, but it could become unfair if it allows for outcomes 
disproportionate to the harm suffered by the Manager. Here I thought the terms set 
out in Rules 5.5.1 caused a significant imbalance in the parties rights under the 
contract, to the detriment of Mr and Mrs H, in contravention of Regulation 5 of the 
UTCCR.
208. Mr and Mrs Hs FPOC rights costs £18,899 and, as set out above, had an 
investment element as they purchased an interest in the sale proceeds of a 
property. But they ran the risk of losing all of that by not paying the ongoing 
maintenance charges. I thought the outcome of permanently cancelling all FPOC 
rights, for which a large price was paid, was disproportionate, given that triggering 
their cancellation might bear no relation to the amount of charges outstanding.
209. In addition, Rule 5.5.1 appeared similar to the indicative unfair terms set out in 
Schedule 2(1)(e) and (f) to the UTCCR. Those paragraphs read:
(e) requiring any consumer who fails to fulfil his obligation to pay a 
disproportionately high sum in compensation;
(f) authorising the seller or supplier to dissolve the contract on a discretionary 
basis where the same facility is not granted to the consumer, or permitting 
the seller or supplier to retain the sums paid for services not yet supplied by 
him where it is the seller or supplier himself who dissolves the contract
210. Here, Rule 5.5.1 states that if charges remained unpaid, a FPOC members 
rights would be lost and there was no provision for any credit to be given to a 
member for the lost rights. There was no provision for any refund out of the sinking 
fund if the agreement was cancelled under Rule 5.5.1, meaning that a member 
would effectively remain paying for future expenditure despite no longer having an 
interest in the sale proceeds of an allocated property. And if a member missed a 
payment, the Manager has a discretion to ask for future payments in advance for 
that member to access their FPOC rights. I thought these terms are analogous to 
the example unfair terms in Schedule 2(1)(d) and (e).
211. For the reasons set out above, I thought the terms in 5.5.1 would most likely fail 
a challenge in court under the UTCCR. I thought that forfeiting of FPOC rights 
without compensation was disproportionate and unfair. And, as set out above, this 
contributed to the unfairness of the terms setting out the management charge, 
special management charge, sinking fund contribution, and shortfall payments.
Did CLC comply with the Timeshare Regulations when providing information about 
the charges?
212. In addition to deciding whether I thought a court would find the terms on the 
ongoing charges unfair terms, I also considered if CLC met its obligations under 
the Timeshare Regulations.
213. Regulations 12 and 13 require information to be given to consumers in the form 
set out in Schedule 1 of the Timeshare Regulations. CLC provided Mr and Mrs H 
with a twelve page Information Statement that purported to comply with these 
obligations. But having considered everything, I thought it fell short in a number of 
areas.
214. Schedule 1 of the Timeshare Regulations sets out a standard format to be 
used that is separated into three parts, I will deal with each in turn.215. Part 1, amongst other things, requires CLC to set out an outline of the 
additional obligatory costs, their types and indicative amounts. But I did not think it 
set those out in the way it needed to. In Part 1 CLC just referred Mr and Mrs H to 
what it said about costs in Part 3, Section 4 of the Information Sheet, but 
Regulations 12(3)(a), 12(5) and 13(1)(a) require Part 1 of the form to be 
completed. On the face of this, that could be said to be a technical breach, but I 
thought it was important. I said that as Part 1 presents information as a practical 
overview, designed to outline the costs, types and amounts. But Part 3 is designed 
to give a more in-depth description of the costs, how they are calculated and 
allocated.
216. Even if directing Mr and Mrs H to Part 3, Section 4 was a satisfactory way of 
complying with the duty in Part 1, what was presented in Part 3, Section 4 would 
have to be sufficient to cover the information required in Part 1. Having looked at 
the information CLC gave, I did not think it was. In particular it says Details of the 
first years Fees as included in your Fractional Rights Agreement Terms and 
Conditions are £898 for 2012. It does not make clear what is included or excluded 
in that amount, so Mr and Mrs H would not be aware of the types of charges being 
levied.
217. Additionally Part 3, Section 4 says Other than the expenses, fees, Charges 
and other costs set out in the Agreement there are no other costs involved in the 
purchase other than those taxes imposed by law. But this fails to provide an 
outline of those items that are set out in the Agreement or required by law, or any 
indication of their amounts as is required in Part 1.
218. The information in Part 3, Section 4 had also to meet the requirements for Part 
3 itself. So, it should have given Mr and Mrs H the following information, or at least 
told them specifically where to find it:
4. INFORMATION ON THE COSTS
- an accurate and appropriate description of all costs associated with the 
timeshare contract; how these costs will be allocated to the consumer and how 
and when such costs may be increased; the method for the calculation of the 
amount of charges relating to occupation of the property, the mandatory 
statutory charges (for example, taxes and fees) and the administrative 
overheads (for example, management, maintenance and repairs),
219. Two of the five charges I had described were not mentioned in Part 3, Section 
4: namely, default charges and the charges for the shortfall of management 
charges. So I did not think that section gave an accurate and appropriate 
description of all costs associated with the timeshare contract .
220. I thought the management charge was described to some extent, but there was 
no accurate description of how it may increase. Instead, the information stated that 
the charge will be budgeted annually and will increase or decrease as determined 
by the costs of managing the Project. That failed to refer to the fact that the direct 
costs of Allocated Property (as opposed to the costs of running the entire project) 
could also add to the management charge, and it entirely ignored the provisions for 
automatic annual increases (but not decreases) to reflect Spanish inflation.
221. The only explanation about Sinking Fund contributions given in Part 3, Section 
4 read:In addition as with any apartment or community there are provisions for a 
sinking fund to be established for major refurbishments of the Allocated 
Property during the term of the Project.
But the sinking fund was not limited to major refurbishments of the Allocated 
Property, and went well beyond what might have been expected from that 
description. It could include such expenses as renewing the furniture and 
equipment inside the Allocated Property, and keeping the Allocated Propertys 
contents in a good state of repair. No indication was given as to how the required 
size of the sinking fund was to be calculated, nor how much this might amount to in 
terms of contributions from Mr and Mrs H.
222. The only explanation of the special management charges read: In 
exceptional circumstances special charges may be needed as with any property. 
But, paragraph 4.5(c) of the Management Agreement allowed for the exceptional 
costs of running the entire Project or Resort, not just of the Allocated Property, to 
give rise to an exceptional increase in the Management Charges; and I thought 
that was not explained as it should have been. The phrase as with any property 
seems particularly misleading, given that exceptional charges potentially extended 
to running and maintaining the resorts as a whole and the Manager could charge 
for providing a very wide range of services, as set out under clause 2 of the 
Management Agreement.
223. Part 3 required much more specific information but I did not think that was 
included in any meaningful sense. The description provided is not an accurate and 
appropriate description of all costs, as it does not set out any information about the 
five different types of costs that could be charged to members as I detailed above. 
There is no accurate description how each charge might increase, or how that 
charge was to be calculated. As set out above in greater detail, I thought many of 
these charges were problematic as they gave rise to potentially uncapped 
demands to cover the operating costs of both the allocated properties and the 
resorts more widely, as well as the need to cover shortfalls from previous years. I 
thought that needed to be explained to Mr and Mrs H.
224. Despite Part 3 requiring an accurate and appropriate description of all costs, 
CLC has said [ f]ull details are contained in the Rules and Management 
Agreement.  But CLC did not say in Part 3 where in the Rules and Management 
Agreement Mr and Mrs H could find the information they needed, which was itself a 
requirement set out in Part 3 of Schedule 1. In addition, as set out above, the 
potential costs are set out across a number of provisions in both the Rules and 
Management Agreement, needing cross referencing between multi-page 
documents and using separately defined terms. I thought it was likely an average 
consumer would not find it easy to fully understand how the charges were set to 
operate, even if they had access to the documents and sufficient time to read 
them.
225. I also considered the FPOC sales brochure to see whether that dealt with 
management or other charges in any detail that might mitigate any shortcoming 
with the Information Statement. I saw that the brochure ran to 46 pages and on 
page 42 the annual management charge and reservation fee were mentioned, but 
no information was given as to the likely cost or how these charges were 
calculated. There is no mention of the special management charge or any 
additional charges, such as the sinking fund.226. In conclusion, I did not think CLC had complied with the Timeshare Regulations 
in relation to providing the required level of disclosure about the charges and fees 
members were required to pay.
227. In summary, I thought the ongoing costs were a significant obligation for Mr and 
Mrs H under the agreement and they needed to understand what they could have 
been asked to pay for and how much that was likely to be. They needed to be able 
to decide for themselves not only whether they could afford the costs at the time 
they took out FPOC membership, but also whether it was likely they could continue 
to afford them in the future and whether the membership was financially suitable 
for them. I thought the failures in disclosure I highlighted above meant Mr and Mrs 
H were not given the chance to make the informed decision to take out FPOC 
membership envisioned by the Timeshare Regulations.
BPFs response to my provisional findings
228. BPF did not agree with my provisional findings on this issue. BPF has made a 
number of submissions on this point and, in his witness statement, EM sets out 
CLCs position on its management charges. 
229. BPF has argued that Mr and Mrs H did not complain about insufficient 
information being disclosed about the special management charge, sinking fund 
contribution, default charges or management charge shortfalls. In addition EM also 
pointed out that Mr and Mrs H made contradictory claims about their understanding 
of the management charges  in their CMC drafted Power of Attorney they said 
[w]e were told the maintenance fees would increase with the rate of inflation, 
but in a later statement sent to our service it was said [w]e were assured 
maintenance fees would not rise.
230. Here Mr and Mrs H have raised the increase to the maintenance fees as part of 
their complaint, so I am satisfied it is proper for me to consider the fees and 
charges in the way I did in my provisional decision. I do not think it is necessary for 
a consumer to specify their complaint in the way a Claimant would be expected to 
set out their Particulars of Claim if starting litigation. 
231. Schedule 17 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 deals with the 
Financial Ombudsman Service and how the FCA sets its rules. Paragraph 13(3) 
reads:
The FCA may make rules providing that a complaint is not to be entertained 
(except in specified circumstances) if the complainant has not previously 
communicated its substance to the respondent and given him a reasonable 
opportunity to deal with it.
232. Here I think the word substance means that I can consider the subject matter 
of a complaint, rather than the precise way it is written, communicated or 
presented. And it was held in R (Williams) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2008] 
EWHC 2142, at paragraph 26:
The ombudsman is dealing with complaints, not causes of action. His 
jurisdiction is inquisitorial not adversarial. There is a wide latitude within which 
the ombudsman can operate
So even if Mr and Mrs H, or their CMC, have not complained about the precise way 
in which fees and charges had been calculated, once they had raised the issue of unexpected increases, I think it is proper of me to consider the effect of those 
terms.
233. I accept that Mr and Mrs H have given contradictory statements in the evidence 
I have seen, so I have placed little weight on their actual recollections of what they 
were told about the charges. EM has asked me to draw an adverse inference 
about Mr and Mrs Hs evidence in general and exclude this element of the 
complaint. But I think what is important here is that Mr and Mrs H have complained 
about the way the management charges changed. And when looking at those 
charges, and the the terms setting out how they could be levied, I have looked at 
the contractual matrix to work out the way those terms operated and the way this 
was explained in the sale documentation. I do not think that the inconsistency in Mr 
and Mrs Hs evidence about what they were told in 2011 should mean that I refuse 
to look into their complaint about the changes in management charges. 
234. BPF has argued that the requirement in paragraph 4 of Part 3 of Schedule 1 of 
the Timeshare Regulations requires an accurate and appropriate description of all 
costs [emphasis BPFs]. BPF accepts that whilst the requirement of Part 3 goes 
beyond the summary provided for in Part 1, it says it would be inappropriate to 
comprehensively reproduce the full terms governing all charges in the Information 
Statement. BPF has said that CLC provided an accurate description of the principal 
additional charge  the management charge  and a description of how that was 
calculated, as well cross referencing the Rules.
235. The Information Statement makes clear that there is a management charge 
and it was for contribution to the management, repair and maintenance of the 
Property. With respect to how this was to be calculated, it said the charge will be 
allocated among Owners in a particular Allocated Property in a fair and equitable 
manner, decided by the Manager, and in proportion to the number of weekly 
periods an Owner is entitled to use each year. The information statement also 
says there are provisions for a sinking fund to be established to cover major 
refurbishments of the Allocated Property and special charges may be needed in 
exceptional circumstances. It says full details were contained in the Rules and 
Management Agreement, but I cannot see Mr and Mrs H were pointed to a specific 
part of those documents.`
236. Having considered this part again, I still do not think sufficient information was 
given in the Information Statement. I note that the requirement BPF has highlighted 
requires an accurate and appropriate description of all costs[emphasis my 
own]. BPF has accepted CLC gave a description of what it said was the principle 
charge, the management charge, but I cannot see that it gave a description of all of 
the costs. For example, neither the default charge nor the duty to pay shortfalls 
from the management charges from previous years was mentioned. Further, I do 
not think accurate or appropriate information was provided about the charges that 
were mentioned as I have already set out in detail above.
237. BPF has explained that members of Mr and Mrs Hs FPOC have only ever 
been levied one special management charge, and that happened after they 
requested to surrender their membership, so they did not pay it. This was charge of 
£120 to cover a shortfall in income following an exchange rate change after the 
Brexit Referendum and was only charged after the owner members of the FPOC 
committee agreed to it. BPF has said this shows the type of unforeseeable 
situation in which a special management charge is designed to cover.
238. I do not think the fact that only one special management charge had been levied alters my analysis of the unfairness of this charge. It was the potential 
exposure to large charges, coupled with the effect of non-payment, that I was 
concerned about. I do not think that these terms were fair simply because they 
were not used to Mr and Mrs Hs detriment in the way they might have been. 
Similarly, just because a sinking fund was not set up, nor were any management 
charge shortfalls levied, that does not make the provisions surrounding those 
charges fair.
239. BPF has said that the management charge shortfall is simply a consequence 
of the inevitable budgeting exercise and any shortfall is made up the following 
year, but any surplus is applied to reduce the following years contributions. But I 
fail to see why it is inevitable that FPOC members should have to pay for any 
overrun in the Managers operating costs as against its income. 
240. Under the Management Agreement, at clause 6, the Manager is entitled to 
include remuneration for its services of up to 15% of the annual expenses of the 
Property. So, despite what EM has said about FPOC being a not-for-profit, break 
even club, the Manager is contractually entitled to take remuneration in direct 
proportion to the overall sums charged. I fail to see why it is an inevitable 
consequence that FPOC members should cover any shortfall in the accounts 
rather than the Manager, which appears to be a profit making entity. 
241. Additionally the management charge shortfall operates outside of the 
management charge, so it renders the policy of pegging raises to the management 
charge to Spanish inflation somewhat redundant. If the management shortfall 
charge is a consequence of the budgeting exercise as BPF has said, it means the 
FPOC members effectively indemnify the Manager for its costs, whether the over 
expenditure has gone over budget or if other owners do not pay their fees. This is 
not made clear in the Information Statement as is required.
242. BPF has said that I have conflated the position of CLC (as the counterparty to 
the FPOC membership agreement and the trader for the purposes of the 
UTCCR) with the position of the Manager of the club. In order to be unfair under 
the UTCCR, the terms must cause a significant imbalance in the parties (being the 
consumers and the traders) rights and obligations arising under the contract, to 
the detriment of the consumer. The terms which I thought unfair do not affect the 
balance between CLC and Mr and Mrs Hs rights at all: they affect the relationship 
between Mr and Mrs H and other FPOC members, and between FPOC members 
and the Manager. In fact, as EM confirms, CLC is responsible for the Management 
Charges on unsold allocated properties, so any fee increases adversely affect CLC 
in the same way that they would affect FPOC members.
243. Having considered the UTCCR, Regulation 4 makes clear that the UTCCR 
applies to contracts between a seller or supplier and a consumer. The Purchase 
Agreement was such a contract, and it incorporated all the terms I have referred to, 
because one CLC company (Club La Costa Leisure Limited), the supplier, bound 
Mr and Mrs H into a contract with itself and another CLC company, the Manager, 
by requiring them to agree to the FPOC Rules and Management Agreement. To 
the extent that the supplier bound Mr and Mrs H to terms that gave rise to a 
significant imbalance in favour of the Manager and to the detriment of Mr and Mrs 
H, those terms were also unbalanced in favour of the supplier, because those were 
the conditions upon which CLC offered to contract with Mr and Mrs H. 
244. So I cannot see for the purposes of the UTCCR that it matters whether the 
terms that cause an imbalance to the detriment of Mr and Mrs H are in favour of the CLC company that sold FPOC membership, or in favour of another CLC 
company. In any event, even if the UTCCR did not apply to these terms in the way 
I thought they did and the unfair term could not be challenged as it benefitted a 
different CLC company, I do not think that would prevent the term being considered 
unfair for the purposes of contributing to an unfair relationship under s.140A CCA. 
Where the UTCCR apply they can provide a yardstick for assessing whether a 
term of a related contract is unfair, but if for a technical reason the UTCCR do not 
apply to such a term, the term may still be considered unfair for much the same 
reasons and with a similar impact on the unfairness of the debtor-creditor 
relationship under s.140A. So, the technical issue that BPF raises strikes me as of 
academic interest.
245. BPF has said that the terms I criticised deal with the equitable division of 
ongoing cost liability between Mr and Mrs H and the other owners. But having 
looked at the terms in some detail, cross referencing several documents and with 
the assistance of EMs statement setting out how he says the terms operated in 
practice, it is still not clear to me how the costs are apportioned between FPOC 
members. Further, the terms allow for the Manager to be remunerated, for the 
Manager to increase charges with the associated increase in its own remuneration 
and for the Manager to recover any shortfalls in management charges from other 
FPOC members.
246. BPF has argued that CLC had a legitimate interest in including the charges to 
pay ongoing costs to maintain the Properties. It says this is an essential and core 
element of all timeshare club arrangements. I do accept that it is right that CLC did 
have a legitimate interest to charge FPOC members to cover costs, including its 
companies own remuneration. But it does not follow that any charge must 
therefore be fair. It was the form of those charges, as detailed in my provisional 
decision that gave rise to the unfairness, not the fact that such a charge existed.
247. BPF said that I had overlooked that CLC ensured FPOC members were 
adequately protected from special levies and sinking fund charges by imposing an 
obligation on the Manager to arrange comprehensive insurance. In all the 
circumstances, no reasonable tribunal could conclude that the terms were contrary 
to the requirement of good faith and submitted that this ought to be a relevant 
consideration in my determination.
248. I do accept that a comprehensive insurance policy should cover the sorts of 
unforeseen events that are often insurable, but I do not think an insurance policy 
would cover the ongoing maintenance and upkeep of properties. For example, it 
was made clear in clause 2.12 of the Management Agreement that the sinking fund 
was for the replacement of furniture, equipment, refurbishment, interior re-
paintings at intervals to be decided by the Vendor in consultation with the Manager, 
and the external painting of the Allocated Property  I do not think these were 
insurance events. Further, I do not think that the terms exhibited the fair and open 
dealing that is required by good faith.
249. BPF has said that I was wrong to suggest the clauses fall within paragraph 1(l) 
of Schedule 2 of the UTCCR. It said none of the charges allow CLC to change the 
amount of money it is charging Mr and Mrs H for their purchase of FPOC 
membership; the terms allow the Manager to levy fees on the FPOC members and 
CLC (who is responsible for charges on unsold inventory). In any event, under the 
Rules, the FPOC members could challenge the charges and FPOC members 
could sell or surrender their points.250. I think this is essentially a repeat of the argument that the CLC company that 
actually sold membership was as a separate company to the Manager. Again, I 
think the UTCCR applied to these clauses, but in any event, a court could look at 
the intrinsic fairness of the terms in a very similar way when deciding s.140A CCA. 
Further, I do not think the clauses operate in the way BPF has suggested that they 
do. Clause 4.5 of the Management Agreement sates that [d]uring the first two (2) 
years of the Management Period each Owner (other than the Vendor) shall pay 
the Manager by way of initial Management Charge [emphasis added]. So the 
Vendor was not liable to pay fees in the same way as FPOC members on unsold 
properties.
251. BPF has said that FPOC members who were unhappy with the charges could 
sell or surrender their points. But BPF has not been able to point to any functioning 
market for the sale of these points, nor have I seen any term allowing FPOC 
members to voluntarily surrender their points without CLCs discretionary 
agreement. In practice, despite Mr and Mrs H having thought they had surrendered 
their points (without any accounting from CLC for the rights to the sale proceeds 
that they had given up), EM has made clear their rights were actually suspended. 
This has exposed them to potential liability for the unpaid management fees from 
2017 onwards, so I do not think the is evidence to suggest FPOC members could 
effectively surrender their points.
252. BPF told me that the Rules in force at the time Mr and Mrs H took out FPOC 
membership were amended in March and June 2014 following Mr and Mrs Hs 
purchase. One such amendment was the introduction of a committee to set the 
Management Charge. BPF has submitted that the committee was independent and 
consisted of an independent Chairman, two representatives appointed by CLC and 
two representatives appointed by the FPOC members.
253. This committee was described in clause 5.11 of the 2014 Rules. It read:
For the purposes of determining the Management Charge only, a Committee 
of not more than five persons will be formed, consisting of a Chairman 
appointed by the Vendor, two representatives elected by the Owners from their 
number, one person appointed by the Vendor as its representative, and one 
person appointed by the Manager as its representative
The Chairman and the representatives appointed by the Vendor and Manager 
shall not be subject to retirement but shall serve at the pleasure of their 
respective appointers, who shall appoint a successor to fill any vacancy among 
their number
254. So it is incorrect to say that the Chairman was independent, as they were to be 
appointed by the Vendor, a CLC company. And they served at the pleasure of the 
Vendor, who was able to appoint their successor if they were removed. It follows, 
given the Vendor and Manager each had a representative, that I think CLC had an 
inherent majority in this fee setting committee and it was not independent of CLC.
255. BPF has submitted that I placed too much reliance on rule 5.5.2 of the FPOC 
Rules as the Rules were amended in June 2014 to provide a right to reinstatement 
for a period of five years after a FPOC member defaulted. Consequently, initial 
defaults can only result in the suspension of a FPOC members membership and 
permanent cancellation can only occur after the default has extended for a 
minimum of five years.256. Having looked at the Rules, I take it BPF meant to refer to Rule 5.5.1, which 
deal with termination of rights after default. The July 2014 Rules were amended so 
the following was added to Rule 5.5.1:
The Manager acknowledges that there can be various reasons why an Owner 
was unable to comply with the Management Charges payment obligations and 
therefore agrees to keep the status of the Owner in suspense for a period of 5 
(five) years from the date of default during which period the Owner may apply 
to be reinstated to active status to be able to use Fractional Rights again 
subject to and provided that the Owner:
(a) makes good immediately the sum of arrears and any reinstatement fees 
as apply at that time outstanding on his account;
(b) agrees to continue to be bound by the Rules;
(c) agrees to pay Management Charges from the date of reinstatement 
onwards;
(d) complies with any know your client and similar information reasonably 
required by the Manager to comply with applicable laws and which would 
be requested from a new Owner; and
(e) acknowledges that (a) the Manager was under a duty to the other 
Owners, who are paying Management Charges, to sell or use the particular 
Fractional Rights which used to be available for the Owner, as described 
previously above, and (b) while the Manager will make all reasonable 
efforts to reinstate the Owner as he was entitled to previously, this cannot 
be guaranteed and where not available in the Managers opinion acting 
reasonably and in good faith, the Manager will allocate the nearest 
available, subject to unit size and week capacity.
If an Owner requests reinstatement later than the five year period set out 
above, the Manager shall determine the request in its absolute discretion.
257. I think this term lessens the impact of the previous Rule 5.5.1 which led to the 
termination of rights swiftly after management fees remained unpaid. But I do not 
think a five year suspension does anything to remedy the possible disproportionate 
remedy of extinguishing rights for missed payment of charges, it just gives more 
time to bring the account up to date. The real concern was that a FPOC members 
interest in the proceeds of sale, something BPF itself has described as a valuable 
right, could be lost for a shortfall in charges that may bear little relation to the 
value of the interest in the allocated property. I cannot see that the amendment to 
Rule 5.5.1 has done anything to alleviate that unfairness.
258. In conclusion, I am still of the view that a court would find that the terms setting 
out the charges and the effect of not paying those charges were unfair under the 
UTCCR. Further, I am also still of the view that a court would find that CLC did not 
meet its disclosure obligations under the Timeshare Regulations.
259. Additionally, in his witness statement, EM has shown the total amounts Mr and 
Mrs H were invoiced for their management charges (he said they did not pay any 
of the other charges I identified above). The costs were given as follows:
Year Amount (Euros) Percentage increase (%)
2012 898 -
2013 898 0
2014 1,006 12.032015 1,076 6.69
2016 1,106 2.79
260. I have looked at the Spanish CPI over the same period and I think these 
charges rose over and above that rate. Spanish CPI rose 1.41% in 2013, but then 
fell in 2014, 2015 and 2016. So I think the management charges increased over 
the rate set in clause 4.5 of the Management Agreement and I have not seen that 
Mr and Mrs H were told about this. It is also surprising that the increase in charges 
over the first three years where they were not contractually fixed went from €898 to 
€1,106, an increase of over 23%, which is a considerable rise over a relatively 
short period. 
The effect of selling FPOC membership as an investment
261. Under Regulation 14(3) of the Timeshare Regulations, marketing or selling 
membership to FPOC as an investment was banned. I already said I thought Mr 
and Mrs H were told FPOC membership was an investment, so I need to consider 
whether CLC marketed or sold it in that way. Having considered everything, I 
thought it was likely that a court would conclude CLC breached this regulation. But 
I also needed to consider whether this could have led to any other regulations 
being breached.
262. As I have set out above, the Timeshare Regulations and the RDO Code 
contain provisions that are aimed at ensuring consumers are given the information 
they need to make an informed contractual decision. It appeared to me that CLC 
had a policy of avoiding disclosing relevant information that related to the actual or 
potential value of the investment in the allocated properties.
263. In his statement, DF said:
I accept that if CLC was selling a product which promised profits (or the 
potential to make a profit), one would expect to see detailed information as to 
the potential return and the potential risks. However, that is not what was sold 
and no such promises were made. 
264. I thought information about FPOC membership had not been made clear, 
including the value of Mr and Mrs Hs interest in the allocated property at the time 
of sale or what they were likely to receive when it was sold, for example, by 
showing what they could get back at different sale amounts or what the property 
needed to sell at for Mr and Mrs H to get their initial investment back.
265. CLC has explained the lengths it went to in an attempt not to sell FPOC 
membership as an investment. In particular it said:
it did not give its sale representatives information about the value of the 
fraction its clients bought (witness statements of PR);
it instructed its sales representatives not to give the impression that there 
was an investment element to membership and there were disciplinary 
consequences if its staff were found to have done so (witness statement of 
MB); and,
the point of sale documents were clear that the primary purpose of 
membership was the enjoyment of holidays and no warranty was given 
about the likely sale values.266. But although I accepted that CLC tried to comply with its duties under 
Regulation 14(3), for the reasons set out above, I thought it failed to do so. In my 
view, the problem CLC had is that its product, FPOC membership, inherently has 
an investment element to it  its clients purchase an interest in the proceeds of 
sale of a property that they have no preferential right to use  so it seemed that 
aspect of the membership, if used to persuade customers to purchase, created the 
risk that membership will be marketed or sold as an investment, contrary to 
Regulation 14(3). In Mr and Mrs Hs case I thought the way CLC presented FPOC 
membership, in particular the prominence of the investment element, led to it being 
marketed and sold as an investment.
267. But CLC had to adhere not only to the requirements of Regulation 14(3) but 
also to the other parts of the Timeshare Regulations, in particular those requiring 
pre-contractual disclosure of key information. So I needed to consider how the 
membership was described and whether CLC breached any of the other 
regulations, as well as all of the other circumstances I am required to consider 
when thinking about s.140A CCA.
268. Regulation 12 states, in summary, that a timeshare supplier has to give 
customers the key information before they enter into a contract and that 
information must be clear, comprehensible and accurate so that the customer can 
make an informed decision about whether or not they should enter into the 
contract. Details of the key information needed to be given is in Schedule 1 as set 
out above.
269. Schedule 1 of the Timeshare Regulations sets out standard forms for 
information that needs to be disclosed. The things mentioned are geared toward 
the types of things a consumer would need to know when purchasing timeshare 
rights. So, for example, the price to be paid to acquire timeshare rights needs to be 
set out. But in Mr and Mrs Hs case, the initial price they paid is clear (although in 
my provisional decision I also highlighted that I thought the ongoing charges were 
not adequately explained)  it is the value of the interest in property that they were 
buying that had not been disclosed.
270. In his witness statement, DF said:
58CLC accepts that the documentation which it is legally required to provide 
by the 2010 Regulations is not insubstantial. However, as this is a mandatory 
requirement, CLC cannot be criticised for the same. Nevertheless, to assist 
customers, CLC developed its own supplemental documentation (e.g. the 
Members Declaration) so that the most important features of the product were 
clearly brought to the customers attention. These documents were 
emphasised and prioritised.
59. A central part of [the investigators] reasoning is that this significant 
documentation does not include the open market value of the Allocated 
Property and the fraction thereof and this renders the information incomplete 
and misleading. However, despite extensive regulation, there is no 
requirement on the supplier to provide this information. 
60. In fact, the opposite is true. Regulation 14(3) and (5) of the 2010 
Regulations state [EXTRACT SET OUT]
61. In my view, providing the information which [the investigator] has concluded 
was necessary would have been in contravention of the law and a criminal offence
271. Having considered what DF said, I disagreed. Part 1 of Schedule 1 of the 
Timeshare Regulations requires CLC to set out the Exact nature and content of 
the right(s) that are being purchased. And under Regulation 12(4) the information 
provided needed to be sufficient to enable Mr and Mrs H to make an informed 
decision about taking out FPOC membership.
272. I did not think this provision related only to describing the holiday rights Mr and 
Mrs H acquired from CLC. And I thought it was clear CLC must have known that 
was the case as in the Information Statement, when dealing with the Exact nature 
and content of the right(s), CLC included the following information:
purchasing Fractional Rights gave Mr and Mrs H the rights and obligations 
of an Owner as defined in the Rules;
the Fractional Rights expire when the allocation property is sold and there 
are provisions for the distribution of the sale proceeds;
Mr and Mrs H were obliged to release to CLC their occupation rights in the 
allocated property until the date it was sold; and
information on how the allocated property was legally held and to be sold 
by the trustee.
I thought this information went beyond CLC merely providing information about the 
rights to take holidays that Mr and Mrs H were buying. But crucially, the information 
given did not include details about the value of the interest Mr and Mrs H were 
buying at the time of sale. I thought they needed that to understand what they were 
paying for and how the value of their interest in the allocated property was 
calculated.
273. When selling FPOC membership, I thought there was a clear tension between 
the need to set out key information under Regulation 12(4) and the prohibition on 
selling a timeshare as an investment under Regulation 14(3). But I did not think 
that was caused by any inherent failings in the drafting of the Timeshare 
Regulations, in fact I thought the purpose of them was clear  to tell providers the 
types of information it needed to supply to consumers when timeshares were sold. 
The problem that had been caused was by CLC selling a product that, as core 
features and main selling points, had both the elements of a timeshare and an 
investment. I said that as I understood it, the product was designed after there was 
a prohibition on selling timeshares as an investment. But because of the way 
FPOC membership worked, CLC ran the risk of breaching either Regulations 12 or 
14 (or both) once the key features of the product were explained.
274. In the Information Statement, CLC stated that The Vendor, the Trustee and 
the manager are unable to give any guarantee on the ultimate sales price as this 
depends on many factors including the state of the property market and supply and 
demand at the time of sale. But I thought CLC failed in its duty under Regulation 
12(4) to go on to explain what some of those factors may be. Some of the basic 
information I would have expected to see would have been the market value of the 
allocated property, some information on the current market conditions at the 
location of the allocated property and information about any future plans or 
developments at that resort. I would have also expected CLC to have explained 
whether the allocated property was likely to be sold as an individual unit or part of a 
package of units within the resort location and how that affected its marketability 
and value. Additionally, I thought CLC should have set out some of the potential risks of investment, such as how any changes in exchange rate could affect the 
levels of return.
275. In addition to information about the potential resale value of the allocated 
property, I thought Mr and Mrs H should have been made aware of how their 
interest in the sale proceeds was to be calculated. The Information Statement says 
there is a provision for distribution of funds after the payment of any taxes and all 
costs related to that Allocated Property as described in the Rules. But more details 
of that are not set out as I thought was required in Parts 1 and 3 of Schedule 1, 
read in conjunction with Regulation 12(4).
276. The Rules set out, at Rule 9.2.3.1, how the sale proceeds would be dealt with 
before they were distributed to the FPOC members. 7.5% of the proceeds were 
given to the Manager and Trustee in fees, before the sales agents fees were also 
discharged. The remainder would be used first to pay any local taxes, legal fees or 
other costs of sale, but the Rules do not set out what those may amount to. But in 
addition to those, the proceeds would be used to discharge any debts or liabilities 
attributable to the allocated property, including any outstanding management 
charges, which were to be apportioned at the sole discretion of the Trustee. Only at 
that point would the remainder be distributed amongst members.
277. I thought it needed to be explained to Mr and Mrs H that there were a large 
number of potential deductions to be paid out of the sale proceeds and some 
indication of how this would work in practice. Without this having been highlighted 
to them, I did not think they would have had sufficient information needed to make 
an informed choice about taking out the FPOC membership as required under 
Regulation 12(4).
278. I did not think it was made clear to Mr and Mrs H the value of the interest in 
property they were buying, so they could work out how much of the purchase price 
went on that and whether it was good value for them. I thought this was a breach of 
Principles 1 and 2 of the RDO Code of Conduct as Mr and Mrs H were not given 
appropriate disclosure of the elements of the product to be able to make an 
informed purchase. I thought CLC should have made clear to Mr and Mrs H what 
the investment was actually worth at the time they bought it, so they knew how 
much was being invested in an interest in property and how much was for the other 
benefits of membership.
279. I thought it was clear that all of the regulations referred to, as well as the RDO 
Code of Conduct, were drafted with the purpose of ensuring consumers, such as 
Mr and Mrs H, have the right information available to them at the time they choose 
to enter into a contract. This was set out explicitly by the Government in the 
Department for Business Innovation & Skills paper of December 2010 that was 
published alongside the implementation of the Timeshare Regulations. It says, at 
paragraph 407 when looking at Regulation 12:
It is essential, given the nature of the regulated contracts, which are often high 
value and very long term and sold in pressured circumstances, that the 
consumer is provided with the necessary information, and given sufficient time 
to consider the information before making a decision to buy. The Directive is 
very specific on the pre-contractual information that must be provided. Failure 
to provide this key information or failure to provide it in the language required, 
or providing false information on these matters is, in our view, likely to impact 
on the consumers transactional decision. For example, information about the 
consumers rights to use the timeshare, the price and any additional costs, and the right to withdraw are key information that the consumer needs to take into 
account when entering into a contract or when deciding whether or not to 
withdraw from it.
280. Mr and Mrs H were not given the information about how the purchase price for 
FPOC membership was worked out, how much of what they paid went into the 
investment element of membership and the amount they were likely to get back. 
So I thought they simply were not able to properly weigh up the cost and benefit of 
taking out FPOC membership. I thought they needed to have more information 
about the value of the beneficial interest they were buying at the time they took out 
membership.
BPFs response to my provisional findings
281. BPF disagreed with my provisional findings on this issue. It said my 
conclusions that FPOC membership was sold as an investment were driven by the 
fact FPOC membership had investment potential. But I failed to recognise that 
fractional style products had been available and established prior to the drafting of 
the Timeshare Directive and subsequent Timeshare Regulations, and had been 
considered in the drafting of those provisions. BPF also said I did not properly 
appreciate the distinction between CLC describing, accurately and factually, a key 
feature of the product and CLC actively selling FPOC as an investment.
282. With regard to the standard information form under the Timeshare Regulations, 
BPF said it does not require the information I suggested ought to have been 
included. It said that Regulation 12(4) does not impose an additional, free standing 
obligation to provide further information to enable a consumer to make an informed 
decision.  Rather the phrase the information in Regulation 12(4) refers to the key 
information defined in Regulation 12(3) and provides obligations in relation to each 
of those pieces of information. BPF said my provisional decision amounted to a 
finding that Regulation 12(4) requires further information that goes beyond the 
requirements of the standard information form in Schedule 1.
283. BPF has said that my provisional findings mean that it is impossible to lawfully 
sell a fractional timeshare product as a supplier will either provide the information 
required, in breach of Regulation 14(3), or not provide the information, in breach of 
Regulation 12(4). BPF has directed me to a Government consultation paper from 
February 1996, when the first timeshare Directive was being considered, that 
shows that the Government thought the Directive was drafted to cover fractional 
ownership models. BPF has also noted that my finding that FPOC membership 
was sold as an investment meant CLC committed a breach of criminal law.
284. BPF has said that my reliance on the CPUT Regulations is wholly misguided in 
the context of there being specific sectoral regulation at an EU level. Recital 10 and 
article 3.4 of the Unfair Commercial Practices Directive (Directive 2005/29/EC) 
(the UCPD) make this clear. As I have not relied on the CPUT Regulations, I 
have not considered this point further.
285. I have seen the witness statement of EM where he has set out some of the 
history of fractional style products and how the Timeshare Directive came to be 
drafted. And I accept that the prohibition contained in the Timeshare Regulations is 
the marketing or selling of timeshares as investments, rather than there being a 
prohibition on marketing or selling fractional style products at all. But I do not think 
that answers the question of whether Mr and Mrs H were sold their membership as 
an investment.286. PR said in his statement the return the customers receive at the end of the 
fixed term when the property is sold is a further benefit of the particular type of 
timeshare ownership, and I think it was the way in which this benefit was 
presented that meant FPOC membership was sold as an investment8. DF said in 
his statement, it is correct to say that receiving the net proceeds of sale is 
presented as an important feature of the club. It is plainly one of the distinguishing 
features of the product. This, along with the use of the word investment in the 
way I found it was used when looking at the representations made, and the 
contents of the handwritten note, persuaded me that it was more likely than not 
that FPOC membership was presented as an investment. 
287. In my provisional decision I said that I failed to see how buying an interest in an 
allocated property in the way FPOC membership enabled could be described as 
anything other than an investment. Having considered all of the evidence again, I 
do not think this was correct. For the avoidance of doubt, it was in the 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Hs complaint I think the evidence suggests it was 
sold in that manner. I think there is a difference between, on the one hand, 
providing information about the property ownership rights being offered (which 
enables an objective appraisal of the contract) and, on the other hand, using the 
existence of such rights as a selling point, i.e. as an inducement to purchase. It is 
only in the latter case that a supplier would be marketing or selling the contract 
as an investment.  
288. The structure of FPOC membership meant a customer was purchasing an 
interest in the sale proceeds of real property and would get a return, so it was a 
real possibility that potential customers would see an investment element to 
ownership. I think the sales process that Mr and Mrs H went through highlighted 
this feature of membership and presented it, in order to induce them to purchase, 
as having an investment element. 
289. In his witness statement, DF has said that CLC went to great lengths to 
emphasise throughout the paperwork that the acquisition of a share in an Allocated 
Property should not be viewed as an investment. But having considered the 
paperwork, I do not think it was explicitly stated that FPOC membership was not an 
investment, rather it says the primary purpose of  membership was the taking of 
holidays. Once FPOC membership was marketed and sold as an investment, as I 
have found happened to Mr and Mrs H during CLCs sales presentation, undoing 
that would require a very clear and unmistakable retraction, enabling Mr and Mrs H 
to consider afresh whether this was a contract they wished to enter into free from 
the effect of that irresponsible marketing.  But, I dont think that CLCs including the 
disclaimers contained in its documentation was nearly enough to achieve that.
290. DF has noted that a distinguishing feature of FPOC membership was receiving 
the net proceeds of sale at the end of the term, in fact he said it was presented as 
an important feature of the club. But BPFs arguments is that the Timeshare 
Regulations do not require a customer to be provided with the value of that 
important feature, nor any of the risks associated with it. BPF has also said CLC 
8 This differs from some of the older schemes described by EM in his statement where scheme 
members had a right to the share of the net sale proceeds of a property, but the scheme did not have 
a fixed term after which properties would be sold. Under these traditional schemes, there was no 
certainty of a distribution at any point in time and so the possibility that that might occur, say, within 
the owners lifetime was not likely to provide a selling point for the timeshare. To me, the lack of a 
fixed term means these older schemes looked less like investments than the FPOC scheme.were effectively prohibited with providing any information about this important 
feature, even though DF has accepted that the return was highlighted during the 
presentation of the product. 
291. The Timeshare Regulations are designed as consumer protection legislation, 
with the aim that consumers have sufficient information with which to make an 
informed purchasing decision. BPFs position appears directly opposed to that aim 
and deprives customers, such as Mr and Mrs H, from having information about the 
product they are purchasing.
292. Schedule 1 to the Timeshare Regulations sets out, for Mr and Mrs Hs 
agreement, the key information required to be disclosed. And it is right that the 
requirements are directed more toward the sorts of things expected in a timeshare 
agreement conferring the right to use holiday accommodation, over a contract to 
provide a financial return. But Part 1 of Schedule 1 does require the disclosure of 
the [e]xact nature and content of the right(s). What that disclosure means in 
practice must be decided on a case by case basis, taking into account the 
particular agreement requirement under Regulation 12(4) of the Timeshare 
Regulations that the information set out in Schedule 1 must be clear, 
comprehensible and accurate, and sufficient to enable the consumer to make an 
informed decision about whether or not to enter into the contract.
293. In Mr and Mrs Hs agreement, where the exact nature and content of the rights 
bought include an interest in the sale proceeds of real property, I think the key 
information needed to enable them to decide whether or not to enter into the 
contract must include information about the nature of that right. In this case, the 
matters I have set out in my provisional decision, including some indication of the 
value of the interest bought at the date of sale and the possible amounts realised 
when the allocated property was later sold.
294.  BPF has said that this interpretation means that it was not possible for CLC to 
market FPOC membership without breaching Regulation 14(3). I do not agree with 
that conclusion. Regulation 14(3) states that a trader must not market or sell a 
proposed timeshare contractas an investment. So if a timeshare provider 
designs a product that has as one of its important or key features an investment 
element, the provider is prohibited from using that feature to encourage a 
consumer to purchase  it does not ban the sale of that product, it just regulates 
the method of sale. But that does not mean the timeshare provider does not need 
to comply with the requirements of Regulation 12(4) to present key information in 
the way described above. From reading the Timeshare Regulations in totality, I 
cannot see anything that prohibits CLC from providing the information I think is 
required in selling FPOC membership as BPF has argued. In fact, to say there was 
a prohibition to provide that information would have been in direct conflict with 
Regulation 12(4) and the consumer protection purpose behind that provision.
295. If I am wrong that there is a requirement to provide this information under 
Regulation 12(4) and Schedule 1 of the Timeshares Regulations, I think there was 
anyway a requirement to do so in accordance with good industry practice at the 
time. CLC were members of the RDO and the RDO Code of Practice was designed 
to establish industry best practice standards. Principle 2.2.3 reads:
RDO Members will in particular ensureThe provision of any necessary 
assistance to consumer to enable them to make an informed decision.
296. So it is my view that the Timeshare Regulations required the disclosure of the information identified in my provisional decision. But if I am wrong about that, I 
think good industry practice demanded the same and I cannot see anything in the 
Timeshare Regulations that prohibit that information being given.
Were Mr and Mrs H pressured into taking out FPOC membership?
297. Mr and Mrs H said, through their representatives, that they were pressured into 
taking out FPOC membership. This was mentioned in the letter that their 
representative first sent to our service and in the power of attorney where it 
suggested that the sales meeting lasted over six hours and they were pressured 
into signing the purchase agreement. In both the original letter of complaint sent to 
BPF and in the statement produced by Mr and Mrs H to set out their memories of 
the sale, pressure was not mentioned as a concern. So it was not clear whether 
this allegation was a central part of their claim. But as it had been raised, I 
considered the evidence on this point.
298. I thought about the level of pressure that would be needed for me to think it 
crossed a line from being a hard sell to being improper or undue pressure. 
Regulation 7 of the CPR is of assistance in setting out the standard for aggressive 
commercial practices. To be such a practice, it must significantly impair the 
average consumers freedom of choice through the use of harassment, coercion or 
undue influence such as to cause the consumer to buy something they otherwise 
would not have done. This is a higher bar than simply applying an element of 
pressure during a sales presentation, and it may be possible that a lower level of 
pressure might render the underlying credit agreement unfair, given a particular 
consumers circumstances.
299. Having considered the available evidence, I did not think there was sufficient 
evidence for me to say undue pressure was applied to Mr and Mrs H. In particular, 
the witness statements from the CLC employees, although not specific to Mr and 
Mrs Hs sale, do set out how a normal sale would proceed. They suggest that 
clients would be taken through various presentations and discussions to see if they 
were interested in taking out FPOC membership. If they were interested, the 
contractual documents would be drawn up. It is clear from these descriptions that 
the sales process was lengthy, but the evidence was that clients were given breaks 
and time to read the information given to them. Against that Mr and Mrs H have not 
provided any substantive recollections of what they say was pressured about the 
sale. So I did not think there was sufficient evidence to say there was a pressured 
sale or that it is likely a court would find that this led to an unfair relationship with 
BPF under s.140A CCA.
300. But Mr and Mrs H did say Mrs H did not have her reading glasses, so was not 
able to read the documentation that they signed and I have been given a copy of 
her prescription to show she needed corrective lenses. The documents were 
prepared for Mr and Mrs H to sign after they indicated that they were interested in 
going ahead with the purchase after the initial sales presentation. So by this point 
CLC would have presented the main features of the product, including the 
investment element as set out above. I had already found that Mr and Mrs H were 
not given all of the information they needed in the written documents, so I did not 
think anything missed in the sales presentation would have been adequately 
remedied by them reading the sales documents. It follows I did not think it made a 
difference in this case whether or not Mrs H was actually able to read the sale 
documents as the information they needed was not contained within them.
301. It is also the case that Mrs H would have known at the time that she did not have her glasses with her, and I could not see that this was raised with CLC. In any 
event, I was satisfied that Mr and Mrs H had an adequate chance to read the 
documents after they signed them during the fourteen day cancellation period and 
they did not express any concerns to CLC at that time. So I did not think Mr and 
Mrs H were prejudiced by Mrs H not being able to read the documents at the time 
of sale.
302. Neither Mr and Mrs H nor BPF had anything further to say about these issues, 
so I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings.
Would a court make a finding of unfairness under s.140A CCA?
303. Having considered all of the available evidence and arguments, I did not think 
CLC provided Mr and Mrs H with the information it needed to under the relevant 
Regulations, nor under the RDO Code. The lack of clear information meant Mr and 
Mrs H were unable to properly assess how the investment element of FPOC 
membership worked in practice by weighing up the potential risks against the 
potential returns. I also did not think the maintenance fees and other charges were 
properly explained. I thought Mr and Mrs H needed this information to properly 
decide whether FPOC membership was right for them, especially in light of the fact 
that they were paying for their purchase using an interest bearing loan.
304. So I had to consider whether a Court would think the debtor-creditor 
relationship arising out of the loan, when taken together with the Purchase 
Agreement, was unfair for the purposes of s.140A CCA.
305. In addition to the general principles set out in the judgment to the Deutsche 
Bank v. Khan case, the judgment in Plevin is also of assistance in setting out some 
of the things a court needs to consider when thinking about what could amount to 
unfairness for the purposes of the CCA. Some general points were set out in 
paragraph 10 of the judgment, where Lord Sumption held:
Section 140A is deliberately framed in wide terms with very little in the way of 
guidance about the criteria for its application, such as is to be found in other 
provisions of the Act conferring discretionary powers on the courts. It is not 
possible to state a precise or universal test for its application, which must 
depend on the courts judgment of all the relevant facts. Some general points 
may, however, be made. First, what must be unfair is the relationship between 
the debtor and the creditor. In a case like the present one, where the terms 
themselves are not intrinsically unfair, this will often be because the relationship 
is so one-sided as substantially to limit the debtors ability to choose. Secondly, 
although the court is concerned with hardship to the debtor, subsection 
140A(2) envisages that matters relating to the creditor or the debtor may also 
be relevant. There may be features of the transaction which operate harshly 
against the debtor but it does not necessarily follow that the relationship is 
unfair. These features may be required in order to protect what the court 
regards as a legitimate interest of the creditor. Thirdly, the alleged unfairness 
must arise from one of the three categories of cause listed at sub paras (a) to 
(c). Fourthly, the great majority of relationships between commercial lenders 
and private borrowers are probably characterised by large differences of 
financial knowledge and expertise. It is an inherently unequal relationship. But 
it cannot have been Parliaments intention that the generality of such 
relationships should be liable to be reopened for that reason alone.
306. In Plevin , the Court held that the standard of commercial conduct was something to consider when determining the fairness of any debtor-creditor 
relationship, and relevant rules can be evidence of what that standard was. But 
whether a creditor (or someone acting on their behalf) has broken a rule is not 
determinative to the question asked by s.140A CCA. The Court held, at paragraph 
17:
 Section 140A, by comparison, does not impose any obligation and is not 
concerned with the question whether the creditor or anyone else is in breach of 
a duty. It is concerned with the question whether the creditors relationship with 
the debtor was unfair. It may be unfair for a variety of reasons, which do not 
have to involve a breach of duty.
307. The Plevin case concerned the duty to disclose certain information under the 
Financial Services Authoritys (as it was then) rules for financial firms conducting 
certain business, in particular the ICOB rules. The Court held, at paragraph 17:
The ICOB rules impose a minimum standard of conduct applicable in a wide 
range of situations, enforceable by action and sounding in damages. Section 
140A introduces a broader test of fairness applied to the particular debtor-
creditor relationship, which may lead to the transaction being reopened as a 
matter of judicial discretion. The standard of conduct required of practitioners 
by the ICOB rules is laid down in advance by the Financial Services Authority 
(now the Financial Conduct Authority), whereas the standard of fairness in a 
debtor-creditor relationship is a matter for the court, on which it must make its 
own assessment. Most of the ICOB rules, including those relating to the 
disclosure of commission, impose hard-edged requirements, whereas the 
question of fairness involves a large element of forensic judgment. It follows 
that the question whether the debtor-creditor relationship is fair cannot be the 
same as the question whether the creditor has complied with the ICOB rules, 
and the facts which may be relevant to answer it are manifestly different. An 
altogether wider range of considerations may be relevant to the fairness of the 
relationship, most of which would not be relevant to the application of the rules. 
They include the characteristics of the borrower, her sophistication or 
vulnerability, the facts which she could reasonably be expected to know or 
assume, the range of choices available to her, and the degree to which the 
creditor was or should have been aware of these matters.
308. It is apparent that the question of fairness is broader than simply considering 
whether a lender (or its statutory agent) has breached a rule or other obligation 
during the course of relevant dealings. And in paragraph 18, the Court went on to 
hold:
A sufficiently extreme inequality of knowledge and understanding is a classic 
source of unfairness in any relationship between a creditor and a non-
commercial debtor. It is a question of degree.
309. But paragraph 10 of the judgment makes clear that there will normally be large 
differences of financial knowledge and expertise between a debtor and a creditor, 
and this unequal relationship is not necessarily unfair. Rather it is when the 
inequality of knowledge and understanding is sufficiently extreme.
310. In my provisional decision I set out my concerns with how the agreement 
between Mr and Mrs H and CLC was set up to work and with the way in which CLC 
provided Mr and Mrs H with information about the agreement. In addition to that, I 
explained that I was of the view that CLC committed a number of breaches of the relevant regulations and the trading body code of conduct. In particular I thought 
Mr and Mrs H entered into an agreement to purchase FPOC membership, and the 
related credit agreement with BPF, without the required level of knowledge about:
the value of their investment in the allocated property, either at the time of 
taking out membership or the possible amount they could realise when it 
was sold;
the possible ongoing costs of FPOC membership and how they could be 
levied; and
the risks of their investment compared to the possible benefits.
311. I thought all of that information would have been important to Mr and Mrs H in 
deciding whether to purchase FPOC membership. And without the information 
being provided, I did not think they had sufficient information from which to form a 
balanced decision. Without better knowledge of the potential ongoing costs and 
risks alongside the potential resale value, I did not think they were able to 
determine if FPOC membership would have been value for money for them.
312. I thought this lack of knowledge produced a sufficiently extreme inequality of 
knowledge and understanding that did give rise to the level of unfairness required 
under s.140A CCA. When considering the information as a whole, it was clear that 
the agreement between Mr and Mrs H and CLC was a complex and long-term 
product, involving significant financial commitments over a period of 16 years. It 
required ongoing payments to both BPF under the credit agreement and CLC 
under the FPOC membership agreement, and I did not think Mr and Mrs H were in 
a position to know what those costs could be.
313. In the Plevin judgment, at paragraphs 18 to 20, it was found that the evidence 
suggested the consumer would have questioned the level of commission had it 
been disclosed to her, and that any reasonable person would have asked whether 
the purchase represented good value for money. The fact that the consumer did 
not have that information made the relationship unfair and, had it been disclosed, 
that source of unfairness would have been removed. The Court did not make a 
finding on whether the consumer would have ultimately come to a different 
purchasing decision. So I considered whether Mr and Mrs H would have 
questioned their decision to take out FPOC membership if they had known more.
314. Mr and Mrs H have said they were led to believe they were purchasing an 
investment for themselves. At the time they bought this they were both in their mid-
sixties and the 16 year membership term would have taken them to their eighties. 
In light of that I thought they placed significant weight on the investment element of 
FPOC membership as it was a real possibility, as indeed happened, that they 
would not be using the product solely for holidays given their ages. I thought, had 
CLC properly explained how the investment element worked and how it was 
dependant on maintaining the membership charges over the course of the 
membership term, most reasonable consumers would have questioned whether 
FPOC membership offered good value for money. And in Mr and Mrs Hs case, I 
thought it is more likely than not that they would have questioned whether FPOC 
membership was right for them.
315. I thought Mr and Mrs H were interested in buying a holiday product as they had 
already taken out CLC trial membership. But they have been clear when bringing 
their complaint that they were interested in the investment element of FPOC 
membership too. And given their circumstances, with full disclosure of the 
information they needed, I thought they would have concluded buying into a long-term product with such unclear prospects of return against potentially uncapped 
charges was not right for them.
316. In light of all of the breaches of the regulations identified above (both 
individually and collectively), and taking into account Mr and Mrs Hs individual 
circumstances, I thought it is likely that a court would find that rendered the debtor-
creditor relationship unfair.
317. Added to that was the unfairness of the contractual terms, by which Mr and Mrs 
H became bound under the Purchase Agreement. The terms in question 
concerned the ongoing charges and how they could be imposed and increased 
over time. These features of the purchase were very important to Mr and Mrs H, 
given the long-term nature of the contract and the fact that holding onto their 
investment would be contingent on them meeting the ongoing charges right 
through until their allocated property was sold. I thought the unfairness of those 
terms is another reason a court would consider the debtor-creditor relationship was 
unfair.
BPFs response to my provisional findings
318. BPF referred me to four county court cases as detailed above that it says 
indicated a court would not find s.140A CCA unfairness. I have carefully 
considered the cases that BPF has referred to and read the judgments where 
available. I note that none of those judgments suggest the legal framework, as set 
out above, is in any way incorrect. I have seen that in the three available 
judgments, the respective judges did not find that the consumers claims were 
made out. In every case brought either to a court or to our service, the evidence 
available will of course differ. So although I have considered these court 
judgments, including the way the judges analysed the evidence available to them 
in course of the trials, I think the actual outcomes are specific to the respective 
facts of each case.
319. I have also noted that in the two available judgments that deal with the CCA, it 
was said that even if the evidence had been available to make out the consumers 
claims, in one case the judge held they would not find unfairness under s.140A 
CCA and in the other the judge held they would have found unfairness, but not 
exercised their discretion under s140B CCA. But neither of those cases concerned 
the same FPOC agreement that Mr and Mrs H entered into and the claims were 
based on different facts. So I am not persuaded that these cases mean my 
provisional findings on this point were wrong.
320. BPF has submitted that even if I found FPOC membership had been sold as an 
investment, a breach of Regulation 14(3) of the Timeshare Regulations does not 
automatically give rise to an unfair relationship for the purposes of s.140A CCA. I 
agree with this, as I explained in detail when setting out the relevant parts of the 
Plevin  judgement, in particular paragraph 17. But it was not simply the breach of 
Regulation 14(3) that led me to conclude a court would likely find an unfair 
relationship. I do consider the breach of Regulation 14(3) to have been serious and 
to have caused Mr and Mrs H to enter into the FPOC membership and loan, so 
capable of creating an unfair relationship even viewed in isolation.  And the same 
can be said respectively of the breaches of Regulation 12 and the RDO Code, and 
of the unfair charging terms to which Mr and Mrs H were bound under the 
Purchase Agreement.  Taken in combination, these deficiencies compound one 
another making the relationship still more unfair.321. BPF has also submitted that even if it was the case that the FPOC was sold as 
an investment, that inadequate disclosure was provided and there were unfair 
contractual terms, there was no s.140A CCA unfair relationship for the following 
reasons (I will deal with each in turn):
Mr and Mrs H got what they bargained for  significant holiday rights and 
investment potential
None of the terms that I identified as being unfair have been operated against 
Mr and Mrs H and those terms were subsequentially amended to introduce an 
independent committee to set the management charge and stopping 
termination for small defaults in management fees.
I have adopted a rigid but for causation approach when determining whether 
certain matters gave rise to unfairness and what remedy should flow. This is 
wrong in law, see paragraph 214 of Kerrigan & 11 ors v Elevate Credit 
International Limited (t/a Sunny) (in administration) [2020] EWHC 2169 
(Comm).
My conclusion that Mr and Mrs H suffered financially fails to take into account 
the benefits they obtained, including annual holiday entitlement and a 
beneficial interest in an allocated property.
322. I do not think it is correct to say Mr and Mrs H got what they bargained for. 
That would suggest that both parties to the transaction negotiated the terms of the 
agreement so that they both knew what each sides obligations and benefits were 
under that transaction. And for the reasons I have set out above, I do not think they 
were in a position to make an informed decision about taking out FPOC 
membership. So I do not think Mr and Mrs H were aware, to the extent required, 
what they were buying.
323. I accept that if none of the terms that could have been considered unfair 
(specifically in relation to the management fees) were put into operation against Mr 
and Mrs H, that is something a court would take into account when deciding  
unfairness (up to the date the credit agreement ended) or (even thereafter) the 
appropriate redress. But EM has explained that Mr and Mrs Hs membership has 
not been terminated, rather it has only been suspended. So those terms that I 
identified as being unfair could still have an adverse effect in the future. And I do 
not think the changes to the terms, as discussed in detail above, are sufficient to 
overcome that unfairness.
324. In the judgment BPF has referred to, HHJ Worster (sitting as a judge of the 
High Court) explained the process a court takes when looking at unfairness. It was 
held:
Having determined that the relationship is unfair to the debtor, the court will 
look to relieve that unfairness by making an order or orders under section 
140B(1). Whilst HHJ Platts emphasised that his decision as to remedy in Plevin 
turned on the particular facts of that case and was no precedent, it is a helpful 
illustration of how the jurisdiction works on well known facts. There is a link 
between (i) the failings of the creditor which lead to the unfairness in the 
relationship, (ii) the unfairness itself, and (iii) the relief. It is not to be analysed 
in the sort of linear terms which arise when considering causation proper. The 
court is to have regard to all the relevant circumstances when determining 
whether the relationship is unfair, and the same sort of approach applies when 
considering what relief is required to remedy that unfairness.That is the approach I have taken when analysing the evidence and determining 
what I think it is likely a court would do. The focus in such a case is the unfairness 
of the relationship, especially when determining the remedy to that unfairness 
under s.140B CCA, rather than working out causation of loss following a breach of 
a statutory duty.9
325. Finally, my provisional decision does take into account the benefits Mr and Mrs 
H obtained. I have taken that into account when proposing that the remedy makes 
allowance for the holidays that Mr and Mrs H took using their FPOC membership.
Did Mr and Mrs H suffer a loss?
326. In my provisional decision I said that, had there not been breaches of the 
various regulations and imbalance of knowledge, it was my view that Mr and Mrs H 
would not have bought FPOC membership. It follows I thought Mr H would not 
have borrowed money from BPF to purchase membership, nor would they have 
paid any ongoing membership fees and costs to CLC.
327. When I uphold a complaint against a business, I have the power to award fair 
redress. In particular, I may make a money award against BPF for such an amount 
I consider to be fair compensation for any financial loss, including an award for 
interest. Normally that would be to put the consumer, so far as is possible, in the 
position they would have been in had the mistake not happened. In Mr Hs case, I 
thought that meant remedying the unfairness that I found due to CLCs acts and 
omissions that were done on BPFs behalf.
328. I explained that I must also take into account the law, in particular s.140B CCA 
which gives a court wide ranging powers once a finding of unfairness has been 
made under s.140A. In particular the court can set aside or alter a credit 
agreement, order a creditor to repay sums paid by a debtor or order a creditor to 
do or not do things related to the agreement. I considered the relevant case law on 
this point, including Carney v. NM Rothschild & Sons Ltd [2018] EWHC 958 where 
HHJ Waksman QC summarised the approach at paragraph 101:
Finally, and as noted above, the Court has a wide discretion as to any relief to 
be ordered once the unfair relationship has been found. In that regard I adopt 
paragraph 71 of the Bank's written closing submissions which I did not 
understand to be challenged. This is that if the court decides to make an order, 
then it "should reflect and be proportionate to the nature and degree of 
unfairness which the court has found": Patel v Patel [2010] 1 All ER (Comm) 
864 at [79]-[80]. It should not give the Claimant a windfall, but should 
approximate, as closely as possible, the overall position which would have 
applied had the matters giving rise to the perceived unfairness not taken place: 
Link Finance Limited v Wilson [2014] C.T.L.C. 145 at [77]; Chubb & Bruce v 
Dean.[2013] EWHC 1282 (Ch) at [24]; Nelmes v NRAM Pic [2006] EWCA Civ 
491 at [116].
329. If Mr and Mrs H had not taken out FPOC membership, Mr H would not have 
taken out the BPF loan to pay for it. So I thought BPF needed to refund the 
payments he made, with interest to compensate him for the time he was out of 
pocket. And Mr and Mrs H would not have paid any annual maintenance fees, so I 
thought those should be refunded with interest. But Mr and Mrs H did have some 
9 See the judgment in Kerrigan & 11 ors v Elevate Credit International Limited (t/a Sunny) (in 
administration) [2020] EWHC 2169 (Comm), paragraphs 216 to 222benefit under the agreement, namely the holidays they took. So I thought any sum 
due needed to be reduced to reflect this.
330. Mr and Mrs H had a CLC trial membership which entitled them to five weeks of 
holidays. So had they not taken out FPOC membership I think they would have 
used those five weeks to stay at CLC properties. They received credit for the trial 
membership when they purchased FPOC membership in the form of a price 
reduction. That did not mean they got anything back for cancelling their trial 
membership, but it meant they had to borrow less to take out FPOC membership, 
but they still had to pay for the trial membership.
331. Mr and Mrs H purchased FPOC membership during a week long holiday that 
was provided as part of a marketing strategy, so I did not think that week was one 
of the five weeks provided under the CLC trial membership. I saw that in 2012 they 
attended another week long marketing holiday, which again I did not think would 
have formed part of the five weeks. But between June 2012 and August 2016, they 
used a total of eight weeks of holidays and two nights in a hotel in the UK.
332. The first five weeks of holidays were taken between June 2012 and August 
2014 and all at CLC properties, so I thought it was fair to assume they would have 
been entitled to these weeks under their CLC trial membership. The trial 
membership was due to expire in February 2014, so some of these weeks fell 
outside of that period, but I thought it was fair to treat these as weeks they would 
have been entitled to under the trial membership. I said that as I thought it is most 
likely that Mr and Mrs H would have used the five weeks of holidays available to 
them sooner if they had to under the terms of that trial membership.
333. On top of the five weeks taken to August 2014, in 2016 Mr and Mrs H used 
three weeks in a resort in Mexico as well as two nights in a hotel in London. They 
attempted to give up their FPOC membership at the end of 2016.
334. If Mr and Mrs H had taken holidays using the trial membership they would not 
have had to pay any management fees during that time. So I thought it was fair 
that any membership fees that were paid in 2011 to 2015 should be refunded as I 
thought they would have been entitled to take the holidays they took in that period 
without any further charge (they did not take a holiday in 2015).
335. In 2016 they took three weeks of holidays and a hotel stay. This was outside of 
the trial membership entitlement that I have described above, so I thought it was 
fair to attribute a cost to the holidays taken in 2016. Based on the evidence 
available I was unable to accurately work out the open market cost of their 2016 
stays, so I invited both Mr and Mrs H and BPF to tell me if they disagreed with the 
basis I used to work out an approximate cost for these stays.
336. Mr and Mrs Hs FPOC membership involved using their points to purchase 
holidays. The annual cost to Mr and Mrs H of accessing those points was the 
maintenance fees paid to CLC each year. So, without further representations, I 
assumed that the cost of taking the holidays in 2016 that they took was the fees 
paid to CLC in 2016. So I thought any compensation due should reflect the cost of 
the holidays Mr and Mrs H took in 2016 and I did not intend to tell BPF to refund to 
Mr and Mrs H the 2016 maintenance fees.
337. My provisional decision was to tell BPF work out compensation in the following 
way:(a) Work out the total of the repayments that Mr H made, less the monthly 
travel savings bonus he and Mrs H received for as long as it was paid 
(the net repayments).
(b) Add simple interest to each of the net repayments from the date each 
one was made until the date BPF settles this complaint. The rate of 
interest is 8% per annum simple.
(c) Add the maintenance fees paid by Mr and Mrs H between 2011 and 
2015 inclusive, plus interest to be calculated in the same way as the 
interest on the loan repayments.
(d) Pay the balance to Mr H.
BPFs response to my provisional findings
338. BPF disagreed with my proposed remedy. It said:
When looking at the fairness, rather than a strict but for causative 
approach to redress, I should conclude that any failures in relation to the 
charges have not caused significant unfairness to Mr and Mrs H.
Any failure in providing information was a result of CLCs attempt to comply 
with Regulation 14(3) of the Timeshare Regulations, and Mr and Mrs H got 
what they bargained for.
It is unjust to refund the maintenance fees paid as those fees enabled Mr 
and Mrs H to reserve holidays above and beyond the small number of 
weeks they were entitled to under their trial membership.
The interest I suggested at 8% per annum, simple is an unjustified windfall 
and exceeds what Mr and Mrs H could have achieved in a deposit account. 
This is a higher rate than a court would award (although BPF has not 
provided any specific judgments on this point they wish me to consider or 
suggested an alternate rate).
339. The first two of these points were considered above, when I looked at 
BPFs response to my provisional finding on unfairness under s.140A CCA. But in 
summary, I agree that the correct approach to remedying any unfairness is to look 
at the nature and degree of that unfairness and deciding what is required to 
remedy that. I do not think Mr and Mrs H got what they bargained for as I do not 
think they were in a position to make an informed decision about taking out FPOC 
membership.  In any event, I think the question I must consider is whether CLCs 
decision to withhold information resulted in unfairness and, if it did, what is the 
appropriate and proportionate way to remedy that unfairness.
340. I have considered the level of unfairness caused by the increase in charges 
during the period Mr and Mrs H paid them, what happened after then and what 
could happen in the future. 
341. Initially BPF submitted that I overlooked the consequences of Mr and Mrs H 
giving up their FPOC membership. It said they gave up a valuable beneficial 
interest and that should be factored into the fairness assessment, especially as the 
benefit was not received by BPF. But it later withdrew this point when it was 
confirmed that the membership was suspended, not surrendered. I note that Mr 
and Mrs H were not aware their membership had been suspended and BPF has 
provided sample letters CLC sent out to customers in default, but CLC could not 
confirm that these letters were sent to Mr and Mrs H.
342. But at the time of my provisional decision, both parties thought the FPOC membership had been surrendered and my proposed remedy took that into 
account. EM has since confirmed that the membership was suspended and he set 
out the outstanding charges that Mr and Mrs H would have had to pay:
Year Amount (Euros)
2017 1,124
2018 1,150
2019 1,178
2020 1,208
2021 1,308
343. From what I have seen, it appears that Mr and Mrs H are still liable for 
these charges and still liable for future charges until CLC chooses to terminate 
their agreement under Rule 5.5.1, albeit that it is not clear that Mr and Mrs H have 
been chased for payment since 2017. As with the charges Mr and Mrs H did pay, it 
appears that the charges levied between 2017 and 2021 increased in excess of the 
Spanish CPI. So there is still a risk that Mr and Mrs H could still be liable for future 
charges, which for the reasons set out above, I think could lead to further, future 
unfairness. 
344. As it has now been confirmed that Mr and Mrs Hs FPOC membership is 
suspended, to remedy the ongoing unfairness, I think there needs to be an 
amendment of my proposed remedy from my provisional decision. It appears that if 
Mr and Mrs H were to pay the outstanding fees and charges they could be 
reinstated to their FPOC membership and continue to be entitled to a share in the 
sale of the net sale proceeds of the allocated property. I now think that any 
payment of compensation should be conditional on Mr and Mrs H agreeing to 
assign their FPOC rights to BPF (or agreeing to hold those rights for BPFs 
benefit). Otherwise there is a risk of Mr and Mrs H benefitting from their FPOC 
rights, despite receiving compensation for having taken out the membership.
345. On the other hand, the fact that FPOC membership is still in existence 
means there is the risk that CLC could still pursue Mr and Mrs H for the non-
payment of fees and charges incurred since 2017. So I think BPF needs to 
indemnify Mr H against any such continuing liabilities. This would put him in the 
position he would be in, so far as is possible, if he had not joined the FPOC.
346. I explained this to both Mr H and BFP. Mr H has said he is an agreement 
with my proposed amendment. BPF has said it stood by the position set out in its 
previous responses and said it would respond more fully to a second provisional 
decision, were I to issue one. I do not think I need to issue a second provisional 
decision to deal only with this point as I have already set out my proposed remedy 
to BPF and given it the opportunity to comment on my thoughts. So for the reasons 
set out above, I will make any direction against BPF conditional on Mr and Mrs H 
assigning their FPOC rights to BPF and, should they do so, I will direct BPF to 
indemnify Mr H against any liabilities he may have arising out of FPOC 
membership.
347. In my provisional decision I explained why I assumed that the cost of taking 
the holidays in 2016, that would have fallen outside of the trial membership, was 
the fees paid to CLC in 2016. I said this was because I was unable to accurately 
work out the open market cost of these holidays, but I invited BPF to tell me if it 
disagreed with his basis of working out costs. 348. In response BPF said it is unjust to order the return of maintenance fees 
paid by Mr and Mrs H: those fees enabled Mr and Mrs H to reserve holidays for 
2011 to 2016 above and beyond the small number of weeks they were entitled to 
under their Trial Membership. It is wrong in principle to look only at the holidays 
taken rather than the valuable holiday rights provided.
349. I disagree that it is wrong to look at the holidays taken rather than the 
holiday rights Mr and Mrs H had. The purpose of the compensation I direct is to 
remedy the unfairness found and, in this case, I think that is to put Mr and Mrs H in 
the position they would have been in, so far as is possible, if they had not taken out 
FPOC membership. Central to that exercise is comparing what holidays they would 
have been entitled to take under the trial membership to what benefits they had 
under FPOC membership, accounting for fees and charges that Mr and Mrs H 
would not have paid under the trial membership and also for holidays they would 
not have been entitled to take.
350.  As I set out in my provisional decision, I thought Mr and Mrs H would have 
been entitled to take the holidays they did between 2011 and 2015 under their trial 
membership without paying any further maintenance fees, so I thought it was fair 
that those fees and charges be refunded. The holidays taken in 2016 were taken 
over and above the trial membership entitlement, so it is fair that Mr and Mrs H pay 
something for them. Although BPF has said it disagrees with what I had said, it has 
not provided an alternate basis to work out the nominal cost of the holidays in 
2016. Without a more specific submission to consider, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional decision on this point.
351. I have also considered the appropriate rate of interest to award to Mr H. I 
accept that 8% simple is likely to be more than he would have earned in most 
deposit accounts during the period in question, but BPF has not explained why it 
thinks interest should be awarded at a rate available in a deposit account  there is 
no evidence to suggest that is what Mr H would have done with any money. 
352. 8% per annum simple is the rate of interest this service normally awards 
when directing a business pays compensation. That is the current interest rate on 
judgment debts and Parliament has not seen fit to change it. In addition, that rate 
covers a range of possible things that a consumer could have done with money 
had they not been out of pocket. For example, if a consumer had to borrow money 
using a loan or credit card, it is likely they would have paid a higher rate of interest, 
but if they kept their monies in a deposit account it is likely they would have earned 
a lower rate. Often it is not possible to point to precisely what a given consumer 
would have done with their money, and so I think this rate is fair and I will not 
change it from my provisional decision.
353. In conclusion, I direct BPF work out compensation in the following way:
(a) Work out the total of the repayments that Mr H made, less the monthly 
travel savings bonus he and Mrs H received for as long as it was paid 
(the net repayments).
(b) Add simple interest to each of the net repayments from the date each 
one was made until the date BPF settles this complaint. The rate of 
interest is 8% per annum simple10.
(c) Add the maintenance fees paid by Mr and Mrs H between 2011 and 
10 HM Revenue & Customs may require BPF to take off tax from this interest. If that is the case, BPF 
must give Mr H a certificate setting out how much tax has been paid on his behalf.2015 inclusive, plus interest to be calculated in the same way as the 
interest on the loan repayments.
(d) Pay the balance to Mr H.
354. I direct BFP to indemnify Mr H against any continuing liabilities he may 
have to CLC arising out of his FPOC membership, whether they be current or 
future liabilities that have not yet fallen due.
355. But the directions I have set out in the above two paragraphs only need 
take effect if Mr and Mrs H assign their rights under the FPOC membership to BPF 
(or agree to hold those rights for BPFs benefit if it is not possible to assign them). 
If BPF has a specific form of wording that it wishes to use to effect the assignment 
(or for Mr and Mrs H to hold the rights on its behalf), I direct that BPF provide that 
wording to Mr and Mrs H. Should Mr and Mrs H wish to take legal advice on the 
effect of that wording, I direct BPF to pay for any reasonable costs of that advice.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Hs complaint against Clydesdale Financial Services Limited and direct it 
to pay compensation and indemnify Mr H as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
  
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman