DRN-3026770
The complaint
Mr N and Mrs N are unhappy HSBC UK Bank Plc wont allow them to continue renting out 
the property it mortgages.
What happened
Mr N and Mrs N took out a residential mortgage with HSBC in 2005. In 2008, they contacted 
it and asked for consent to rent out the property. HSBC provided consent and the terms that 
applied to this.
Mr N and Mrs N didnt rent out the property straight away, but when they did rent it out, they 
decided theyd like to offer a longer-term contract to their next tenant. They contacted HSBC 
about this in November 2020 and requested they could offer a 24-month contract, despite 
their terms saying a maximum of 12 months. HSBC declined their request and said that they 
could rent the property for a further 12 months  so to November 2021, but after this date 
they needed to either change the mortgage to a Buy to Let or repay the mortgage, if they 
intended to carry on renting the property.
Mr N and Mrs N brought their complaint to our service. They said HSBC was acting unfairly. 
They said they considered that within the terms they could keep renting the property, just 
with multiple contracts of 12 months or less, rather than one longer contract. Our investigator 
didnt uphold the complaint. She said that HSBC had acted in line with the terms. And said it 
had acted fairly by telling them it had withdrawn its consent for them to let (with 12 months 
notice). Mr N and Mrs N disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to reconsider the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N and Mrs N have taken out a residential mortgage. In line with the name, this means 
they are residents in the property that they are mortgaging. While I appreciate the mortgage 
does allow for the property to be let, its clear from the terms that this is on a short-term 
basis. A mortgage is a long-term financial commitment and so lenders such as HSBC 
recognise that someones personal situation could change during the term. Having the ability 
to let a property for a short time allows the customer some freedom to change the way their 
home is used, without having to contractually commit to this change right away. However 
this is only allowed short-term, because ultimately it isnt what a residential mortgage is 
intended for.
Mr N and Mrs N are arguing HSBC is acting unfairly, but I dont agree. It seems clear from 
their original correspondence with HSBC about renting out the property longer term, that 
they did know this wasnt strictly allowed under the terms. And now, by saying they will just 
have multiple shorthold tenancies that in total span over years, they are not acting in the 
spirit of how their mortgage and its terms are drafted. They dont hold a Buy to Let mortgage, 
but they are intending to rent out their property and for two years at a time, but just offer two 
12-month contracts. I cant say its unfair HSBC wont allow them to do this. And Im satisfied 
its treating them the same as other customers in their position and asking them to hold the 
right type of mortgage for how the house is being occupied.
I agree with our investigator that the 2008 paperwork we hold isnt specific on whether or not 
multiple, back to back short-term tenancies can be arranged. However, as Ive said above, 
Im satisfied that on reading these terms as a whole, its clear what is intended  that the 
property is only rented out temporarily and for a short time. And the terms are clear that 
HSBC can withdraw consent  which it has done here. The terms say:
Furthermore, such consent is determinable immediately on our giving you written 
notice. If we give such notice, no further assured shorthold tenancy or company let 
may be granted without specific consent.
HSBC gave Mr N and Mrs N written notice that it had withdrawn its consent for them renting 
the property in November 2020, which gave them to November 2021 to either use the house 
as their residence, change the mortgage to a Buy to Let or leave HSBC. So Im satisfied it 
has followed this term and that now they no longer have HSBCs consent, and so renting the 
property beyond November 2021 would be in breach of their mortgage terms.
I dont consider these terms are unfair or that they have been applied unfairly to Mr N and 
Mrs N. They currently hold a residential mortgage on this property and when they took out 
the mortgage, they stated the property would only be used by them. When their intentions 
changed in 2008, HSBC set out the terms under which the property could be let, and I think 
its followed these now. So Im not asking it to do anything different in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr N and Mrs Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman