DRN-3291686
The complaint
E complains Lloyds Bank PLC has not refunded payments made for flights which were 
unable to be used. E is represented in this complaint by its authorised representatives, Mr D 
and Mr S.
What happened
E has a bank account with a debit card in Mr Ds name. This card was used on 18 June 
2019 to book four flights for Mr D and his family to go to Australia, at a cost of £3,123.12. 
The outbound flights were due to take place on 26 March 2020 and the return flights on 17 
April 2020. The flights were booked through a travel agent, S.
Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the flights were cancelled. Mr Ds family contacted S, which 
offered a voucher for the value of the flights, valid for the next 12 months. The voucher was 
accepted, and when Mr Ds daughter then went to use the voucher in September 2020 to 
rebook the familys flights, she discovered S had gone bust.
Some of Ss services to customers had been financially protected by two schemes  ATOL 
and ABTA. Mr D says he learned from ABTA in September 2020 that because Es debit card 
had been used to pay for the flights, he would need to ask Lloyds to attempt a chargeback. 
He contacted Lloyds to pursue this, and received a letter from the bank in December 2020 
stating that it was too late for a chargeback to be attempted.
Mr D thought this was incorrect and made a complaint on Es behalf. Lloyds held some 
internal discussions about the case, but in the end it stood by its original decision while 
paying £100 compensation for poor customer service and £12 to cover the cost of calls, in 
March 2021. Mr D referred the matter to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an 
independent review.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He came to the conclusion that the bank 
had been correct to decline Mr Ds request that they attempt a chargeback. He noted that 
guidance from the card scheme showed that by the time Mr D had contacted Lloyds, it was 
too late for a chargeback to be attempted. He agreed with the position Lloyds had taken.
Mr D appealed our investigators assessment of the case. He said that hed felt hed done 
everything he could, as soon as he became aware that he needed to contact the bank. Our 
investigator said he agreed Mr D had contacted Lloyds as soon as hed become aware that 
he should, but that this didnt make a difference. This was because it was still too late 
according to the card scheme rules and therefore Lloyds had not acted wrongly in not taking 
forward a chargeback. Mr D said that according to a letter hed received from ABTA, he had 
not contacted Lloyds too late. Ultimately no agreement could be reached, and the case has 
now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr D, but I agree with the conclusions reached 
by our investigator, for essentially the same reasons. Thats not to say that E or Mr D are in 
any way at fault for what has happened. Theyve paid a lot of money for something which 
theyve not received. Im limited however, to looking at whether Lloyds should have refunded 
the payment to S.
In this case, the payment was made with a debit card, meaning the avenue open to Lloyds to 
claim a refund of the payment was the process known as a chargeback. This process 
allows a card issuer to claim a refund from the bank which received the debit card payment, 
in certain circumstances which are outlined in sets of rules published by the card scheme to 
which the debit card belongs. In this case, the card scheme was Visa and so it was Visas 
rules which applied to any chargebacks. A chargeback can be disputed by the receiving 
bank if it feels it is invalid, and the matter can ultimately be referred to Visa for a decision 
(known as arbitration).
While a customer of a bank cannot require the bank to attempt a chargeback in the event of 
a dispute over a card payment, Id consider it good practice for a bank to do so if chargeback 
rights exist and the chargeback would have a reasonable prospect of succeeding. Id also 
expect a bank to conduct the chargeback process in a competent way, without making 
errors.
One of the sets of circumstances in which a chargeback can be raised, is where a payment 
has been made for goods or services, and those services have not been provided. Visas 
rules said that in these circumstances a chargeback cannot be processed later than the 
latest of:

120 calendar days from the Transaction Processing Date.
120 calendar days from the last date the Cardholder expected to receive the 
merchandise or services [not to exceed 540 calendar days from the Transaction 
Processing Date].
If the Issuer was required to attempt to obtain reimbursement from a bonding 
authority/insurance scheme, a Dispute must be processed no later than 60 days from 
the date of the letter or advice from the bonding authority/insurance scheme [not to 
exceed 540 calendar days from the Transaction Processing Date.]
 
The last point refers to scenarios where a travel provider has become insolvent and the 
services in question are covered by a scheme such as ATOL or ABTA. The original services 
paid for in this case were the flights in March and April 2020 which were cancelled. Based on 
the booking confirmations supplied by Mr D, and advice on ABTA and the Civil Aviation 
Authoritys websites from around the time of Ss insolvency, I do not think the flights Mr D 
paid for were covered by ABTA or ATOL. So the last point does not apply here.
S offered a voucher when the original flights were cancelled. I have seen the guidance 
referred to by our investigator which Visa has issued on scenarios like this. The guidance 
states that where a voucher is accepted for a service which has been cancelled, and the 
merchant then goes out of business: the 120 calendar days can be calculated from the 
original expected receipt date. Neither the voucher nor the out of business date extend timeframes.
This means that the 120 days had to be calculated from the date of the originally-booked 
return flight, on 17 April 2020, meaning the last date Lloyds could have raised a chargeback 
would have been 15 August 2020. Mr D did not contact Lloyds until September 2020 and he 
was therefore too late. I appreciate the information Mr D has received from other sources 
suggests he was not too late, but it is what Visas rules and guidance say which is 
determinative here.
In light of the above, my view is that Lloyds did not act unfairly when it declined to take 
forward a chargeback for Mr D. This is because I dont think this process would have had a 
reasonable prospect of success.
I note Lloyds paid £100 compensation for customer service failings and £12 to cover the cost 
of calls. This seems reasonable to me in the circumstances. The service failings appear to 
have been relatively minor and the compensation is I think a fair reflection of the 
inconvenience caused to E1.
My final decision
I do not uphold Es complaint.
Mr D may wish to contact the liquidators of S to see if there are any alternative routes to 
claim back the money paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman
1 It is worth mentioning I am unable to consider distress or inconvenience suffered by Mr D as I only 
have powers to compensate the complainant, which is E.