DRN-2909366
The complaint
Ms B complained that ReAssure Limited sent a letter about her pension plan to the wrong 
address. The address ReAssure sent the letter to was linked to Ms Bs former husband and 
she says the mistake caused her embarrassment and ongoing difficulties of a personal 
nature. 
What happened
One of our adjudicators previously looked into the complaint and noted that ReAssure had 
admitted that it had incorrectly changed Ms Bs contact address. It had also offered to pay 
Ms B £150 and undertook to rectify what had happened, so our adjudicator thought this was 
a reasonable outcome. Accordingly, our adjudicator thought we shouldnt direct ReAssure to 
do anything more.
Ms B disagrees with this. In broad terms, she thinks the outcome doesnt reflect the 
problems caused by ReAssures error. The case has therefore been passed to me for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked at everything Ms B has said about what happened with great care and have 
thought carefully about her situation. I understand and sympathise with the situation, one 
that no doubt caused her some anxiety and frustration.
Nevertheless, I can see the mistake arose from Ms Bs former husband, who also had a 
connection with ReAssure, asking for his own address details to be changed. Unfortunately, 
this caused Ms Bs details to be changed as well. It seems to me that when Ms B alerted 
ReAssure to this, it admitted the error and undertook to put it right  and I think the offer of 
£150 for distress cause is a proportionate response.
I can see Ms B thinks she is being penalised for taking a few months to report her complaint, 
but Im afraid I dont agree that this has happened. Like her, I think the time initially taken to 
contact ReAssure and get the issue raised (without resorting to a formal complaint) was 
entirely reasonable. I dont think weve incorporated this delay in how we have assessed her 
overall complaint, so she hasnt lost out because of this.
After our adjudicator issued his view, I see Ms B said her former husband had been calling 
her about financial matters. I have thought carefully about this and the evidence we would 
like to see in order to judge what part the address change might have played in Ms Bs 
relationship and contact with / from her former husband. Our adjudicator asked for more 
details and supporting evidence which hasnt been forthcoming. I should stress that none of 
this is to suggest Ms B is being anything other than honest and genuine about the difficult 
matters she has faced following her separation. But there is no evidence directly or wholly 
linking this particular mistake by ReAssure to all the problems, financial or otherwise, that Ms 
B has faced since in her relationship with her former husband. I do accept, however, that it 
was an unwelcome turn of events for her and not trivial.
However, in summary, ReAssure admits its mistake: it changed both sets of personal details 
when only Ms Bs former husbands should have been changed. It rectified the mistake and 
Ive seen evidence Ms B was subsequently sent mail to her correct address after this. I think 
the £150 offer of compensation is a proportionate outcome, given the circumstances.
Im very sorry if this isnt what Ms B was hoping for, but it is my final decision.
My final decision
Having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances, I dont uphold this complaint.
I do not require ReAssure Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman