DRN-3579576
The complaint
Mr R complains Amtrust Europe Limited has unfairly declined a claim on his home 
emergency policy.
What happened
Mr R has a home emergency policy which is underwritten by Amtrust.
In October 2021, he contacted Amtrust as his central heating wasnt working. Amtrust 
said an engineer would attend but they failed to show up. 
Unhappy that the engineer hadnt arrived over two days Mr R contacted Amtrust. 
Amtrust said Mr R could appoint his own engineer and theyd reimburse him the cost 
of doing so up to his policy limit.
When Mr R submitted the engineers invoice to Amtrust, it asked for evidence that his 
boiler had been serviced in the 12 months prior to the home emergency happening. 
Mr R said he hadnt been told this was a requirement when he called to make the 
claim.
Amtrust said because Mr R hadnt provided evidence of his boiler service  which is 
a condition of the policy - it wouldnt be able to pay the claim. However, it offered £30 
compensation to acknowledge the difficulties caused by its engineer not attending. 
Mr R brought his complaint to this service. An investigator considered it and thought 
Amtrust had declined the claim fairly.
Mr R disagreed and so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why:
The starting point is the policy document which forms the contract between Mr R and 
Amtrust. 
Under your responsibilities it says: You must be able to prove that the central 
heating boiler has been serviced within twelve months prior to a home emergency 
claim.
This policy condition is clear and isnt unusual for this type of policy. Its reasonable 
for an insurer to require the insured to have their boiler serviced to help keep it in 
good working order.  
Unfortunately, Mr R hasnt been able to demonstrate the boiler had been serviced 
within the required 12-month time frame. So, Im satisfied its reasonable for Amtrust 
to say the policy condition hasnt been met. 
I understand Mr R is frustrated the condition wasnt mentioned to him when he tried 
to claim, but I wouldnt expect Amtrust to point out every condition and exclusion. 
Mr R says Amtrust hasnt adhered to its own policy wording because it didnt choose 
one of its own contractors  instead Mr R chose his own engineer to fix the heating 
problem. So, he thinks its unfair for Amtrust to impose certain conditions and not 
others.
Its standard industry practice for insurers to allow the insured to choose their own 
engineer where the insurer cant provide their own contractor. So Amtrust hasnt 
acted unreasonably in giving Mr R the autonomy to choose his own.  
Mr Rs argument appears to be that if Amtrust had used its own engineer, he 
wouldnt be out of pocket. But Im not persuaded by this because regardless of 
whether Mr R used his own engineer or Amtrust provided a contractor, the policy 
condition that the boiler must be serviced within 12 months of the home emergency, 
still applies. So he wouldve still needed to cover the costs of his own engineer 
carrying out the works.
I appreciate it was frustrating for Mr R that the engineer didnt arrive when expected, 
but Im satisfied the compensation offered is reasonable given the inconvenience 
was limited to a couple of days. So, I wont be asking Amtrust to increase it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman