DRN-3823790
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined a claim under their travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D had a single trip travel insurance policy, provided by Great Lakes. The policy 
covered a trip between 25 and 29 November 2021.
On 29 November 2021, Mr and Mrs D were on their way home from the airport at the end of 
their trip. While at a service station, someone stole luggage from the boot of their car. Mr and 
Mrs D made a claim to Great Lakes for the stolen items.
Great Lakes declined the claim due to a policy exclusion; it said the there was no physical 
evidence of forcible entry to the car. Mr and Mrs D werent happy with this. They say the 
police believed the thieves blocked the signal from the key fob to get into the car.
One of our investigators looked into what happened. Having done so, she thought Great 
Lakes had acted fairly when it relied on the exclusion. So, she didnt think it had done 
anything wrong when it declined the claim.
Mr and Mrs D didnt agree with the investigators findings. As no agreement was reached, 
the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued my provisional decision on the complaint 
in November 2022. Heres what I said:
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules, and 
other industry guidance, into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
The exclusion Great Lakes has relied on under the section for Personal possessions 
excludes cover for Any loss or theft of, or damage to, Your Personal Possessions:  
e. from an unattended vehicle unless between the hours of 09:00 and 21:00 and locked in 
the boot, covered luggage area or locked glove compartment and following physical 
evidence of forcible entry and Valuables from an unattended vehicle at any time
I dont think Great Lakes original reason for declining the claim was fair or reasonable. From 
what Ive seen, there was physical evidence of forcible entry as the boot was opened. But 
this is no longer material to this complaint, as Great Lakes has since suggested that the car 
wasnt locked, so the exclusion would still apply. Based on what Ive seen, Im currently 
persuaded that its more likely than not, that the car  and the boot  wasnt locked. Ill 
explain why.
Mr and Mrs D have said the car lock is operated by a key fob, and theres no keyless entry to 
the car. They think its likely the thieves used a signal blocker. But they say they know the 
car was locked as Mr D used the key fob to lock the car and saw the indicators flash.
However, its my understanding that if a signal blocker is used, this blocks the entire signal 
from the key fob, which would mean the indicators wouldnt flash. If they did flash, its likely 
the car would have been locked. But in that case, if someone had broken into the car, it 
would have been likely that the alarm had gone off. I havent seen anything to suggest that it 
did.
For example, the police report Mr and Mrs D provided says that the offenders have entered 
[Mr and Mrs Ds] vehicle by an unknown means without causing damage. Theres nothing 
here to suggest that the alarm sounded at any point. Theres also nothing in this report to 
suggest the car was physically tampered with in any way. And theres no mention of a signal 
blocker having been used.
So, that leads me to conclude that its more likely than not, that Mr and Mrs Ds car wasnt 
locked when the theft happened. Its possible Mr D is mistaken and his recollection of seeing 
the indicators flash is wrong. However, even if this were the case and a signal blocker was 
used, the car still wouldnt have been locked and Great Lakes would still be entitled to reject 
the claim. I appreciate this might seem harsh, but the reality is Great Lakes doesnt want to 
cover thefts from unlocked cars, whatever the reason theyre unlocked, and theyve made 
this quite clear in their policy terms. And I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to 
ignore those terms in the particular circumstances of this complaint. 
In summary, based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think it would be a fair and reasonable 
outcome to Mr and Mrs Ds complaint to prevent Great Lakes from relying on the terms of 
Mr and Mrs Ds policy to decline their claim.
Both parties acknowledged the receipt of my provisional decision, and said they had nothing 
further to add. As both parties have had the opportunity to review and respond to my 
provisional findings, Ill now issue my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given me anything new to consider, I see no reason to depart from the 
findings I reached in my provisional decision. So, Ive reached the same decision, for the 
same reasons.
Overall, I dont think Great Lakes has acted unfairly or unreasonably when it declined Mr and 
Mrs Ds claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman