DRN-2503725
The complaint
Mrs N complains about not being able to view or use her newly opened Easy-ISA account 
(E-ISA) with Santander UK Plc. 
What happened
On 3 April 2020, Mrs N applied for an E-ISA with Santander and received email confirmation 
that it had been set up. But when she checked online the next day, the E-ISA wasnt 
showing. Mrs N tried to contact Santander by phone but couldnt get through.  
Eventually, a few days later, when she was able to get through to Santander, it transpired 
that there was a discrepancy with her contact address which resulted in the E-ISA not 
showing up on the online portal. Mrs N says that because of this she missed the cut off point 
for the ISA to be funded and missed the ISA allowance. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Even if an ISA subscription isnt completed by its deadline (imposed by the 
business), Her Majestys Revenue and Customs (HMRC) has the final say as to 
whether (or not) the subscription can be backdated. 
A request may only be made if there has been a bank error and even then, there are 
no guarantees the request will be granted by HMRC. 
Theres no dispute between Mrs N and Santander in terms of contact made with the 
business or what had been discussed. The key issue is whether (or not) Santander 
are responsible for Mrs N missing the E-ISA subscription deadline.
Santander explained that the address Mrs N (manually) entered online differed from 
the address it had on record for her account. This would appear to be the main cause 
of why she was unable to view the ISA online after it was opened.  
Having listened to a call recording he appreciates the difference was minor. 
However, the application process was automated and so it wasnt unreasonable for 
Santanders system to only recognise the details previously provided. So, in the 
circumstances hes unable to blame Santander for the ISA not being linked with Mrs 
Ns holdings.
Having considered her issues about not being able to get in touch with Santander, 
hes unable to blame (Santander) for this. The lines were busy when she called the 
next day after checking online, and after 20 minutes of waiting gave up because she 
was feeling unwell. Had she not been feeling unwell she probably wouldve stayed on 
the line until she spoke to a member of staff. But it wasnt unusual that the 
phonelines were busy, given that it was close to the end of the tax year and it was 
during a global pandemic. So, whilst he cant blame Santander for Mrs N feeling 
unwell and giving up on the call, if she hadnt, its likely the issue wouldve been 
rectified sooner rather than later. In any case, its not her fault she was feeling unwell, 
but neither was this Santanders fault.  
In the circumstances, he cant ask Santander to contact HMRC about getting the E-
ISA subscription backdated.
Mrs N disagreed with the investigators conclusion and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
In summary, she said:
Whilst she understands everything the investigator has said and believes hes looked 
at both sides, shed still like an ombudsman to look at the complaint.
She cant believe the ISA didnt go through because of one small difference. 
When she originally applied for the bank account online may years ago, she put in 
her postcode and house number and the address automatically came up and was 
accepted. 
But applying for the E-ISA she put in her address manually and included her county 
which is technically her (full) correct address. She wasnt to know that it wouldnt 
match the data already held by Santander. 
Its not her fault that her address on the E-ISA application  although correct  didnt 
match the address on her bank account application with Santander. Its an error with 
the website and the computer system. 
She held on to the call with Santander for a very long time and had hoped that a 
human being would answer and explain what was going on. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind.  
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.
 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mrs N says, Im unable to safely 
say that Santander has done anything wrong. 
But before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to recognise the 
strength of feeling that Mrs N has about this matter. 
Shes provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope she wont take the fact my findings focus on what 
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised, its not what Im required 
to do in order to reach a decision in this case. I appreciate this can be frustrating, but it doesnt 
mean Im not considering the pertinent points. Its also not for me to ask Santander to contact 
HMRC if I think it hasnt done anything wrong.  
My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mrs N and Santander, and reach what I 
think is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case, rather 
than take any sides. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based 
on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened. In the circumstances, Im unable to say that Mrs N being unable to view her E-ISA online, 
after it was successfully set up, was Santanders fault. 
I understand that Mrs N made an online application in respect of her E-ISA on 3 April 2020. I 
note that whilst manually inputting her contact details it was the addition of her county 
which meant that her new contact details  although still technically correct  didnt match 
her online account details. 
Whilst it might not have made a difference to a staff member manually processing a paper 
application, I understand that the addition of this extra information (or data)  namely her 
county  made a material difference to the online process. 
In other words, when the system compared her E-ISA contact details to her online account  
via an automated process  it didnt match, therefore the E-ISA didnt show on the online 
portal, but in the circumstances, I cant blame Santander for this. 
I appreciate the process was a little different to when Mrs N opened her account some time 
ago  when she put in her post code and house number and the address just came up  
unlike on this occasion, when she manually included the additional information. I appreciate 
Mrs N wasnt to know that this process would make a difference.   
In any case, this process is likely to have been in place as part of Santanders wider security 
measures to prevent any unauthorised third-party from accessing her account.   
I appreciate Mrs N took steps to get to the bottom of the issue and why she couldnt access 
her E-ISA online. Im mindful of her call to Santander (in branch) the next day on 04 April 
2020 and being on hold for 20 minutes before she decided to end the call. Its likely that if 
she held on to the call, she probably wouldve found out what happened.  
Whilst I dont blame Mrs N for ending the call because she was feeling unwell, I also cant 
blame Santander for not answering her call and providing an answer sooner. I note that the 
long waiting time was down to it being close to the end of the tax year and during a global 
pandemic.  
I also note that Mrs N called Santander again on 06 April 2020 but couldnt get through. She 
only got through to an adviser when she called again on 20 April 2020 and the matter was 
rectified overnight.  
In the circumstances I cant blame Santander for Mrs N missing the subscription deadline. 
She may wish to consider contacting HMRC directly to see whether it would backdate her 
application, although there are no guarantees that it will. 
I appreciate Mrs N will be disappointed Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what she wants to hear. But on the face of the 
available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give her what 
she wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2021.
 Dara Islam
Ombudsman