DRN-3058174
The complaint
Mrs S has complained that Calpe Insurance Company Limited unfairly turned down a 
claim on her motor insurance policy and cancelled it as if it hadn't existed (known as 
voidance).
In bringing this complaint Mrs S has been assisted by professional representatives. But 
for ease of reading, Ill refer to the representatives comments as being Mrs S.
Reference to Calpe includes its agents.
What happened
Mrs S car was stolen so she claimed on her policy. Calpe looked into her claim, while doing 
so it noted that the named driver on Mrs S policy - Mr R - had a driving conviction Mrs S 
hadn't told it about. So it refused to pay her claim and voided her policy. It also said it would 
seek to recover its investigation costs from her.
Mrs S didn't think that was fair and brought her complaint to us. One of our investigators 
looked into it. She said that it wasn't fair for Calpe to seek to recover its investigation costs. 
But otherwise she thought Calpes decision to void Mrs S policy was reasonable.
Mrs S didn't agree so the complaint's been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to depart from our investigator's assessment of the complaint. 
In bringing this complaint Mrs S has raised a number of points. I've considered everything 
she said and everything on file carefully. But in this decision I don't intend to address each 
point individually. Instead I will focus on what I see as being the key issues at the heart of 
the complaint.
Mrs S took out her policy over the phone in September 2018. She was in the company of 
Mr R at the time. Of importance to this complaint one of the questions Mrs S and Mr R were 
asked to answer was:
Do you or the named driver have any penalty points or endorsements either pending or 
issued in the last five years?
Mrs S and Mr R answered no to that question. But that wasn't right. At the time of the call 
Mr R had been summoned to appear in court to answer a charge for a motoring offence. So, 
although he hadn't yet been convicted he did have potential penalty points pending. And 
Calpe said that if Mrs S had told it about Mr Rs pending conviction it would have charged a 
significantly higher premium for the policy. 
Where a consumer makes a mistake answering an insurers questions when applying for a 
policy, and that mistake affects the policy terms including its premium, the mistake is known 
as a qualifying misrepresentation. Mrs S said she didn't make a misrepresentation because, 
at the time she applied for the policy, Mr R hadn't yet been convicted of the outstanding 
offence. But as I've said above, Calpe also wanted to know about any pending convictions, 
so, the fact that Mr R hadn't yet been convicted didn't mean Mrs S didn't make a 
misrepresentation. 
Mrs S added that Mr R did appear in court to defend the prosecution at the beginning of 
October 20018. But she said that in the period before the court case Mr R had travelled 
abroad a number of times and only learned about the prosecution shortly before the court 
date. So, at the time she was applying for the policy she said she didn't know about the 
pending conviction. 
I don't find Mrs S arguments persuasive. Mr Rs conviction, in October 2018, was for the 
offence of failing to provide a drivers details (in relation to a driving incident). In order to be 
convicted of that offence the police would have sent Mr R a notice of intent to prosecute for 
an alleged driving offence, which I understand took place on 1 March 2018. The police would 
expect Mr R to reply to that notice advising who was driving his car on 1 March 2018 at the 
time of the offence. 
As Mr R didn't reply to the polices initial notice they would have sent him a reminder to 
reply. And when he apparently failed to do so, they would have referred the matter to the 
magistrates court. Mr R would then have been prosecuted for a separate offence of failing to 
furnish a drivers details. In other words Mr R would be prosecuted because he hadn't told 
the police who was driving his car on 1 March 2018. That is a different offence to the initial 
alleged offence which took place on 1 March 2018. Mr R would then have been summoned 
to appear in court to respond to that specific offence. 
The offence Mr R was being prosecuted for carries a maximum fine of £1,000 and six 
penalty points. And I think a summons to appear in court would be a significant event in most 
peoples lives and something they would remember. I note Mr Rs court appearance was due 
just over two weeks after Mrs S applied for her policy. So I think its something Mrs S and 
Mr R should have been aware of when Mrs S applied for the policy. 
Mrs S said Mr R wasn't aware of the pending conviction because his nephew had picked 
up the communications about it and only told Mr R about them a week or so before the 
court appearance. But again I find that unlikely. Mrs S hasn't explained why Mr Rs nephew 
would have picked up Mr Rs correspondence, although that might be because, while Mr R 
was abroad, he asked his nephew to look after any important correspondence for him. But if 
that was the case I would expect Mr R to ask his nephew if he had in fact received any such 
correspondence while he was abroad. 
Further, while Mr R made fairly frequent trips abroad, he spent the majority of his time in the 
period concerned in the UK. So it would be extremely unlikely that he was away on each 
occasion he received correspondence about the matter that led to his conviction and he 
didn't see any of it. And in those circumstances I'm not persuaded that he only learnt about 
the pending conviction when his nephew told him about it a week or so before the court 
date, which was after Mrs S had bought her policy. It follows that I think Mrs S did make a 
misrepresentation when saying that Mr R didn't have a pending motoring prosecution.
As I believe that Mrs S made a misrepresentation I need to think about how Calpe 
responded to that. There's specific law, the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), which sets out what an insurer may do where a consumers made a misrepresentation. And, generally, we think it's fair for insurers like 
Calpe to apply the remedies that CIDRA allows them. 
The remedies CIDRA offers depends on whether a consumers misrepresentation is deemed 
as careless or otherwise classed as deliberate or reckless. Calpe believe that Mrs S  
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless. And I think thats reasonable. Thats because I 
don't think many people would forget that they had a court appearance scheduled in the 
coming weeks. So I think Mr knew that was the case at the time Mrs S applied for the policy. 
And I also think they knew that this matter was likely to be of importance to Calpe, as 
otherwise they had no reason to disguise the fact. It follows that I think the misrepresentation 
in this case was deliberate or reckless. Therefore, I think its fair for Calpe to apply the 
remedies that CIDRA allows it in light of the deliberate misrepresentation. And in those 
circumstances CIDRA allows Calpe to void Mrs S policy and keep the premium. Thats what 
its done and I think its done so fairly.
Mrs S has also said that in the call when she bought the policy, the broker selling it - which 
acted as Calpes agent - referred to having a DVLA check carried out. So shes said that 
Calpe should have been aware of Mr Rs conviction at that time. But I don't think thats right. 
First, the broker didn't say they had carried out a DVLA check. They said another insurer, 
which had declined to offer Mrs S a policy had linked information from DVLA to Mrs S car. 
There's no evidence from the call that the broker - on Calpes behalf - carried out any sort of 
DVLA check of Mrs S or Mr Rs driving licences. Second, while the initial alleged driving 
offence was noted as happening on 1 March 2018, as Mrs S has herself argued, the actual 
date of Mr Rs conviction was not until October 2018. So, even if Calpe had done a DVLA 
check when Mrs S took out the policy, the conviction details wouldn't have shown on Mr R's 
licence at the time, as the matter was still pending. It follows that I don't think Calpe would 
have known, unless Mrs S or Mr R had told it, about Mr Rs pending conviction at the time 
Mrs S bought the policy. So I think Calpes decision to void it was reasonable. 
For completeness Ill add that Calpe had said it intended to seek to recover its costs for 
investigating the claim from Mrs S. But in response to our investigator's assessment of the 
complaint it said it would no longer seek to do that. I think that was fair. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I'm not going to instruct Calpe to take any further action. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman