DRN-2310030
The complaint
Mr S complains Capquest Debt Recovery Limited are unfairly reporting late payments on his 
credit file for a debt they own.
What happened
Mr S has a payment plan with another company who Ill call P. He pays P money each 
month, and they pay his creditors, which includes Capquest.
Mr S found that, despite paying money every month to P whod then pass it on, Capquest 
were reporting late payments on his credit file. Mr S wasnt happy with this, so he 
complained. 
Capquest own Mr S debt, but its managed by another company who Ill call N.
In May 2020 Capquest explained theyd initially received a query about the late markers 
being applied from N in August 2019. Capquest said Mr S account was over six months in 
default, so thats why late markers were being applied to his debt. But, Capquest said since 
September 2019 they understood no further late markers were being reported. This was 
because Mr S had begun making higher payments than required which cleared the arrears. 
Unhappy with this Mr S asked us to look into things. One of our investigators gathered 
information from Mr S and Capquest. They told us the reason the payments were late was 
because they were made later than the due date. And they also sent us their internal notes 
of conversations with Mr S and agreements where hed pay less for a certain amount of 
months. In addition, Capquest and Mr S sent evidence of payments made, including 
statements of account, notice of arrears issued to Mr S and payments Mr S made to P.
Ultimately our investigator decided she thought Mr S had made all payments he was 
required to for the period up to January 2016 based on the information. And she didnt think 
itd be fair for Mr S to be penalised for P making the payment late when she couldnt see 
Capquest had made Mr S or P aware of this  despite some queries being raised. So, she 
upheld the complaint, and told Capquest to remove all of the late payment markers.
Mr S initially didnt accept this as he felt some compensation would also be fair, but later on 
decided hed be happy with this as an outcome.
Capquest didnt accept this so the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A financial business who owns or administers a lending account is required to accurately 
report the information to the credit reference agencies. So, in Mr S case I can only require 
Capquest to remove the late markers for the periods they were applied if Im satisfied an 
error has been made in the reporting of them.
Mr S credit file that he provided to us shows two different times when this account was 
recorded as being six months late with payments. For simplicity, Ive split my decision by 
those dates.
September 2015 to January 2016
On each of these months its recorded Mr S is six months in arrears with his account on his 
credit file. From what Ive seen I understand Capquests position to be that Mr S didnt make 
the agreed payments he was supposed to  so Ive looked at all the evidence provided to 
see whether Im satisfied this is correct.
Although Ive only got Mr S credit file from September 2015, I believe the issue started 
earlier than that. In July 2014 it seems Mr S, through P, entered into an arrangement with 
Capquest to pay £2.31 per month. Theres not enough information to know how long this 
arrangement was for  but the next arrangement seemingly wasnt made until February 
2015.
I say that because Capquests internal notes show they accepted a payment plan from P on 
9 February 2015 for £6.23. But this was then cancelled on 18 February 2015 as Minimum 
Payment not paid. User: System generated.
So, it seems Capquests system cancelled the arrangement nine days after itd been put in 
place due to the minimum payment not being made.
But, at this point, Id expect the minimum payment to still be the same as what had 
previously been agreed in July 2014 - £2.31 per month  because these kinds of 
arrangements would usually start a month later.
Ive got Mr S statements  these show two payments were made in January 2015 for £2.31. 
I believe those to be the remaining two monthly repayments he needed to make on his old 
plan for January and February 2015. And then from March 2015 onwards Mr S makes a 
payment of £6.23 which has seemingly been agreed.
Given this, I cant reasonably say Mr S has been making payments late, or that any late 
markers should be recorded on his account. 
Capquest might argue its because the arrears were never cleared from Mr S account. But 
Id usually expect that to have been taken into account when reaching a payment plan. So I 
dont think thatd be a fair reason for the late payment markers to stay  and seemingly Mr S 
didnt clear those arrears until sometime in 2017  but once the payment arrangement took 
hold from February 2016 they stopped reporting he was six months in arrears anyway.
So, between February 2016 and October 2017 Mr S credit file shows AP which is an 
arrangement to pay. Thats correct, but then from November 2017 it shows once again as 
Mr S is six months in arrears.
November 2017 to August 2019
Capquest have said here that the billing cycle for Mr S accounts is between 3rd and 20th 
every month. So, any payments received outside of that would be a late payment.
This would mean essentially every payment thats been recorded should have been done so 
as a late payment  but it hasnt been which Capquest havent provided a clear explanation 
for.Ive thought Mr S situation. Hes making payments to P who he expects to make payments 
on time to the relevant companies. And I dont think its unreasonable where payments are 
consistently being made late that Capquest look into that to fully understand why. 
Its quite clear Mr S was making enquiries about why late payments were being recorded 
when he didnt think they should be. Whether that was to N who Capquest asked to run 
things, or to Capquest directly I dont think is necessarily relevant. I say that because its only 
Capquest who can update the credit file  and theyre ultimately responsible for the account. 
There also seems to have been a lot of communication back and forth between N and 
Capquest  and Im satisfied there have been opportunities for Capquest to properly explain 
things.
These are all points our investigator has asked Capquest, and while they have always 
replied theyve not explained things clearly to enable us to understand why theyve done 
what theyve done. This suggests to me that maybe theyre not sure why things have been 
recorded as they have been. Given this goes back a few years now I can perhaps 
understand this. But as weve not been provided with a clear explanation for whats 
happened, I cant reasonably be satisfied the information has been recorded correctly on 
Mr S credit file for this time period. And I cant ignore that Ive found Capquest have made 
an error with how they were reporting things between September 2015 and January 2016. 
Overall then, Im persuaded itd be fair and reasonable for Capquest to remove all late 
markers applied to the account.   
My final decision
I order Capquest Debt Recovery Limited to update any outstanding late markers on Mr S 
credit file to show hes in an arrangement to pay.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman