DRN-3780532
The complaint
Mr W complains about a loan with Topaz Finance Limited, trading as Heliodor Mortgages, 
for which he thinks he should no longer be liable. Hes unhappy with how the loan has been 
administered since the linked mortgage was repaid and that Heliodor still considers him 
responsible for it. Hes also unhappy with the service he has received.
What happened
In 2007, Mr W and his now ex-wife took out a Together mortgage with Northern Rock. They 
borrowed £103,500 plus fees on the mortgage, and alongside it they took a linked unsecured 
loan of £15,500. Both loans were to be paid on a capital and interest repayment basis over a 
term of 35 years. 
Both the secured and unsecured loans were on an initial fixed interest rate until December 
2011, then a variable rate for the remainder of the term, as long as Mr W and his ex-wife 
kept their mortgage and loan with Northern Rock or its successors. The interest rate on the 
unsecured loan would rise to 8% above the lenders standard variable rate if the mortgage 
were repaid and the unsecured loan remained outstanding.  
In 2008, Northern Rock collapsed and was later nationalised. Mr Ws and his ex-wifes 
mortgage and loan were transferred to NRAM. 
At around the same time, Mr W and his ex-wife separated. Mr W stayed in the mortgaged 
property and made the mortgage and loan payments. In 2014, he sold the property. The 
mortgage was repaid in full, leaving Mr W and his ex-wife with just under £9,000 equity in the 
property. At the time, the unsecured loan had a balance of around £11,500. 
Mr W and his ex-wife agreed that Mr W would pay £4,000 to settle his part of the unsecured 
loan, and his ex-wife would be responsible for the remainder. In July 2014, Mr W paid NRAM 
£4,000. He says he understood that his liability for the loan ended there, and he received no 
further communication about it until 2018. 
Mr W later found that his ex-wife hadnt paid the loan. The loan balance had increased from 
around £7,500 to just over £12,000, and in July 2018 the lender had recorded a default on 
his credit file. He complained.
In November 2019, the unsecured loan was sold to Heliodor. Heliodor, as the current loan 
owner, has responded to this complaint. It said Mr W is still responsible for the loan, and 
NRAM had told him that in August 2014 following his request to remove his name from the 
loan. It also said it wasnt party to Mr Ws agreement with his ex-wife, and it hadnt agreed no 
longer to hold him liable for the debt. In July 2018, NRAM had stopped applying interest and 
begun debt recovery action, and sent letters to Mr W at the address of the mortgaged 
property because it had no other address details for him. 
Mr W got in touch with us. Our Investigator concluded that Heliodor is entitled to consider 
Mr W liable for the loan, and that it hadnt done anything wrong in its administration of the 
loan.
Mr W didnt accept that conclusion and asked for it to be reviewed. He said Heliodor hadnt 
sent him everything it should have done in response to multiple SARs: contact notes and 
correspondence it had sent to us were missing. He also said that making overpayments and 
then no monthly payments until the overpayments are used up was a flexible feature of this 
loan. Those flexible features ended once the loan was delinked from the mortgage  and so 
Heliodor shouldnt have permitted no payments to be made, and should have defaulted the 
loan much earlier, in 2015. It had used his overpayment in a way he hadnt agreed, without 
telling him, and despite knowing about his and his ex-wifes marital dispute.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise that Mr W feels very strongly about this matter and that he is angry and upset to 
be asked to repay this loan. He has been clear that he understood his liability ended when 
he made the lump sum payment in 2014, in line with his agreement with his ex-wife.
However, Heliodor (and NRAM as the predecessor lender) wasnt party to Mr Ws and his 
ex-wifes agreement. The loan was taken out on the basis that Mr W and his ex-wife would 
be jointly and severally liable for it  so the lender can ask both of them, or each of them 
individually, to pay it. That remains the case regardless of the agreement Mr W and his ex-
wife reached between them, and I find nothing to indicate that either Heliodor or the 
predecessor lender accepted Mr Ws and his ex-wifes agreement about repayment. Im 
therefore satisfied that Heliodor is entitled to seek payment from Mr W. If his ex-wife hasnt 
complied with their agreement, thats a matter between the two of them.
Mr W says the loan should have been defaulted much earlier than it was and interest should 
have stopped being added. Payments to the loan stopped in October 2014, but NRAM didnt 
record a default or stop applying interest until mid-2018. 
Heliodor says the monthly loan payments due between late 2014 and late 2017 were taken 
from the £4,000 payment Mr W had made in 2014. This meant that the loan wasnt 
considered to be in arrears until the end of 2017, when the £4,000 effectively ran out. The 
loan was then defaulted in mid-2018, after six months of arrears. The information reported 
on Mr Ws credit file reflects all of this. 
I note Mr Ws point about the flexible features of the loan  which included overpayments, 
underpayments, and payment holidays  coming to an end when the loan and mortgage 
delinked. I nevertheless find that the way the lender treated his lump sum payment was 
neither unusual nor unreasonable. The loan was in credit by a significant amount following 
that payment. The alternative would have been to treat the loan as in arrears much earlier 
and, while I can see with the benefit of hindsight that doing so would work in Mr Ws favour 
now, it may well not have done in 2014  and what happened since couldnt have been 
known at the time. I can only consider whether the lender acted fairly based on what it could 
have known then.  
I must also bear in mind the wider circumstances in this case. Those include records from 
the lender showing that it told Mr W in 2014 it wouldnt take his name off the loan, the fact 
that Mr W never received any confirmation from the lender that it had accepted his payment 
in settlement of his liability, and there being nothing to indicate that Mr W checked with the 
lender at the time how it would treat his lump sum payment.Mr W also didnt give the lender his new address details following the sale of the mortgaged 
property. The records Heliodor has provided show that letters and statements sent to Mr W 
at the security address in 2014 and in subsequent years were returned to it marked gone 
away. It wasnt until 2018 that the lender initiated a trace and found Mr Ws current address. 
It could, of course, have taken that step sooner, but did not while it considered the loan not 
to be in arrears. 
Its generally for borrowers to keep lenders up-to-date with their contact details, and in the 
circumstances I dont consider I can fairly uphold this complaint on the basis that the lender 
could have traced Mr W earlier. Mr W was still responsible for the loan. 
  
Finally, Mr W complains about Heliodors handling of his subject access requests. He says 
he had to make multiple requests and that Heliodor provided our Investigator with 
information which it should also have sent him. Heliodor should, of course, comply with data 
protection laws, and shouldnt have withheld information to which Mr W was entitled. Its not 
clear why it didnt send him copies of correspondence and records which it later sent to us. 
However, those documents havent led me to conclude that this complaint should be upheld, 
and its not for me to fine or punish Heliodor for any shortcomings. If Mr W is concerned 
about Heliodors general approach to subject access requests then he may wish to contact 
the Information Commissioners Office as the relevant regulator.
In all the circumstances of this case and while I realise Mr W will be very disappointed, I 
dont find it appropriate to make any order or award. Mr W can ask the credit reference 
agencies to record a notice of correction explaining the situation leading to the defaulted 
loan if he wishes, so that other financial businesses may take it into consideration.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman