DRN-3666611
The complaint and what happened
Miss K complains National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont reimburse money she lost 
to an investment scam. 
Miss K was contacted through a networking platform with an investment opportunity. She 
was persuaded to invest and between February and March 2021, she invested over £4,500 
through two crypto-asset platforms  MoonPay and Coinbase. She realised shed been 
scammed when she was continually asked for more and more money to make a withdrawal 
but didnt receive any funds back. 
Miss K complained to NatWest. But it didnt uphold her complaint as it said it wasnt the point 
of loss, as the money was transferred to a crypto-wallet. Our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint either. He wasnt persuaded NatWest ought to have intervened in the 
transactions. 
Miss Ks representative has asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. It says 
the payments were sent to new payees which were also crypto providers; and that the final 
two payments were unusual and so NatWest ought to have intervened.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have broadly come to the same conclusions as the investigator for the 
following reasons:
Under banking regulations and banking terms and conditions, a bank should execute 
authorised payment instructions without undue delay. The starting position is that 
liability for authorised payments rest with the payer  Miss K  even where they have 
been tricked into making those payments. There is no dispute Miss K authorised the 
transactions. 
In accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank has a duty 
to protect customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is reasonably 
possible. If in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought 
reasonably to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be 
liable for those losses incurred by its customer as a result. 
I note NatWest declined reimbursement on the basis that it wasnt the point of loss. I 
dont necessarily agree with that. Just because a payment is being used to buy 
crypto-currency and may even be going into a customers own wallet, that doesnt 
mean their money is safe or they arent at risk of financial harm from scams.
Having reviewed Miss Ks account history, she regularly used the account to make 
transactions to new payees. She also regularly made payments of a far higher value. 
Here the payments in dispute started at a few pounds and increased a little over the 
next few days. A couple of weeks later Miss K made further payments, this time of a 
little more  a few hundred pounds each time. And about a week later they increased 
to just over £1,700 and £1,000 respectively. These were the two final payments 
made as a result of the scam and are the payments Miss Ks representative consider 
to be unusual. But as explained the payments were comparable with other spending 
on the account and were being made to legitimate merchants. 
I am aware that NatWest did in fact pause the payment for just over £1,700. I 
understand this was to check it was its genuine customer making the payment. As 
Miss K confirmed it was, the payment went ahead. Im not persuaded the payments 
were so unusual or so uncharacteristic for the account that they looked suspicious 
such that the intervention should have been stronger. Im therefore satisfied NatWest 
went far enough on this occasion. 
Its correct there are no chargeback rights that exist in relation to Miss Ks 
transactions; the merchants provided the service requested, the exchange of fiat 
money into crypto currency.
I accept Miss K has lost money. Despite my natural sympathy for the situation in 
which she finds herself, I dont find NatWest did anything wrong and so I dont make 
any award against it. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman