DRN-3513815
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that AWP P&C SA declined a claim he made under his home emergency 
policy.
What happened
Mr G has explained that one night in August 2020 the electrics at his property stopped 
working. Mr G said he didnt have any paper documents for his home emergency policy to 
hand. And, his mobile phone battery was low  so he didnt want to risk going onto the 
internet to obtain the necessary details, in case the phone battery died completely and his 
was uncontactable. So, instead of looking for his insurance information and calling AWP, 
Mr G instead called a local electrician from his phonebook, to come and deal with the 
emergency.
Mr G said the electrician did come and deal with the matter. And following this, Mr G made a 
claim with his insurer, AWP, for his loss.
AWP declined the claim. It said that Mr Gs policy required him to contact it first to deal with 
an emergency. And it said Mr Gs policy made it clear that no refund would be provided if 
arrangements were made without prior authorisation from AWP.
Mr G felt this was unfair. So, he raised a complaint with AWP. It maintained its position, 
noting that the claim had been fairly declined. As Mr G remained unhappy with this, his 
referred his complaint to this service for an independent review.
When referring his case to this service Mr G said he felt AWP should have used some 
discretion in his case, given he was unable to obtain his insurers details to contract it before 
dealing with the emergency at his home.
Our investigator reviewed this complaint and felt it should be upheld. They acknowledged 
that Mr G had breached the terms and conditions of his policy by getting his own electrician 
out, without authorisation from AWP. But in the circumstances, he felt it would be fair and 
reasonable for AWP to reimburse Mr G for the costs he incurred, but only up to the amount 
AWP would have paid to arrange the repair themselves, if it had been contacted initially as 
per the terms.
AWP disagreed. It said that it had acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy, in 
declining the claim. In addition to this, AWP said that because it hadnt been contacted in the 
first instance, it hadnt been able to establish whether the claim was actually covered under 
the policy  because for example, there had to be a complete failure of the electrics for the 
emergency to be covered.
AWP also said that if Mr G was in the situation hed described, it wouldve expected him to 
contact it later that day or the following day to make a claim  but Mr G didnt do this, he 
contacted it some time later. 
Lastly, AWP said accepting the claim in this instance wouldnt be fair to other customers, 
and it felt that accepting Mr Gs claim would set an example that it would do so in the future 
under the same circumstances, which it didnt think was reasonable.
Because AWP didnt agree, this claim has been referred to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. In this I said:
Ive considered all of the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending to uphold this complaint in part. Ive explained my reasoning 
for this below.
The relevant industry guidelines say an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fair  
and must not unreasonably decline it. Mr G doesnt feel AWP acted in line with this. So, Ive 
considered his concerns. 
The starting point for deciding whether a claim was declined fairly and reasonably is the 
terms and conditions of the policy taken out. This is the contract both parties agreed to when 
the cover was purchased.
Looking at the policy Mr G purchased, I can see there is cover for an emergency  with the 
definition of emergency including the loss of a homes main source of light. Mr G has said 
that his home did experience a loss of its light  with all the lights in the property not working. 
So, Im satisfied, based on the information I have, that its likely there was an emergency 
under which the policy would respond.
But Im also aware the terms and conditions of the policy, under the making a claim section, 
explain that:
It is important to remember that you must phone Halifax Home Emergency First. 
Please do not make any arrangements yourself as we cannot refund any costs if you do not 
get out prior authorisation. 
This is also explained in other areas of the policy, such as in the general exclusions section 
of the policy, which notes AWP wont pay for costs not authorised. 
Given the above, Im satisfied its clear within the policy that Mr G needed to contact AWP 
first, before incurring any costs. This is so that AWP can check the policy covers the 
situation being claimed for and manage the costs for anything covered by the policy.
As this is the case, I recognise that AWP acted in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining Mr Gs claim. However, my remit here is also to consider what is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of the case. And, based on what Ive seen, I think it 
was fair and reasonable, on this occasion, for Mr G to call another contractor out to the 
property initially. And I think AWP should be providing a settlement in relation to this first 
visit.
I say this because there was, in my opinion, an understandable reason Mr G didnt contact 
AWP initially. And from the evidence Ive seen, I dont think AWPs position in evaluating the 
claim was prejudiced, for this initial visit. 
Mr G said when the light and power went out, it was during the night. And so, he didnt have 
his policy documents to hand, to call the claims line. He also noted that his phone battery was low  with no ability to charge it. So, he wanted to make sure the only source of power 
he had  his phone, was working for as long as possible. With that in mind, Mr G contacted a 
contractor from his own phonebook. I can understand why Mr G did this, given the situation 
he was in.
Mr G obtained an invoice for the first visit from the contractor. It noted that the contractor 
needed to replace switches, investigate RCD tripping.  This looks to be in line with the 
policy cover, which, as above, responds to a loss of the homes main source of light. Given 
AWP had an invoice to review, which contained details of the relevant contractor and their 
contact information, I think AWP was in a position to move this element of the claim forward 
 it wasnt prejudiced in this regard. So, I think the fair and reasonable thing here, is to 
accept the claim for this initial contractor call-out.
That doesnt mean AWP should pay the full cost of the invoice Mr G provided though. The 
invoice Mr G provided was for £95. And Im aware that it is possible the visit would have cost 
AWP less, depending on the commercial relationship it has with other contractors. Given that 
the terms of the policy, noting contact with AWP first is key, and that part of the reason for 
this will be to ensure costs are kept low, Im satisfied it would be fair for AWP to pay Mr G 
what it would have cost it for the initial visit to the property. That means AWP isnt spending 
more than it should have under the policy, and Mr G is getting the cover he paid for. 
Im aware there was a second visit to the property, by the same contractor  around 10 days 
after the first visit. The invoice for this visit says work on the propertys lights was completed, 
an unknown cable at the consumer unit was identified and reconfigured, a breaker was 
changed for the immersion heater and advise on safety issues was provided. This invoice 
was for a further £95. I dont think it would be fair to ask AWP to pay for this work.
AWP says it wasnt contacted until after this second visit. Mr G says he contacted AWP 
between the first and second visit and AWP didnt seem interested in the matter. But he 
hasnt been able to provide a date for when this happened. So, I havent seen any firm 
evidence this was the case. And both parties accept that there was no authorisation 
provided by AWP for the second visit. 
I do also note that Mr G explained to this service whilst I appreciate the second call out was 
not an emergency call out, at that point the electrician has already done most of the work. So 
it wouldnt have been sensible or cost effective to bring out someone new.
Im satisfied that this second call out is different to the first. As above, I think the 
circumstances of the initial visit, and the lack of prejudice to AWP on that occasion means it 
would be fair and reasonable to deal with that element of the claim. 
But in terms of the second visit, I think there was sufficient opportunity for Mr G to ensure 
authorisation was gained, before going ahead with it. And I cant see firm evidence this was 
attempted. I also think there was a prejudice to AWP in Mr G going ahead with the work 
anyway. 
AWP could have checked the policy cover during this time and decided whether to obtain its 
own contractor. And, I can see the second invoice discusses work unlikely to be covered 
under the policy  such as the reconfiguration of an unknown cable, work for the immersion 
heater, and safety advice. With this in mind, I dont think it would be fair to require AWP to 
act outside of the terms of the policy for the second invoice. So, I dont intend on requiring 
AWP to do anything in respect of this. 
Given the above, my provisional decision is that I intend on partially upholding this 
complaint. I intend on requiring AWP P&C SA to:Pay Mr G what it would have cost AWP for the initial visit to Mr Gs property. 
Because Mr G has been without these funds, AWP should pay Mr G 8% simple 
interest on the above amount, from the date of the invoice (28 August 2020), until the 
date of settlement, less any tax properly deductible. 
If AWP P&C SA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr G how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr G a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Mr G responded to my provisional decision and agreed with it. AWP didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has provided me with additional evidence or comments to alter the provisional 
decision noted above. And so, my final decision remains the same as that of my provisional 
decision, and for the same reasons.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint. I require AWP 
P&C SA to:
Pay Mr G what it would have cost AWP for the initial visit to Mr Gs property. 
Because Mr G has been without these funds, AWP should pay Mr G 8% simple 
interest on the above amount, from the date of the invoice (28 August 2020), until the 
date of settlement, less any tax properly deductible. 
If AWP P&C SA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr G how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr G a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman