DRN-1754455
The complaint
Mr S complains that Covea Insurance plc (trading as Provident Insurance) (Covea) failed to 
deal properly with the renewal of his motor insurance policy. The result was that he was 
arrested and charged for driving while uninsured, his car was impounded, and he suffered 
distress and inconvenience.
What happened
Mr S renewed his insurance policy with Covea in October 2019. The agreed direct debit date 
was 21st of each month, but due to a systems error Covea called for the payment earlier 
than agreed. As there were insufficient funds in the account, the direct debit wasnt paid, and 
Mr Ss insurance lapsed without him being notified. Covea has accepted that it was at fault in 
this.
On 2 November 2019, Mr S was stopped by the police and he was charged with driving 
without insurance. His car was impounded immediately. On 7 November 2019 Mr S 
complained to Covea. It apologised for its error, provided evidence that it accepted cover 
was in place from renewal, and said it would cover any costs/charges incurred as a result of 
its mistake. It also paid Mr S compensation of £200 for the distress and inconvenience it had 
caused him.
Mr S had difficulty in getting the car released from the car pound. The release fee increased 
day by day, and by the time the first amount Covea sent him arrived it wasnt enough to get 
the car released. Covea sent him a further amount, and Mr S was aware he had to be at the 
car pound before midday on 27 November 2019 to get the car released. If he wasnt, the 
release fee would increase again, and Covea wouldnt pay any more.
However, it was after midday on 27 November 2019 when Mr S arrived at the car pound. He 
says he didnt have any available funds to meet the difference. So the car wasnt released. It 
appears it was disposed of, and Mr S used the release fees Covea had paid him - £650 - 
towards buying a replacement car in January 2020. He complained to us that the 
compensation Covea had paid him was insufficient.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. She acknowledged that 
Covea issued Mr S with a letter of indemnity to be used as evidence in his pending 
prosecution for driving without insurance. The impound costs were also met by Covea.
However, she thought Covea could have done more to ensure Mr S was put back in the 
position he would have been in had its error not occurred.
It appears Mr S was stopped by the police, and his car impounded, the day after his father 
had passed away. So not having his car caused him a lot of stress and inconvenience at a 
difficult time, as it was difficult for him to get around. She thought the compensation of £200 
Covea had paid him didnt fully recognise the impact on Mr S, and this should be increased 
by an additional £300.
After his car was impounded, it appears Mr S didnt have access to another car, and had to 
use public transport to get around. So the investigator thought Covea should pay reasonable 
transport costs at the rate of £10 per day for the period from when his car was impounded on 
2 November 2019 up till 27 November 2019, when he should have collected his car from the 
car pound. 
Covea responded to say, in summary, that:
the amount of compensation it had paid was fair;
it had provided the funds Mr S needed to collect his car from the car pound, and had 
provided ample time for this, and Mr S understood the time by which he needed to 
collect the car; and
it had offered to reimburse any costs, such as public transport costs, against 
evidence of such expense. But Mr S hadnt provided any evidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that once Covea became aware of its error in allowing Mr Ss insurance to lapse, 
and that this had resulted in his car being impounded and him being prosecuted, it took 
action to assist him. It issued a letter acknowledging that the non-insurance was its fault, and 
it provided him with the money required to get his car released from the car pound. I dont 
think it was its fault that Mr S then arrived too late and wasnt able to release his car.
However, I think its fair that Covea should compensate Mr S for the fact that he was without 
a car at a time when he says he needed to be getting about, and had to use public transport. 
Rather than require him to provide receipts for all his journeys, I think fair compensation is 
that Covea pay him at the rate of £10 per day for the relevant period. 
I agree that this period starts during 2 November 2019 when his car was impounded, and 
ends at midday on 27 November 2019, when it should have been collected. For the purpose 
of calculating the payment this should be treated as twenty five days altogether. 
I also agree with the investigator that the compensation of £200 that Covea paid didnt 
adequately reflect the distress and inconvenience Mr S suffered by being stopped by the 
police, having his car impounded, having to attend court to answer the charge of driving 
without insurance, and dealing with the car pound to try to get it released. I think Covea 
should pay Mr S a further £300 compensation for this, making £500 in all.
Putting things right
To put things right, I think Covea should pay Mr S the further sums set out in my final 
decision below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint, and order Covea Insurance plc (trading as 
Provident Insurance) to pay Mr S:
1. compensation of £250 for loss of use of his car for the period Covea was responsible 
for him being without a car, being twenty five days at the rate of £10 per day; and
2. a further £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience Covea caused him 
in addition to the £200 it has already paid him.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman