DRN-2920302
The complaint
F, a limited company, complains HSBC UK Bank Plc unreasonably delayed an application 
for business bank accounts/services and then unfairly declined it.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In February 2019 F approached HSBC to show interest in business bank accounts/services. 
An application began in September 2019. HSBC told F the application had been declined in 
November 2020. Clearly the process was a long one. But in the months following the 
application there was a lot of activity with HSBC seeking further information to fully 
understand Fs business and meeting regularly to discuss matters with its representatives. 
There was also, from March 2020, the backdrop of the pandemic. And the application was 
considered by HSBC at a very high level. Overall, although I accept the application process 
took longer than anyone would have liked, I dont find HSBC caused an unreasonable delay. 
F remains dissatisfied with HSBCs decision to decline its application and has referred to 
regulation 105 of the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs). It argues HSBC failed to 
provide access to accounts/services on a proportionate, objective and non-discriminatory 
basis. I have considered the PSRs. Ive also considered relevant guidance, such as that 
issued by the Financial Conduct Authority (FSA) and Payment Services Regulator, titled 
Payment Services and Electronic Money  Our Approach. This says, amongst other things:
16.8 HM Treasury states in its consultation paper that the regulation does not impose an 
absolute obligation for credit institutions [such as HSBC] to grant access. The decision to 
work with a given payment institution [such as F] is still a commercial one, with credit 
institutions able to take into account cost and risk. 
16.9 We agree with this statement. In our view, the effect of regulation 105 of the PSRs 
2017 is to ensure that credit institutions should consider applications from PSPs [such as F] 
individually and on their own merits
As set out above, HSBC gathered a great deal of information about F and met with its 
representatives several times. Im satisfied from the information Ive been presented with 
HSBC considered Fs application individually and on its own merits and made the 
commercial decision to decline it. If follows Im satisfied HSBCs decision to decline Fs 
application was fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman