DRN-2285680
The complaint
Mrs J complains via a representative that Covea Insurance plc unfairly declined her claim 
following her son being robbed at gunpoint on their driveway. 
What happened
Mrs J held a buildings and contents insurance policy with Covea. 
In late 2019 Mrs Js son, Mr J, had been out for dinner with his partner. He returned home 
and went inside the house. After a short time, Mr J returned to his vehicle which was parked 
outside the family home. Whilst on the driveway Mr J was robbed at gunpoint during which 
he had several items of jewellery and a watch stolen from his person. 
Mrs J made a claim on her contents insurance policy for the stolen items. Covea declined 
the claim as it said Mrs J didnt have cover for personal belongings. 
Mrs J was unhappy that Covea declined the claim and so made a complaint via her 
representative. 
In its response, Covea maintained its decision to decline the claim. It said that Mrs Js policy 
didnt include cover for personal belongings. It had also checked the policy wording to see if 
the loss could be covered in the contents in the open section of Mrs Js policy. But 
valuables were excluded under that section. 
As Mrs J remained unhappy with Coveas response, her representative brought the 
complaint to us.
Our investigator said that she was unable to find any clause in the policy that would have 
covered the incident. Therefore, she said it would be unfair to ask Covea to accept the claim. 
Mrs J didnt accept our investigators opinion as she felt this incident had caused a lot of 
trauma. She felt if Covea would have covered the items if they were in the home, it was only 
fair for them to cover them in these extreme circumstances. So, the case has been passed 
onto me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear that Mr J went through such a traumatic experience. My role in a 
complaint like this is to consider whether Covea has acted fairly and reasonably when 
declining Mrs Js claim.
 
Insurance policies dont cover every eventuality. Theyre designed to offer cover against 
certain defined risks. Its for the policyholder to demonstrate that an insured peril happened 
 in other words, that one of the risks included in the policy has materialised. 
Its not disputed that Mrs J didnt have personal belongings cover that would have covered 
her and her family for the loss that they suffered. 
So, Ive considered if the theft falls under any other insured peril contained within the policy. 
But for broadly the same reasons as our investigator I dont think Covea acted unfairly or 
unreasonably, Ill explain why. 
The theft of contents section of the policy covered theft of valuables but only whilst they were 
in your home. Whilst Mr J was still on his driveway when the robbery occurred, I dont think 
it would be fair to say the jewellery was in his home when it was stolen. Covea said if the 
robbers had entered the home and stolen the jewellery from Mr Js person then the loss 
would have been covered. I can see why it would be frustrating for Mrs J to be told she was 
almost covered, but I dont think it was factually incorrect as the items would have been 
covered if the theft took place inside the home. However, the fact remains that the theft 
didnt occur inside the home and so it wasnt covered by the theft of contents cover.
Covea explained that it had also considered the claim against the contents in the open 
section of the policy. However, this section didnt cover valuables which is defined as, 
amongst other things, precious metals, jewellery and watches. As the items stolen from Mr J 
fit this definition, I have to agree that this section of the policy didnt cover the loss of Mr Js 
jewellery and watch.
Having reviewed the rest of Mrs Js policy, Im also in agreement that the circumstances of 
this robbery dont fall into any of the insured perils covered by Mrs Js buildings and contents 
insurance policy with Covea. 
Whilst I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mrs J, I dont think Covea acted 
unfairly or unreasonably when it declined the claim as I dont think the robbery was an 
insured peril that was covered by Mrs Js insurance policy. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2020.
 
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman