DRN-1447565
 
The complaint
Mr M complained about a loan he took out with PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr 
Lender). 
What happened 
In June 2013 Mr M took out a loan for £400 repayable in two instalments over three days. In 
the event, Mr M rolled over the loan repayments a number of times so it took longer to 
repay and this added to the overall cost.
Rolling over payments means that instead of making the full payment hed signed up to 
make on the original due date Mr M arranged instead to make a smaller repayment of 
interest only. And he put off paying back the amount hed borrowed, plus all the interest he 
owed, until a later date. Each time Mr M rolled over payments this cost him extra interest. 
Mr M mainly said that the loan made his debt problems worse and caused him significant 
anxiety and stress. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr M and Mr Lender told us about this loan. 
In summary, our adjudicator mainly thought that given the loan amount, what was apparent 
about Mr Ms circumstances at the time and his history with the lender, it wouldnt have been 
proportionate to ask Mr M for the amount of information needed to show the lending was 
unsustainable. And she didn't think there wasnt anything in the information Mr M provided or 
the information Mr Lender shouldve been aware of, which meant that Mr Lender shouldve 
taken steps to verify what Mr M had told Mr  Lender about his financial circumstances.
Overall, our adjudicator didn't feel shed seen enough to say that Mr Lender shouldnt have 
provided the loan or agreed the roll overs  and she didn't uphold the complaint. 
Mr M disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint. He mainly says that 
the extent of his money problems would've been clearly visible on his credit file and hes 
unhappy about rollovers which he feels added to his money problems.
What I've decided - and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive used this 
approach to help me decide this complaint.
Mr Lender provided Mr M with a high-interest loan intended for short-term use and needed to 
make sure that it didnt provide the loan (or rollovers) irresponsibly. In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr M could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Mr Ms income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint. 
Before lending to Mr M, Mr Lender asked him for information on his financial situation, such 
as his monthly income and his outgoings. It also carried out credit checks. Mr Lender says it 
agreed to lend Mr M a loan it worked out shouldve been affordable for him.
This was Mr Ms first loan with Mr Lender. So I think Mr Lender could potentially rely on the 
information Mr M provided. Looking at the loan repayment amounts and the loan term, and 
taking into account all the information Mr Lender had on record for Mr M, including what it 
appears Mr M told Mr Lender about his monthly income and what he was paying out, this 
loan looked affordable for Mr M.  
Ive taken into account what Mr M says his credit file wouldve showed. But its unclear 
whether Mr Lender would've seen this information. I say this because when a lender carries 
out a credit search, the information it sees doesnt usually provide the same level of detail 
that a persons own credit search will. And it isnt necessarily up to date  that can depend 
on when other creditors have reported information and when its been recorded by the credit 
reference agency. A lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit file, or some 
information might be missing or anonymised. Im also aware that not all payday and short 
term lenders report to the same credit reference agencies. So, the information thats shown 
on Mr Ms own credit check, including other short term loans, may not have been identified 
by a credit check done by Mr Lender when he applied for this loan. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr M has said in response to our adjudicators view about 
the rollovers Mr Lender allowed him to make.
I agree with the adjudicator that at this time there was good industry practice developing that 
limited the number or rollovers a lender should allow to just three and any more than this 
should have been identified as a sign of underlying financial difficulty. 
But Mr M didn't have more than three rollovers. So I dont think the number of rollovers Mr 
Lender allowed Mr M to make was excessive or that the rollovers were enough to make a 
responsible lender realise that Mr M mightve had underlying money problems. 
Im sorry that Mr M had a problem with debt and that repaying this loan was difficult for him. 
I accept that in reality Mr Ms actual circumstances possibly werent fully reflected either in 
the information he provided or the other information Mr Lender obtained. 
But its reasonable to expect that Mr Lender couldve only decided Mr Ms lending application 
based on the information it had available at the time. And, at this stage of the lending 
relationship, I dont think proportionate checks wouldve required Mr Lender to probe any 
more deeply into Mr Ms finances or ask Mr M to prove what he was declaring or check other 
information sources to verify what he had told them (or omitted to say) about his financial 
circumstances. 
I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr Lender to lend or agree the rollovers it allowed  
especially as there wasnt anything obvious, in the information it had, to suggest Mr M 
wouldnt be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way. In order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something wrong. And, 
in this case, I dont think that Mr Lender did anything wrong in deciding to lend to Mr M. 
I understand that what Ive said will come as a disappointment to Mr M. I hope that setting 
out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman