DRN-1993008
The complaint
Mr A complains that Society of Lloyds wrongly decided not to replace his written-off car with 
a brand new one after he made a claim on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr As car was written-off in an accident on 12 October 2019. He thought he was entitled to 
a brand-new replacement car under the terms of the policy, as the original car was lost 
within a year of its purchase. Lloyds said Mr A had bought it on15 September 2018 and 
noted that the V5 registration document was put in his name on 28 September 2018. It also 
said finance for the car was started from 9 October 2018. As the cars total loss was over a 
year after all these dates, it said Mr A was only due a settlement sum for the car.  
 
Mr A said the purchase invoice of 15 September 2018 was only an offer of purchase from 
the dealership garage, setting out the cars details, and it wasnt signed by him. He said the 
V5 document wasnt proof of ownership. And he provided evidence from the garage to show 
that it had registered the car to him in September 2018 solely to fulfil a sales target. Mr A 
said he didnt sign any documents until 20 October 2018  when he took possession of the 
car  and that he didnt make a finance payment until November 2018. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr As complaint. He said the finance agreement was 
signed by Mr A on 20 October 2018, so in his view that was the date that money changed 
hands and Mr A was allowed to drive the car away. 
Lloyds said the garage got funds for the car from the finance company on 10 October 2018. 
It said Mr A signed a suitability document on 20 October 2018 that didnt refer to the date 
the funds were transferred (which it said was 10 days earlier). In its view, Mr A owned the 
car from the earlier date. It said if no finance had been in place, the purchase date would 
have been the date of the purchase invoice - 15 September 2018. It said it was irrelevant 
that the garage changed the name on the V5 for its own purposes. It also said that had the 
car been stolen before the date Mr A took it, the loss would have had to be dealt with by him, 
as monthly payments on the finance agreement would already have started.
  
The investigator pointed out that Mr A didnt make a finance payment until November 2018. 
Mr A said he didnt insure the car until he took possession of it, as until that date, had 
anything happened to it that would have been the garages responsibility. Lloyds asked for a 
review of the complaint by an ombudsman. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The new vehicle contract dated 15 September 2018 sets out all the cars features and the 
costs that make up the total purchase price. It isnt signed by either the garage or Mr A. I 
dont think it amounts to evidence that Mr A bought the car that day. I think Mr A could have 
changed his mind about the prospective purchase at that point or later. And the change of 
name on the V5 registration document later in September 2018 isnt evidence of ownership. 
The garage has explained why it made the change at that point. It believed that Mr A was 
going to buy the car, but it didnt consider him to be the owner at that time. 
The garage received the finance for the car on 10 October 2018, and Lloyds says Mr A 
would have begun to make payments between then and the date he collected the car. I think 
finance would have had to be in place before Mr A was able to take ownership of the car, 
and he can show that the first payment he made was in November 2018. 
Mr A signed a data protection declaration on 19 October 2018. By doing so he accepted 
that as the car would be financed, his details could be passed on and that credit searches 
would be undertaken. The garage had anticipated the completion of this document and 
signed it on 15 September 2018 - but Mr A didnt sign it at that point. 
Mr A signed two further documents, both on 20 October 2018. One was a new vehicle 
invoice that confirmed he was the cars buyer for the stated price. The suitability document 
he signed included information about his finance demands and needs, plus the details of his 
future payments on the car. Mr A had to agree that hed be able to make the payments 
without difficulty and that he hadnt been denied car finance recently. At the end of the 
document was a statement saying that Mr A had reviewed the documents and the funding 
options and was happy to proceed with the cars financing. 
I dont think Mr A was bound to the cars purchase until he signed the document. Without the 
finance, he wouldnt have been able to buy the car. The garage has confirmed that as far as 
it was concerned, the cars ownership only passed to Mr A on that date. He didnt insure it 
before then as he had no need to do so. I dont agree with Lloyds that if anything had 
happened to the car before 20 October 2018 Mr A (or any insurance he  may have had) 
would have had to cover the loss, as I think the garage was responsible for it until that point. 
 
I think its fair to say that some consumers buy cars and dont collect them immediately. But 
that doesnt appear to be what happened here. There isnt a document that states when 
ownership of the car transferred to Mr A, but I think the evidence points to that happening on 
20 October 2018. As the car was written-off within a year of that date, under the policy Mr A 
is entitled to a new one of the same make, model and specification. So I think Lloyds should 
deal with his claim in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions.
     
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Society of Lloyds to deal with Mr 
As claim in line with the policys remaining terms and conditions. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision 
before 10 February 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman