DRN-3820318
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Aviva Insurance Limiteds claim handling agent, wholl I refer to as
H, provided a poor service when handling a claim under his plumbing and drainage policy.
What happened
Mr S had a problem with his tap and called H for assistance. They agreed to send a plumber
to his property on 11 May 2022 between 12 and 6pm. Mr S was in all day and the plumber
didnt turn up. So he called H and asked for his excess of £30 to be waived, as the plumber
hadnt turned up. He was told this was because the plumber who was scheduled to come
had called him before attending and been told that another plumber had already attended.
Mr S told the operative that this was total fabrication. Mr S was told the matter would be
investigated and a further appointment was booked for 12 May. A plumber did attend on this
occasion, but could not resolve the issue. It seems a new cartridge needed to be ordered for
the tap, so a further appointment was made for 16 May and the cartridge was ordered. The
repair was then completed on 16 May.
Mr S then received a letter from H stating that his complaint had been resolved. He was
happy to accept the issue with the tap had been resolved. He also accepted Hs explanation
for why the plumber could not complete the repair on 12 May. But he did not think his
complaint about the plumber not turning up on 11 May had been resolved, because his
excess had not been refunded.
Mr S asked us to consider his complaint. One of our investigators did this. She didnt think it
should be upheld because she thought the fact that H had apologised for the plumber not
turning up on 11 May was enough.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators view on the matter and asked for an
ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 16 November 2022. In this I said that Aviva should pay   
Mr S £50 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience he experienced as a result of 
having to wait in all afternoon for a plumber who didnt turn up. And for being told this was 
because hed said a plumber had already attended, when this wasnt what happened.
I gave both parties two weeks to provide further evidence and comments in response to my 
provisional decision.
H on behalf of Aviva have responded to say they have nothing further to add. And Mr S has 
responded to say he agrees with my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Aviva has said it has no further comments or evidence to provide and Mr S has said he 
agrees with my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. 
This means that it remains my view that Mr S experienced distress and inconvenience as a 
result of the poor service provided by H. 
Putting things right
It also remains my view that Aviva should pay Mr S £50 in compensation for this. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ss complaint against Aviva Insurance Limited 
and award him £50 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman