DRN-3759965
The complaint
Mr G complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) declined his claim against his travel
insurance policy. Reference to IPA includes its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr G has an annual travel insurance policy with IPA. He was on
a trip and due to begin his return home on 23 December 2021. Mr Gs return flight was
delayed by the airline due to a technical issue with the aircraft. The airline told Mr G that
his rearranged flight would depart on 24 December 2021 and arranged overnight
accommodation for him.
Mr G returned to the airport on 24 December 2021, but his flight didnt materialise. Mr G
says that ground crew at the airport told him that he should go back to the
accommodation the airline had provided for the night before and return to the airport the
next day - 25 December 2021. Mr G says that he tried to contact the airline by phone but
couldnt get through. He says that he didnt receive any information from the airline about
a rearranged flight at that stage.
Mr G presumed that the airline had cancelled his rearranged return flight and, in the
absence of any information about the airline rearranging the flight again, he booked two
flights with other airlines in order to return home. The first flight departed late on
24 December 2021. He arrived home on 25 December 2021. Whilst Mr G was travelling
on 25 December 2021, the original airline sent him an email saying that his rearranged
return flight would leave on 25 December 2021. That was obviously too late for Mr G, as
he was already returning home when he received the airlines e-mail. 
Mr G made a claim against his policy in relation to the additional flight costs he incurred. IPA
declined the claim. It said that whilst the policy provided a benefit where the delayed
departure is at least 12 hours, it doesnt cover additional costs. And it relied on an exclusion
in the policy which said that it wouldnt cover claims where the public transport operator  the
airline in this case  had offered reasonable alternative arrangements.
Mr G didnt think that was fair. He said that when the rearranged flight on
24 December 2021 didnt materialise, he reasonably assumed that it was cancelled. As
he didnt have any official confirmation from the airline about a second replacement
flight, he arranged alternative flights home. Mr G says that the policy terms arent clear.
He wants IPA to reimburse the cost of his additional flights and to make the policy terms
clearer.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that IPA acted
unfairly in declining Mr Gs claim. The investigator said that IPA was entitled to rely on
the exclusion in the policy to which it had referred. She said that the policy terms are
clear, read in conjunction with the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID).
Mr G didnt agree with the investigator. He said that the airline didnt offer suitable
alternative transport. Mr G said that he read the terms of the policy, not the IPID, when
he decided to buy additional return flights.
The investigator considered what Mr G said but didnt change her view. Mr G asked that
an ombudsman consider his complaint, so it was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
On 6 October 2022, I sent both parties my provisional decision in this case. I indicated 
that I intended to uphold the complaint. I said:
the relevant terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which
say as follows:
Section G  Delayed departure
[]
What is covered
If you have arrived at the terminal and have checked in, or attempted to check in for
your prebooked flight [] from or to the United Kingdom, [] and it is:
1. Delayed for more than 12 hours beyond the intended departure time.
2. Is cancelled before or after the scheduled time of departure as a result of any of the
following events:
[]
c. Mechanical breakdown of or a technical fault occurring in the public
transport on which you are booked to travel.
We will pay you:
£20 for the first completed 12 hours delay and £20 for each full 12 hours delay 
after that, up to a maximum of £100 (which is meant to help you pay for telephone 
calls made and meals and refreshments purchased during the delay) provided 
you eventually travel.
Up to £2,000 for any irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation costs 
and other pre-paid charges which you have paid or are contracted to pay, if:
a. After a delay of at least 12 hours.
b. Following cancellation, no suitable alternative public transport is provided 
within 12 hours of the scheduled time of departure.
You choose to cancel your trip before departure from the United Kingdom [].
Important  note
You can only claim under subsection 1. or 2. above for the same event, not both.
You can only claim under one of either Section G - Delayed departure, Section H - 
Missed departure or Section P - Travel disruption cover for the same event.What is not covered
[]
For subsection 2. only of What is 
covered: []
g. Any travel  and accommodation  costs,  charges  and expenses  where  the public
transport  operator  has offered  reasonable  alternative  arrangements.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that IPA has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
I intend to uphold Mr Gs complaint as I dont think that IPA acted fairly and reasonably 
in declining the claim. In order to put things right, IPA should deal with the claim under 
the remaining terms of the policy but that doesnt mean that its obliged to reimburse    
Mr Gs additional flight costs. Ill explain why:
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that the 
claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. If the event is 
covered in principle but is declined on the basis of an exclusion set out in the 
policy the onus shifts to the insurer to show how that exclusion applies.
Mr Gs original return flight was for 23 December 2021. The airline rearranged that 
flight for 24 December 2021, but that flight didnt materialise. The airline 
rearranged the flight again for 25 December 2021. So, Mr Gs flight was delayed 
for more than 12 hours beyond the intended departure time, which is covered 
under the delayed departure provisions of the policy. In these circumstances, the 
policy provides that IPA will pay £20 for the first 12 hours delay and £20 for each 
full 12 hours after that, up to a maximum of £100, subject to the policy terms.
In the particular circumstances here, I think it was reasonable for Mr G to assume 
that his rearranged flight on 24 December 2021 had been cancelled  that flight 
didnt materialise and there was no information immediately available from the 
airline about a replacement flight. Mr G says that airport ground staff told him to go 
back to the hotel the airline had arranged for the night before and return to the 
airport the next day. But there was nothing to indicate at that stage that the airline 
had arranged accommodation for an extra night or that it had rearranged the flight 
for a second time. Based on what Ive seen, it wasnt until 25 December 2021 that 
the airline told Mr G that it had rearranged the flight for a second time.
The policy provides up to £2,000 for irrecoverable, unused travel and 
accommodation costs and other pre-paid charges in certain circumstances if the 
trip is abandoned, that is, if the trip is cancelled before departure from the UK. I 
agree with Mr G that its sufficient for him to look at the policy terms and conditions, 
rather than look at them in conjunction with the IPID. Mr G says that this part of the 
policy isnt clear but Im afraid I dont agree. I dont think that IPA was at fault in 
declining to settle Mr Gs claim for his additional flight costs for two reasons. Mr G 
didnt cancel his trip before departure from the UK. And Mr Gs additional flight 
costs arent unused travel costs or pre-paid charges, they are additional costs.IPA relies on an exclusion in the policy as it says that the airline offered reasonable 
alternative travel arrangements. But the exclusion on which IPA seeks to rely only 
applies to subsection 2 of What is covered (cancellation for certain specified 
reasons), not subsection 1 (delay for more than 12 hours beyond the intended 
departure time). So, I dont think that IPA acted fairly in relying on that exclusion to 
decline Mr Gs claim.
Ive looked at the policy as a whole. Section H  Missed departure doesnt 
assist Mr G, as it only covers failure to arrive at a departure point for certain 
specified reasons. Section P  Travel disruption cover only applies if indicated 
in the policy schedule, which isnt the case here.
For the reasons Ive explained, I intend to uphold Mr Gs complaint and direct IPA 
to deal with Mr Gs claim under the delayed departure provisions, as indicated 
above, subject to the policy terms. I think its reasonable for IPA to calculate the 
period of Mr Gs delay up to the time of departure of the additional flight he bought 
to begin his return journey. As Mr G has been kept out of the use of that money, 
IPA should also pay  interest.
Putting things right
In order to put things right, IPA should deal with Mr Gs claim under the delayed 
departure provisions, as indicated above, subject to the policy terms and conditions. It 
should also pay Mr G interest on the amount of the settlement at the simple rate of 8%
per year, from the date he made his claim to the date it makes the payment.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr G said that he had no further comment. IPA said that, in addition to the payment of 
£20 it sent to Mr G in May 2022, a further payment of £22.51 was being arranged. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mr G nor IPA have made any substantive response to my provisional decision. I see 
no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached previously. For the reasons Ive 
explained, I uphold Mr Gs complaint.  
Putting things right
In order to put things right IPA should deal with Mr Gs claim under the delayed 
departure provisions, as indicated above, subject to the policy terms and conditions. It 
should also pay Mr G interest on the amount of the settlement at the simple rate of 8% 
per year, from the date he made his claim to the date it makes the payment. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint. Inter Partner Assistance SA should now 
take the steps set out above if it has not already done so. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman