DRN-3050693
The complaint
Mr W complains that Integrated Financial Arrangements LTD, referred to as the business, 
failed to carry out his instructions to encash his Transact portfolio. 
What happened
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Hes unable to say that the business made a mistake in processing Mr Ws 
instructions to encash. 
He cant say that the business failed to act in accordance with its terms and 
conditions and/or order execution policy. 
Having listened to the call between Mr Ws adviser and the business, hes satisfied 
that: 
oThe instructions to encash were received between 10:43am and 10:45am, on 
6 March 2020.
oConsequently, the trades were aggregated and placed for bulk trade after 
2pm in line with the business terms and conditions.  
oThe adviser asked Transact whether the portfolio would be moved to cash at 
1pm. In response the adviser was informed that the sales would be batched 
at 2pm and submitted to the fund managers for the next dealing point. 
The portfolio used the forward pricing mechanism and the relevant terms and 
conditions state:
oWe:
Aggregate purchase Client Orders received by us prior to 1pm on any 
business day;
Aggregate sale Client Orders received by us prior to 1pm on any business 
day;
And
Place aggregated Orders from 2pm until such Orders are executed within 
business hours on that business day.
Each fund within the portfolio has a valuation point, at which point the fund manager 
calculates the prices for buying and selling. The time for valuation varies from fund to 
fund but is generally once a day. 
For example: 
oMr Ws investment in Lazard Emerging Markets had a valuation point of 
9pm. As the instructions were received by the fund manager before this time, 
the fund was settled on that date. 
oIn contrast, Mr Ws investment in VT Active Portfolio Overlay had a valuation 
point of 12pm. As the instructions were sent after this time, at 2pm, it was 
settled the next available point which was at 12pm the next business day.  
When trading a forward price fund, the price will not usually be known until the deal is 
completed. So, when Mr W and his adviser looked at the prices online on 6 March 
2020 they wouldve seen the closing prices for 5 March 2020.  
Overall, hes seen nothing to suggest that the money Mr W received upon 
encashment was incorrect or that the business processed his request contrary to its 
terms and conditions. 
Mr W disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, he said:
Two previous payments made to him were not  as suggested by the investigator  
for the time lapse for investing his funds, but for the fact that he got paid less than 
what was showing on the screen at the time much like this incident. 
The first was paid by the adviser out of his own pocket and the second was paid by 
Tatton after he raised concerns. 
His adviser didnt invest the money as instructed, and when he asked for his money 
back, the adviser told him that the money was invested.  
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr W says, Im unable to safely say the 
business (as the provider) behaved unreasonably in this case.  
Before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mr Ws strength of feeling about this matter. He has provided submissions to 
support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont 
take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as 
much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My 
role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr W and the business, and reach what I think 
is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, 
based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr W says, Im satisfied that on 6 
March 2020 the business did what it was asked to do by Mr Ws adviser. 
Im broadly satisfied that the business carried out the instructions  to encash Mr Ws 
Transact portfolio as a matter of urgency  and that it did so in line with its terms and 
conditions using the forward pricing process.   
I note the business says that the adviser previously signed documentation (dated 30 January 
2018) to confirm that he had provided Mr W with the terms and conditions and that Mr W 
also signed a declaration (on the same date) to confirm receipt. So, if Mr W and/or his 
adviser failed to read the key documentation  setting out the business terms and conditions 
 its not something I can blame the business for. On balance, Im satisfied that the instructions  received around 10:45am on 6 March 2020  
were promptly actioned by the business, by aggregating (bulking together) the trades and 
placing them  with the respective fund managers  for bulk trade from 2pm onwards, in line 
with its usual process. In the circumstances I cant say the business has behaved 
unreasonably.
Based on what the business says, I understand that a fund manager can collect trades (to 
buy and sell) throughout the day, however there is only one trading time known as the 
dealing or valuation point. I note that an individual fund manager determines the valuation 
point for its particular fund, and that this isnt something that the business has control over. 
I acknowledge that Mr Ws adviser made clear that Mr W was desperate to sell down today 
and had a desire to move to cash at 1pm. But despite what he wanted the business gave 
no guarantee that this would be the case. In other words, Ive seen nothing to suggest that 
Mr W and/or his adviser was told or led to believe that this would be the case.  
On the contrary, I note the business made clear to the adviser that providing his instructions 
were provided before 1pm, Mr Ws order will be batched up by 2pm and hed get the next 
available dealing point for the relevant fund. I cant say that this statement was misleading 
or inaccurate. 
I note that the adviser commented as far as Im concerned now he will move to cash at 
1pm, but the business again made clear that it will be batched up at 2pm and will be 
submitted to the relevant fund managers to go through at the next dealing point.   
In my opinion, despite what the adviser said, the business made reasonably clear that Mr W 
was unlikely to be able move his funds to cash by 1pm as desired, and that as a 
consequence he might not be able to sell all his holdings on 6 March 2020. 
In the circumstances, and on balance, I dont think that the advisers comment ought 
reasonably to have prompted the business to explain the process of forward pricing or 
valuations points. I note the phone operative was merely assisting the adviser to go through 
the process online and I cant safely say that the business has done anything wrong 
because he didnt refer to forward pricing or identify the valuation point. Im also mindful that 
the business operates on an execution only policy basis and therefore isnt obliged to offer 
advice. 
Given the encashment process, even if things couldve moved quicker  which I dont think 
was possible  it was still, on balance, unlikely that Mr Ws investment would move to cash 
by 1pm that day.
Im mindful that in response to questions by the investigator, the business said:
There was no value quoted to either Mr W or the adviser (name anonymised) on 6 March 
2020 and it was clearly detailed on the trading screens that calculations are based on the 
most recent closing prices that we have, usually from the day before.
In any event, we do not believe that providing further information during our telephone call 
would have made any difference to the outcome.
In the circumstances, and on balance, I cant say that this is an unreasonable conclusion.  
I appreciate Mr W will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I 
appreciate his frustration, Im not persuaded to require the business to do anything. In other words, on the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold 
this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman