DRN-4220370
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) closed his account 
without notice leaving him in a position where he couldnt pay his bills. He is also unhappy 
with the service Halifax provided  specifically during phone calls he had with it. 
 
What happened
Mr M held an account with Halifax. Mr Ms account was in unarranged overdraft and on 30 
December Halifax sent Mr M notice by text message and letter that it was going to close his 
account in two months time.
Mr M complained to Halifax about this. Halifax didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. It says 
following review of his account a decision was made to close his account and that as it 
provided him with the two months notice required no error had been made.
Mr M was unhappy with this so brought his complaint to this service. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ms concerns and reached the conclusion that Halifax 
was entitled to close Mr Ms accounts in line with the terms and conditions of the account 
and hadnt treated Mr M unfairly when deciding to close his accounts or during the calls Mr 
M had with Halifax regarding this. 
Mr M disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, to be clear my decision only relates to the current account Mr M held with Halifax. 
My role is to look at the problems Mr M has experienced and see if Halifax has done 
anything wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr M back in the position he 
wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award compensation that I 
think is fair and reasonable.
As has already been explained by our adjudicator as a general rule Halifax isnt obliged to 
continue offering an account to a customer if it doesnt want to  providing banking facilities 
and to who is a commercial decision and not something for me to get involved with.
That being said it wouldnt be fair for Halifax to close Mr Ms account outside the terms and 
conditions of the account or without reasonable notice.
The terms and conditions of the account say that Halifax is able to close an account 
provided it gives two months notice. 
I can see that Halifax gave the required notice on 30 December by text message and letter 
explaining that his accounts would be closed in two months time. So Im satisfied Halifax 
was entitled to close Mr Ms account in line with the terms and conditions and that no error or 
mistake has been made. 
I accept that Mr M has told us that he didnt receive the text or letter from Halifax and that is 
unfortunate. But I can see from Halifaxs internal screen shots that the number and the 
address Halifax used are the ones Mr M had supplied and that the text was marked as 
delivered. And as I havent been given any reason why Mr M might not have received either 
of these communications  I cant say Halifax is at fault for Mr M not receiving notice of his 
account closure or that it treated Mr M unfairly.
I appreciate that this has caused some distress to Mr M as finding a new account to host his 
funds will be an inconvenience and Mr M would like to know why Halifax made the decision 
to close his account. But Halifax arent obliged to keep offering banking facilities or provide a 
reason for the commercial decisions it takes, just as Mr M wouldnt be expected to say why 
he chose a particular business to bank with. 
But that said Im satisfied from what Ive seen that Halifaxs decision to close Mr Ms account 
wasnt unreasonable - Mr M wasnt managing his account as well as it expected and it felt 
this was a potential risk to its business.  And in Mr Ms case Halifax has provided him with 
the requisite notice of the account closure. So, I dont think it has done anything wrong or 
treated Mr M unfairly and it follows that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M is also unhappy at the service he received from Halifax regarding this  in particular 
over the phone. But from the phones calls Ive listened to I cant say Halifax has done 
anything wrong. The advisers have been patient and tried to provide all the answers to Mr 
Ms questions. He might not have liked what he heard but that doesnt mean Halifax has 
treated him unfairly.
So it follows that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman