DRN-4390822
The complaint
Miss C complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner
Finance (BPF) didnt deal fairly with her claims under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA)
in relation to her purchase of a timeshare and that it had failed to check if she could afford
the finance.
Miss C is represented by a legal representative, but Ill refer to anything thats been said on
their behalf as if Miss C had said it herself.
What happened
Miss C says that in 2009 she was invited to attend a presentation and having done so was
then provided with a free weekend abroad which she took in September 2009. By taking this
holiday, she also agreed to attend a presentation which turned out to be a sales pitch for a
timeshare product.
Miss C says this presentation was much longer than the original one shed attended and that
during the sales pitch the salesperson misrepresented the timeshare by telling her there
would be no issue with availability of accommodation, that it was an investment and that, if
she bought it today, she would get a discounted rate. Miss C also says she wasnt given long
enough to look at the documents and increases in the maintenance fees werent properly
explained.
Miss C agreed to enter into the contract for the timeshare and financed this with a fixed sum
loan via BPF. The loan was for 180-months. Miss C says there were no affordability or credit
checks carried out by BPF to check she could repay the credit agreement.
Miss C says that, due to difficulties booking the holiday accommodation, she stopped using
the timeshare after June 2010. She continued to repay the loan amount and also to pay the
maintenance fees.
In January 2019 Miss C made a complaint about the sale of the timeshare to BPF. She also
raised claims under sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
BPF didnt uphold her claims. It said that in regard to any claim under Section 75 for
misrepresentation or breach of contract this was now out of time. BPF also said that it hadnt
seen sufficient evidence to find that there had been an unfair relationship between Miss C
and the holiday company that had provided the timeshare.
Miss C was unhappy at BPFs response and so complained to this service. She said she had
been subjected to an aggressive selling technique and had signed up to a contract for a
timeshare that was for 58 years which hadnt been explained to her. Miss C says there were
misrepresentations made such as the availability of accommodation and that the resorts
would be exclusive when they werent. She also says there were no checks undertaken by
BPF that she could afford the loan.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Miss Cs complaint should be upheld. She said that
she agreed with BPF that it would have a defence to a misrepresentation claim due to the
amount of time that had passed.
Our investigator also said that on the information she had seen she didnt think that the
contractual terms were so problematic as to be unfair in themselves; that Miss C hadnt
agreed to the purchase without knowing something that was important to that decision and
that the business conduct hadnt fallen so far short of what would reasonably be expected
that it made the relationship between Miss C and BPF unfair.
In regard to Miss Cs complaint that BPF hadnt carried out affordability checks, our 
investigator said that under the Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP), rule 2.8.2R(2) says that we
cant look at a complaint thats made more than six years after the event being complained
about  or (if later) more than three years after the complainant was aware, or ought to have
been aware of the cause for complaint. She said this complaint was now out of time.
Miss C disagreed with the view of our investigator. She asked that I consider a 46-page
opinion from a barrister covering a number of generic submissions as she said the
relationship between herself and the holiday company that had supplied the timeshare was
unfair. 
I issued a provisional decision along the following lines. 
As Ive said above, Miss C had submitted an opinion by a barrister called Generic 
submissions on behalf of complainants. As Miss C suggested that the opinion was relevant 
to this complaint, I took it into account but only insofar as it discussed points that were of 
direct relevance to what has been raised by Miss C.
Under the rules that govern how I consider and decide complaints, I must take account of
law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice and
good industry practice. I must also focus on what I think is material and relevant to reach a
fair and reasonable outcome. So, although I have read everything that has been said and
provided, I might not have addressed every point that had been raised.
Miss Cs Section 75 claim
Section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act sets out that a consumer who has a claim for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions,
bring that claim against a credit provider. Those conditions include that the goods or services
bought cost more than £100 and less than £30,000 and that the credit financed the contract
giving rise to the claim, either in whole or in part.
A claim under Section 75 is a legal claim and Id seen that BPF had said that a complaint
about misrepresentation would now be out of time under the Limitation Act 1980. In order to 
find that a misrepresentation had occurred, there must be enough evidence that a false 
statement of fact had been made and that it was this false statement which had induced the
consumer to enter into the agreement. I didnt know what had been actually said during the
meeting between Miss C and the holiday company when the purchase was made. Miss C
had said it was a pressured sale, and I would accept that a sales representative would
prioritise the positives of the product they were selling, but that didnt necessarily mean this
would amount to a false statement of fact.
However, there is a time limit for bringing actions for misrepresentation which is set out by
the Limitation Act 1980. This act sets out that the time limit for a misrepresentation claim
(whether under Section 2 or Section 9 of the Limitation Act) is six years from the date on
which the cause of action accrued (which is when everything needed to make a claim had
occurred). As Miss C would have suffered a loss at the point she had entered into an
agreement based on an alleged misrepresentation, her cause of action would have arisen in September 2009, at the point she had signed the agreement. Miss C would therefore have 
had six years from then to bring a misrepresentation claim against either the holiday 
company or BPF. As set out above, no claim regarding misrepresentation had been made to 
BPF until 2019 so around 10 years later, which was outside of the time limits set out in the 
Limitation Act.
I therefore thought that BPF was likely to have a defence to Miss Cs Section 75 claim for
misrepresentation under the Limitation Act 1980.
Miss Cs Section 140A claim
Although, as set out above, I thought a claim for misrepresentation would have been caught 
by the Limitation Act, I also considered what Miss C said she had been told about the 
timeshare by the holiday operator when assessing unfairness under Section 140A.
Miss C said that there had been an unfair relationship between herself and BPF due the 
actions of the holiday company that supplied the timeshare. She had raised that there had 
been a pressured selling technique; that she hadnt been able to concentrate on the 
paperwork, that there had been no disclosure statement or, if there was, there hadnt been 
sufficient time to review it and the fees were unclear and unfair. She had raised The Unfair 
Terms Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999 and Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading 
Regulations 2008. Only a court has the power to decide whether there was an unfair 
relationship between Miss C and BPF for the purpose of section 140A. But, as it was 
relevant law, I needed to consider it along with what I thought a court was likely to conclude.
Miss C said she was subjected to a pressured/aggressive sales technique and that the
presentation lasted all morning unlike the first presentation she had attended in the UK
around two years ago. But I hadnt seen sufficient information to suggest that Miss C hadnt
understood that she didnt have to say yes to the agreement and that she could walk away.
Miss C said she wasnt given sufficient time to look at the terms and conditions of the
agreement, but Id seen that there was a 14-day cooling off period provided which was 
clearly set out. Id also seen that Miss C appeared to say she was aware of that in one of the 
submissions she had made to this service. So, even if she hadnt been given sufficient time 
to think about the purchase before she had signed the agreement, she had a window in 
which she could have reflected upon it and cancelled it if she had changed her mind.
I also thought the agreement had set out that the product wasnt an investment, and no 
resale programme was operated by the supplier. It also provided the rate of interest that was 
being charged.
Miss C had raised the duration of the timeshare, which was to end in 2067, so the contract
wasnt in perpetuity. The membership term was set out in the contract, so I thought it was
reasonable to think she had been able to consider whether this was something she had 
wanted. Further, in some circumstances members may be able to relinquish their 
membership early and although Miss C had ceased using the timeshare in 2010, I hadnt 
seen any evidence that she had tried to do this.
Miss C had stopped using the timeshare less than a year after acquiring it, and, looking at 
the time scale, I didnt think it would be reasonable to say this had been as a direct result of
repeatedly not being able to book a holiday. I hadnt seen sufficient evidence to say she
had been misled as to the availability of holiday accommodation.
Miss C also had concerns about the lack of transparency when it came to the terms and
conditions governing the ongoing costs of membership. But I couldnt see that the terms in
question had been operated unfairly by the supplier. So, even if there had been problems with the way in which the terms were written and/or presented, I wasnt persuaded they had 
caused or contributed to an unfair relationship between her and BPF.
Overall, therefore, on balance, I wasnt persuaded that there was sufficient evidence to show
that it would be likely a court would find there was an unfair relationship as set out in s 140A.
The Lending Decision
Miss C said that she didnt believe any credit or affordability checks had been carried out 
prior to her taking out the fixed sum loan. Our investigator said that, under our DISP rules, 
this part of Miss Cs complaint was out of jurisdiction because it had been made too late.
However, looking at the second limb of DISP 2.8.2 (when Miss C knew, or ought reasonably
to have known, that she had cause for complaint), it was suggested that she had first 
became aware that she had cause for complaint in 2019 when she had sought professional 
advice. And under DISP 2.8.2R (2)(b), this may mean that she had three years from 2019 to 
complain.
If the loan had been unaffordable, I thought I would expect Miss C to have realised this much
earlier, but I accepted this isnt the same as her knowing she had cause for complaint 
against BPF. And as I couldnt be certain that Miss C knew (or ought reasonably to have 
known) that she had cause for complaint against BPF regarding affordability before she took 
advice in 2019, I thought she had brought this part of her complaint to us within three years 
of that and so I had gone on to consider this.
I didnt know what financial information had been gathered by BPF before it had decided the 
loan was affordable for Miss C. Miss C had provided bank statements for one account 
covering the three months prior to the date the loan was agreed. Looking at these, it was 
unclear what Miss Cs actual income had been at that time, as there were occasional large 
lump sums moved in and out of the account as well as a regular monthly income of £2,182 
being paid on the same date each month. There were also smaller amounts being paid in on 
an ad hoc basis. Her regular outgoings were also unclear. It appeared from these 
statements that Miss C had access to other accounts. I wasnt able to reasonably say these 
bank statements had set out a clear picture of Miss Cs income and outgoings at the time the 
loan had been provided to her.
As Miss Cs account had been in overdraft for the majority of this three-month period, I would
have expected BPF to have queried her finances before providing the loan. Without any 
information about those enquiries, I didnt think I could reasonably say that I was satisfied 
that BPF had completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss C 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way. But just because such checks hadnt 
been carried out, didnt mean the loan was unaffordable as I still needed to consider that if 
BPF had been carried out these checks, what they would have shown.
I hadnt seen any evidence as to Miss Cs financial circumstances once she had taken out
the loan. Id seen she had said it wasnt easy to make payments at the start, though after
she had paid off her credit card debt, she said the payments had become easier. So, I 
thought it was reasonable to consider that Miss C had been able to manage her credit 
repayments. Id also seen she hadnt defaulted on the loan repayments and had made each 
payment when due. She had also paid the annual maintenance fees. I didnt think that being 
in overdraft for a period of time was enough on its own to say the loan hadnt been 
affordable.
So, although I didnt think BPF had carried out proportionate enquiries as to affordability I 
hadnt seen anything to persuade me that if they had they would have found the loan wasntsustainably affordable for Miss C. And I didnt think this was a reason to uphold this 
complaint given its circumstances.
So, for the reasons set out above, I didnt currently think Miss Cs complaint should be
upheld.
Miss C hasnt asked me to re-consider any parts of my provisional decision however BPF 
has said that Miss C ought to have been reasonably aware she had cause to complain when 
she knew the loan had become unaffordable and not when she was advised she could bring 
that complaint against BPF.
BPF says the loan agreement provided Miss C with details of how to make a complaint to 
BPF and she knew it was the provider of the loan when she had entered into it and so it was
reasonable that she would have understood she could bring a complaint about the loan to 
BPF from the moment she had entered into it
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked again at the evidence provided for this complaint and I havent changed my 
view. I still think BPF had a defence under The Limitation Act 1980 to Miss Cs section 75 
claim in respect of the timeshare. And I also think there wasnt enough evidence to show 
there had been an unfair relationship between Miss C and BPF.
In regard to the affordability, Im still satisfied that on balance Miss C was able to raise this 
part of her complaint under DISP 2.8.2R (2)(b), meaning she had three years from 2019 to 
complain. Despite what BPF has said, I dont think I can reasonably say Miss C would have 
known she could make a complaint about the loan being unaffordable until she had been 
advised she could. 
However, as set out above, although I think Miss C was able to make a complaint about the 
loans affordability and I didnt think that BPF had made proportionate enquiries when it was 
considering providing the loan to her, Im not upholding that part of Miss Cs complaint. 
Thats because I hadnt seen clear financial information from Miss C which showed the loan 
wasnt sustainably affordable for her at the time, she took it out and that position hasnt 
changed.
So, for the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Miss Cs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given Im not upholding Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman