DRN-3203316
The complaint
Mr L is complaining about Provident Personal Credit Limited (Provident) declining his card 
payments. Hes also complaining that they paid the agreed compensation by cheque instead 
of bank transfer.
 
What happened
Mr L called Provident to make a payment to his loan, but the payment didnt go through. 
Provident told him to contact his bank to check he had enough money for the payment.
Mr L checked with his bank and says he did have enough money in his account. He also 
tried to pay with a card from a different bank but it didnt go through.
 
Mr L complained to Provident and they told him the payments hadnt gone through because 
he didnt have enough money in his bank account.
Our investigator reviewed Mr Ls complaint. She said Provident had given him the wrong 
information about why his payment didnt go through. She thought it was more likely the 
payments were declined because the card details werent recorded correctly.
She asked Provident to pay Mr L £30 for the inconvenience of being told the wrong 
information. She said Provident should use some of the payment to clear the arrears that 
had built up while Mr L couldnt make a payment. The rest of the compensation would be 
paid directly to Mr L.
Mr L accepted the investigators view. Provident sent him a letter saying £30 had been used 
to reduce his arrears. But Mr L was expecting the rest of the money to be paid to him.
Mr L spoke to our investigator, and she contacted Provident. Provident said they would use 
£8 to clear the arrears and would pay the rest to Mr L. The investigator asked Mr L for his 
bank details and gave these to Provident.
Provident sent Mr L a cheque for £22. But Mr L said he was expecting a bank transfer. He 
also said hed been expecting Provident to call him but they didnt. 
Mr L complained to Provident. They told him to come back to our service.
Another investigator looked at Mr Ls complaint. She told him she didnt think Provident had 
done anything wrong. But Mr L disagreed. So his complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr L. But I think the compensation Provident have already paid is fair. 
Ill explain why.
Providents records dont show why Mr Ls payments didnt go through. So they shouldnt 
have told him it was because he didnt have enough money in his accounts. I think Provident 
could have checked Mr Ls card details were correct, instead of referring him to his bank.
Because of this, the investigator asked Provident to pay Mr L £30, and they agreed. Mr L 
accepted £30 to resolve his complaint. I think £30 is fair and reflects the inconvenience 
caused to Mr L.
Mr Ls unhappy with how Provident paid the £30 to him. Our investigator asked Mr L for his 
bank details. So I can understand why hed expect a bank transfer. 
Provident told our investigator they would be sending Mr L a cheque because they were 
unable to pay by bank transfer. Im sorry this wasnt passed on to Mr L. I can understand 
why a bank transfer would have been easier for him. But I dont think Provident have done 
anything wrong by sending him a cheque.
Mr L also says Provident didnt call him when they said they would. Provident say they tried 
to call him twice but couldnt get through. So I dont think it would be fair for Provident to pay 
any more compensation for this.
 
Overall I dont think Provident have treated Mr L unfairly. Hes now received the 
compensation he agreed to. So Im not going to ask Provident to do anything else.
   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint. But Provident Personal Credit Limited 
dont need to do anything else because theyve already paid Mr L fair compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman