DRN-4483838
The complaint
Mr B complains that INTERESTME FINANCIAL PLANNING LIMITED advised him to 
transfer the funds held within his personal pension plan (PPP) into a Self-Invested Pension 
Plan (SIPP). Mr B says he suffered a financial loss as a result of InterestMes advice. 
What happened
On 14 November 2023, I issued a provisional decision about this complaint. In it, I set out 
the background to this complaint as follows:
In 2018, InterestMe Financial Planning, advised Mr B to transfer the funds held within his 
(PPP) into a SIPP provided by a different pension provider. InterestMe recorded the 
following information: 
Mr B was 54 years old, married and employed, earning around £2,500 a month.
Mr Bs PPP was worth around £23,600, the PPP did not allow drawdowns and its 
annual charge was 1%.
InterestMe noted Mr B had a company pension and would like an income of around 
£2,000 per month when he retired at age 67, and would be reliant on the income 
from the funds to be transferred into the SIPP.
Half of Mr Bs funds held within the PPP were invested in a with profits fund that had 
performed below market expectations in the previous five years. The other half of 
Mr Bs funds were invested in a fund strategy that held a pre-determined range of his 
overall investment in equities and fixed-interest securities, regardless of market 
conditions. Mr Bs PPP offered a choice of only two alternative funds. 
Mr B had a medium attitude to risk and InterestMe did not think the balance of funds 
held within his PPP were aligned to his attitude to risk.
Mr B was interested in potentially higher returns from a discretionary fund manager 
(DFM), which could employ a more flexible investment strategy than a traditional 
with profits pension fund. 
InterestMe advised Mr B to invest the funds to be transferred into his SIPP into the 
InterestMe Core Total Return Balanced Portfolio because of the opportunity for 
higher investment growth.
The charges to be applied as a result of the advice and transfer were:
Initial Advisor fee  3%, equating to £707.00.
£150 annual SIPP administration (pension wrapper) fee.
Annual DFM investment charges of around 0.9%.
0.75% annual ongoing adviser charge equating to around £170 for the first 13 years, 
taking Mr B to his anticipated retirement age.
InterestMe acknowledged the fees for the new arrangement was higher than the charges
applied through Mr Bs PPP, but that the extra growth Mr B could expect outweighed this.
The transfer went ahead in April 2018. A few months later, in October 2018, InterestMe 
advised Mr B on the process of accessing tax-free cash from his pension to fund home 
improvements. He withdrew around £5,700, and incurred a charge of £145.00 plus VAT. 
Around this time, InterestMe recommended Mr B switch his funds into the InterestMe 
Wealth Balanced Portfolio, which carried the same DFM investment charge of 0.9%.
By August 2019, Mr Bs pension was worth around £16,900. By 14 January 2021, Mr Bs 
pension was worth £17,682. He made a further withdrawal worth around £6,250 from his 
pension in May 2021. By February 2022, the value of Mr Bs pension had fallen to 
£11,372.93. Through his representative, Mr B complained InterestMes advice to transfer his 
PPP into a SIPP was unsuitable. He said InterestMe promised his funds would grow at a 
greater rate within the SIPP. Mr B complained InterestMe did not adequately assess his 
attitude to risk or his capacity to risk his funds. He also said InterestMe failed to explain the 
high costs and charges involved in the SIPP. 
InterestMe said that, after speaking to Mr B directly, it thought he had withdrawn his 
complaint and did not issue a final response to it. However, Mr B referred his complaint to 
our Service to review through a professional representative and clarified he wanted our 
Service to consider it. One of our Investigators reviewed Mr Bs complaint but did not uphold 
it. In summary, he said: 
InterestMe was sufficiently clear the SIPP would cost more than remaining with 
Mr Bs original pension provider and was likely to cost more than transferring his 
funds to a Stakeholder pension with a different provider.
The potential for greater returns on the funds held within a SIPP was consistent with 
Mr Bs desire for investment growth and there was no evidence to show Mr Bs 
capacity for financial loss was affected by the transfer.
The funds InterestMe recommended Mr B invest in were aligned to his risk appetite.
Whilst Mr Bs pension had not performed as he had hoped, this did not make 
InterestMes advice to transfer his pension into the SIPP unsuitable. 
Mr B withdrew around half the transfer value of his SIPP within the first three years, 
reducing the potential for his remaining funds to grow. 
When InterestMe reviewed Mr Bs risk appetite in 2022, his appetite to risk was 
reduced  reducing further the original growth anticipated at the time of the advice to 
transfer.
Mr B, through his representative, did not accept our Investigators opinion but did not give 
any reasons. So, this has come to me for a decision.
I went on to set out my provisional decision about Mr Bs complaint and what I thought 
InterestMe should do to put things right. In summary, I thought InterestMes advice to 
transfer Mr Bs PPP into his SIPP with a Discretionary Fund Manager was unsuitable for 
Mr B. I went on to set out what I thought InterestMe should do to put things right.Mr B accepted my provisional decision, but InterestMe did not respond. So, this has come 
back to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B accepted my provisional decision and InterestMe did not respond with any further 
comments for me to consider. So, I see no reason to depart from the findings and 
recommendation set out in my provisional decision, which I will set out here.
I agree with our Investigator that InterestMes advice to transfer Mr Bs existing PPP into his 
SIPP was suitable. However, I dont agree that its advice to invest in balanced funds via a 
DFM was suitable. Ill explain why.
Ive considered the features of Mr Bs existing PPP and how they compared with Mr Bs 
objectives and needs going forwards.
Its clear Mr B was interested in growing his pension, so I think ensuring the wrapper 
charges were kept to a minimum would help him to achieve this.
The suitability report recorded the SIPPs charges were lower than the PPPs charges  the 
SIPP had a wrapper charge of £150 per year. This compares with the 1% charge Mr B was 
paying for his existing arrangement without an ongoing advice fee, so Mr Bs previous PPP 
was significantly more expensive. Through the new arrangement, Mr B would incur the cost 
of ongoing advice but I dont think this was unreasonable, given he sought out advice and 
wanted to grow his pot. He took advantage of InterestMes annual reviews and it transacted 
drawdowns for him  and I think it is likely Mr B would have chosen to receive ongoing 
advice had he transferred to another product, given I think it his existing pension was 
unsuitable.
As Mr B wanted to grow his pension, I think having a range of investment choices available 
would help him achieve this. From the information available, it seems Mr Bs existing PPP 
had limited fund choices and its performance was not in line with market expectations. 
Whereas if Mr B transferred his pension to a SIPP, he would have a much wider range of 
investment choices. So, I think this wouldve met his needs. It also seems to me that Mr B 
would likely want some flexibility in his pension arrangements. For example, having the 
option of taking tax-free cash and leaving the remaining funds invested. Mr Bs PPP did not 
offer any flexibility to drawdown income (which Mr B went on to do within a year of 
transferring his pension).
So, overall, I think InterestMe should have advised Mr B to transfer into the SIPP, because it 
provided him with flexibility, a wider choice of investments and cheaper running costs than 
his existing PPP. But I dont think it should have advised him to invest in funds in line with a 
low to medium risk appetite or opt for a DFM.
The cost of the DFM, at 0.9%, made Mr Bs new arrangement significantly more expensive 
than his previous one. InterestMe said the DFM charge was justified as there was greater 
potential for investment growth. The suitability report set out the projected growth rate of 
Mr Bs funds was far higher in the SIPP than his existing PPP  Ive considered whether 
those projections were reasonable.
InterestMe recommended Mr B invest in the Core Total Return Balanced Portfolio provided 
by InterestMe Wealth which had a one year return of 8.23%. However, as InterestMe Wealth had only been running the fund for one year, it had simulated a five year performance 
estimate of 11.69%. This would understandably seem very attractive to Mr B. But I do not 
think it was fair or reasonable to base a long-term projection on a single year of fund 
performance, particularly when the projection was more than double the annualised growth 
rate shown on the fact find. I do not think the projected growth figures quoted in the 
suitability report gave a realistic picture of how his SIPP would perform with a DFM. And 
whilst the potential for higher growth was the main driver for Mr B switching his pension, I do 
not think the figures used to justify the recommendation of a DFM were justified. 
Mr B had a relatively modest pension fund and I do not think there was any need for a DFM 
 the cost of the DFM was disproportionately high compared to the size on Mr Bs pension 
pot. I do not think Mr B had much capacity for loss and he would be reliant on this pension 
fund in retirement, as I will explain below. So, it was imperative for Mr B to keep costs down 
as charges erode any growth his relatively modest fund could achieve. Further, I think the 
projected growth rates InterestMe showed Mr B were unrealistic. For these reasons, I think a 
DFM was neither suitable nor necessary.
I do not think InterestMes assessment of Mr Bs attitude to risk as medium was credible. 
InterestMe has not provided documentary evidence to show it undertook a full assessment 
of Mr Bs attitude to risk in 2019 as it later did in 2021. InterestMe identified it was likely Mr B 
would still have a shortfall against the income he wanted in retirement. The fact find does not 
indicate Mr B would have any source of income, other than the state pension, at his 
anticipated retirement when he turned 67 years old. So, I think Mr B had limited capacity to 
take risk with this pension, given his circumstances at the time. And I think it would have 
been more appropriate to classify Mr B as a low to medium risk investor, given his limited 
capacity for loss and investment experience.
To conclude, I do not think it was appropriate to recommend a DFM for Mr B given his lower 
attitude to risk, modest pension pot and questionable projected growth rates. I think keeping 
the costs down to maximise growth was key here. So, I think suitable advice would have 
been to advise Mr B to invest in a regular fund in line with his low to medium attitude to risk 
fund.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr B should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I think Mr B would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely what he would 
have done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr B's 
circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must InterestMe do?
To compensate Mr B fairly, InterestMe must:
Compare the performance of Mr B's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable. 
InterestMe should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.If there is a loss, InterestMe should pay into Mr B's pension plan to increase its value 
by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow 
for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be 
paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. 
If InterestMe is unable to pay the compensation into Mr B's pension plan, it should 
pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr B wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid. 
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr B's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. 
Its reasonable to assume that Mr B is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr B would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%. In my provisional 
decision, I asked InterestMe and Mr B to let me know if this was an unreasonable 
assumption but, as Mr B accepted my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart 
from this. 
Pay Mr B £150 for the trouble and upset caused by the unsuitable advice to invest in 
higher risk funds than he should have using a DFM. Mr Bs pension provision is 
important to him, and I think this recognises fairly the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr B by the unsuitable advice given.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If InterestMe deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr B how much has been taken off. InterestMe should give Mr B a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr B asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
InterestMe 
Wealths 
Core Total 
Return 
Balanced 
PortfolioStill exists 
and liquidFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement 
(if not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
Fair value 
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, InterestMe 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month.  
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis. Any 
additional sum that Mr B paid into the investment should be added to the fair value 
calculation at the point it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the portfolio should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the 
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point 
on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if 
InterestMe totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair 
value instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr B wanted Capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.I consider that Mr B's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr B into that position. It does not mean that Mr B 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of 
index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return Mr B could have obtained from investments suited 
to his objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint. I require INTERESTME 
FINANCIAL PLANNING LIMITED to put things right by doing what I have set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Victoria Blackwood
Ombudsman