DRN-3062816
The complaint
Mr S complains about SGS Business Process Services (UK) Limited trading as Slater 
Gordon Solutions Motor (SGS) and the way they handled his claim following his 
involvement in a non-fault road traffic accident. Mr S feels hes been left out of pocket and 
wants SGS to cover his financial losses.
What happened
In mid-December 2018, Mr S was involved in a non-fault road traffic accident. SGS were
instructed to handle Mr Ss claim, which included providing a hire vehicle and managing the
repairs to his car before claiming the costs back from the Third-party Insurer (TPI). But due
to the extent of the damage, Mr Ss car was deemed a total loss and written off. Mr Ss car
was valued at £3,800 by an independent engineer, who Ill refer to as E. Mr S signed a
form to accept this valuation, and SGS submitted this part of the claim to the TPI.
But the TPI only offered Mr S £3,000, plus the salvage value of £152. They thought this was
a fair offer based on trade guide searches theyd completed. Mr S was unhappy with this
offer as he signed to accept £3,800. So, he wanted the TPI to pay him this amount. SGS
referred Mr Ss concerns back to the TPI and asked them to reconsider the offer, but the TPI
refused to increase it.
Around the same time, Mr S made SGS aware that the battery in the vehicle was purchased
on a separate finance agreement. Because of this, he needed this to be removed so he
could return it to the finance company, who Ill refer to as H. SGS attempted to arrange this
removal with the salvage agent, but the agent refused to do this. So, SGS told Mr S hed
need to arrange the removal with the manufacturer of the car. Initially, SGS said theyd pay
for the costs of the removal and claim it back from the TPI. But in May 2019, some five
months later, SGS informed Mr S theyd be unable to help him further with the removal of the
battery, and Mr S would need to arrange this himself. This was completed in June 2019. Mr
S was unhappy with the service he received, so he raised a complaint.
Mr S complained about the payment he received for the value of his car. He thought it was
unfair that hed received less than he initially agreed to and he wanted SGS to cover the 
difference. He was also unhappy that SGS were unable to assist him in the removal of the
battery or recovering the costs from the TPI. So, he thought SGS should cover his costs as
they initially said they would. Mr S was also unhappy at the length of time it took SGS to
confirm they couldnt assist with the removal of the battery.
SGS responded and didnt uphold his complaint. They didnt think theyd done anything
wrong as it was the TPI that refused to increase their offer for Mr Ss car. So, they didnt offer
anything more. Mr S was unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. She didnt think it was fair that Mr S
received less than he agreed for the total loss of his car. So, she thought SGS should pay Mr
S the difference between what he received and a fair valuation she ascertained from trade
guide values shed found. She also thought SGS shouldve attempted to claim for the costs
of the battery removal as an uninsured loss. As they didnt, she thought they should cover
the costs Mr S incurred. And she although thought SGS should cover the costs of the
monthly payments Mr S made to H for the battery between January to May as she thought
SGS had delayed the removal. And finally, she thought SGS should pay Mr S £200 to
recognise the delays theyd caused and the impact this wouldve had on Mr S.
Mr S responded explaining hed received a refund for the hire payments from the finance
company so didnt need this part of the recommendation. But he accepted the rest. SGS
accepted the delays and the £200 payment recommended to acknowledge the 
inconvenience this caused Mr S. But they didnt agree they should cover the costs of the
difference in valuation, or the removal of the battery as they felt this was down to the TPI. 
I issued a provisional decision on 30 March 2021, where I explained my intention to uphold 
the complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I intend to uphold the
complaint. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on
any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr S. I understand the
accident wasnt his fault, and he wouldve expected SGS to handle the claim to ensure he
received what he felt was a fair valuation for his car. So, when the TPI paid him less than he
agreed, I can understand why hed be left upset and feel as though he was left with a
financial loss. I can also appreciate the difficulties Mr S experienced when removing the
battery from his car. Again, I recognise the accident wasnt his fault, so I understand why he
doesnt think its fair that hes had to cover the costs of the removal.
I also want to recognise the length of time Mr S has been waiting for a decision to be made
on his complaint. Unfortunately, we had to place decisions such as Mr Ts on hold while we
handled a challenge to our jurisdiction around complaints brought to us about Accident
Management Companies (AMC) such as SGS. Having done so, this has impacted the way
we consider complaints such as Mr Ts and Ive explained how Ive considered his complaint
below.
Up until 31 March 2019, AMCs were regulated by the Claims Management Regulator 
(CMR). And complaints about AMCs were dealt with by the Legal Ombudsman. On 1 April 
2019 the regulation of AMCs switched to the Financial Conduct Authority, and complaints 
moved to the Claims Management Ombudsman. Because the events Mr S is complaining 
about took place before this change in regulation, my decision must be based on the 
approach the Claims Management Regulator and Legal Ombudsman wouldve taken.
And having considered Mr Ss complaint based on this approach, while I think it is one I can
uphold, the actions I think SGS should take are different from the ones recommended by our
investigator. And Ill explain why.
Under the rules set by the Claims Management Regulator, and the approach taken by the
Legal Ombudsman, AMCs such as SGS arent responsible for the valuations produced by
independent engineers. Nor are they responsible for the actions of the TPI. The TPI is a
separate business, regulated separately, so the decisions they make are their own. Because
of this, Im unable to hold SGSs accountable for the TPIs decision to pay Mr S less than the
valuation suggested by E. But what I consider is the actions SGS took after Mr S made them
aware he was unhappy at receiving an offer less than the one he thought had been agreed.
And when doing so, Ive seen SGS took Mr Ss concerns and forwarded them to the TPI. Ican see they provided the comments made by E, which explained the car was increased in
valuation as it was a rare car. This is what Id expect SGS to do. Despite this information, the
TPI reiterated their belief that the £3000 plus salvage offer they made was fair and wouldnt
consider an increase. I think SGS did all they could do to secure an increased payment from
the TPI but ultimately, it was the TPI paying the claim as it was a non-fault accident. I dont
think it would be fair for me to say SGS should cover the difference in cost between what Mr
S received and the valuation our investigator calculated as SGS were not the insurer paying
the claim. Because of this, I dont think they need to do anything more for this aspect of the
complaint.
Ive then considered Mr Ss complaint about the battery and difficulties he faced when
removing the battery, and the costs associated with this. Again, SGS were instructed to
manage the claim and recover costs from the TPI. If the TPI decided not to pay the claim,
Im unable to say that SGS should then cover them as they are a separate business whose
sole purpose was to manage the claim. They werent acting on behalf of Mr Ss insurance.
Its also important to note that the finance agreement Mr S held with H was his own
responsibility and it was separate to Mr Ss car and what was insured. Ive seen Mr Ss
finance company explained whoever was paying the claim for the accident should refund
him the costs of the battery removal. This is the TPI, not SGS. But what I would expect SGS
to do is to manage the claim reasonably and ensure Mr Ss claim was put to the TPI for their
consideration. So, Ive considered whether they have.
Ive seen that SGS initially told Mr S they would cover the cost of the battery removal and
recover it from the TPI in January 2019. And Ive seen after this conversation, they liaised
with the TPI and the salvage agent to try and arrange the removal of the battery. Ive seen
the salvage agent refused to do so, and Mr S and SGS were directed to the manufacturer.
But Ive also seen that before SGS told Mr S they could cover the costs of the removal, a
note on SGSs system shows a discussion was held where it was decided the TPI wouldnt
be liable for the costs and that Mr S could look to recover the costs from his own insurer. I
cant see that Mr S was made aware of this until May 2019. And its after this time that Mr S
then arranged for the removal of the battery and covered the costs of this himself.
I think SGS were acting in Mr Ss best interests during that time to see if the TPI would cover
the costs. Ive seen they obtained invoices which they passed to the TPI. But having done 
so, the TPI made it clear they wouldnt consider the costs of the removal. And as SGS were
instructed on the basis they would recover any costs from the TPI, I cant say they acted
unfairly when deciding not to act on Mr Ss behalf any further about this when it became
clear they wouldnt be able to obtain payment from the TPI. And because of this, I dont think
it would be fair for me to say they should cover the costs of the battery removal, when the
need for its removal arose from an accident that was the responsibility of the TPI to pay.
But I do think SGSs action elongated the claim. I think they were reasonably aware in
January 2019 that it was highly unlikely the TPI would cover the costs of the battery removal.
And because of this, I think they shouldve been aware that it was likely to be Mr Ss
responsibility to arrange and pay for the removal. Had they told Mr S at the time, I think the
claim wouldve been concluded sooner. And he wouldnt have been left believing he would
be able to recoup the costs of the removal from the TPI, only to be told otherwise. I think this
wouldve been upsetting and surprising to him, having been given conflicting information. So,
I think SGS should compensate Mr S £200 to recognise the upset and inconvenience Mr S
experienced due to the delays and conflicting information.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr S was hoping for. And I understand this may come as
a shock due to the previous outcome we recommended. But as I explained above, I must
consider his complaint based on the regulatory rules and approach at the time the service
was provided.Responses
SGS didnt provide any further comments to my provisional decision. But Mr S disagreed 
and provided a number of reasons as to why.
Mr S didnt think it was fair that the regulation of AMCs moving, and the way his complaint 
can be considered, had cost him over £2,000 plus interest. Mr S explained hed never taken 
his complaint to the Legal Ombudsman so he didnt think it was fair for me to consider his 
complaint using the approach they wouldve taken. He explained SGS had signposted him to 
our service in their response to his complaint with no mention of the Legal Ombudsman or 
their involvement. So, he thought his complaint should be considered using our services 
approach and that if it was considered in this way, he thought SGS should cover his costs 
that arose during the claim.
Mr S and his representative also made reference to the CMRs scheme rules and the types 
of award an Ombudsman is able to make. They felt the resolution Mr S was seeking fell 
within the determinations shown in these rules, so they thought this should be awarded even 
if his complaint was considering using the Legal Ombudsmans approach. Because of the 
above, they wanted the complaint to be upheld and the recommendations originally 
suggested by our investigator awarded. They also wanted SGS to cover Mr S legal costs 
hed incurred handling this complaint, as well as an apology.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to change my initial decision. Before I explain why, I want 
to recognise Mr S upset. I appreciate my decision is different to the view initially provided by 
our investigator. And I understand this difference has a financial impact on Mr S so I 
appreciate why hed be upset by this. I also recognise the reasoning behind the change 
relates to legislation Mr S wasnt originally made aware of and I can understand why Mr S 
would expect to be told about this at the outset. 
But at the time Mr S received the initial view, a challenge was ongoing from AMCs about 
the jurisdiction we hold and the way we consider complaints about them. This challenge 
resulted in the Financial Conduct Authority and us agreeing that complaints about AMCs fall 
outside of our jurisdiction as the service they provided when handling non-fault claims isnt 
linked to a financial service. So, were unable to consider complaints about AMCs using our 
services approach.
But in Mr S case, as the events hes complaining about happened before the change in 
regulation, we are able to consider his complaint and make a decision. But this must be 
based on the approach the Legal Ombudsman wouldve taken, under the CMRs scheme 
rules. This is because this was the regulation that was in place when SGS were initially 
instructed to work on his behalf, and when they provided a service to him.
So, the decision Ive made is based on a different approach to the one taken by our 
investigator initially and this has led to me upholding the complaint but awarding a different 
resolution. Ill now explain why, making reference to the comments Mr S and his 
representative have made.
Mr S doesnt think its fair that a change in regulation, and complaint handling approach, has 
cost him over £2000 as he wouldve received this amount has SGS accepted our investigators initial view. But I dont think this the case. SGS didnt accept this view so the 
complaint would always have needed to be decided by an Ombudsman. And crucially, the 
events Mr S is complaining about happened before the regulation change in April 2019. So, 
Mr S complaint should always have been considered based on the Legal Ombudsmans 
approach, following the CMRs scheme rules. And because of this, his complaint and the 
outcome of this hasnt been impacted by the regulation change as its been considered in the 
same way the Legal Ombudsman wouldve considered it, had the regulation remained the 
same.
And if we were to now consider Mr S complaint using our services approach, his complaint 
would be deemed out of jurisdiction as were unable to consider complaints about non-fault 
claims handled by AMCs such as SGS. So, I dont think this impacts the original decision I 
reached.
Mr S has also explained as he brought his complaint straight to us, and never contacted the 
Legal Ombudsman, he doesnt think its fair to consider it using their approach. But Ive seen 
SGS responded to Mr S complaint in late March 2019, which was in the week prior to the 
regulation change. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for SGS to signpost Mr S to our 
service as, at that time, any complaints raised with the Legal Ombudsman directly were 
being transferred to our service in preparation for the regulation change. So, I dont think the 
situation Mr S finds himself in wouldve been any different had he gone direct to the Legal 
Ombudsman first. And in any case, as Ive explained previously, the events Mr S complained 
about happened when SGS were regulated by the CMR. So, these complaints must be 
considered against the CMRs scheme rules and the approach the Legal Ombudsman 
wouldve taken regardless of who Mr S referred his complaint to.
Mr S and his representative have then referred to the CMRs scheme rules and the 
directions an Ombudsmans determination can include. And I dont dispute the award Mr S is 
seeking falls within the determination and Ombudsman can make under these rules. But 
these rules also explain the determination is directed to the authorised person, in this case 
SGS, to pay to a complainant, in this case Mr S.
The scheme rules also explain under the heading What can they complain about that the 
complaint a customer raises must relate to services which the authorised person provided 
to the complainant.
In this situation, Mr S is unhappy that the TPI have refused to pay the full valuation of his 
car. Or that they refused to cover the costs of removing the battery separately. Although I 
recognise Mr S feels as though SGS are responsible for this, Ive explained in my provisional 
decision why this isnt the case. 
The direct service SGS provided to Mr S was liaise with the TPI on his behalf and to ensure 
Mr S concerns were put to the TPI. As Ive explained, I think SGS raised Mr S concerns 
about the valuation with the TPI reasonably. SGS were unable to change the TPIs minds 
nor do they have the power to force them to do so. Mr S complaint about TPIs decision to 
pay him less than the valuation recommended by the independent engineer is an issue with 
the TPI directly and so, Im unable to consider this or ask SGS to cover the costs of this 
based on the approach taken by the Legal Ombudsman which is led by the scheme rules.
And its the same situation for the removal of the battery in Mr S car as this was again the 
responsibility of the TPI to cover as it was a non-fault accident and the TPIs insured was 
deemed at fault. The TPI took the decision not to cover this cost and I wouldnt expect SGS 
to do so on their behalf if theyd been made aware they were unlikely to recover it. But, as 
Ive explained, I dont think SGS acted fairly when considering the service they provided to 
Mr S directly, as I think they delayed in informing Mr S theyd be unable to assist with the battery removal after speaking to the TPI. And I think they should compensate Mr S for this.
Putting things right
Any direction or award I make is intended to place Mr S back in the situation he wouldve 
been in, had SGS acted fairly in the place. So, Im only able to make a direction or award if 
Im satisfied SGS did something wrong.
In this case, I recognise Mr S has been impacted financially and incurred losses due to the 
dispute in valuation and the removal of his battery. But, as Ive explained about, I dont think 
this is because of anything SGS, or a business they were responsible for, did wrong. So, Im 
unable to say SGS should cover these costs.
But I do think SGS failed to let Mr S know theyd be unable to assist with the removal of the 
battery. And I think this led to a delay in the conclusion of Mr Ss claim. I can also recognise 
the shock and frustration Mr S wouldve felt when SGS told him theyd be unable to assist 
after previously telling him otherwise. So, I think SGS should pay Mr S £200 to recognise the 
upset and inconvenience this wouldve caused.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr S was hoping for. I can appreciate the time Mr S has 
taken engaging with our service throughout his complaint and the cost this wouldve incurred 
him. So, Ive no doubt this decision will come as a disappointment and its unlikely Mr S will 
agree with it. But I hope its given a more detailed explanation as to how Ive considered and 
reached the decision and reassured Mr S that the decision was made based on the correct 
approach.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr S complaint about SGS Business Process 
Services (UK) Limited trading as Slater Gordon Solutions Motor and direct them to take the 
following action:
Pay Mr S £200 to recognise the delay they caused and the impact this had.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman