DRN-2098944
The complaint
Mr A says PDL Finance Limited (PDL) irresponsibly lent to him. He says the loans were too 
easy to get and there were little, or no affordability checks carried out. Mr A says he is still in 
debt, has a daily financial struggle and a poor credit score.
 
What happened
This complaint is about ten short-term loans PDL provided to Mr A between December 2014 
and November 2018. There are two chains in lending. Mr As borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Highest 
Repayment
1 20/12/2014 16/01/2015 2 £750.00 £519.00
2 16/01/2015 16/02/2015 2 £750.00 £543.00
3 17/02/2015 25/03/2015 2 £750.00 £525.00
4 25/03/2015 26/05/2015 2 £1,000.00 £636.00
5 24/08/2015 23/10/2015 3 £500.00 £298.66
6 11/01/2016 01/07/2016 6 £500.00 £207.33
Break in lending
7 05/08/2017 31/08/2017 3 £400.00 £197.33
8 05/09/2017 09/03/2018 6 £1,000.00 £348.66
9 09/03/2018 26/10/2018 12 £1,500.00 £314.00
10 02/11/2018 Outstanding 12 £1,500.00 £401.75
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr As complaint and thought loans one to six and loans 
nine and ten should be upheld. They thought that proportionate checks would have shown 
Mr A was having problems managing his money and that he was dependent on this type of 
lending. It was unsustainable for him. 
PDL disagreed with the adjudicator. It said it wasnt unreasonable for it to have carried out 
less checks at the beginning of the relationship and especially considering the adjudicator 
had concluded Mr A was becoming reliant upon this type of lending at such an early stage in 
the borrowing relationship. It told us of the other lending it had seen Mr A had at the same 
time and that there werent any records of defaults. 
The adjudicator didnt agree so PDL asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. So, it has been passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
PDL needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr A could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that PDL should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that PDL was required to establish 
whether Mr A could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Mr A didnt comment on the adjudicators opinion that loans seven and eight shouldnt be 
upheld. Because of this, I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. 
So, I wont be making a decision about this lending. But the loans were part of the borrowing 
relationship Mr A had with PDL. So, it is something I will take into account when considering 
the other loans he took. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr As complaint.
I should first say that I agree with the adjudicator that there are two chains in lending. There 
was a break of 13 months between loan six being repaid and loan seven being taken. 
Because of this I dont think its unreasonable for PDL to have assumed that Mr A had 
overcome whatever the financial circumstances were that caused him to take high-cost 
credit in the first instance. A break in a chain of lending, in effect, starts the clock ticking again on what we would consider to be proportionate checks a business should carry out 
when taking into account the length of the borrowing relationship with a consumer.  
PDL hasnt given us a copy of its credit checks but has told us of what it saw when it did 
carry out those checks for loans one to three. It has told us Mr A wasnt showing any 
defaults on any advance against income loans. He had two outstanding loans with other 
short-term credit providers when he took loan one with PDL and one each at the times he 
took loans two and three. 
Mr A has given us a copy of his credit report and this shows he did have at least two other 
short-term loans. I can see that three loans were taken in November 2014 and two were due 
to be repaid in January 2015 (the third loan shows as defaulted in February 2015). 
Mr As disposable income when he took loan one was recorded as being £1,355. The 
repayment for loan one taken with PDL was £519 so it accounted for a significant proportion 
of Mr As disposable income. I think this, along with the fact that PDL knew Mr A had two 
other short-term loans would have been a sufficient an indication to have caused it to 
reconsider whether it should have given the loan to Mr A. This borrowing behaviour suggests 
that Mr A was having problems managing his money.
PDL has told us that loan one was originally due to be repaid over two instalments, but that 
Mr A settled the loan early which it says indicated he wasnt struggling financially. But I note 
that loan two was taken the same day that loan one was repaid, and it was for the same 
amount. 
This suggests to me that Mr A may have been juggling his finances in order to make ends 
meet. I would question why a customer would repay one loan early only to return the same 
day for another loan, for the same amount and over the same terms. This pattern continued 
with loan three being taken a day after loan two was repaid and loan four the same day loan 
three was repaid. And loan four was for a larger amount meaning a higher monthly 
repayment which accounted for over half of Mr As disposable income. 
For loans five and six, while I appreciate the amounts borrowed had reduced, Mr A had 
extended the agreed terms to three and then six months, rather than two months at the 
outset of the lending, indicating he needed to reduce the monthly repayments. Again, this 
should have suggested to PDL that he was struggling with his finances and PDL shouldnt 
have lent to him.
PDL has told us its checks for when Mr A took loan nine showed no other advances against 
income and no defaults. But this was his third loan in seven months and the amount 
borrowed had more than doubled from the amount taken at loan seven  the first loan in this 
chain of lending. And the term of the loan had again been extended to 12 months from three 
months for loan seven. Mr As financial situation wasnt improving which I think is 
emphasised by the fact that Mr A hasnt been able to repay loan ten as its still outstanding. 
So, I dont think loans nine and ten should have been given. 
In conclusion, Im upholding the complaint about loans one to six and loans nine and ten and 
PDL should put things right.
Putting things right
If the outstanding balance due on Mr As loan has been transferred to a third party  which I 
think is the case  PDL should buy the loan back if it can. If PDL cant buy the loan back, 
then it needs to work with the third party to make sure the following is achieved: A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr A towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance.
B) Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr A which 
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr A originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr A as though they had 
been repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. 
If this results in Mr A having made overpayments then PDL should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the 
date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled.
 
PDL should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step 
E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this 
results in a surplus, then the surplus should be paid to Mr A. However, if there is 
still an outstanding balance then PDL should try to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Mr A. 
E) Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr As credit file in relation to loans                                                       
one to six and loan nine and ten.  
                                                                                                                               
* HM Revenue & Customs requires PDL to take off tax from this interest. PDL must give   
Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
If after doing the above Mr A still has an outstanding balance due, then PDL should try and 
work together to come to a mutually agreeable repayment plan with Mr A in order to repay 
what is owed. But Id remind PDL of its obligation to treat Mr A fairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr As complaint. PDL Finance Limited 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman