DRN-3879864
The complaint
Mr D complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) was very slow to act on 
instructions he gave it regarding a Bed and ISA transaction and a subsequent instruction to 
sell the holdings in both his Investment Portfolio and his ISA.
Mr D says that as a result of the delays he has lost out financially.
What happened
I have set out the following summary of events, based on the information that has been 
provided to this service. 
6 April 2022  Mr D emailed Aviva to request a Bed and ISA. 
7 April 2022  Aviva emailed Mr D to check he was willing to continue on a non-advised 
basis. Mr D confirmed he wanted to go ahead without obtaining advice.  
8 April 2022  Aviva actioned Mr Ds instruction to sell down holdings in his Investment 
Portfolio for the Bed and ISA. 
12 April 2022  Mr D emailed Aviva and instructed it to sell all the holdings in his Investment 
Portfolio and transfer the money to his bank account. He also instructed it to sell all the 
holdings in his ISA (with the money to be left in cash in his ISA) after it had completed the 
current on-going bed and ISA process. Aviva confirmed receipt of Mr Ds instruction and 
confirmed that it had passed it to the relevant team.
13 April 2022  the sale of £20,000 worth of units in Mr Ds Investment Portfolio settled and 
was transferred to his ISA, in-line with the Bed and ISA instruction Mr D had given. 
14 April 2022  Aviva confirmed it had instructed the full sell down of Mr Ds Investment 
Portfolio holdings and confirmed to Mr D that this can take five working days. 
(15 April 2022 - Good Friday, markets were closed)
(18 April 2022 - Easter Monday, markets were closed)
19 April 2022  the £20,000 transferred into Mr Ds ISA from the sale of the holdings in his 
Investment Portfolio settles in Mr Ds ISA and the purchase of funds is instructed, in-line with 
Mr Ds Bed and ISA instruction.
21 April 2022  Aviva confirms to Mr D that the full sell down of his Investment Portfolio has 
completed  the funds were then sent by CHAPS to Mr Ds nominated bank account.
22 April 2022  money was received in Mr Ds bank account from the sell down of his 
Investment Portfolio holdings.
22 April 2022  purchase of funds (bought as part of Bed and ISA) settles in Mr Ds ISA.
25 April 2022 - total sell down of Mr Ds ISA holdings is instructed.
Mr D complained to Aviva about the time it had taken to complete his instructions. 
In response to Mr Ds complaint, Aviva accepted that it had not sent Mr Ds instruction to sell 
his ISA holdings to the relevant team promptly. But it explained that Mr Ds instruction to sell 
down his ISA holdings couldnt have been actioned until the buy instruction he gave (as part 
of the Bed and ISA instruction he gave on 6 April 2022) had settled.
As the Bed and ISA settled on 22 April 2022, Aviva explained that the first day it was 
possible for it to action Mr Ds instruction to sell down his ISA holdings was 25 April 2022, 
the next working day. For the delay in passing Mr Ds instructions to sell down his ISA 
holdings to the relevant team, Aviva paid Mr D £100.
Mr D wasnt satisfied with Avivas response and referred the matter to this service.
Having considered Mr Ds complaint our investigator said he was satisfied that Aviva had 
acted correctly and hadnt caused any unnecessary delays. 
Mr D was not satisfied with our investigators view and asked for his complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman. Mr D said he still believes that Aviva intentionally delayed 
their actions at every step to their financial benefit and my loss. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully reviewed the timeline Mr D has provided to this service, in connection with 
his complaint. Having done so it appears there is a genuine misunderstanding on Mr Ds part 
about how quickly Aviva would be able to act on his instructions. I appreciate that Mr D feels 
Aviva took too long to sell his holdings, but having reviewed the information available I dont 
think Aviva did delay carrying out Mr Ds instructions. Ill explain why.
I note that Mr D has queried why Aviva wasted time checking that he wanted to go ahead 
after he emailed his Bed and ISA instructions on 6 April 2022. 
As the email Aviva sent to Mr D, dated 7 April 2022, set out it needed to make sure Mr D 
understood the implications of the instruction he had given and had read and understood the 
up-to-date Fund Fact Sheets and Key Information Documents it provided. I appreciate that 
Mr D feels this caused an unnecessary delay, but I dont think Aviva acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in requiring Mr D to confirm that he had received sufficient information to make 
his decision and that, based on the information Aviva had provided, he was still happy to 
proceed. 
I note Mr D also says that he thinks the sell down of his ISA holding should have been 
actioned on 19 April 2022, Mr D said he feels, this appears to be the point where the sale 
of the ISA portfolio begins and takes till 25/04 to complete but it seems to me that it should 
have started the previous week and not have taken so long to complete. 
I am sympathetic to Mr Ds position, but it appears there may be a misunderstanding on this 
point. Although the fund purchase in Mr Ds ISA was actioned on 19 April 2022, the 
transaction did not settle until 22 April 2022. So regardless of any delay by Aviva in passing 
on Mr Ds sell instruction for his ISA holdings to the relevant department, Mr Ds ISA holding 
couldnt be sold until the buy transaction had settled.I note that Mr D has queried what Aviva means when it refers to settling. The settlement 
period is the amount of time it takes for a trade to be settled. A trade is settled when cash 
and holdings are exchanged between the buyer and the seller. (The price received for a sell 
is the price that was agreed at the time of the trade, not the price on the day of settlement.)
 
Mr D has also complained that Aviva delayed actioning the instruction he gave by email (at 
3.07pm) on 12 April 2022, to sell down his Investment Portfolio (and ISA). I note that Aviva 
acknowledged Mr Ds instructions that day and emailed him to say:
As you have requested a direct client withdrawal we have forwarded this on to the 
appropriate team to look into for you.
 
The team currently have a turn around time of 3 days and should get back to you shortly.
On 14 April 2022, Aviva emailed Mr D again to say:
I can confirm I have keyed the full sell from your investment portfolio. The sell can take up to 
7 working days (5 working days, as per normal turnaround time, and 2 extra days  due to 
the bank holidays this month) and then we will send the withdrawal via CHAPS to the bank 
details
Having carefully considered this aspect of Mr Ds complaint, I cant reasonably agree that 
Aviva delayed Mr Ds request to sell down the holdings in his Investment Portfolio. As Aviva 
explained in its email acknowledging Mr Ds instruction on 12 April, the team actioning his 
request had a 3 day turnaround time, and Mr Ds sell down instruction for his Investment 
Portfolio was actioned on 14 April 2022. As this is the case, I am satisfied that Aviva did not 
delay actioning this request from Mr D.
As Mr D will be aware, his investments with Aviva were collective investments (often referred 
to as funds). This means Mr Ds investments were pooled with other investors funds. 
Funds, like the ones Mr D held with Aviva, can usually only be bought or sold at a set time 
each day. If an order is received after the cut off time for the fund the order will be executed 
the following business day. I understand that, for the fund Mr D had instructed Aviva to sell 
down, the dealing deadline was 9am. So, any instructions received after 9am wouldnt be 
executed until (at the earliest) the following working day. 
It is not in dispute that, due to an error on Avivas part, the sell down instruction for Mr Ds 
ISA was not passed to the correct department when it was received on 12 April 2022. 
However, as Aviva explained to Mr D, as the Bed and ISA transaction had not settled in his 
ISA account until 22 April 2022, the first day it would have been possible for Aviva to sell 
down Mr Ds ISA holdings was 25 April 2022, the next working day. 
Aviva has paid Mr D £100 for the delay in passing on his instruction to sell down his ISA 
holdings to the relevant team. I think this is fair and reasonable and, in the absence of 
anything to show that Aviva caused any unnecessary delays or treated Mr D unfairly I cant 
reasonably uphold this complaint.
I do appreciate that Mr D was concerned about the length of time Aviva took to complete his 
instructions, but I hope that my explanation will reassure Mr D that it did not cause any 
undue delay.My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman