DRN-3956414
The complaint
Mr T complains that Zurich Insurance PLC declined his claim on his insurance policy after a 
fire on his boat.
What happened
Mr T had an insurance policy to cover his boat. In June 2022 there was a fire on the boat 
and he made a claim. Zurich declined the claim as it said the policy excluded damage 
caused by a mechanical or electrical breakdown and it said that is what had caused the fire.
Mr T made a complaint as he said the policy covered him for damage due to fire so the claim 
should be accepted. Zurich didnt uphold the complaint. It said that Mr Ts engineers report 
suggested that the fire had started due to damage to the motor cable which had been worn 
through. It said this showed it was due to gradual deterioration and wear and tear which was 
also excluded under the policy. 
Mr T brought his complaint to this service but our investigator didnt think it should be upheld. 
He thought Zurich had done enough to show that the damage was caused by either a 
mechanical fault or wear and tear, so he thought it had acted fairly by declining the claim. 
Mr T didnt agree. He said that the claim should have been considered under the fire cover in 
the policy and none of the exclusions in that section applied to his claim. He also said that 
the part of the policy Zurich had quoted about mechanical failure being excluded related to 
damage to personal possessions only so also wouldnt apply. He asked for the complaint to 
be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Zurich has declined Mr Ts claim as it says two policy exclusions apply. One that excludes 
mechanical failure and one that excludes damage due to gradual wear and tear. 
Ive considered the report Mr T provided from the expert who inspected the boat. It stated as 
follows:
A thorough inspection was carried out. During this inspection it was noted that the burned 
main engine start cable was split/melted in two in the vicinity of the Port rear engine mount. 
Surrounding cabling, both the negative bridge to the battery and service supply were also 
badly damaged indicating a dead short had occurred and all positive cables had come into 
contact with the start cable and/or each other. In our opinion, given the location of the start 
cable which had become separated, the insulation on the starter motor cable has likely worn 
through after coming into contact with the engine mount. This in turn would have caused this 
cable to short out against the engine. The shorted main start cable would have then melted 
through the battery supply cables insulation causing these cables to overheat. The fire was 
caused by burning cable insulation the whole length of all three main battery cables.
From this it seems that the cause of the fire was one of the cables being worn and 
subsequently coming into contact with other cables. This caused the engine to short and 
subsequently ignite. 
The policy states under section 3:
We will not pay for
Loss or damage caused by:
Gradual Deterioration, unless the Gradual Deterioration could not have been identified by 
servicing, maintenance
As the expert suggests that the cause of the fire was due to the wearing of a cable, it seems 
most likely that this is because of the gradual wear and tear of that part. As this would have 
most likely happened over time. And this is something that could have been identified by an 
inspection or service. I therefore think Zurich acted fairly by relying on this exclusion to 
decline the claim.
Mr T has said that he had carried out a number of checks and services on the boat as part of 
routine maintenance just before the fire. However he hasnt provided any evidence to show 
what checks were carried out and what was found. And while I understand why this would 
have been difficult for him to collect as it is stored on the boat, I have to consider the 
evidence available to Zurich when it made its decision. And based on the expert report I 
think it acted fairly. Should Mr T obtain any further evidence then he should present this to 
Zurich in the first instance for it to consider. 
Ive also considered what Mr T has said about Zurich considering his claim under the wrong 
section of the policy. Hes said it should have been considered under section two, as this 
provides cover for damage caused by fire. 
However the consideration for an insurer is the proximate cause of the event. And once the 
boat was inspected, the cause was found to be a mechanical failure. This led to the cables 
overheating and igniting. But the proximate cause of the damage was the mechanical failure. 
The fire was just a result of the cables overheating because of this. So as mechanical failure 
in itself isnt covered as a peril under the policy, only the resultant damage from the 
mechanical failure can be considered. This would only fall under accidental damage cover in 
section three, unless an exclusion applies. So I think Zurich acted fairly by considering the 
claim under this section. 
Mr T also pointed out that the endorsement Zurich relied on to decline the claim due to it 
being a mechanical failure, applies solely to damage to personal belongings. Ive put this to 
Zurich and it hasnt provided anything to persuade me that this endorsement would apply to 
this claim. So I agree with Mr T that Zurich incorrectly relied on this exclusion in the first 
instance and it wouldnt fairly be applied here. 
However as Im persuaded it has fairly declined the claim under the gradual deterioration 
exclusion in Section three, Im satisfied it has acted fairly by declining the claim overall. As it 
needs only to show that one exclusion applies, in order to do so.  
Finally, I note Mr Ts comments about the copy of the policy documents we had on file being 
from 2018 and therefore not the relevant document for the time of the claim. I agree this 
wasnt the relevant document and I apologise for this oversight. However I want to reassure 
Mr T that since the complaint came to me I have obtained the correct document from Zurich. 
And while there is little difference in wording, all of my considerations have been based on 
the wording that was relevant at the time of the claim. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman