DRN-3009101
The complaint
Mrs S complains The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (Royal London) 
hasnt allowed her to take pension benefits from two plans she understood she held with 
them.
What happened
Mrs S is represented in her complaint by Mr S but for ease I will refer to Mrs S throughout 
my decision.
Our investigator previously set out the background to this complaint in an earlier view.
Mrs S received statements from Royal London about her pensions with them. There were 
four plans in total and for ease I have referred to them as Plans A-D respectively.
A statement from September 2018 showed the values of the plans above as being:
Plan-A (value was around £12,000)
Plan-B (value was around £23,000)
Plan-C (value was around £20,000)
Plan-D (value was around £14,000)
Mrs S wanted to encash plan-A and plan-B as an Uncrystallised Funds Pension Lump Sum 
(UFPLS), which would essentially allow her to take the pensions as lump sums after the 
relevant tax deductions are made.
In October 2018, Mrs S completed the necessary paperwork and Royal London confirmed 
the payment of plan-A and plan-B  the total payment was around £35,000. Once the tax 
was deducted, this gave a final payment of around £26,000.
In November 2020, Mrs S contacted Royal London as she wanted to cash in plan-C and 
plan-D. As Royal London began to carry out this process, it came to light that plan-C and 
plan-D were not plans they held.  In fact, all four plans (plan-A, plan-B, plan-C and plan-D) 
had been transferred in July 2007 to another pension provider.
In realising its error, Royal London accepted that they had been sending out statements on 
all four plans in error, as they had been transferred. In light of this, they informed Mrs S that 
although Plans A & B had been paid out to Mrs S to the value of £35,000, this was a huge 
error but it would not seek to ask Mrs S to repay this amount. It also accepted the error of 
sending out statements for plans that didnt exist had caused Mrs S trouble and upset and so 
it offered £750 compensation in recognition of this.  But Royal London said they would not 
pay out the values of plan-C and plan-D (totalling at around £43,000) as they had identified 
these plans had been transferred to another provider.
Mrs S wants Royal London to make the payment of £43,000 as she feels they led her to 
believe she was entitled to this amount for many years and so she had based her retirement 
planning with this amount in mind. She asked this service to look onto matters for her.
An investigator looked into matters for Mrs S. In summary he thought:
Mrs S had authorised the transfer of her pension plans in 2007 and should have 
been aware of the transfer as she would have been receiving statements from 
Clerical Medical
He felt Mrs S could and should have questioned the statements she was receiving 
from Royal London much earlier since she should have been aware, they had been 
transferred
On recognizing their error Royal London had agreed to allow Mrs S to retain the 
£35,000 it had incorrectly paid her, which he felt was a hugely generous offer, given 
that she also had the plans with the other provider.
Royal London had recognized continuing to incorrectly send the statements had 
caused Mrs S trouble and upset and it had offered £750 in recognition of this.
Overall, he didnt agree to ask Royal London to pay the value of plans C&D totalling £43,000 
as this would mean a huge financial advantage for Mrs S, as she already had these plans 
with the third-party provider. He found Royal London had acknowledged its error and been 
fair and reasonable in its approach to resolving this complaint and so he didnt ask them to 
anything further.
Mrs S disagreed. She said she has already encashed all the plans with the third-party 
provider as she has been in ill-health. She feels Royal London has incorrectly led her to 
believe she had these pensions as well and as such should pay her the values of plans C & 
D, of around £43,000.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mrs S and by Royal London. Where the evidence is unclear, or there 
are conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words, 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened. 
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
In deciding this complaint there is no dispute that an error has occurred, the issue for me to 
decide is whether Royal London has been fair and reasonable in its attempt to resolve this 
matter or whether it needs to do more.Firstly, I have looked at whether Mrs S was ware or ought to have been aware that she had 
transferred her pensions in 2007.
I have carefully considered the Transfer Payment Authority and Declaration document 
which clearly certifies the transfer of the four plans held with Royal London to a new pension 
provider. 
A secondary document details the new pension provider and said the following (in respect of 
Mrs S):
I hereby authorise the transfer of the cash equivalent of all my accrued pension rights from 
the above numbered Personal Pension plan(s) to the Scheme Administrator of:
(third party provider) And understand that all rights to pension benefits from the above 
numbered Personal Pensions plan(s) now cease
The document is then hand signed and dated by Mrs S on 28 June 2007.
The personal pensions referenced in the statement above were of course the four plans held
with Royal London (plan-A, plan-B, plan-C, plan-D).
It is also clear from the documentation that Mrs S sought the advice of an independent 
financial adviser, whose signature also appears on these documents.
Im persuaded that Mrs S should have been aware or at least ought reasonably to have been 
aware that she had transferred her pension plans, on advice, from Royal London to a third-
party provider in 2007. She has also signed the authorisation confirming she understands 
that her rights to her pension benefits with Royal London ceased upon that transfer.
I also understand that Royal London have continued to provide statements for these four 
plans in error for quite some time and I have taken into account that Mrs S hasnt been well 
and so I accept over time she may not have clearly remembered her decision to transfer her 
plans.
But I cant see any evidence that Mrs S ever questioned why Royal London had continued to 
send her statements either. Although she may not clearly remember the details now, I would 
have thought it reasonable to have questioned that at the time, especially since she acted on 
advice to transfer all four of her plans.
Mrs S has confirmed to this service that she has already encashed the four plans with the 
third party provider due to her continuing ill health and whilst Im sorry that Mrs S has been 
unwell, she has had the full benefit of the four plans already.
In addition, because of their error, Royal London has paid Mrs S £35,000 she wasnt entitled 
to and in recognition of its error it has said Mrs S can retain those funds. It has also said it 
recognises that in sending the statements, although it cant pay the fund values of plans 
C&D, as it has already transferred them to the third party provider, it has caused trouble and 
upset and offered £750 in recognition of this.
As I said earlier, my role isnt to punish business for an error, but where one has occurred, I 
look to put the consumer back in the position they would have been in, had it not happened. 
Im not in a position to reach a decision where any party would be financially advantaged by 
a mistake. Mrs S was never entitled to the £35,000 from plan-A and plan-B, nor is she
entitled to the £43,000 from plan-C and plan-D.In this case Im satisfied Mrs S has had the benefit from the four plans she transferred 
having already encashed them, and an additional £35,000 and Royal London has offered to 
pay £750 for the trouble and upset they have caused in sending out the statements.
I am satisfied Royal London has been fair and reasonable in putting this matter right and so I 
will not be asking them to do anything further except to make good the payment already 
offered of £750, if it hasnt already done so.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman