DRN-4215413
The complaint
Mr D complains Nationwide Building Society reported a missed payment on his credit file.
What happened
Mr D missed a payment to his Nationwide credit card. The payment was due to be made by 
direct debit and Mr D says there wasnt enough money in his account to cover the payment.
Mr D says Nationwide wrote to him about the missed payment and he made a payment soon 
after he received the letter. Mr D then realised Nationwide had reported a missed payment 
on his credit file.
Mr D complained to Nationwide, saying this was unfair and had a huge effect on his ability to 
get credit elsewhere.
Nationwide responded to say it hadnt done anything wrong, Mr D missed a payment and it 
reported it to the credit reference agencies. Nationwide said it had an obligation to report 
factual information to the credit reference agencies.
Mr D brought his complaint to this service and an investigator looked into things. The 
investigator didnt think Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. The investigator said the terms 
and conditions laid out what might happen if Mr D missed a payment.
The investigator didnt think it mattered a letter was sent, Mr D had missed the payment and 
this is whats been reported by Nationwide.
Mr D disagreed and said his payment was late, not missed. Mr D said the missed payment 
was unnecessarily punitive and doesnt make him a risk to other lenders. 
And Mr D said other lenders contact Mr D direct or try to take any missed payments later.
Mr D thought Nationwide was taking a very rigid view of the rules when other lenders 
werent. Mr D felt Nationwide was treating him unfairly as other lenders had other, fairer 
policies around missed payments.
Mr D asked for an ombudsman to decide his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute Mr D didnt make a payment when he should have. Mr D says there 
wasnt enough money in his account to cover the direct debit to Nationwide.
This means I think Mr D missed his payment to Nationwide. Mr Ds borrowed money from 
Nationwide, via his credit card, and the terms and conditions state Mr D must make a 
monthly payment by a specified date.
Mr D didnt make this payment, so I think Nationwide is fair to tell the credit reference 
agencies he missed the payment.
Mr D says his payment wasnt missed, it was late. I think the payment was missed. There 
was a specific date Mr D had to make the payment on, and he didnt. This means Mr D 
missed the required payment, regardless of whether he caught it up later.
Mr D says Nationwide could have contacted him another way, quicker than post. Like the 
investigator, I dont think this would have meant Mr D didnt miss his payment. Mr D might 
have made the successful payment a little quicker, but hed already missed the payment.
Mr D also says other lenders might not report a missed payment as quickly, or try and take 
the direct debit again, later in the month. I cant comment on what other lenders do, only 
what Nationwide did in Mr Ds specific complaint.
Mr D says the effect of the missed payment is great, but the impact on Nationwide is 
negligible. Mr D doesnt think the missed payment makes him a risk, so its unfair to continue 
to record it.
The Information Commissioners Office lays out the Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, 
Arrangements and Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies. Principle two says:
If you do not make your regular expected payment by the agreed time and/or for the agreed 
amount according to your terms and conditions, the account may be reported to the CRAs 
as being in arrears.
I think Nationwide has followed this guidance. Mr D didnt make his expected payment by the 
agreed time.
I dont think Nationwide was being too rigid here, it was following the correct guidance. If the 
effect of this missed payment is great, its an effect coming from the reasonable decision by 
Nationwide to report a missed payment.
Mr D has mentioned Nationwides terms say it may report to the credit reference agencies. 
Theres no obligation for any credit provider to report an account to a credit reference 
agency. But, if it chooses to, it should report factual information.
Nationwide has chosen to report Mr Ds account to a credit reference agency, so I think its 
fair to then tell it Mr D missed a payment.
I realise Mr Ds ability to get credit will be affected by this missed payment. And other 
lenders may view Mr D as a risk, because hes missed previous payments to lending.
But I think what Nationwide reported, that Mr D had missed a payment, was a fair thing to 
do. Regardless of the effect this missed payment is having on Mr D its an accurate record of 
what happened, so I cant fairly ask Nationwide to remove it.My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman