DRN-1942678
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Advancis Limited trading as Buddy Loans irresponsibly provided 
him with an unaffordable guarantor loan. He also says that Buddy Loans should have done 
more to help him when he had difficulties meeting his loan repayments. 
What happened
Mr W was given a guarantor loan by Buddy Loans in June 2018 for £7,500. 
Mr Ws loan was to be repaid in 60 monthly instalments of around £296. The total amount 
due to be repaid over the five-year loan term, including interest, was just over £17,700. I 
understand Mr W has had difficulties making the loan repayments and the loan is 
outstanding.
Mr W has also complained that when he experienced difficulties repaying the loan, Buddy 
Loans did not do enough to help him. Instead,  the lender asked his guarantor to repay the 
loan. Mr W says he is now having to repay his guarantor. 
One of our investigators has looked into the complaint. She didnt think Buddy Loans should 
have provided Mr W with the loan and she asked the lender to put things right. I havent 
seen a response from Buddy Loans, so as Mr Ws complaint has not been settled informally, 
it has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about high cost credit and guarantor loans on our 
website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
Ive considered this approach when deciding Mr Ws complaint.
Buddy Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr W 
irresponsibly.  
I think there are key questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
Did Buddy Loans carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr W was in a position to sustainably repay the loan? If not, what would reasonable 
and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Did Buddy Loans make a fair lending decision?
Did Buddy Loans act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr W in some other way?
Buddy Loans was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment (and a similar 
assessment on the guarantor). This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check. 
The checks had to be borrower focussed  so Buddy Loans had to think about whether 
repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr W. In 
other words, it wasnt enough for Buddy Loans to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Mr W. The 
existence of a guarantee and the potential for Buddy Loans to pursue the guarantor instead 
of Mr W for the loan payments doesnt alter, lessen, or dilute this obligation. 
Buddy Loans had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr W 
would be able repay the loan sustainably. There was no set list of checks that Buddy Loans 
had to do, but it could take into account a number of different things such as the loan 
amount, the length of the loan term, the repayment amounts, and the borrowers overall 
financial circumstances. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough: 
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Buddy Loans was required to establish whether Mr W could sustainably repay his loan  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and 
in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all the evidence, arguments and information Ive seen about this 
matter and what it means for Mr W. 
Buddy Loans asked Mr W for information about his income and expenditure and it acquired 
a credit report. Buddy Loans says the checks it carried out before it agreed to lend to Mr W 
were reasonable and proportionate, and that the loan was affordable for him.
But Mr W was applying to Buddy Loans for an expensive loan which was repayable over a 
long period. If the loan ran to term, it would cost Mr W in the region of £17,700. The rules 
and guidance suggest that the risk of any credit not being sustainable directly relates to the 
amount of credit granted and the total charge for credit - relative to the customers financial 
situation.
Buddy Loans was aware from its checks that Mr W already had a high level of indebtedness 
when he applied for his Buddy Loan. His credit report also highlights a High credit limit 
utilisation on accounts. Mr Ws loan application documents also suggest that he had six 
credit cards with balances that were at, or near, the card limits. Buddy Loans also says it 
was aware that Mr W was borrowing to consolidate some of his existing debt.
Buddy Loans might have been prepared to accept this credit risk because the loan had a 
guarantor who was equally liable with Mr W. This might have given Buddy Loans more 
confidence that the loan repayments would be made. But I dont think that the existence of 
the guarantor, on its own, meant that Mr W himself would be able to sustainably make the 
repayments. I think in the circumstances, Buddy Loans ought reasonably to have realised 
that it needed a more thorough understanding of Mr Ws financial situation. So in order for its 
affordability checks to be reasonable and proportionate, they needed to be more detailed 
and contain a greater degree of independent verification. 
If Buddy Loans had carried out more in-depth checks, such as requesting Mr Ws bank 
statements, I think it would have seen the extent to which Mr W was borrowing from other 
short-term lenders. But even if it didnt ask for more detailed information from Mr W, I think 
that Buddy Loans was aware from the information it had gathered that Mr W was unlikely to 
be able to sustainably repay his loan. 
I say this because it seems from the information that Buddy Loans has provided to us about 
Mr Ws loan application, that his credit commitments and monthly expenses, including his 
repayments to Buddy Loans, were likely to exceed his monthly income. Even if Mr W 
intended to use the loan from Buddy Loans to consolidate some of this debt, and reduce his 
monthly credit commitments, I think Buddy Loans ought reasonably to have realised that Mr 
W was most likely over committed financially. In addition, I think Buddy Loans was also 
aware that Mr W was borrowing in order to repay previous lending and would also most 
likely need to borrow elsewhere to repay his loan from Buddy Loans. I think in these 
circumstances Buddy Loans should have realised that Mr W was unlikely to be able to repay 
his loan sustainably and there was a real possibility that the guarantor would be required to 
step in and make the payments on his behalf. 
Taking things as a whole,  I think Buddy Loans ought reasonably have realised that it was 
unlikely that Mr W would be able to sustainably repay his loan over the full term. So it should reasonably have concluded that it was not appropriate to lend to him. 
Did Buddy Loans act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr W in some other way?
Mr W thinks Buddy Loans should have done more to help him when he experienced 
difficulties repaying his loan. But I havent seen sufficient evidence of what happened at the 
time for me to fairly say that Buddy Loans acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr W in 
this regard, or in some other way. 
But I am upholding Mr Ws complaint about the loan and Buddy Loans should put things right 
for him. 
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr W to repay the principal amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan 
that shouldnt have been provided to him.  
I understand that the loan is still outstanding. Buddy Loans should try to agree an affordable 
repayment arrangement with Mr W in respect of any outstanding balance - bearing in mind 
the need to treat him positively and sympathetically in those discussions. 
Buddy Loans should:
a) Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset, and treat 
any repayments made by Mr W as though they had been repayments of the principal 
on that loan. 
b) If this results in Mr W having made overpayments then Buddy Loans should refund 
these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from 
the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. 
c) If an outstanding balance remains then Buddy Loans should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr W, bearing in mind the need to treat him positively 
and sympathetically in these discussions.
d) Remove any adverse information recorded about the loan from Mr Ws credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Buddy Loans to deduct tax from this interest. Buddy 
Loans should give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint and direct Advancis Limited trading as 
Buddy Loans to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2020.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman