DRN-3487515
The complaint
Mr R complained that Loans 2 Go Limited acted irresponsibly when it gave him 
unaffordable loans.
What happened
Mr R took out three loans with Loans 2 Go as follows:
Loan Date taken Loan 
amountScheduled 
termWeekly 
repaymentTotal 
repayableDate 
repaid
1 6/11/2019 £800 78 weeks £42.19 £3,290.82 7/11/2019
2 17/11/2019 £500 78 weeks £26.37 £2,056.86 14/7/2020 
when 
balance paid 
by loan 3
3 14/7/2020 £587.75 78 weeks £31.00 £2,418.00 25/9/2020 
Mr R brought his complaint to us through his representative, but to keep things simpler, Ill 
just refer to Mr R.
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and didnt think that any of the loans shouldve been 
provided. He set out his findings in a letter explaining how hed come to his view. 
Loans 2 disagreed. It mainly said that Mr Rs credit commitments and all his monthly 
expenditure was taken into account when assessing affordability and the loans were all 
affordable for him. It said that although he had other open credit commitments Mr R was 
managing these properly and there was no evidence that he was struggling to keep up the 
repayments on his borrowing.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable 
and proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also 
require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify 
the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
Ive thought about each loan in turn.
Mr R changed his mind about borrowing loan 1. He returned the money hed borrowed and 
he didnt incur any costs or have to pay any interest as a result of taking out this loan. As he 
hasnt had to pay anything extra, he didnt lose out financially in relation to this loan. So, 
I dont need to consider this loan further as there isnt anything Loans 2 Go would need to do 
to put things right. 
Ill concentrate on looking into loans 2 and 3.
Loans 2 Go asked Mr R about his income and expenditure and also carried out credit 
checks. Loans 2 Go checked Mr Rs declared income using third party data and was 
satisfied that his minimum monthly income was around £1,738. 
After allowing for the cost of the repayments he would have to make for the loan on top of 
his other monthly outgoings, Loans 2 Go  worked out that the repayments should still have 
been affordable for Mr R. 
I cant see that there was anything in the information Mr R provided, or the other information 
Loans 2 Go had recorded, which meant that Loans 2 Go shouldve taken more steps to 
check the information Mr R had declared. He had evidently had some money problems in 
the past. But the defaults shown, whilst concerning, werent enough in my view to have 
prompted a responsible lender to have declined this loan application. These dated back a 
number of years and those accounts had since been settled. So I dont think Mr R would 
have had any incentive to take further action in relation to those accounts, especially as the 
information about them would no longer be reported on his credit file once it had been shown 
for 6 years. 
Its fair to say that Loans 2 Go was able to see that Mr R was three payments in arrears on a 
credit card that was £50 over its £200 credit limit and he was in an arrangement to pay on a 
short-term loan  suggesting he was finding it hard to meet all his contractual credit 
commitments. But set against this, his two bank accounts looked to be well managed and he 
wasnt shown as being in overdraft. His overall amount of debt wasnt excessive or 
concerning for someone with his level of earnings. He wasnt shown as being in bankruptcy 
or having entered into any formal arrangement with creditors and there was no record of any 
county court judgement. 
It isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have a credit history showing 
other borrowing or even sometimes an impaired credit record  and these things wouldnt 
necessarily be reasons to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan application that 
otherwise looked affordable. 
Im mindful that with this loan, Mr R would need to spend around a third of his verified take 
home pay paying for unsecured credit, which I think was a large portion of his income to 
commit on clearing debt. But it looked like he had some flexibility in his finances as he had 
declined loan 1 after successfully applying for it, and he was now taking out a smaller loan. 
His credit report didnt suggest Mr R was over-stretched at the bank. He had taken responsibility for restructuring the payments he owed on the account hed agreed an 
arrangement to pay. Mr R had given a plausible reason for needing extra money. Thinking 
about all these things, and also bearing in mind the relatively small loan amount and the loan 
term, I think the checks were enough for Loans 2 Go to agree to lend loan 2 and the 
information Loans 2 Go had gathered reasonably supported its lending decision.
So Im not planning on upholding Mr Rs complaint about loan 2.
I agree with our adjudicator that loan 3 shouldnt have been provided. Ill explain why.
Loans 2 Go asked Mr R to update his income and expenditure information and repeated the 
checks it carried out previously to verify his income and ensure it was aware of Mr Rs up to 
date credit situation.  
Mr R was applying to Loans 2 Go to top up his borrowing  in other words, he would use part 
of the loan balance to clear what he owed on loan 2 and the rest to provide him with extra 
money. No loan purpose was recorded and, as far as I can see from the lenders notes, it 
didnt ask him about this. So I dont think Loans 2 Go knew why Mr R needed this extra 
money. 
And I think its fair to say that the credit checks Loans 2 Go did for this loan now showed 
signs that Mr R was having trouble managing money problems and needing to borrow again 
to plug the gap in his finances caused by paying for his debt. 
Mr R had recently repaid the short term credit account hed previously been in an 
arrangement to pay. But Loans 2 Go could see he was now four payments in arrears on his 
credit card and an arrangement to pay that account appeared to have broken down. 
The credit checks Loans 2 Go obtained are confusing. It looked like Mr R had taken out 
another new loan around the same time as hed taken loan 2 which purportedly cost him 
£114 per week, and he was still paying other loans which cost him around £342 per month. 
But looking at the loan balance shown, this appears to reflect the amount Mr R owed on 
loan 2 around the time this information was reported. And the weekly payments for loan 2 
were equivalent to a monthly repayment of approximately £114. Errors do appear from time 
to time in credit reports and I think this information may actually refer to loan 2 - which 
notably doesnt seem to be reported anywhere else on the credit report. 
Nevertheless, even if I am right about this, I still think Loans 2 Go should have been 
concerned to see that the information in front of it suggested that with loan 3, Mr R would still 
need to pay a significant amount of his pay towards servicing his credit commitments. As a 
responsible lender, I think it shouldve realised that a loan which required Mr R to make debt 
repayments at this level for the next 18 months seriously risked not being sustainably 
affordable given that his overall financial situation appeared to have deteriorated since he 
took out loan 2. The fact that some of Mr Rs other active credit accounts showed up to date 
payments and his bank accounts appeared to be well managed wasnt enough in my view to 
address the proper concern I think Loans 2 Go shouldve felt about continuing to lend to 
Mr R, given the indications that this hadnt proved sustainable for him. And so I dont think 
Loans 2 Go shouldve provided this loan.
I appreciate that my provisional decision overall may disappoint Mr R. But I hope that setting 
out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision. And I hope that 
with the more detailed explanation I have provided Loans 2 Go will reconsider its position in 
relation to loan 3 and agree with me that its fair to uphold Mr Rs complaint about this loan. What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
I have heard nothing further from Mr R.
Loans 2 Go confirmed it had nothing further to add and said it would await my final decision. 
As we have now reached the deadline for responses to my provisional decision, I think its 
fair for me to proceed with my review of Mr Rs complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and Loans 2 Go for responding to my provisional decision. Given that Ive not received any 
further evidence or comment that changes my mind about this complaint, I confirm the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.Putting things right
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Loans 2 Go should pay any additional redress. Mr R 
hasnt commented on that and I havent seen anything which makes me think Loans 2 Go 
acted unfairly towards Mr R in any other way. So Im not awarding any additional redress. 
And I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr R to repay the capital amount that he borrowed 
when he took out loan 3, because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has been 
charged extra for a loan that should not have been provided to him and thats unfair. In line 
with this Services approach, Mr R shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he 
borrowed. 
So, Loans 2 Go should do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr R received as a result of having been given 
loan 3. The repayments Mr R made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Mr R having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement).
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Loans 2 Go should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr R.
Whilst its fair that Mr Rs credit file is an accurate reflection of his financial history, its 
unfair that he should be disadvantaged by any adverse information recorded about a 
loan that was unfairly provided. So Loans 2 Go  should remove any negative 
information recorded on Mr Rs credit file regarding loan 3.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go  to deduct tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
should give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Rs complaint about loan 3 and Loans 2 Go Limited should take the steps Ive 
set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman