DRN-2922118
The complaint
Mrs S complaint relates to a mortgage that she has with Lloyds Bank PLC, trading as 
Scottish Widows Bank. The representative and attorney, acting on Mrs S behalf, says he 
was told in 2014 and 2018 that payments couldnt be made to the mortgage. However, he 
discovered, following reading the mortgage conditions, that the mortgage could be repaid at 
any time. The representative considers the information provided in 2014 and 2018 was 
misleading.
In addition, the attorney discovered in 2020 correspondence from Scottish Widows in 2018 
and 2019 regarding the extension of the mortgage term. He considers that sending that 
volume of paperwork involved to an elderly person was unreasonable when she had a 
representative. Mrs S attorney is unhappy that this aspect of the complaint was not 
addressed by Scottish Widows. 
Mrs S wants the interest that has accrued on the mortgage since 2014 to be deducted from 
the balance. In addition, the attorney wants another deduction made from the account as 
compensation for the time he has spent dealing with the matter. 
What happened
Mrs S took out the lifetime mortgage in 2003. It had an estimated term of 15 years based on 
her age at the time it was taken out. No payments were required to be made to the 
mortgage, but she could have made payments, had she wanted to.
In 2012 Mrs S increased her borrowing in order to assist her family financially. She was 
assisted in this matter by one of her sons, and she asked that Scottish Widows deal with him 
in relation to the further borrowing. 
In 2014 Scottish Widows was provided with a copy of a power of attorney (PoA), which was 
not enduring. The attorney has said that he had discussions with Scottish Widows at that 
time and was told no payments could be made to the mortgage before Mrs Hs death or 
move to long-term care. Scottish Widows doesnt have a record of this conversation. The 
attorney was sent a copy of the loan agreement and solicitors declaration, as he had 
indicated he might raise a complaint that the mortgage had been mis-sold. 
In early 2018 Scottish Widows wrote to Mrs S. As the term hadnt been clearly documented 
in the mortgage offer as an estimated term, rather than a finite one, Scottish Widows wanted 
to check what Mrs S wanted to do. It set out the options available to her. She responded by 
writing to Scottish Widows and telling it that she was planning to put the house on the market 
in the summer or autumn of that year, at which point she would repay the mortgage. 
However, in the event that the house didnt sell, she asked that the term of the mortgage be 
extended, and the mortgage repaid when she no longer lived at the property. Scottish 
Widows sent Mrs S documentation for the term extension shed requested.
In the summer of 2018, the attorney wrote to Scottish Widows asking for information about 
the mortgage. A member of staff spoke to him and followed up the conversation with a letter 
confirming:
The account is currently active with Scottish Widows Bank, no interest is currently being 
paid on a monthly basis and this is accruing on the capital balance.
There are no interest rates currently available for Lifetime Mortgage customers to carry 
out a product transfer as this is now a discontinued product.
This continues to be a lifetime proposition and the loan is repayable only on sale of the 
property or if the customer passes away or moves into long term care or sheltered 
accommodation.
The balance is £42,549.75 as of 1 August 2018, there are no early repayment charges 
payable on redemption only a release fee of £50.00.
In 2020 the attorney wrote to Scottish Widows and complained that hed been given 
incorrect information in 2014 and 2018.  
Scottish Widows responded to the complaint. It confirmed that Mrs S could repay the 
mortgage at any time and she could start making payments to the mortgage, but she would 
be required to provide identification of her high street bank account first. It provided details 
for the attorney to be able to set up such an arrangement. In addition, Scottish Widows 
confirmed that it had been unable to locate any call recordings based on the telephone 
numbers the attorney provided, although it accepted that at least one telephone call had 
been made in 2018, based on a letter the attorney had provided. Scottish Widows explained 
that when the letter had said that the mortgage was repayable only on the sale of the 
property, if the customer passed away or moved into long term care or sheltered 
accommodation, that this was when the mortgage had to be repaid. However, it said it could 
see how this explanation could have been misunderstood and it offered Mrs S £150 
compensation in recognition of the confusion that may have been caused. 
Mrs S attorney wasnt satisfied with Scottish Widows response and asked this service to 
consider the complaint. When doing so he told us that hed spoken to several people in 2014 
as he wanted to establish how the mortgage debt could be reduced or paid off early. He said 
he was unequivocally told that neither was possible, which he accepted. In 2020, following 
Mrs S being diagnosed with a medical condition that reduced her capacity, the attorney 
sought advice about the mortgage and discovered that the information he was given in 2014 
and 2018 was wrong. He believed that had he been told the correct information at that time, 
Mrs S family would have paid the mortgage off. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. The attorney didnt accept the investigators conclusions. He said that in 2014 no 
suggestions or explanations about alternatives for reducing the mortgage debt, which was 
the principle reason for him contacting Scottish Widows, were given. In relation to the 
correspondence sent to Mrs S in 2018 about the term extension, he said that Mrs S hadnt 
even looked at the letters and had simply filed them. He asked if an elderly person was 
expected to understand the full ramifications of every letter they receive, especially given the 
lender was aware there was an attorney in place  he considered that Scottish Widows knew 
Mrs S was vulnerable due to the power of attorney.  
The attorney reiterated his understanding of the correspondence and discussions hed had 
from, and with, Scottish Widows. He also said the offer of £150 was inadequate and that 
Scottish Widows should be paying a minimum of the amount of interest that had accrued on the mortgage since his contact with it in 2014. The attorney asked that the complaint be 
passed to an ombudsman for consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly comment on the matter of Scottish Widows continuing to correspond with 
Mrs S, despite it having been provided with a PoA in 2014. Whilst Scottish Widows accepted 
this document as Mrs S authority to deal with the individual named as her attorney, as the 
document hadnt been endorsed by the Office of the Public Guardian, the attorney hadnt 
become Mrs S legal representative at that time. As such, it was not unreasonable for 
Scottish Widows to continue to correspond with Mrs S. 
As for Mrs S capacity to deal with matters relating to the mortgage herself in 2018 when 
Scottish Widows wrote to her about the term of the mortgage, I cant agree with the 
attorneys comments. Firstly, I note that she had only recently, in 2020 when the attorney 
sought advice about her financial situation, started showing signs of a medical condition that 
would reduce her capacity. In addition, it is clear that she read and understood the letters 
about the term as she responded to Scottish Widows and gave it instructions. 
As such, I will now look at the matter of what the attorney was told in 2014 and 2018. There 
is no documentary record or call recordings of the discussions the attorney remembers 
having in 2014. However, there is a documentary record of the discussion in 2018. I have 
considered the content of the letter the attorney was sent in 2018. I dont think anything 
Scottish Widows said in that letter was factually incorrect. It set out the circumstances in 
which the mortgage had to be repaid. However, I can understand that he could have 
interpreted Scottish Widows statement as meaning that these were the only situations that 
the mortgage could be repaid. That said, the letter also said no interest being paid on a 
monthly basis at that time, which I think reasonably highlighted that payments could be 
made toward the interest that was being accrued. So the attorney reasonably should have 
known that the debt could at the least be prevented from increasing by payments being 
made.
As I have said, I dont think what was said was incorrect, and while I think Scottish Widows 
could have ensured this communication was clearer to a layperson, I dont consider it merits 
all of the interest being waived on the mortgage, either from 2018 or 2014. Scottish Widows 
has offered £150 compensation for any misunderstanding that might have occurred. I think 
that is a reasonable amount in the circumstances. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 
8 December 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman