DRN-3464209
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco) is 
holding her liable for the debt on a credit card she says was taken out fraudulently.
What happened
Mrs F says that after her ex-husband had been arrested for assaulting her in February 2017, 
she found he had taken out numerous accounts with different banks in her sole name and 
jointly  including a credit card account with Tesco. She called Tesco about the credit card 
account in May 2017 and found out the account was opened in August 2016 using her 
details and her ex-husbands email address. 
Mrs F believes Tesco didnt complete enough checks at application stage and says it should 
have noted the email address provided was her husbands and called her about this. If this 
had happened the application wouldnt have progressed. Mrs F is also unhappy with the 
service provided by Tesco and says there were delays and staff were unhelpful. 
Mrs F accepts that payments were made from her sole account to the Tesco credit card 
account but says she didnt notice them as the amounts were small and could have been 
mistaken for purchases. In addition to this, Mrs Fs attention was elsewhere as her mother 
was ill. Since finding out about the Tesco credit card Mrs F has made minimum payments 
while her complaint is being investigated.  
Tesco say there is insufficient evidence that Mrs F is the victim of identity theft and has held 
Mrs F liable for the debt. It says the account was opened on 7 August 2016 and at that stage 
it completed know your customer and verification checks that caused no concern. The email 
address provided on the application was in Mrs Fs husbands name but its not uncommon 
for spouses to share an email address. And it wouldnt call a customer about an application 
unless there was something unusual to discuss. Tesco also said that the balance transfer 
was to an account in Mrs Fs sole name and that a direct debit was set up to make minimum 
payments from an account in Mrs Fs sole name. Finally, the police concluded there was 
insufficient evidence to take matters further and convict Mrs Fs former husband.
Tesco did however recognise that the service it provided to Mrs F was below what it would 
expect. It didnt proceed with a fraud claim and there were some delays. In recognition of 
these factors Tesco sent Mrs F a cheque for £250. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. She said 
she hadnt investigated whether the account was opened fraudulently because she felt Mrs F 
had benefited from the funds. This was because the Tesco account balance was used to 
repay another credit card account Mrs F said she knew nothing about. The debt on that 
other credit card account was £18,000 and Mrs F received that same amount into a genuine 
credit card account in her name. In the circumstances, it was fair and reasonable to hold her 
liable for the debt and the payments Mrs F had made shouldnt be refunded. The investigator 
also felt that the £250 offered by Tesco in respect of the service it had provided was 
reasonable.
Mrs F didnt agree with the investigators findings. In summary, she said:
- Her former husband opened 35 accounts, many of them joint accounts, that she 
didnt know about at the time.
- If Tesco hadnt allowed the account to be opened in the first place she wouldnt have 
been left with a debt. Tesco should have noticed the email address provided on the 
application was not hers and called her. 
- Payments were made to the Tesco account from her sole account, but they were set 
up by her ex-husband and she didnt notice the small minimum payments as they 
could have been purchases and her mother was ill.
- Mrs F quoted from a response she received from the police that said banks 
completed minimal checks as she and her ex-husband lived together and had joint 
accounts. The police were unable to identify from information stored by the banks 
who opened the accounts and whether permission was granted to do so.   
- It was ludicrous to suggest she had benefited from the funds. Mrs F explained that 
she thought at least £7,000 of the funds received into her genuine credit card 
account came from a business account rather than another credit card in her name 
she was unaware of. The result was that Mrs F was significantly out of pocket. 
- Mrs F provided evidence to support her position. She provided a photograph of a 
Tesco credit card bearing her name and her ex-husbands signature, an email from 
her ex-husband from February 2017 providing log-in details for the Tesco credit card 
account and a statement from the financial service provider the funds were 
transferred to dated June 2016 with a handwritten note by her husband about £4,000 
being put on a new Tesco credit card with 0% interest for two years.
The complaint was brought to me to consider. I issued a provisional decision on 15 August 
2022 and said in the What Ive provisionally decided - and why section:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence.
Ive thought about whether Im satisfied the Tesco credit card account was opened 
fraudulently. Whilst I dont doubt what Mrs F has told Tesco and this service, I dont believe 
theres enough evidence to conclude that on the balance of probabilities this was the case. I 
know Mrs F will be very disappointed to hear this. Ill explain why Ive reached this 
conclusion. 
Tesco requested a limited amount of information at the time of application. Having reviewed 
the information provided I can see that Mrs Fs genuine details, including her home and 
mobile telephone numbers, were used. The only detail that wasnt specific to Mrs F was the 
email address, but I agree that its not unusual for married couples to share an email 
address. So, this factor alone wouldnt be enough to concern Tesco. Mrs F thinks Tesco 
should have called her, but I dont agree. Id only expect a bank to call a customer about an 
application or request additional information if there was a reason to be concerned. 
There were no other factors that ought reasonably to have flagged as potential problems. A 
direct debit was set up to meet the minimum payments from an account in Mrs Fs sole 
name with the same address. These payments would have appeared on Mrs Fs statements 
for her sole account with that other bank for some months before she reported the matter to 
Tesco. I appreciate that Mrs F didnt give her statements as much attention as she might 
given what was going on at the time, but I cant hold Tesco responsible for that. Also, there 
was only one transaction on the account, and this was a balance transfer to another account 
in Mrs Fs name. I have carefully considered the evidence Mrs F has provided but am not persuaded it shows 
she had no knowledge of the credit card account with Tesco and didnt agree to take it out. 
Whilst the handwriting on the statement from another bank may not be Mrs Fs this isnt 
evidence that she didnt know about it or give her ex-husband permission to manage their 
financial affairs. Mrs F has said that he controlled all of their finances so its just as likely that 
Mrs Fs ex-husband had permission to move funds around to take advantage of zero interest 
deals with different banks. And I have no way of knowing whose signature appeared on the 
back of the card. 
Ive also carefully considered the email Mrs F has provided from February 2017 which 
provides log in details to the Tesco account so that Mrs F could view the statements. Its 
clear the purpose of the email is to establish the overall debt on all credit cards The email 
explains to Mrs F how to get the balance and concludes, I will add it [the balance] to the 
others and let you know the total. There is no suggestion in the email that there was 
anything hidden about the Tesco account and it appears that Mrs Fs ex-husband is getting a 
picture of total joint debt as I understand they were separating around this point. 
Overall, it seems to me that Mrs Fs former husband had control of the finances and I agree 
with the conclusion reached by the police that its not possible to determine who opened the 
account and whether permission was granted to do so. The evidence that is available leads 
me to believe the Tesco credit card account wasnt hidden from Mrs F, as a direct debit was 
set up from her sole account to meet minimum payments on the account and I dont believe 
someone acting fraudulently would do this. And Mrs Fs genuine details were used on the 
application. 
I turn now to whether Mrs F benefited from the funds from the Tesco credit card account. 
The balance on the Tesco credit card was transferred to another credit card account that 
Mrs F also says she was unaware of until around February 2017. From this other credit card 
£18,000 was paid to a genuine credit card account in Mrs Fs sole name with a third 
provider. Mrs F has explained that she thought the funds that credited her genuine account 
were from a business account and were transferred to pay for a holiday. Mrs F says she 
didnt know they actually came from another credit card she was unaware of.
So it seems more likely that not that Mrs F did benefit from the funds  but she thought 
theyd come from another account. Im satisfied this is a civil matter between Mrs F and her 
former husband and not one that involves Tesco.  
In terms of the service Mrs F received, I agree that Tesco delayed its investigation and 
caused Mrs F additional unnecessary stress and worry. But I think the £250 it has already 
offered in respect of its service is fair and reasonable and so am not awarding anything 
more. Mrs F says that as she didnt accept the offer, she didnt cash the cheque. I suggest 
that she approaches Tesco to arrange for a replacement cheque to be issued. 
Overall, I dont think theres enough evidence to fairly conclude Tesco did anything wrong 
when the credit card was taken out. So I cant reasonably ask Tesco to write off the balance 
due or refund Mrs F the payments she has made.  
Responses to my provisional decision
Tesco let me know it has nothing further to add. Mrs F didnt agree with my findings. Ive 
summarised her main points below:
- Mrs F referred to my civil matter comment and provided information about how this 
service resolves complaints. 
- The account was opened fraudulently by Mrs Fs former husband. Mrs F says she 
didnt know of the existence of the account until February 2017 and didnt give 
permission for the account to be opened. Mrs F referred to the fact I said her 
telephone number was used in the application and said there was no proof of this 
and her ex-husband wouldnt have risked using her number. Mrs F also said that shed spoken to other banks that said the email address in her husbands name 
would flag up and need to be clarified. 
Mrs F said the police were unable to determine who opened the account because the 
banks completed minimal checks, and this is the real issue. Mrs F explained the 
police are re-investigating. She referred to four credit cards fraudulently taken out in 
her name, multiple bank accounts being opened, fraudulent documents to claim on 
insurance, theft from a savings account, attempted insurance claims on the business 
account, illegal claims, money laundering and harassment  and said this showed 
intent and dishonesty.
- Her previous appeal was based on the fact the investigator agreed the accounts 
were opened fraudulently and her wish to be put back in the position shed have 
been in if this hadnt happened.  
- Mrs F didnt benefit from the account in any way. She was left with a credit card debt 
to Tesco and her account with C ended up having a higher balance. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered Mrs Fs comments Ive reached the same conclusion I set out in 
my provisional decision and for the same reasons. I realise Mrs F will be extremely 
disappointed and am sorry for this, but I cant reasonably make an award in this case.
Id like to clarify my civil matter comment. I wasnt saying this service cant consider Mrs Fs 
complaint against Tesco. My point was that if Mrs F believed funds credited to her account 
with C came from another account rather than Tesco (she has mentioned her business 
account) then this isnt a matter for Tesco or this service as its a civil dispute between her 
and her ex-husband. 
I recognise Mrs F has had a difficult time and that my conclusion that there is insufficient 
evidence the account was opened fraudulently was upsetting. Mrs F has referred to 
evidence I considered previously and also to other factors not raised before and which she 
hasnt submitted evidence in relation to. But because of my findings in respect of the use of 
the credit in this case I dont consider there is a great deal of merit in going into the opening 
of the account in any more detail. I covered this point in my provisional decision partly 
because Miss F criticised the investigator for not investigating it when she responded to her 
view. I agree with Mrs F though that evidence not directly related to this complaint indicates 
that her former husband wasnt always honest. 
In her response to the view Mrs F questioned the telephone number used on the application 
for the Tesco credit card. The home telephone number was the one Mrs F has provided to 
this service. When it investigated Mrs Fs concerns in 2017 Tesco asked the bank the direct 
debit payments were made from for certain information. This bank confirmed that the mobile 
number matched Mrs Fs previous recorded mobile number. 
I still dont consider that in the absence of any other problems a shared email address 
should have concerned Tesco. Whilst other banks may adopt a different approach now, Im 
considering whether Tesco acted reasonably in 2015.
The only transaction on the Tesco credit card was a £4,000 balance transfer in August 2016. 
This £4,000 was used to pay off another credit card. The main transactions on this other 
credit card were two payments to a credit card account in Mrs Fs sole name of £11,000 and 
£7,000 and a credit of £7,000 (given the passage of time Im uncertain where this payment 
was from). This means that Mrs F received £18,000 into an account in her sole name with C and these 
credits reduced her outstanding balance with C. In these circumstances I dont consider I 
can fairly ask Tesco to pay anything to Mrs F.  
Mrs F may have suffered a loss elsewhere as she has explained that she thought the funds 
crediting her account with C came from her business account when this wasnt the case, but 
I cant hold Tesco responsible. This is a matter between Mrs F and her ex-husband. 
Overall, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable to make an award in this case, but 
Tesco should arrange to pay Mrs F the compensation it previously offered. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman