DRN-3687368
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complained that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) unfairly declined their storm claim 
under their home insurance.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J made a claim to QIC when high winds caused damage to their property. Mr 
and Mrs Js said the winds caused a ridge tile to be dislodged from their roof and caused 
significant damage to their boundary fence. 
QIC appointed a surveyor to review and validate the damage. Based on the report provided 
by the surveyor, QIC decided to decline the claim. QICs surveyor said the storm wasnt the 
main cause of the damage. It said the dislodged tile was caused by poor workmanship, so 
wasnt covered by the policy. It said as no storm damage was evident to the main property, 
the policy didnt cover damage to the fence, although it did add this wouldnt have been 
covered anyway as the fence posts were clearly rotten and showing signs of deterioration.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. He didnt think QIC had proven that poor 
workmanship had caused the ridge tile to become dislodged and thought it was more likely 
the storm had caused this, so he asked QIC to refund Mr and Mrs J for the work they had 
done to replace the tile (circa £100). However, he thought QIC had fairly declined the claim 
for the fence as he thought there was signs of deterioration and poor maintenance. Mr and 
Mrs J disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 16 August 2022. I said:
When our service looks at a storm claim, there are three questions to consider: 
1.    Do I agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said 
to have happened? 
2.    Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I will use this structure to work through the complaint. Im likely to uphold the complaint if the 
answer to all three is yes. If the answer to one of the questions is no, Im unlikely to uphold 
the complaint.
Do I agree that storm conditions occurred?
QIC agreed storm conditions were present at the time of the reported incident, so I will move 
to the next question.
Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
I think its possible that high winds could potentially cause damage like what has been 
claimed for. Significant winds could result in tiles been blown from a roof or causing them to 
become dislodged. High winds can cause damage to wooden fences. So, I will consider the 
next question.
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I have first considered the dislodged ridge tile. Mr and Mrs J have shown a storm was 
evident at the time of the reported incident, but QIC has declined the claim because it said 
poor workmanship was the main cause of the damage. It suggests the storm merely 
highlighted this pre-existing weakness. I have checked the relevant sections from the policy 
to understand what it sets out about the cover. The general exclusions show an exclusion for 
poor workmanship, it states:
Loss or damage caused by poor workmanship, use of faulty materials including latent 
defects or poor design (a latent defect is a fault which exists, but which only causes a 
problem at a later stage under certain conditions.
Therefore, if QIC has shown poor workmanship was the cause of the dislodged tile, then I 
would say its been fair to decline the claim under the terms and conditions of the policy.
QIC appointed an expert surveyor to carry out the investigation and this was later reviewed 
by the in-house surveying team. I think this is a reasonable approach. Mr and Mrs J hasnt 
provided any expert reports, so my decision is based on the evidence provided.
QIC said the loose ridge tile that can be seen in the images, has been replaced more 
recently than the remaining ridge tiles and this is evidenced by the loose tile being a different 
colour than the others. With this in mind, we would expect this ridge tile to be held more 
securely to the roof as the mortar bonding the tile to the roof would have been applied more 
recently and therefore would have had less time to naturally deteriorate. The older ridge tiles 
were not removed or loosened during the same storm conditions and these tiles have been 
exposed to the elements over a longer period of time and the mortar bonding them to the 
roof would have had more time to naturally deteriorate. Therefore, we can conclude, that the 
mortar bonding the loose ridge tile to the roof was not of a good quality.
I have looked at what the surveyor specifically said in his report  he said this ridge (tile) is a 
different colour to the rest and has clearly been replaced before. Therefore, [it] has not been 
replaced as well as the other ridge tiles that remain in place. QIC added this was likely to be 
due to a poor sand/cement mix.
Whilst, I think QICs hypothesis is reasonable, I dont think it has provided any conclusive 
evidence to prove its hypothesis holds true and is the main cause of the damage. There are 
no close-up pictures of the damaged area or inspection  the photographs taken are from 
quite a distance. It hasnt proven there was a poor sand/cement mix. I appreciate QIC thinks 
it was fitted poorly as other tiles fitted at a different time are still intact. However, I think its 
just as likely high winds couldve applied a greater force to the end ridge tile causing it to be 
dislodged. 
Therefore, I think QIC should cover the claim as I dont think its reasonable to rely on poor 
workmanship to exclude the claim. Therefore, I intend to uphold this aspect of the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs J said theyve had the tile replaced at a cost of £95. As its a small amount and 
reasonable, Im not going to ask for receipts to be provided, so I intend to require QIC to pay 
£95 plus 8% simple interest from the date of the claim to the date its paid (for the time Mr 
and Mrs J has been without this money). I think Mr and Mrs J have suffered some 
inconvenience from having to have the tile repaired themselves to mitigate future leaks, 
rather than have it fixed by QICs contractors, so I intend to award £100 compensation for 
this.Ive then considered the damage to the fence. As Ive decided there was storm damage to 
the main house, the damage to the fence can be considered because of the storm. The 
surveyor said the fence to the side boundary is in a poor state due to age. There is a vast 
amount of plants growing in and over it and these are adding excess weight to an already 
ageing fence. The posts are rotten and loose where they go into the ground.
Mr and Mrs J has disputed the surveyors findings. So, I have reviewed the photographs 
provided. I think the surveyors commentary is consistent with what I can see in the 
photographs. The fence appears to have some age to it. There are some parts of it missing. 
The fence is leaning in the area where the heavy growth is over the fence. So, I think QIC 
has been fair in saying the storm wasnt the main cause of the damage to the fence. I dont 
think its been properly maintained. Therefore, I dont uphold this aspect of the complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Both parties accepted my provisional decision and didnt have anything further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require QIC Europe Ltd to pay Mr and Mrs 
J: 
£95 plus 8% simple interest (from the date of the claim to the date its paid)
£100 compensation  for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman