DRN-4020872
The complaint
Mr E complains AWP P&C SA (AWP) has unfairly declined his claim on his bicycle 
insurance policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill summarise the key 
points Ive focused on within my decision.
Mr Es partners electric bicycle was stolen from a communal garden within the block of flats 
where he lives. He raised a claim to AWP who declined it, saying that security requirements 
hadnt been met by Mr E.
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. He agreed that Mr E had failed 
to meet the requirements of the policy which showed where the bicycle could be kept.
Mr E disagreed with our investigator, saying that the location of where the bicycle was stored 
could be described as location D within the policy, and he disputed that hed failed to meet 
the policy conditions.
As Mr E disagreed with our investigator the complaint has been passed to me, an 
Ombudsman, to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy provides cover for theft of a bicycle from four locations that AWP sets out within 
the terms and conditions. Ive reviewed the photographs Mr E has provided of the area 
where he kept the bicycle, and I agree with AWP; the definition that provides the most 
resemblance to the area is location D - a privately accessed pedal cycle storage unit.
However, the terms go on to say the following are not approved locations:
Storage units where your pedal cycle is visible from the outside
I can see the area where Mr E kept the bicycle is visible from outside, so Im not persuaded 
that he has met the condition of the policy. 
For completeness even if I did accept that Mr E stored the bicycle in an accepted location 
(which I dont), I then must consider the security requirements of the policy for that location. 
These include:
- Pedal cycle(s) must be secured through the frame by an approved lock to an 
immovable object within the storage unit or hallway
- The pedal cycle must not be visible from the outside of the storage unit
- Entry to the storage unit must only be gained via the door, gate, or lid lock, with 
lockable access restricted to those who keep pedal cycles within it
The lock
The policy says a bicycle must be locked with an approved lock Ive not seen evidence of the 
lock used but Mr E says it was locked through the frame and attached to one of the posts in 
the shelter.
Not being visible
The storage area is visible for anyone to see from a viewing point of an advanced height. 
This includes Mr Es neighbours who can look out of their flats into the garden and also 
opens up to anyone who can see into it from outside of that building. As the area isnt 
enclosed, the bicycle is on show to anyone who can see into the garden or enters the 
garden. Therefore, Mr E has failed to meet this policy requirement.
Entry
The storage unit Mr E used didnt have a door, a gate or a lid lock and therefore there was 
no lock needed to overcome to gain entry to it. Whilst the entry to the garden where the 
storage area was had a lock, this was accessible by anyone who lived in the building and 
wasnt restricted to those who were also storing bicycles. The padlock used for the garden 
gate also didnt meet the requirements of the policy definition of approved lock. Therefore, 
Mr E has failed to meet this policy requirement.
I empathise with Mr E for his loss, however I havent identified that AWP have incorrectly 
declined his claim. Im satisfied that Mr E has failed to meet the requirements of the policy 
and what he agreed to do when he took out the policy. The policy terms and conditions form 
the contract between Mr E and AWP and its important that both understand, and follow, 
these terms to ensure that the right policy is in place for what is required. As I dont consider 
Mr E had done this, I wont be asking AWP to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman