DRN-3061946
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly turned down her claim under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (s.75 CCA).
What happened
In late 2003, Mrs and Mr C bought a Timeshare membership from a supplier Ill call M. She 
says she paid for the membership with a Goldfish credit card in her name. The membership 
certificate indicates that the duration of the agreement was a little under 28 years. In 2018, 
Mrs C contacted Barclays to make a claim under s.75 CCA. She said that she couldnt make 
use of the Timeshare membership because M had gone bankrupt. And that as the 
membership had been due to run for nearly 28 years and that she had only had use of it for 
11 years, she was seeking a pro rata refund to reflect this. 1
Barclays turned down Mrs Cs claim. Mrs C complained about this but Barclays said that it 
required documentary evidence to support the claim. It said that although Mrs C had 
provided details of the Timeshare agreement and a balance transfer to a different credit 
provider for the right amount shortly after the purchase, it had been unable to trace either a 
Goldfish or Barclaycard account. It said that if Mrs C could provide more information about 
the transaction itself, it would be pleased to review matters further. 
Mrs C remained unhappy and referred her complaint to us. 
We asked Barclays for its file papers. As part of its response (in early 2019), it said that it 
had since been able to locate a Goldfish account. It said, however, that this didnt change 
anything as regards the claim, because there was still no evidence of the specific transaction 
to the merchant. 
An investigator here looked into the matter and reached a view. She said, in summary, that 
the information provided by Mrs C didnt demonstrate for certain that a credit card Barclays 
was responsible for, was used to fund the relevant transaction. As such, she couldnt say 
that Barclays had acted unfairly when it turned down the claim.
Mrs C didnt accept this. She said she had spoken to the other credit provider and that they 
were going to provide further information confirming that the balance transfer was in relation 
to a Goldfish credit card, with some of the account details. Mrs C subsequently provided this 
information to us. 
The investigator didnt think this was enough to mean that Barclays needed to do anything 
further, so Mrs C asked for her case to be passed to an Ombudsman. 
I looked at the case and asked both parties for some additional information.
I pointed out to Barclays that the Goldfish credit card account details it had included within its 
1 Mrs C and Mr C are both mentioned on the Timeshare application form. But, only Mrs C is an eligible complainant as the 
credit card used was hers.
file papers in 2019, were different to the account details provided by Mrs C, from the other 
credit provider. I asked Barclays to confirm that it had searched for the account/transaction 
using the information provided by Mrs C.  
I pointed out to Mrs C that although the purchase amount on the Timeshare agreement was 
difficult to make out, it did appear to be a different amount to the balance transfer amount. I 
asked Mrs C for her comments on this. 
Barclays responded to say that it had conducted a search using the information provided by 
Mrs C, from the other credit provider, but that they hadnt been able to find anything using 
those details either. Barclays reiterated that it thought details of the actual transaction were 
required in order for there to be a valid claim. 
Mrs C responded with an explanation as to why the agreement and balance transfer 
amounts were slightly different and she provided evidence in support of this. 
I then communicated my provisional thoughts to both parties. I said, in summary, that:
- I thought based on the evidence that it was more likely than not that the transaction 
in question was funded by a Goldfish credit card.
- However, I didnt think this meant that Barclays was wrong to turn down the claim, 
albeit for different reasons. This was because in order for s.75 to apply there needs 
to be certain arrangements between the debtor (in this case potentially Mrs C), the 
creditor (in this case potentially Barclays) and the supplier (M). Without anything 
showing the actual transaction, its not possible to say for sure that the necessary 
arrangements were in place for Barclays to have liability under s.75.
- I was satisfied that Barclays had done its best to search for the transaction details 
and that it hadnt found anything. Given the amount of time since the transaction in 
question, I didnt find this surprising or unreasonable. 
- Whilst I had sympathy for the position Mrs C found herself in, unless she could 
provide further information showing details of the transaction itself, Id likely conclude 
that Barclays didnt need to do anything further.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further evidence or arguments they wanted to 
make. 
Barclays didnt provide anything further. 
Mrs C responded. She said, in summary, that:
- Given how long the case has been with the Service and the lack of updates, it was 
extremely disappointing to find out that the claim may fail because Barclays hasnt 
been able to locate details of the transaction in question. 
- Barclays had never admitted to her that it had found details of a Goldfish credit card 
that she held. She wondered when and how Barclays had been able to locate the 
credit card details (after saying in its final response that it couldnt find anything at 
all). And she wondered whether if Barclays had found the details earlier on, they 
would then have been able to locate details of the transaction. 
- If the outcome of the case remains the same, then the s.75 legislation is weighted 
against the consumer where there is a long term contract involved and the consumer doesnt (understandably) keep evidence of the original payment transaction. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint, for essentially the same provisional reasons 
that I shared with both parties. I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mrs C and 
acknowledge that her case has been with us for a long time, which no doubt makes the 
outcome all the more frustrating. 
I need to determine whether Barclays decision to turn down Mrs Cs claim under s.75 CCA, 
was fair. 
I said in my provisional findings that the evidence suggests the relevant Timeshare 
membership was paid for using a Goldfish credit card. Barclays would be responsible for a 
claim under s.75 relating to a transaction carried out using a Goldfish credit card.
As I said when I shared my provisional thoughts, s.75 CCA states that in certain 
circumstances, where a debtor has a claim against a supplier in respect of a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract, they will have a like claim against the creditor. So 
here, Mrs C (the potential debtor) is asking Barclaycard (the potential creditor) to answer her 
claim for breach of contract by the Timeshare supplier (M).
However, Barclays is only responsible for claims where there is a debtor-creditor-supplier
(DCS) link in place. In short, there have to be certain arrangements in place so that the
supplier of goods or services is paid using the credit card. In this case, because we dont 
have anything showing the actual transaction, it is not possible to say with certainty where 
the money was paid to. And that being the case, the necessary DCS link has not been 
proven.
So although I still think it more likely than not that a Goldfish credit card was used to fund the
transaction, because we dont have documentary proof showing the specific transaction that
took place, I find that Barclays decision to turn down the claim wasnt unreasonable. 
Barclays was able to find details of a Goldfish card that Mrs C held, but it wasnt able to 
locate details / a copy of the transaction in question. Given how long ago the transaction 
took place, this isnt unreasonable. Barclays has also confirmed that it tried to search for the 
card and transaction using the details Mrs C received from the lender where the balance 
transfer was paid to, but has also not found anything using these details.
I appreciate Mrs Cs point that Barclays initially told her that it couldnt find any record of her 
holding a Goldfish credit card account and that it could have been anything up to four years 
later that it found something. However, Barclays confirmed when it provided us with its file 
papers in early 2019, that it had found details of an account that Mrs C held. In context, this 
therefore wasnt very much later. In any case, Mrs C complained some 16 years after the 
transaction took place, so I dont find it unreasonable that Barclays cant locate the 
transaction.  
Whilst I also appreciate Mrs Cs sentiment about the usefulness of the s.75 legislation in 
circumstances like hers, Im satisfied that Barclays decision not to meet Mrs Cs claim under 
s.75 CCA was fair. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Ben Brewer
Ombudsman