DRN-2580850
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited did not assist her when she was 
mis-sold a course, paid for with a loan it provided. Clydesdale trades in this case as Barclays 
Partner Finance, and Ill refer to it as BPF.    
What happened
In or about March 2007 Mrs G signed up for a training course to become a driving instructor. 
The course was to be provided by a company, L. BPF had arrangements with L, under which 
it agreed to provide Mrs G with finance to pay for the course. On 13 March 2007 Mrs G 
entered into a loan agreement with BPF for the price of the course, £3,495, which she was to 
repay over three years.
Mrs G says she had to postpone the start of the course, but, when she was ready to start it 
in around 2010, she was told that L was closing down. Mrs G was directed to other providers 
but was not able to take up the training as agreed. It appears that another company bought 
the driving schools brand and assets, but did not take on its liabilities, so Mrs G was unable 
to obtain a refund. L was placed into administration in February 2010 and subsequently into 
liquidation. 
In 2019 Mrs G contacted BPF. It said that it was unable to assist, as it had been more than 
six years since Mrs G had entered into the contract with L and the loan agreement; it was 
also more than six years since L had ceased trading. 
Mrs G referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered it. She 
noted that, under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, BPF was equally liable with L 
for any breach of the contract financed by the loan. However, she thought that any court 
proceedings against L would be subject to the statutory limitation period of six years and 
concluded that Mrs G did not therefore have a valid claim against L. 
Mrs G did not accept the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive indicated, Mrs Gs contract with L was financed by credit provided to her by BPF 
under pre-existing arrangements between L and BPF. Because of those arrangements, the 
effect of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 was that, if Mrs G had a claim for 
breach of contract against L, it had a like claim against BPF. 
Mrs G says she did have such a claim against BPF because it didnt provide the course it 
had agreed to provide. I note that she did make enquiries of the administrator but was told 
there would be no distribution to unsecured creditors. I think it very likely that L was in 
breach of contract, since it did not provide Mrs G with the service it had agreed to provide.
BPF initially said that this service did not have power to consider Mrs Gs complaint, 
because we cant usually consider a complaint which is brought more than six years after the 
event complained of. L ceased trading in early 2010, but Mrs G did not complain to BPF until 
late 2019. 
Our investigator pointed out however that the event about which Mrs G was complaining was 
not Ls breach of contract, but BPFs response to her claim under section 75. That had 
happened much later, and Mrs G had expressed her dissatisfaction with that response 
promptly. BPF accepted that, and I agree that is the correct analysis. The complaint was 
made within the ombudsman services time limit.
However, that is not the only time limit that is relevant here. Section 5 of the Limitation Act 
1980 says:
An action founded on simple contract shall not be brought after the expiration of six 
years from the date on which the cause of action accrued. 
The investigator thought that any cause of action Mrs G had against L would have accrued 
when L was placed in administration. Its not necessary for me to identify the exact point at 
which L might have been in breach of contract, but I agree that  if there was a breach  it 
occurred in early 2010. 
The investigator concluded therefore that the effect of section 5 of the Limitation Act 1980 
was that it was unlikely Mrs G could have made a successful claim against L after some time 
in 2016. I make two observations on that conclusion:
Section 5 of the Act does not prevent a claimant from making a claim or starting court 
proceedings. Rather, it provides a defence to that claim which, if raised, a court will 
consider. A court will not of its own volition dismiss a claim because it was brought 
outside the relevant time limit.  
In practice, Mrs G would not have been able to bring a successful claim once L was 
placed into administration. Even if she had been able to obtain a judgment against L or 
had successfully made a claim in the administration, there was no money to pay it.
I dont believe the second of these points would be a reason not to uphold Mrs Gs 
complaint. Indeed, section 75 can often provide consumers with protection where suppliers 
cease trading or are unable to meet their obligations. In saying that, I am aware of course 
that lenders in such cases may be unable to make any recovery under any indemnity 
(statutory or otherwise) from the supplier. Of itself, however, that is not a reason for me to 
decline to make an award in Mrs Gs favour.
The first point, which is really a legal rather than a practical one, is a little different in my 
view. I am required by law and by our rules to determine Mrs Gs complaint on the basis of 
what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. In deciding whats fair, I 
must have regard to any relevant law  which in this case includes section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 and section 5 of the Limitation Act 1980. 
Our own rules about time limits and the provisions of the 1980 Act have some similarities. 
Time limits help to ensure that the threat of claims (or, in the case of the ombudsman 
service, complaints) does not continue indefinitely. They mean that claims are brought within 
a reasonable time and when evidence is still available and, in the case of witness evidence, 
peoples recollections are reliable.
In this case, Mrs Gs complaint arises from a BPF loan and an agreement she made with L 
some 14 years ago (and some 13 years before she complained). It was nearly 10 years after 
any problems arose that she raised any issue with BPF. By that point, L was no longer 
trading and the loan agreement had long since run its course. So, whilst Mrs G did not bring her complaint outside of this services time limits, I do believe 
that it would be unfair  given the overall time that has passed  to make an award in her 
favour.    
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I dont require Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited to take any further steps to resolve Mrs Gs complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or reject my decision 
before 1 April 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman