DRN-1748291
The complaint
Miss A complains that American Express Services Europe Limited wont refund money she 
lost when she fell victim to a scam. 
What happened
Based on the submissions of both parties, I understand the scam occurred as follows.
In June 2019 Miss A received an email from who she thought was the managing director of 
her employer. The email asked Miss A to purchase some gift cards for clients. But unknown 
to Miss A at the time, the emails were from a scammer impersonating her boss.
Miss A has said internally there were cases where gift cards would be sent out to clients and 
that she was certain she was acting on behalf of her managing director. Believing the emails 
to be genuine and under pressure to carry out the work shed been asked to do, she went 
ahead and purchased some gift cards.
On 10 June 2019 Miss A visited a well-known supermarket and purchased £600.00 worth of 
Amazon vouchers using a debit card she holds with a different provider. After Miss A had 
purchased the vouchers, she was asked to scratch the cards and provide the scammer with 
the unique voucher codes  she was also asked to provide copies of her receipts, so she 
could be reimbursed.
After Miss A had passed over the unique voucher codes, the scammer asked Miss A to go 
back and buy more vouchers. Still thinking she was communicating with her boss, Miss A 
visited a well-known pharmacy and purchased Google Play vouchers worth £1,000 using her 
American Express credit card. The vouchers were purchased in two transactions, each for 
£500.00, and were made up of ten vouchers for £100.00 each.  After buying the vouchers, 
Miss A was again asked to provide the unique reference numbers to the scammers. 
The scam came to light the following day when Miss A spoke with her managing director and 
it became apparent it wasnt them who had asked Miss A to buy the vouchers. 
Miss A complained to American Express as she was unhappy it wouldnt refund the money 
she lost, Miss A also mentioned to American Express about a reimbursement scheme that 
had been put into place. American Express issued its final response on 4 July 2019  it 
didnt uphold Miss As complaint as she had authorised the transactions.  It also said the 
reimbursement scheme Miss A had mentioned didnt apply to American Express.
Miss A then brought her complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into 
things. Our investigator didnt think American Express could have done anything to prevent 
the scam - he didnt consider the transactions Miss A made were particularly out of the 
ordinary, or so unusual that they should have raised American Expresss suspicions. And he 
didnt think American Express missed an opportunity to identify the payments could 
potentially have been in relation to a scam. 
Miss A didnt accept our investigators view, she said she was sensible with how she 
operated her account and such payments dont usually appear on her account. Because 
Miss A disagreed with our investigator, the complaint has now been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the
time.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Miss A, and I can understand entirely why she feels 
so strongly that her money should be returned to her. But having thought very carefully 
about American Expresss actions, I think it did act fairly and reasonably in allowing the 
transactions to be made from Miss As account. 
So, having considered everything, Im not going to uphold Miss As complaint. I do 
appreciate how disappointing this will be for Miss A, but I dont think I can fairly say that 
American Express should reimburse her with the money she unfortunately lost to the 
fraudsters. Ill explain why.
In broad terms, American Express can only hold Miss A liable for the payments if the 
evidence suggests its more likely than not that she made or authorised them herself.  Here, 
it is not in dispute Miss A authorised the payments, indeed she says herself she did. So even 
though Miss A was tricked, I cant fairly say she didnt authorise the transactions.
But firms, such as American Express, have obligations to be alert to instances of fraud. This 
means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent
years, there are circumstances where a firm should fairly and reasonably take additional
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to
make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.
So, in this case, I need to decide whether American Express ought to have identified Miss A 
might have been at risk of financial harm when she purchased £1,000 worth of Google Play 
vouchers, and passed the voucher codes to a scammer and when she reported the fraud, or 
whether it should have done more than it did.
Ive first thought about whether the payments Miss A made were out of character and 
unusual. Having reviewed Miss As statements for the six months leading up to the scam, I 
dont think the payments were so unusual or suspicious in comparison to Miss As normal 
account activity that it ought to have alerted American Express that Miss A may have been 
at risk of financial harm. While £500.00 was the largest payment Miss A had made, there are 
multiple transactions over £100 and several payments over £300.00. 
I can also see the payments made, did not take Miss A close to reaching her credit limit  
which can often be a hallmark of a scam.  So I dont think the transactions made for £500 
were so unusual or out of character, that I would have expected American Express to have 
intervened. So, I dont think American Express acted unreasonably in not making enquiries 
about the transactions before processing them. I understand Miss A has mentioned a reimbursement model. As our investigator has 
explained, I think what Miss A is referring to is The Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM 
code).  The CRM code is a voluntary code introduced in May 2019  American Express are 
not signed up to the CRM code and the CRM code doesnt cover card payments  so it is 
not something I can consider when looking at this complaint.
I am sorry that Miss A has lost out, and I appreciate this is a lot of money for her to have lost. 
I also understand the whole experience was very frustrating and upsetting for her. But in the 
circumstances, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to order American Express to refund 
Miss A the money she has lost. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss As complaint against 
American Express Services Europe Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 October 2020.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman