DRN-3030342
The complaint
Mr J complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has turned down a curtailment claim he 
made on his travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr J has travel insurance as a benefit of a packaged account with his building society.
Mr J booked a trip abroad on 11 December 2019. He flew abroad as planned on 18 January 
2020 and was due to fly home on 27 January 2020. Sadly, shortly after Mr Js arrival at his 
destination, his father-in-law passed away. So Mr J cut short his holiday and returned to the 
UK several days earlier than hed planned. He made a claim for the costs associated with 
curtailing his trip.
UKI turned down Mr Js claim. It said the policy specifically excluded claims which happened 
due to the pre-existing medical conditions of a close relative, if theyd been a hospital in-
patient or placed on a waiting list for hospital treatment for that condition in the 12 months 
before a trip was booked. In this case, the medical certificate completed by Mr Js father-in-
laws GP showed that hed been admitted to hospital with the condition which caused his 
death in late September 2019  around two and half months before Mr J had booked the trip. 
So it said the claim wasnt covered by the policy terms.
Mr J was unhappy with UKIs decision and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Js complaint should be upheld. She considered the available 
medical evidence. Based on the evidence, she felt it was fair for UKI to conclude that Mr Js 
claim was excluded by the policy terms.
Mr J disagreed. He said his father-in-law had been suffering from the same medical 
condition since 2012. He felt this meant that he was left in a position where he couldnt travel 
and he considered this was unacceptable. He felt that the policy terms meant that neither 
people with chronic conditions, nor their relatives could travel. He didnt think this service 
would want such an outcome for anyone.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr J, I think it was fair for UKI to turn down his 
claim. Ill explain why.
First, Id like to offer my sincere condolences to Mr J and to his wife for their sad loss.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms and conditions of Mr Js policy and the available medical evidence, to decide whether 
UKI handled his claim fairly.
Ive first turned to consider the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mr Js 
contract with UKI. The policy does provide cover if a policyholder cuts short their trip due to 
the death or illness of a close relative. However, this section of the policy lists a number of 
things UKI specifically excludes from cover. One of these exclusions says that UKI wont pay 
for:
Any claim for cancelling or cutting short your trip due to the illness or injury of a close 
relative, a colleague or travelling companion if you were aware of one or more of the 
scenarios listed below in the 12 months leading up to you becoming an insured person, or 
the date when you booked your trip whichever is later: (Bold is my emphasis).
 They have a medical condition that has resulted in inpatient treatment or being on a waiting 
list for hospital treatment.
A parent-in-law falls within UKIs definition of a close relative. So Ive next thought about 
whether it was fair for UKI to conclude that Mr Js claim fell within the scope of this exclusion.
Ive seen a copy of Mr Js father-in-laws death certificate. This sets out the causes of his 
death. Cause 1a is listed as heart failure. So Ive thought about whether it was fair for UKI 
to find that Mr Js father-in-law had been either an inpatient or referred for this condition in 
the 12 months prior to Mr J booking his trip (11 December 2018 until 11 December 2019).
Mr Js father-in-laws GP filled out a medical certificate which accompanied Mr Js claim 
paperwork. The GP has also stated that the cause of death was heart failure. The form goes 
on to ask the following question:
In the 12 months prior to the date the insurance was taken out with us or the trip was 
bookeddid your patient receive inpatient treatment or were they put on a waiting list for 
hospital treatment in respect of the condition causing the patients death?
The GP has answered yes to this question. He went on to confirm that Mr Js father-in-law 
received treatment between 30 September and 4 October 2019. On this basis then, the 
available medical evidence shows that Mr Js father-in-law did receive inpatient treatment or 
was placed on a waiting list for hospital treatment for the condition which caused his death in 
the 12 months before Mr J booked the trip. So I find it was fair and reasonable for UKI to 
conclude that Mr Js claim was specifically excluded by the term Ive set out above.
I appreciate Mr J feels that chronic conditions can never be covered. It may be helpful if I 
explain that policyholders are required by the policy terms to declare any medical conditions 
they themselves have to UKI. Thats so that it can assess whether its prepared to offer 
cover for that condition and if so, at what price. This is standard across travel insurance 
policies available on the market. And Mr Js specific policy doesnt exclude all existing 
medical conditions of close relatives  these conditions are only excluded if their relative 
receives inpatient treatment or a waiting list for treatment in the 12 months before they take 
out the account or book a trip.
Overall, while I sympathise with Mr Js position, Ive decided it was fair for UKI to turn down 
his claim.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman