DRN-2333335
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has turned down a cancellation 
claim they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F have travel insurance as a benefit of a packaged account with their building 
society.
In January 2020, Mr and Mrs F booked a cruise holiday. They were due to travel on 4 March 
2020. In mid-February 2019, Mrs F was asked to urgently attend a consultant 
gastroenterologists clinic. The consultant, who Ill call Dr A, gave Mrs F a likely diagnosis of 
non-cirrhotic autoimmune hepatitis. Dr A scheduled a liver biopsy for Mrs F on 24 March 
2020  after Mr and Mrs F had been due to return to the UK. 
Mr and Mrs F called UKIs screening line twice to tell it about Mrs Fs health. During the first 
call, they told the call handler that Mrs F didnt have a confirmed diagnosis. So the call 
handler said UKI wouldnt be able to offer any cover for the condition. However, Mr and Mrs 
F later called back and said that Mrs Fs diagnosis had been confirmed and that she hadnt 
been prescribed any medication at that point. On this basis, the call handler told them that 
Mrs Fs condition would be covered and that they didnt need to pay an additional premium.
Shortly afterwards, Mr and Mrs F learned that following their return from their cruise, theyd 
need to quarantine for 14 days. This would mean that Mrs F would miss her scheduled 
biopsy. Her doctor also told her that given her health, she might be vulnerable to Covid-19. 
Mr and Mrs F tried to reschedule their trip but werent able to do so. So they cancelled their 
trip and made a claim on their travel insurance policy for their cancellation costs.
UKI turned down the claim. It noted that the medical certificate completed by Mrs Fs GP on 
11 March 2020 stated that shed been referred to gastroenterology in July 2019 after 
abnormal liver function tests. The GP also said that Mrs F was waiting for the results of her 
liver biopsy. And that Mrs Fs condition hadnt been diagnosed at that point. The terms of Mr 
and Mrs Fs policy specifically excluded claims related to medical conditions which were 
under investigation. As Mrs Fs trip was booked following her referral to gastroenterology 
and she hadnt had a formal diagnosis at the point the trip was cancelled, it said her claim 
wasnt covered.
Mr and Mrs F were unhappy with UKIs decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint. They said Dr A had given Mrs F a formal diagnosis and that she was to be 
prescribed a steroid. They told us Dr A had scheduled the biopsy so that the correct dosage 
of the steroid could be prescribed to treat Mrs Fs condition.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Fs complaint should be upheld. She thought the 
policy clearly excluded claims related to medical conditions which under investigation. She 
considered the available medical evidence from Dr A and the GP. Based on what that 
evidence said, she felt that itd been fair for UKI to conclude that Mrs F had been undergoing 
investigations at the point the cruise was booked. So while she sympathised with Mr and Mrs 
Fs position, she thought it was fair for UKI to rely on its policy terms to turn down their claim.
Mr and Mrs F disagreed. In summary, they said that Dr A had been much more focused and 
positive with them about Mrs Fs diagnosis during their appointment with her on 19 February 
2020  she hadnt used the terms potential or likely diagnosis. They also indicated that 
their GP had been far more positive in his language about Mrs Fs diagnosis too during face 
to face meetings. They told us that Mrs F had been undergoing tests since the spring of 
2019 and that Dr A had linked a hospital admission Mrs F had had in 2017 to her liver 
condition. Following UKIs decision to decline their claim, Dr A had written a more strongly 
worded letter to it which still provided the same diagnosis. They hadnt been expecting Mrs 
Fs eventual diagnosis  as shed been undergoing chest x-rays and CT scans to investigate 
chest symptoms. And they felt that UKI had stalled handling their claim.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think it was fair for UKI to turn down Mr and Mrs Fs claim. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive carefully considered the policy terms, 
the available medical evidence and the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Fs claim to decide 
whether UKI handled the claim fairly.
First, Ive considered the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Fs policy, as this forms their 
contract with UKI. The cancellation section of the policy sets out the insured events that UKI 
covers. It also includes a list of things that UKI wont pay for. One of these is a medical 
condition under investigation  any claim that is due to an illness or injury that is under 
investigation. The policy defines what UKI means by under investigation as: you have been 
informed by your doctor that your symptoms require you to be referred for further tests or to 
a specialist to get a diagnosis.
Mr and Mrs F booked their trip on 12 January 2020. They acknowledge that Mrs F had been 
undergoing investigations for other symptoms since the spring of 2019. Ive looked carefully 
at the medical certificate completed by the GP. This says that Mrs F had had abnormal liver 
function test results in May 2019 and had been referred to gastroenterology as a result on 23 
July 2019. Dr As letter of 5 March 2020 states that Mrs F had been referred to her following 
an ultrasound and some blood tests. Mrs F met with Dr A on 18 February 2020 and Mr and 
Mrs F say it was during this appointment that they were given a diagnosis. So it seems to me 
that at the point the trip was booked, Mrs F did appear to have been under investigation for 
the condition which caused the claim.
So I then need to think about whether it was fair for UKI to conclude that Mrs F hadnt had a 
diagnosis at the time of the second screening call, or at that point Mr and Mrs F cancelled 
their trip. 
Mr and Mrs F maintain strongly that Dr A gave Mrs F a diagnosis of autoimmune hepatitis on 
18 February 2020. Theyve also consistently told us that the only reason Dr A booked in a 
biopsy was so that she could determine what level of steroid to prescribe Mrs F to treat her 
condition. And theyve told us that following their first call to UKIs screening line, they checked with Dr As secretary who confirmed this diagnosis. I need to make it clear that Ive 
thought very carefully about what theyve said
But Ive also looked very closely at the available medical evidence. I think UKI was 
reasonably entitled to place significant weight on this evidence, because it was provided by 
the consultant in charge of Mrs Fs care and her GP. The GP said the condition which 
caused the claim was liver disease under investigation  suspected autoimmune hepatitis. 
The certificate asked the GP to confirm when the condition had been diagnosed. The GP 
answered: awaiting liver biopsy results. They also included a more detailed answer to 
whether cancellation of the trip was necessary. They said:
Patients condition has not been diagnosed yet and requires liver biopsy to diagnose it. If 
she is found to have autoimmune hepatitis, then this can affect her immune system, making 
her more at risk of infection
Based on this evidence, which was filled out after Mr and Mrs F cancelled their trip, it seems 
their GP thought that Mrs Fs condition hadnt been formally diagnosed and was still under 
investigation. 
Dr A also wrote two letters in support of Mr and Mrs Fs claim. The first letter said:
Mrs F.who was referred to myself as she had abnormal liver function tests. She had fatty 
liver on an ultrasound and some blood tests which raised the possibility of a condition known 
as autoimmune hepatitis.
There is no evidence that (Mrs F) has cirrhosis and the bloods were only mildly raised 
indicating quite a mild course of disease. To confirm the potential diagnosis of autoimmune 
hepatitis and to look for other conditions such as NASH cirrhosis I had arranged for (Mrs F) 
to have a liver biopsy. 
At the time of our clinic appointment I informed (Mrs F) that the mostly likely diagnosis was
non-cirrhotic autoimmune hepatitis and this is what should go on any insurance form.
Its clear that Dr A told Mr and Mrs F that they should tell UKI to put autoimmune hepatitis on 
their claim form. However, the letter refers to the tests Mrs F had undergone raising the 
possibility of autoimmune hepatitis. It also states that the liver biopsy had been arranged to 
confirm the potential diagnosis and that autoimmune hepatitis was the most likely 
diagnosis. This letter suggests that while Dr A believed Mrs F most likely had autoimmune 
hepatitis, she had arranged for further investigations to confirm this diagnosis. It doesnt 
appear that a definitive diagnosis had been given.
Dr As second letter, dated 4 May 2020, said: On the basis of the current health information 
we have on (Mrs F), I am treating her for non-cirrhotic autoimmune hepatitis. Mr and Mrs F 
told us that as a result of Covid-19, Mrs Fs biopsy was delayed until June 2020. So at the 
point Dr A wrote this letter, Mrs F still hadnt had the liver biopsy. While this letter stresses 
what Dr A believed Mrs Fs likely diagnosis to be, it seems the treatment Mrs F was 
receiving was still based on the medical evidence Dr A had available at this point. So it 
appears that Mrs F was still awaiting investigations in May 2020 to confirm her diagnosis.
Taking the above medical evidence into account, I think it was fair for UKI to conclude that 
Mrs F was still under investigation for the medical condition that caused her claim. While I 
think Dr A believed autoimmune hepatitis was the most likely outcome, I think the letters 
suggest that the biopsy shed arranged was to confirm whether this diagnosis was correct. 
So I think it was reasonable for UKI to conclude that Mrs F hadnt had a formal diagnosis 
and that her condition was still being looked into.Mr and Mrs F say that the biopsy was only arranged so that Dr A could determine what 
steroid dose to prescribe Mrs F. I accept this is possible. But theyve confirmed they dont 
have any evidence from Dr A which states this was the case. On the evidence to hand, I 
dont think UKI treated them unfairly by placing significant weight on the medical evidence it 
had available. Its open to Mr and Mrs F to obtain further medical evidence at their cost 
should they wish to do so and to provide to it UKI for it to consider. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs F feel that UKI stalled in the way it handled their claim. I can see 
that UKI has offered Mr and Mrs F compensation to recognise delays in the way it 
progressed the claim. However, as Mr and Mrs Fs complaint to us focused on UKIs 
decision to turn down their claim rather than the service they received, I dont think it would 
be appropriate for me to comment on whether the compensation theyve been offered for 
customer service is fair and reasonable.
Overall, I think it was fair and reasonable for UKI to decide that Mrs F was undergoing 
investigations into the condition that caused her claim. So while I sympathise with their 
position, I think it was fair for UKI to turn down Mr and Mrs Fs claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Fs 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman