DRN-1770969
 
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold in 2002 with a 
store card. Were now looking at this complaint against AXA France IARD (AXA). This is 
because Financial Insurance Company Limited has transferred responsibility for PPI 
complaints like this to AXA. Aside from which company were looking at this against, nothing 
else has changed.
AXA France IARD (AXA), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for this sale. So, to keep 
things simple in my decision, Ill just say AXA when Im referring to the PPI seller or to AXA. 
Mrs S says AXA mis-sold her the PPI.
background
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. AXA disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 24 March 2020, a copy of 
which is repeated below, and so it forms part of this final decision. In my provisional decision 
I set out the reasons why I was minded not to uphold Mrs Ss complaint. 
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 23 April 2020. I have heard from Mrs Ss representatives who said 
they received my provisional decision and they had no further submissions to make in the 
case. So I am proceeding to my final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ss case.
In my provisional decision I explained that,
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive read and considered the whole file, 
but Ill confine my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point its not because Ive failed to consider it, but because I dont think I need to comment 
on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ss case.
Where there isnt much evidence or theres contradictory evidence for me to consider, I need 
to make my decision based on a balance of probabilities  that is to say, Ill consider what I do have, look at what both sides have said, and make a decision based on what I think most 
likely happened.
Currently Im minded not to uphold Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
I think its likely AXA made it clear Mrs S didnt have to take out the PPI and that she chose 
to take it  although I can understand why she cant remember this over 17 years later. I say 
this because AXA has provided a copy of the credit agreement for the store card. To get the 
PPI, Mrs S had to sign for it. And her signature was separate to the signature Mrs S gave for 
the credit. And Mrs S has signed the form at the bottom, which, most likely, denotes her 
agreement with the forms contents. So, it seems most likely that Mrs S would have been 
given a choice about taking the policy. Ive noted that theres no language on any 
documentary evidence that suggests the credit is dependent on taking out PPI.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs S, so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure she got the information she needed so she could decide if it was 
right for her.
The information AXA gave Mrs S about the PPI probably wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But based on what Ive seen of Mrs Ss circumstances at the time, I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put Mrs S off taking out the cover. I explain why I say 
that below.
Mrs S was eligible for the cover this policy could provide and it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover  so it would have been 
useful for her if something went wrong.
And it appears that Mrs S would have benefited from the cover. AXA told us that Mrs S told 
them that she was entitled to five months full pay followed by five months half pay. In 
bringing her complaint to us Mrs S told us that she was entitled to full pay for as long as she
was off. Mrs S also told us that she was employed as a care assistant. The sick pay that Mrs 
S told us about is sick pay that applies to uniformed members of the armed services. Such 
sick pay is rarely offered to civilian employees working within the armed services. So, having 
considered all of this, and in view of the discrepancy in the testimonies offered on this 
subject, I have assessed this case on the basis that Mrs S did not enjoy unlimited sick pay 
had she been too ill to work. I will consider this again if Mrs S is able to provide some 
documentary evidence to make me do so.
Mrs S also told us she had no other means she could rely if she was too ill to work for a long 
time, or if she lost her job, such that she would have had to rely on her husband to repay the 
store card. So, I think the PPI could have been useful for her.
So, having considered everything, I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put Mrs S off taking out the cover. 
I have considered again all of the evidence and arguments from the outset in order to decide 
what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In the absence of any 
further points for me to consider, I find no reason to depart from my original findings as set 
out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, and within my provisional decision, I do not think the PPI 
policy was mis-sold  so I do not uphold Mrs Ss complaint against AXA France IARD. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman