DRN-3302438
The complaint
Mr K complains about Fairmead Insurance Limiteds decision to decline a claim under his 
home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr K has a home insurance policy, underwritten by Fairmead, which covers buildings, 
contents and personal possessions away from the home, amongst other things.
He made a claim in August 2021 after fishing gear worth around £11,000 was stolen from 
the back of his car.
Fairmead declined the claim on the basis that the stolen items werent stored in a locked 
boot or other locked compartment of the car.
Mr K complained to Fairmead. He said it was unfair to decline the claim. He said his car was 
a hatchback and didnt have a boot. He said the rear windows were blacked out. And the 
gear wasnt visible because he had a cover which pulled across the back seats when they 
were pushed down to allow more storage space in the rear of the car.
Mr K also referred Fairmead to a telephone conversation in September 2020 when hed 
increased the amount of personal possessions cover on his policy from around £8,000 to 
around £14,000. He said hed specifically mentioned that the cover was for fishing gear, 
which would never fit in the boot of a car.
When Fairmead maintained their decision to decline the claim, Mr K brought his complaint to 
us. Our investigator looked into it and didnt think Fairmead had done anything wrong.
Mr K disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ks policy includes a term which says that personal possession are not covered for:
Loss or damage caused by theft or attempted theft from any unattended vehicle 
unless the property is completely concealed within the vehicle in a glove 
compartment, locked luggage compartment or locked boot.
Fairmead are entitled to decide what risk they are going to offer to cover in any policy - and 
at what price. The insurance market is a competitive one and if the customer doesnt like the 
terms on offer, they can seek cover elsewhere. The terms (quoted above) set out the risk 
Fairmead are prepared to cover.
What Fairmead are required to do, of course, is to make those terms clear to potential 
customers before theyre committed to buying the policy. And thats the key question for me 
in making a decision about Mr Ks complaint. Did Fairmead do enough to put Mr K in a 
position to know exactly what cover he was buying when he purchased (and renewed) the 
policy?
On the face of it, they did. The term quoted above isnt in any way ambiguous. Its in the 
policy booklet which sets out the terms of the policy. Its not buried in the small print or 
hidden in an annex.
Wed also expect insurers to highlight for their potential customers any policy term which is 
unusual or unexpected, or particularly onerous for the customer. Wed also expect that any 
potential ambiguities would be clarified.
In this case, the term in question isnt in any way unusual. Most policies of this type include a 
term which is either the same or very similar. 
And the term shouldnt be in any way surprising or unexpected  theres a perfectly 
understandable logic to an insurer saying, in essence, well cover your personal 
possessions, but not if you leave valuable things exposed in your car when its unattended.
Theres also nothing ambiguous about the term in question. In fact, its very specific and isnt 
open to interpretation. If Fairmead had only said possessions werent covered unless they 
were concealed, then that opens up all kinds of questions about what that might mean in 
practice. Are valuables concealed if theyre under a car seat? Are they concealed if theyre 
hidden under a coat or blanket? And so on.
But in this case, Fairmead have been absolutely clear. Theres no cover unless the items are 
concealed inside a locked boot, luggage compartment or glove box. And theres no doubt in 
this case that Mr Ks fishing tackle was not concealed inside the boot. It was positioned 
across the boot and back seats, which had been put down to allow the equipment to be 
stored.
The policy terms were sent to Mr K when bought the policy and at renewal. The covering 
communication included a policy schedule, a statement of fact and financial information too. 
And it stated very clearly that Mr K should check the documents to ensure that the policy met 
his needs.
The fact that Mr K rang Fairmead in September 2020 to increase the level of his personal 
possessions cover suggests that Mr K was familiar with that section of his policy  and was 
aware what protection it provided. Why would anyone increase the level of cover provided by 
a policy section if they didnt know what that cover was and how it operated?
In the call, Mr K does talk about his fishing gear. But I wouldnt necessarily expect the call 
handler to try to determine exactly how and when that gear might be used, transported, or 
stored. Theres certainly no discussion during the call about the fishing gear being kept in an 
unattended car and what that might mean in terms of the cover being offered. 
The cover on offer wasnt cover specifically relating to theft from a car. It was cover for 
personal possessions whenever and however they were away from the home. And it was for 
Mr K to determine whether the cover was suitable for his needs.
I hear what Mr K says about the way he tried to make his possessions secure in the back of 
his car  the strongly tinted back windows and the cover which went across the back seats. 
But Fairmead didnt offer to cover Mr K if he took precautions which he thought were suitable 
and/or might be effective. They very specifically and very clearly offered to cover him if his possessions were in a 
locked boot or other compartment. Im satisfied, for the reasons mentioned above, that they 
did enough to make Mr K aware of their terms. And Mr Ks stolen fishing gear was not in a 
locked boot or other compartment.
For those reasons, I cant reasonably conclude that Fairmead treated Mr K unfairly when 
they declined his claim. 
Im very sorry that Mr K had his fishing tackle stolen. That must have been very upsetting 
and annoying. And I know he will be disappointed by my decision, but I cant uphold his 
complaint against Fairmead.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman