DRN-2683261
The complaint
Mr S complains that the consolidation loan he took out with Step One Finance Limited was 
unaffordable. He asks that fees and interest are refunded, with interest.
What happened
Mr S took out a loan with Step One in late 2015 for about £42,500. The loan was secured by 
a second charge on his house. He used most of the proceeds to repay existing secured and 
unsecured debts. Mr S says Step One should have seen from his high level of borrowing 
that even with the loan he would still struggle to repay the loan sustainably. He said Step 
One should have made better checks, and the number of short-term loans hed taken out 
should have alerted it to a problem. He said at that time his mental health wasnt in a good 
place.  
I sent a provisional decision to the parties to set out what I thought about this complaint. In 
summary, I said the information Step One had about Mr Ss credit commitments and credit 
history should have alerted to a possible problem and the need for more checks. I said if 
Step One had carried out more checks it would have seen the risk that this loan might 
adversely affect Mr Ss financial situation. I said Step One should refund some of the interest 
and charges paid by Mr S and remove adverse information about the loan from his credit file. 
Step One didnt agree. It sent detailed comments about why it thought its checks were 
adequate. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Step One sent detailed comments in response to my provisional decision. I wont set out its 
comments in full here, but I have of course read them and taken them into account. 
Mr S took out the secured loan with Step One in November 2015. The loan was regulated by 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Before offering the secured loan to Mr S, Step One had to 
assess the potential for commitments under the agreement to adversely affect his financial 
situation. It had to consider enough information to enable it to make a reasonable 
creditworthiness assessment. The scope of this was dependant on and proportionate to the 
circumstances. This might include the amount of the loan, Mr Ss financial circumstances, 
his existing commitments and his credit history  including any indications of financial 
difficulties.
Step One asked for evidence of Mr Ss income. It asked Mr S for information about his living 
costs, existing indebtedness and debt repayments, and did a credit check. Ive reviewed the 
information Step One received from its credit check.
Mr S had a mortgage of about £94,000. He had a loan of about £14,000 (which hed taken 
out in August 2015), and another loan with a balance of about £9,000. He had five credit 
card accounts with balances close to their credit limits. He had three current accounts, two of 
which were overdrawn close to the limit, and a mail order account. And he had what appear 
to be six short-term (payday) loans, most taken out within the previous two months. The 
results of Step Ones credit check showed previous use of payday loans.
I think the information Step One had  in particular, Mr Ss level of borrowing, that hed taken 
out a personal loan only three months before and his use of payday loans  should have 
alerted it to the risk Mr S had financial difficulties.
Step One says it assessed the repayments as affordable, based on the information it had 
about Mr Ss income and outgoings. But Step One needed to do more than a simple pounds 
and pence calculation. It needed to check that Mr S could repay the loan sustainably and 
without adverse effects on his financial position. I think there were clear indications here that 
Mr S was struggling to manage his money.
I think Step One should have declined to lend or asked for more information to review Mr Ss 
financial situation in more detail. Had it looked at Mr Ss bank statements it would have seen 
payments to a number of lenders, including payday lenders. I dont agree with Step One that 
Mr Ss use of short-term loans only suggests this was Mr Ss chosen method of liquidity 
management. And I dont think its right to say there cant be indications of financial difficulty 
because Mr Ss repaid loans on time  particularly if he was taking out new loans to fund the 
repayment or the gap in his finances left after he repaid loans. I think Mr Ss use of credit 
and short-term loans suggests he was having significant difficulty managing his finances and 
was reliant on short term credit.
Mr S hasnt said he had a gambling problem, and Im not suggesting he told Step One this. 
However, his bank statements show payments to on-line gambling businesses which could 
suggest a gambling problem  especially given what Step One knew about his high levels of 
debt and use of short-term loans. 
I think there were clear indications of financial difficulties that should have prompted Step 
One to look carefully at Mr Ss circumstances. Had Step One carried out proportionate 
checks, it would likely have been alerted to a possible gambling problem, and the risk that 
further borrowing would adversely affect Mr Ss financial situation. In particular, that he 
would use any additional borrowing for gambling. In fact, this is exactly what happened: Mr S 
transferred about £4,000 to gambling businesses within two weeks of taking out the loan. 
Im not suggesting that Step One could have controlled what Mr S did with the loan funds 
once he had them. But I think it would likely have been aware of the risk Mr S would use the 
loan proceeds for gambling if it had carried out proportionate checks.  
By taking out the loan and using the proceeds to repay some of his existing debts Mr S was 
able to reduce his monthly debt repayments. Step One repaid six loans (totalling about 
£36,000) directly. If Mr S had used the remaining £4,000 of the loan proceeds to repay some 
loans and overdrafts hed still have been left with about 15 loans outstanding (albeit some 
with a balance of less than £500, according to Step One). And given the pattern of gambling 
in Mr Ss bank statements, there was an obvious risk this is how hed use the funds  putting 
him in a worse position, especially as this loan was secured on his house.
I agree that taking out the loan and using the proceeds to repay some existing debts 
reduced Mr Ss monthly debt repayments. Ive taken this into account when deciding what 
Step One should do to put matters right. But I think any potential benefit of reducing monthly 
payments was outweighed by the very real possibility that further borrowing would adversely 
affect Mr Ss financial situation.Step One says theres no evidence the loan caused Mr S any detriment. But as Ive said, 
Step One paid £4,000 into Mr Ss bank account, and hed transferred about £4,000 to 
gambling businesses within two weeks. He paid fees, charges and interest related to the 
loan. I think there were clear indications Mr S was might be in financial difficulty, and further 
borrowing was likely to make his financial situation worse, especially as this loan was 
secured on his home. 
I dont think Step One should have offered this loan to Mr S. It doesnt change matters that 
Mr S has since repaid the loan: at the time he took out the loan it wasnt responsible for Step 
One to lend to him. So it needs to put matters right.
Putting things right
I dont think Step One should have offered this loan to Mr S. I think it should do the following 
to put matters right:
1. remove all fees and charges it applied to the loan (including its lenders fee, but not the 
brokers fee), and adjust the interest applied to the loan account accordingly.
2. I dont think Step One should have added the brokers fee to this loan, which put Mr S 
into a worse financial position. While Step One says adding the brokers fee to the loan 
was Mr Ss choice, I dont think it should have offered the loan to Mr S. So paying 
interest on fees related to the loan isnt fair. I think Step One should adjust the interest 
applied to the loan account as if the broker fee hadnt been added to the loan.
3. I think there was an obvious risk that Mr S would use the funds Step One paid to him 
(about £4,000) for gambling, rather than to repay debts. So I think Step One should 
adjust the interest applied to the loan account as if the starting balance had been £4,000 
lower.
4. About £36,000 of the loan was used to repay other debts. While this reduced Mr Ss 
monthly debt payments, this doesnt necessarily mean the overall cost of the borrowing 
was reduced: this would depend on the interest rates and remaining term of the debts 
that were consolidated.
I think theres a further complication here. If these loans were due to be repaid in the 
short term, I think Mr S would most likely have taken out further borrowing to fill the gap 
in his finances this would create  in effect extending the borrowing. This makes it 
difficult to calculate the true cost or benefit of consolidating these debts. And I need to 
take into account that Mr S would have paid interest on the debts that were consolidated.
Overall, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Step One to refund interest on all 
of the loan (only as set out in 1 to 3 above).
5. Having adjusted the loan balance as set out in 1 to 3 above, Step One should deduct all 
payments made by Mr S into the account. If this results in him having paid too much, the 
overpayments should be refunded, with 8% simple interest from the date he repaid the 
loan to the date of settlement*. 
6. Step One says it didnt record any adverse information on Mr Ss credit file. To ensure 
my decision is complete, I will say that it should remove adverse information (if any) 
about the loan from Mr Ss credit files.
Mr S hasnt said that the loan caused him additional upset or distress such that it would be 
fair and reasonable to order Step One to pay compensation for this. *If HM Revenue & Customs requires Step One to take off tax from this interest, it must give 
Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Step One Finance Limited to take the 
steps and make the payments set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman