DRN-4095672
The complaint
Miss V complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax gave her misleading 
information about its foreign exchange fees.
What happened
Miss V says she spoke to Halifax in January 2023 about its charges for a foreign transaction 
into her account. She says she was told there was a fee of £7 but was not told about 
Halifaxs foreign exchange margin fee. Miss V says she proceeded with the transaction but 
says she lost about £2,850 due to Halifaxs fee. She would like that fee refunded and £1,000 
compensation for the stress and inconvenience she has been caused. Miss V says she 
would have used a different business if given correct information.
Halifax agreed it didnt dealt with parts of Miss Vs complaint appropriately and says it has 
paid £130 compensation. It says it told Miss V each bank has its own exchange rate which 
would be known at the time of the transaction. It says the margin it uses is not a charge that 
it needs to tell customers about.
Miss V brought her complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought Halifax had told Miss V its fee and that it uses its own exchange rate. 
The investigator thought the compensation appropriate for the poor service.
Miss V doesnt accept that view and says Halifax led her to believe it would be using the 
bank exchange rate at the time. She maintains she was misled and says the call recording 
provides evidence of that.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Miss V will be disappointed by my decision.
I have listened carefully to the telephone call between the parties on 27 January 2023. And 
Im satisfied that Miss V was clearly told she could not be advised on the methods of 
proceeding with the transaction. It follows that I find that Miss V decided to proceed with the 
transaction without advice from Halifax and that it was her decision to transfer the currency 
into her Halifax account.
Im satisfied that Miss V was clearly told the exact exchange rate would not be known until 
the transaction time and date. I think such information is common sense as currency rates 
will continually vary. Im also satisfied Miss V was told that Halifax would convert the 
currency at the bank rate and that all banks have their own exchange rates. So, I think Miss 
V was told and ought reasonably to have realised that Halifax would use its own exchange 
rate to calculate the currency conversion and cant see why there would be any confusion as 
it made clear all banks have their own rates. During the call Im satisfied that Halifax again 
made that point clear by telling Miss V its banking group used the same exchange rate which 
fluctuates.
The key part of the complaint is the charge. Im satisfied that Miss V was told the charge was 
£7. I appreciate Miss V says that the difference between the exchange rate used by Halifax 
and the published headline exchange rate of the day (the margin) is an additional charge. 
But I disagree with Miss V. Im satisfied Halifax made clear it uses its own exchange rate as 
does every bank and that margin is not a charge but simply the difference in a published 
rate and a banks own rate. It follows that I dont think Miss V was given misleading 
information and was not charged an additional fee.
I appreciate Miss V says she could have received a more beneficial exchange rate using a 
different provider. I cant fairly comment on that but have made clear that I find it was Miss 
Vs choice to pay the money into her Halifax account. I also dont think Miss V has explained 
why she didnt check at the point of authorising the transaction what Halifaxs exchange rate 
was which would have allowed her to decide if she wished to proceed. I have also made 
clear that I think Halifax had previously told Miss V that the exact rate would be available at 
that time and that crucially it used its own rate.
There is no question that Halifax didnt deal appropriately with parts of this complaint. I dont 
think Halifaxs final response letter was a true representation of its position as the letter 
suggested it had given Miss V incorrect information about a fee. But Im satisfied the 
compensation offer fair and reasonable for that part of the complaint which I accept is not the 
main part.
Overall, Im satisfied Halifax provided Miss V with correct information which was not 
misleading. I think all banks and building societies use their own exchange rates which can 
be confirmed at the point of the transaction which will vary from published official rates. 
Those differences are not fees but the rates a business uses which I find Miss V could have 
checked at the transaction point. It follows that I cant fairly order Halifax pay Miss V the 
compensation she would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman