DRN-2432290
The complaint
Miss O complains about how Barclays Bank UK PLC dealt with her chargeback.
What happened
Miss O says she bought airline tickets for about £1,716 in May 2019 online but realised the 
company had changed the date. She says she called the company but couldnt speak to it. 
Miss O says she called Barclays about this and says she was told she would 100% receive 
her money back. But says Barclays didnt raise a chargeback when it should have and then 
wrote to her about it requesting information when she was not in the United Kingdom (UK). 
She says this has caused debt problems and would like the money refunded.
Barclays says Miss O raised the issue of fraud but says it told her she authorised the 
transaction and it would raise a chargeback. It accepts there was a delay in doing so and 
has offered a total of £175 compensation for that. Barclays says the chargeback was 
defended and it wrote to Miss O on 5 August 2019 asking for further information but didnt 
receive a response and so closed the claim the following month.
Miss O brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought Barclays had written to Miss O but didnt receive a response and was 
obliged to follow the chargeback rules in those circumstances. The investigator thought the 
compensation offer fair and reasonable and didnt think there was any evidence Miss O told 
Barclays she would be out of the UK. The investigator also thought Miss O had raised the 
question of fraud.
Miss O doesnt accept that view and in summary says Barclays made a mistake by treating 
this as fraud and if it raised the chargeback immediately then the result would have been 
different. She says the letter didnt raise any queries and Barclays ought to have e-mailed 
her as it knew she was not in the UK.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Barclays has dealt fairly with this 
complaint. I appreciate Miss O will be disappointed by my decision and appreciate how 
strongly she feels about what took place.
The chargeback rules are not, as in this case, set by Barclays but by the card providers. I 
make clear to Miss O that a chargeback is not a right but a voluntary scheme with no 
guarantee of success. I think it highly unlikely that Barclays would have told Miss O that she 
would be guaranteed to receive her money back as I dont think Barclays could have known 
at that stage what would be said by the merchant. We take the view that a chargeback ought 
to be raised if there are reasonable grounds for doing so, which I think happened here.
I can see that Miss O bought the tickets online and that she would have agreed to the 
merchants terms and conditions. I appreciate that Miss O says she noticed the dates were 
incorrect and tried to contact the merchant. So, I think it likely it was Miss O that raised the 
question about fraud and Barclays correctly told her this was not a fraudulent transaction as 
she made and authorised it. Im satisfied that Barclays told Miss O that it could raise a 
chargeback and I have made clear that I dont think it would have said at that stage there 
would be any guarantee of a successful outcome.
I accept there was a delay in raising the chargeback and Im satisfied Barclays has fairly 
apologised for that and has offered a fair and reasonable amount of compensation. I 
appreciate that is not the main part of this complaint. I dont think that delay had any impact 
on the outcome of the chargeback, and I have not seen any evidence on Barclays records 
that Miss O told it she would be out of the UK for an extended time period. In any event I 
dont think even if Miss O received Barclays letter that the outcome of the chargeback would 
have been any different.
I have looked at the evidence submitted by the merchant and Im satisfied that Miss O 
bought the tickets online and must have authorised the transaction and agreed to the 
account terms and conditions. As this was an online transaction, I dont think it likely the 
merchant could have changed the ticket date and think it more likely Miss O made a 
mistake. Im also satisfied the tickets were not transferable and couldnt be amended and so 
I dont think it likely that a chargeback could have succeeded even if it had been raised 
sooner or that Miss O was able to respond to Barclays letter of August 2019.
Overall, Im satisfied Barclays raised a chargeback for Miss O but reasonably concluded that 
in the absence of any other evidence from Miss O that under the chargeback rules it couldnt 
take it any further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 February 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman