DRN-3004441
The complaint
Mr M complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited declined his claim and avoided 
his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M collided with another drivers car and they both made claims. The parties lived near 
each other, yet Mr M said they didnt know each other. After investigation, Advantage 
decided to reject both claims as fraudulent and it avoided Mr Ms policy. The other driver 
took Advantage to court and a judge found that the accident was genuine. Advantage paid 
his claim and costs. But it maintained its stance against Mr M as it thought he had provided 
false information.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought the parties 
had been acquainted before the accident, though probably not closely. But she thought that 
if Mr M had misinformed Advantage, this hadnt caused it any prejudice as a judge had said 
the accident was genuine. So she thought it should pay Mr Ms claim, with interest from the 
date of the judges decision and remove the avoidance. And she thought it should 
recompense Mr M for his increased premiums and pay him £150 compensation for his 
trouble and upset.
Advantage replied that it had correctly declined Mr Ms claim and avoided his policy after he 
had knowingly provided false information. It said this had led to its incurring significant court 
costs. Mr M replied that he thought his losses from the avoidance and declined claim 
amounted to about £5,000.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Advantage said Mr M had knowingly provided false information when he was interviewed as 
part of its investigation. And it said this was fraudulent activity and so this entitled it to apply 
a policy exclusion to decline his claim and avoid his policy.
I can see that the exclusion is clearly set out in the policy booklet. I think its a common 
exclusion in insurance policies. And I think Advantage is reasonably entitled to rely on it to 
decline claims. 
Advantage said Mr M worked for the same company as the other driver and had contact with 
him on social media months before the accident. But Mr M had told its investigator that he 
did not know the other driver. He did say that he recognised him at his workplace a week 
following the accident. However, the other driver told the court that he had never denied that 
he knew Mr M. 
So Im satisfied that Mr M misinformed Advantage when he told it that he didnt know the 
other driver. But Im not satisfied that this is a sufficient reason for Advantage to rely on the 
fraud term to decline his claim and avoid his policy. 
This is because the court found that the accident was genuine and not staged. So I think this 
means Mr M had a valid claim and it wasnt fraudulent. And I think that if Mr M hadnt 
misinformed Advantage, then it would have paid his claim. So Mr M playing down his 
relationship with the other driver wasnt fraud as he hadnt tried to claim more than he was 
entitled to. 
So I think it was unfair and unreasonable for Advantage to rely on the fraud term in the policy 
to decline Mr Ms claim and avoid his policy. When a business makes a mistake, as I think 
Advantage has done here, we expect it to restore the consumers position, as far as its able 
to do so. And we also consider the impact the error had on the consumer. 
To restore Mr Ms position, I think Advantage should now pay his claim, with interest from 
the date it should have reconsidered and paid it, when the court gave its decision. The claim 
was still under investigation before this point, so I dont think it would be reasonable to hold 
Advantage responsible for delays before this date. And I think it should remove records of 
the avoidance and recompense Mr M for any increased premiums he has had to pay as a 
result, on production of reasonable evidence. 
Mr M has provided testimony of the impact Advantages decision had on him. I dont doubt 
his account. But Ive also considered the circumstances. I think it was reasonable for 
Advantage to investigate the claim, however intrusive Mr M found this. So I dont think it 
would be fair or reasonable for me to require Advantage to pay him the amount of 
compensation he has requested. 
So what Ive considered is the impact caused by Advantages decision not to accept the 
claim following the courts judgement. Our investigator recommended that Advantage should 
pay Mr M £150 compensation for the stress this caused. I think thats fair and reasonable 
and in keeping with our published guidance.
Putting things right
I require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
1. Pay Mr Ms claim, adding interest to this amount at the rate of 8% simple per annum 
from the date of the courts decision, 30 December 2020, until the date of payment .
2. Remove records of the avoidance from any internal and external databases where its 
been recorded.
3. Upon receiving reasonable evidence from Mr M, repay him any increase in his insurance 
premiums resulting from the avoidance. Interest should be added to this amount at the 
rate of 8% simple per annum from the date they were paid to the date of settlement. 
4. Pay Mr M £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by it not 
accepting his claim on 30 December 2020. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Advantage to take off tax from this interest. Advantage 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman