DRN-2798102
The complaint
Mr K has complained to us that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), trading as Intelligent Finance, 
mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy that he took out in April 2003 
when he was arranging a loan. The policy was cancelled in February 2006.
What happened
Mr K applied for a loan from BoS over the internet. At the same time he took out PPI that 
offered protection if he couldnt work because of an accident, sickness or unemployment.
Mr K says he wasnt given a choice about taking out the policy. He also says he didnt 
need it.  
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr K disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been passed to me.
But BoS did pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was above 50% of 
Mr Ks PPI premium. It did this because it didnt tell Mr K about the high level of commission 
and profit share hed pay  which was unfair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Having done so, Im not upholding it for reasons that Ill now explain.
BoS has explained to us the sales process it would have been followed at the time. Its 
also sent us the available sale paperwork from then.
 
Im satisfied from what Ive seen that Mr K likely would have needed to agree to take the 
policy during the online application process. Ill explain why. 
Ive seen that Mr K has concerns that PPI was pre-selected on his on-line application. 
BoS hasnt been able to send us copies of the actual online application screens as Mr K 
would have seen them at the time. Thats not surprising given that so much time has 
passed since the sale. Businesses arent required to keep such records for such long 
periods of time. So, in reaching my decision Ive kept in mind what BoS has told us, the 
available evidence and information from the sale, plus what I already know about the 
way these sales tended to happen at around this time. 
From what Ive seen, Mr K would have been offered the PPI as something he could 
make his own mind up about taking, once hed been approved in principle for his loan. 
This what we call a non-advised sale, meaning that he had to decide for himself whether 
or not the PPI would be right for him. But BoS still needed to give him information about 
the policy that clear and not misleading. 
BoS has sent us a copy of the confirmation of application details it says it sent Mr K. 
This showed that hed chosen PPI cover and it set out the cost and level of benefit. BoS 
says he also would have received copies of the credit agreement plus a welcome letter 
confirming his acceptance for PPI, again setting out the cost and benefit details. Finally, 
BoS says Mr K also would likely have received details about the policy. Ive seen copies 
of all of these and Ive noted Mr K had signed and returned a copy of the application 
details as his credit agreement. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr K says about not wanting to have the policy. But I 
have to bear in mind that this sale took place a long time ago. Given the evidence and 
information Ive seen, I dont think I can rely solely on his recollection think this is most 
likely to have been the case. From what Ive seen, I think its more likely that Mr K 
decided to take the PPI when he was making his online application, having been given 
the option to choose to take the cover. And Ive kept in mind that if hed done nothing, 
the PPI would not have been added. Having selected the PPI, BoS says Mr K would 
have received a summary of the type of cover, its cost and the monthly benefit hed be 
entitled to. Also, if in fact it was the case, as Mr K has suggested, that PPI had been 
pre-selected and hed then discovered that hed inadvertently agreed to take out PPI, it 
would still have been open to him to cancel the cover once he received confirmation of 
his loan offer. 
Mr K appears to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations. BoS says it required Mr K to confirm he was eligible for his 
cover as part of his application. From what Ive seen, its likely that Mr K had some 
sick pay entitlement from his employer if he was unable to work due to accident and 
sickness and. Given his length of employment, an entitlement of 3 to 6 months 
would not be unusual. But the PPI would have provided cover for a full year, and in 
addition to any other means he had available at the time and covered him for 
accidents, sickness and unemployment. So I think he would have still valued the 
extra cover that this policy gave him if things went wrong. 
Mr K also gave us some evidence suggesting he had income protection cover put in 
place by his employer that offered generous sick pay and a lump sum for 
employees unable to work for long periods. Generally speaking, such policies are 
designed to replace income rather than to protect a specific product such as a loan. 
They pay out for long term inability to work but usually only do so when the initial 
provision for sick pay has ended. I see that this particular policy would only 
potentially pay out after six months of not being able to work. This suggests that this 
particular income protection product was designed to follow on from employers sick 
pay, not replace it. And as Ive said above, as a non-advised sale, the decision 
about suitability was for Mr K to make himself, not BoS
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mr K. It cost £14.17 per month to 
cover his loan repayments of £141.79.  And as the premiums were paid monthly, he could 
have cancelled the policy if it no longer met his needs.
BoS needed to give Mr K enough information about the PPI policy for him to decide 
if he wanted to take it. I think its possible that BoS could have provided better 
information than it did. But I dont think that better information would have changed 
his mind about taking it. I think hed still have thought it gave him useful cover at an 
affordable price.I consider that the PPI policy provided Mr K with a useful additional benefit to protect his loan 
by covering the expense of the monthly repayments in case he needed to make a claim. I 
am therefore satisfied that its likely he would have seen the policy as being worthwhile given 
his own  circumstances.
So from what Ive seen, I dont think that Mr K has lost out by anything that BoS may have 
done wrong when it sold him this PPI policy.
But BoS does have to pay back to Mr K any commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Ive seen this has already been paid. 
Ive kept in mind Mr Ks detailed response to our adjudicators assessment of his 
complaint, but whilst Im grateful for his further input, it doesnt cause me to change my 
decision. Im sorry to have to disappoint him on this occasion. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman