DRN-3788278
The complaint
Mr R complains that a loan given to him by UK Credit Limited was unaffordable for him. He 
is unhappy that interest continued to accrue while he was on a payment break and says the 
interest rate was too high.
What happened
On 6 September 2019, Mr R was given a loan for £10,000 by UK Credit Limited. It was to be 
repaid by 60 monthly instalments of £330.14. Mr R says he wasnt asked to provide any 
proof of income or bank statements when he applied, and the loan was never affordable for 
him. He says that due to Covid-19, he asked for a payment holiday which was agreed, but 
UK Credit continued to charge interest which he feels is unfair. He complained to UK Credit.
UK Credit looked into his complaint and rejected it. It said in hindsight it could have done 
more at the application stage to ensure the loan was affordable for Mr R. But it said based 
on the information obtained at that stage and subsequently, it believed the loan was 
affordable at the time.
UK Credit said that when it discussed a payment holiday with Mr R during the Covid-19 
pandemic, it explained the options available and the impact they would have. It explained 
that interest was calculated on a daily basis on the balance outstanding. As Mr R missed 
payments (albeit on an agreed basis) the balance didnt reduce so interest was higher.
Mr R didnt accept what UK Credit said, so he referred his complaint to our service. One of 
our investigators looked into it. He agreed with UK Credit that it should have carried out 
further checks at the outset. He felt that if UK Credit had done further checks it ought to have 
refused to lend to Mr R. He asked UK Credit to put things right.
Mr R accepted what our investigator said but UK Credit didnt. It said some of the information 
Mr R had given our investigator differed from what hed told it at application stage. It felt it 
had reached a fair decision based on the information Mr R gave it and the information it 
could reasonably have been expected to have at the time.
As there was no agreement, Mr Rs complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I disagree with our investigator and dont think Mr Rs complaint should be 
upheld. I issued my provisional decision saying:
Weve set out our approach to complaints about high cost credit on our website  including 
the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. Ive considered this 
approach when deciding this complaint. UK Credit needed to carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure that it didnt lend to Mr R irresponsibly. I think there are key 
questions I need to consider in order to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint:
Did UK Credit carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr R was in a position to sustainably repay the loan?
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Did UK Credit make a fair lending decision?
Did UK Credit act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr R in some other way?
Did UK Credit carry out reasonable and proportionate checks?
Ive listened to the call when Mr R spoke with an underwriter to apply for the loan. He gave 
details of his residential status and income and expenditure. He said he was living with his 
parents and earned just over £2,000 per month. He paid £300 to his parents for board which 
covered all bills. He had credit commitments which he was looking to consolidate to this 
loan, and he planned to buy a car with the rest. He said he had no childcare expenses.
The underwriter confirmed that the lending decision would be based on the information he 
provided and asked Mr R if he had any plans to move out in the next five years. Mr R said 
no, not that [he could] foresee anyway. The underwriter confirmed hed passed the 
affordability criteria based on what hed told it, provided he pays off the credit commitments 
hed mentioned. He confirmed he would.
UK Credit has said it could have asked more details about Mr Rs existing debts as his credit 
report showed some recent missed payments, but as he was repaying those it didnt feel it 
necessary. I can understand why it didnt ask for more details. But I think it would have been 
sensible to dig a bit deeper into Mr Rs finances in view of the missed payments as it 
appeared he had few other outgoings and was seeking a large loan at high interest over a 
long term. It follows that I dont think the checks UK Credit carried out were reasonable and 
proportionate given the circumstances.
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time? Did UK Credit 
make a fair lending decision?
Ive outlined above that I think UK Credit ought to have carried out further checks on Mr Rs 
finances. I think it would have been reasonable for it to get a detailed understanding of his 
expenditure, for example by asking to see several months bank statements as both parties 
have suggested. It had already seen a payslip and verified his income.
Mr R has provided copies of his bank statements to UK Credit and our service dated 
12 June, July, August and September 2019. Ive carefully looked through them and dont 
think they would have caused UK Credit any particular concerns if it had seen them at the 
time. Let me explain why.
Mr R told UK Credit he lived with his parents and had limited outgoings. His statements 
show largely discretionary expenditure  meals out, travel, entertainment and the like. He 
spent what he earned. In my experience, this is not unusual for someone who lives with their 
parents. There are some transfers out of the account to Mr Rs partner which started on his 
statement dated 12 July 2019 (there were none on the statement dated 12 June 2019), but 
there is no reference included of what they were for. The amounts of these transfers vary 
and are irregular so theres no indication that these are for any regular financial commitment.
So overall, I dont think the activity on Mr Rs statements would have caused UK Credit to 
change its decision to lend to him given what hed told them. UK Credit was entitled to rely on the information Mr R gave it about his circumstances in the absence of anything which 
casts doubt on what hed said. It explained that if hed given inaccurate information that may 
lead to the loan becoming unaffordable. It asked him to confirm the information hed given 
was accurate which he did.
After he raised his complaint with us, he provided an expenditure breakdown which is very 
different from that which he provided to UK Credit when he applied for the loan. For 
example, he says he paid £1,025 towards a mortgage, his share of utilities and childcare 
costs, a £350 payment to his parents for a car purchase, family food of £148, and £65 of 
solicitors fees. These are just some of the items that were not disclosed to UK Credit. Had 
Mr R included these figures in the discussion with the underwriter his budget would have 
been much tighter, and Id have expected further questions to have been asked.
UK Credit noted that Mr R updated it with a new address just a few days after drawing the 
loan. It appears he moved out of his parents address and moved in with his partner who is 
also guarantor for this loan. I find it strange that Mr R told the underwriter he saw no reason 
that his living circumstances would change during the life of the loan and yet he moved 
within a few days.
Based on the information Mr R gave UK Credit and that it found itself at the time of the 
application, I think the loan appeared to be affordable. If hed told it about his forthcoming 
change in circumstances and provided the expenditure details hes provided to us, he may 
well have struggled to pass the affordability checks. But I cant hold UK Credit responsible 
for that and have to consider what it knew  and ought to have known  at the time it 
reached its lending decision. Based on that, I think it made a fair decision to lend to Mr R.
Did UK Credit act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr R in some other way?
Ive not seen anything which leads me to think that UK Credit has acted unfairly in terms of 
the decision to lend to Mr R. But hes complained that it was unfair for UK Credit to apply 
interest while he was on a payment holiday and that the interest rate for the loan is too high.
Throughout much of 2020, Mr R was in contact with UK Credit to discuss his options as his 
partner was placed on furlough due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the household income 
had dropped. Ive listened to the calls that took place.
Mr R first contacted UK Credit on 7 April 2020. At that time, very early in the pandemic, 
UK Credit didnt have systems in place to assist its customers, but it said it was awaiting sign 
off for arrangements. It asked him to call back when the payment was due. By then, UK 
Credit was able to help Mr R with deferring payments  effectively a payment holiday.
During each conversation, UK Credit explained to Mr R that as the balance hadnt reduced 
as planned due to the deferment, more interest would accrue over the life of the loan. It 
explained that once he was able to make repayments again, he could reduce the impact of 
that by increasing his payment if he could afford to do so. Mr R confirmed he understood.
Having had a deferment of payments for several months, Mr R asked for a balance of the 
loan. He was disappointed to hear he owed more than the £10,000 he initially borrowed. He 
accepted it was due to the extra interest that had accrued as a result of the deferment but 
felt the interest rate was too high.
When he accepted the loan, Mr R signed an agreement which set out the agreed terms. It 
included the amount borrowed, the monthly repayments, the term, the total amount payable 
and the interest rate. Mr R signed the agreement electronically and by doing so agreed to 
the terms offered.Overall, I think UK Credit sought to help Mr R with payment deferrals as Id expect at a time 
when his household income was reduced. It explained to Mr R that interest would continue 
to accrue throughout the period, and what that meant for the account. I dont think it was 
unreasonable for it to continue to charge interest on the loan during the deferral period  
after all there was a balance outstanding, and the agreement sets out that interest is 
calculated on that balance.
Ive seen nothing to suggest the rate at which the interest has been applied over the life of 
the loan so far is anything other than the rate agreed at the outset. Mr R was aware of the 
interest rate when he accepted the agreement.
If Mr R is still struggling with his payments to UK Credit, he should contact it to discuss his 
situation. I would remind UK Credit of its obligation to treat Mr R fairly.
UK Credit accepted my provisional decision, but Mr R hasnt responded. In the absence of 
any further evidence or arguments, I have no reason to reach a conclusion different from 
that set out above. Id encourage Mr R to work with UK Credit to try to find a suitable 
repayment plan, and I remind UK Credit of its obligation to treat customers fairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022. 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman