DRN-4107617
The complaint
Mr J complains about the service he received from Hargreaves Lansdown Asset 
Management Limited, referred to as the business or HL. In short, he says that between 
September 2021 and March 2022, the business unjustifiably prevented him from drawing 
down, supplementing, or transferring his funds (in the amount of £280,000).
Mr J says that despite satisfying the businesss need for source of wealth documentation, he 
was still being victimised, made to feel like hed done something wrong and kept in the dark 
with regards to the businesss internal processes. This information gathering continued for 
over five months between August 2021 and February 2022.
To put things right, Mr J wants access to his accounts or be allowed to transfer out in an 
orderly manner  he has since transferred out. He would also like compensation for distress 
and inconvenience caused, including for the time and expense spent dealing with this 
complaint.
What happened
On 17 April 2023, I issued my provisional decision, a copy of which is stated below and 
forms part of my final decision. In the decision, I said: 
provisionally Im going to uphold this complaint.
Whilst Im not persuaded that an unauthorised restriction was placed on Mr Js account, Im 
persuaded the business couldve provided a better, and timelier service, that better managed 
Mr Js expectations. In the circumstances, and on balance, provisionally I think the business 
should pay Mr J £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
But before I explain why, I think its still important for me to recognise the strength of feeling 
Mr J has about this matter. Hes provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, 
which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings 
focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a 
discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this case. I 
appreciate this can be frustrating, but it doesnt mean Im not considering the pertinent 
points.
My role is to consider the evidence presented by him and the business, and reach what I 
think is an independent, fair, and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. Its not 
my role to punish the business for any regulatory breaches either, thats the role of the 
industry regulator the Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA). My role is to decide if the 
business has done anything wrong and where appropriate award redress for any financial 
losses for which its responsible and/or compensation for any distress and inconvenience 
caused.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation, and best 
industry practice but, perhaps unlike a court or tribunal, Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have 
happened.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr J says Im satisfied that the 
business was entitled ask for the documentation regarding the source of his funds (namely 
the disposal of his property) and to place restrictions on his account until it received this 
information and the matter was resolved  for the reasons mentioned above  until it was 
satisfied that the account wasnt being misused under UK money laundering regulations.
Despite what Mr J says, in the circumstances and on balance, I think it provided information 
that was broadly clear, fair, and not misleading. I note in its communication with him it made 
clear that it was placing restrictions on his account, and the reasons for it. Im aware Mr J 
says he wasnt aware that he could trade, but he did trade, so he did know that he could 
trade. In any case, Im not persuaded that Mr J tried to trade but was prevented from doing 
so by the restrictions placed on his account.
Despite Mr Js own enquiries about the businesss authority to request this information, I 
dont think the business deliberately misled him, or did anything wrong in terms of the 
substantive complaint by not answering  to Mr Js satisfaction  the many additional 
questions. Im aware that a business also needs to be careful in relation to the sort of 
information it can share in these circumstances.
In the circumstances, and on balance, I dont think the business was required to provide 
detailed answers to all of Mr Js questions  in relation to whether it was acting in his best 
interests, whether it was acting in accordance with section A5 of the terms and conditions, or 
within the joint money laundering steering group in relation to his address. However, on 
balance, I think the business probably couldve managed his expectations better, broadly in 
terms of what it was doing, and why, and sooner. But also to make clear what it wasnt 
willing to discuss with him in the circumstances.
Despite Mr Js concerns, based on what the business says, it was entitled to delve into his 
private financial affairs  linked to his account  to satisfy itself that he wasnt misusing his 
account  its not an uncommon industry practice, where a business has concerns about 
how an account is being operated. Thats not to say the business thought that Mr J was 
financing terror or laundering money, it just had to satisfy itself that he wasnt  otherwise the 
business could itself face sanctions under UK money laundering regulations for failing to 
monitor the account and/or take appropriate action.
I appreciate Mr J says that he was made to feel that hed done something wrong, but the 
business is entitled  in the reasonable exercise of its legitimate commercial judgement  to 
question whether or not the account was being used in line with its terms and conditions, 
and in doing so enquire about the source of wealth. Its not for us to question the businesss 
judgement or tell it how it should run its affairs with regards to these important issues. 
Im aware that Mr J sent in the relevant documents, but they werent received by the 
business. I note it later came to light that he had to send the documents to a specific team 
but wasnt told this at the outset. This no doubt wouldve added to the delay and distress and 
inconvenience.
I note Mr Js concerned that he didnt have first-hand access to the relevant team, but I cant 
blame the business for this. The team itself wasnt a public facing team and therefore 
couldnt speak to Mr J and/or take calls from him. In any case, I note Mr J was led to believe that the matter would be sorted once hed 
subsequently provided the documentation to the correct department, but this wasnt entirely 
correct, so I dont think he shouldve been given that indication.
Im mindful that there was an issue with Mr Js residential address, I note he has two 
residential addresses  one of them being a new address  and thats probably why a 
search by HL failed. In this instance, its arguable that the business couldve given Mr J a 
heads up as to what might happen if the address didnt (for whatever reason) check out.
Whilst I cant blame the business for asking him to confirm which of his two addresses hed 
like to use, Im not sure why this was necessary in the circumstances - given that he had a 
registered address already and was clearly unhappy that he didnt have access to his funds 
for some time. But even if it was necessary, I think his expectations with regards to having 
access to his accounts couldve been managed better. I note Mr J says he thought this was 
a trivial process  evidently it wasnt.
This appears to be the reason why, even though he provided the relevant source of wealth 
documentation, that the restriction on his account wasnt lifted and continued for some time, 
despite him being led to believe it wouldnt. 
I appreciate its probably unlikely that the business wouldve envisaged an address issues 
when it told Mr J that the restrictions on his account would be lifted following him providing 
the source of wealth documentation. But as I mentioned above, it ought to have managed 
his expectations better with regards to what would happen if it didnt.
I cant say the business was wrong to thereafter ask Mr J further (extended) questions to 
verify the address. This also wouldnt have prevented the business from having to carry out 
its own checks. On balance, I think the issues couldve been resolved more efficiently by the 
business, but it had to confirm his address before it could proceed.
In the circumstances, and on balance, I think the business should pay Mr J £200 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the delays not only in relation to 
the initial month taken to request documentation regarding his source of wealth but also 
some incorrect information he was given that hes account could be restored fully when it 
couldnt.
Despite the points made by Mr J, on balance I think my provisional recommendation that the 
business pay him £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused is broadly 
fair and reasonable. I appreciate Mr J thinks it should pay a much higher sum, but I dont 
think the amount is unreasonable for the errors made by the business.
I appreciate Mr J will be thoroughly disappointed Ive reached a different conclusion to the 
investigator, but I still havent given him what he wants. Whilst I appreciate his frustration, Im 
not going to ask the business to do anything other than pay him £200 compensation.
I gave the parties an opportunity to respond to my provisional decision and provide any 
further submissions they wished me to consider before I considered my final decision. 
Mr J responded but didnt accept my provisional decision. In summary, he made the 
following key points:
He didnt trade and couldnt trade. Despite the businesss claim that he could trade 
over the phone, there was a total blockade on his account.  
Not having access to a public facing team created a massive problem. I should look again at the manner in which the business washed its hands of the 
situation. Including sending him a termination letter (dated 17 February 2022) asking 
him to move away from the business and it was only after this that he had access to 
his account for the purposes of transfer.  
The business also responded and accepted my provisional decision. In short it said that 
although it feels its £100 offer is fair, its happy to accept my recommendation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, not withstand the latest submissions from Mr J, Im not persuaded to 
change my mind. My decision to uphold this complaint remains the same, principally for the 
same reasons as set out in my provisional decision. 
In other words, on balance Im still satisfied that the key points remain the same, and have 
been considered by me, in my provisional decision. On the face of the evidence, and on 
balance, I still think that the business should pay Mr J £200 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused. Ive seen nothing that persuades me to change my mind. 
I still dont think that an unauthorised restriction was placed on Mr Js account, however, Im 
persuaded that the business couldve provided a better, and timelier service, that better 
managed his expectations.
I appreciate Mr J maintains he wasnt aware that he could trade, and that his account was 
totally blocked, but he did trade (even by his own admission) therefore he knew that he could 
trade. In any case, Im not persuaded that he tried to trade but was prevented from doing so 
by the restrictions placed on his account.
I appreciate Mr Js concerns that he didnt have first-hand access to the relevant team, but I 
cant blame the business for this. The team itself wasnt a public facing team and therefore 
couldnt speak to him and/or take calls from him. 
Nevertheless, Ive recommended double the compensation initially offered by the business 
given the distress and inconvenience caused by this case  in particular the delays not only 
in relation to the initial month taken to request documentation regarding his source of wealth 
but also some incorrect information he was given that his account could be restored fully 
when it couldnt. 
I appreciate Mr J feels like the business washed its hands of him, but I dont agree thats 
correct. The business wasnt required to do what he wanted, and by not doing so I cant say 
the business has done anything wrong.  
The above notwithstanding, I appreciate Mr J will be thoroughly disappointed that despite his 
latest submissions Ive still not been persuaded to change my mind. In other words, Ive 
upheld the complaint but still havent given him what he wants, and that my decision isnt 
what he wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate his frustration, Im not going to ask the business 
to do anything other than pay him £200 compensation.  
The above notwithstanding, on the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im still 
unable to give Mr J what he wants.Putting things right
Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited should pay Mr J £200 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited should pay Mr J compensation as set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman