DRN-2909011
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Loans 2 Go Limited approved him for a loan which he feels was
unaffordable for him at that time.
What happened
In December 2018, Mr M applied for a loan with Loans 2 Go. His application was approved,
and Mr M received the loan funds later that month.
In September 2020, Mr M raised a complaint with Loans 2 Go on the basis that he felt that
the loan he was approved for in December 2018 was unaffordable for him at that time, and
that Loans 2 Go should have been aware of this, had they undertaken reasonable checks
into his financial position when he applied.
Loans 2 Go looked at Mr Ms complaint. They felt that they had undertaken checks into Mr
Ms financial position at the time of the application, and that these checks hadnt indicated to
them at that time that the loan Mr M was applying for would be unaffordable for him. So, they
didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with Loans 2 Gos response, so he referred his complaint to this
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that Mr Ms credit file
should have given cause for Loans 2 Go to consider whether the loan would be affordable
for Mr M such that they should have undertaken more detailed checks into Mr Ms financial
position.
Furthermore, our investigator felt that had Loans 2 Go undertaken more detailed checks, it
was likely that the result would have been that Loans 2 Go would have reconsidered their
decision to approve Mr M for the loan, such that Mr Ms loan application was never
approved. So, they recommended that the complaint be upheld in Mr Ms favour.
Loans 2 Go didnt agree with the recommendation made by our investigator, so the matter
was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 25 May 2021 as follows:
Its for a business to decide if it will offer a loan to a customer, and if so, how much 
and on what terms. What this service would expect would be that the business 
undertakes reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure that the loan being 
offered is affordable for that customer at that time.
Loans2 Go appear to have done that here. They obtained details of Mr Ms income 
and expenditure from Mr M at the time of the application, and they cross-referenced 
Mr Ms income and expenditure declarations with information gathered from credit 
reference agencies. And the results of this check were that the monthly repayment 
due on the loan appeared affordable for Mr M, at that time.
Loans 2 Go also reviewed Mr Ms credit file to gain a better understanding of Mr Ms 
wider financial position. And again, following their review, Loans 2 Go concluded that 
it was reasonable to offer the loan to Mr M.
In their view of this complaint, our investigator felt that Mr Ms credit file was such that 
it should have demonstrated to Loans 2 Go that Mr M may have been struggling 
financially such that Loans 2 Go should have undertaken more robust affordability 
checks, including reviewing Mr Ms current account statements. And that if Loans 2 
Go had reviewed Mr Ms current account statements then this would have shown that 
Mr M was making numerous gambling transactions such that Loans 2 Go might have 
had cause for concern.
I can understand how our investigator reached this conclusion, but my opinion on this 
matter differs. Specifically, Im not convinced that Mr Ms credit file was such that it 
would have been reasonable to expect Loans 2 Go to undertake additional checks or 
to request to view Mr Ms current account statements before approving the loan.
I say this because, while Mr Ms credit file does show that Mr M had missed 
payments on some of his other accounts, it also shows that Mr M appears to have 
overcome any difficulties that he was facing, such that in the months leading up to 
the loan application Mr M was back on track with his accounts and making his 
repayments on time. There is one exception to this, but in that instance Mr M had 
arranged a payment plan with the credit provider, and the credit file doesnt show that 
Mr M had failed to meet that agreed plan.
Its also notable that Mr M stated his reason for applying for the loan as wanting 
money to fund a holiday, and not to cover essential living costs or to pay off existing 
borrowing.
Mr M had used payday loan providers in the past few years leading up to the loan
application, but the majority of these payday loans had been repaid without incident, 
and as mentioned, it appeared from Mr Ms credit file that any financial difficulty that 
Mr M had been experiencing had been overcome.
While it can be the case that the use of payday loans can be an indicator that an 
individual is in financial difficulty, this isnt necessarily the case, and it would be 
expected that an individuals use of payday loans would be assessed in conjunction 
with that individuals wider financial position. And, in this instance, for the reasons 
already explained, I dont feel that Mr Ms credit file necessarily demonstrated that Mr 
M was experiencing financial difficulty at that time.
So, the picture that appears to have been visible to Loans 2 Go at the time of the 
loan application is that Mr Ms income and expenditure were such that the monthly 
loan repayment would be affordable for him, and that Mr Ms credit file was such that 
it appeared that Mr M had overcome any credit repayment difficulties hed been 
experiencing previously and was maintaining his existing borrowing responsibly in 
the months leading up to the loan application. And on this basis, its difficult to 
conclude that Loans 2 go shouldnt have approved the loan that Mr M was applying 
for here.I understand that it may well have been the case that Mr M was struggling financially 
at the time of the loan application. But Im not convinced that its fair or reasonable to 
say that Loans 2 Go should have concluded, based on the information available to 
them at that time, that Mr M was struggling financially at that time. And this mean that 
Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Loans 2 Go to have approved the loan that Mr 
M applied for, without the need for any further financial checks.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr M was wanting here, but it follows 
from this that my provisional decision will be that I wont be upholding this complaint 
or asking Loans 2 Go to take any further action at this time. I hope that Mr M can 
understand, given what I have explained above, why I have made the provisional 
decision that I have, although I welcome any additional comments of information that 
he, or Loans 2 Go, might wish to make.
Finally, its my understanding that Loans 2 Go have made a goodwill payment offer to 
Mr M as part of their response to Mr Ms complaint, and that this offer remains open 
to Mr M at this time.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mr M and Loans 2 Go the opportunity to provide 
any comments or additional information they might wish me to consider before I moved to a 
final decision. Loans 2 Go confirmed that they accepted my provisional decision and had 
nothing further to add. However, Mr M did provide comments and additional information for 
me to consider.
Mr M disagreed with my provisional decision and felt that he was in a difficult financial 
position at the time of the application. Mr M referenced the fact that he was suffering with a 
gambling addiction at the time that he took the loan, and that it was in order to provide funds 
for this gambling addiction that he took this loan, as well as several other loans that he took 
at a similar time. 
Furthermore, Mr M felt that, had Loans 2 Go undertaken additional checks into his financial 
position at that time, such as reviewing his current account statements, that his gambling 
addiction would have been apparent, and that Loans 2 Go wouldnt have approved the loan.
I can appreciate Mr Ms position here and I sympathise with him. And Im aware of the 
debilitating consequences that a gambling addiction can entail. However, its important for 
me to reiterate that this service would only expect a credit provider to undertake reasonable 
and proportionate checks into an applicants financial position at the time of an application, 
and that additional checks - such as the business asking to review the applicants bank 
account statements - would only be expected to requested where the initial checks 
undertaken by the business provides reasonable cause for concern that such checks might 
be merited.
And, having re-reviewed the initial checks that Loans 2 Go undertook in this instance  
which include information gathered from Mr M directly at the point of application, as well as a 
review of Mr Ms credit file  it remains my opinion that there was nothing within these 
checks that ought reasonably have given Loans 2 Go cause for concern such that they 
shouldnt have approved the loan without the need for undertaking additional checks.
Indeed, Mr M has confirmed to this service that, around the time of this application, he was 
taking out short term loans and repaying them before the due date in an attempt to better his 
credit score so as to enable him to take further credit. And, while these actions may not have 
had an effect on Mr Ms credit score, they do add credence to the picture that I feel emerges 
from Mr Ms credit file - which is that Mr M had had financial difficulties previously, but that in the time leading up to the loan application he had recovered his financial position and was 
managing his credit responsibly.
So, while I dont dispute that Mr M may have been in financial difficulty at that time, based on 
what Mr M has explained, it remains my position that it was reasonable for Loans 2 Go, 
when assessing Mr Ms financial position on the basis of the information available to them, to 
have concluded that Mr M was in a healthier financial position than he actually was, and to 
have approved his loan without the need for further checks accordingly.
Furthermore, in response to the point made in my provisional decision letter that Mr M 
applied for the loan to fund a holiday, and not for essential spend, Mr M has explained that 
he stated that the loan was for a holiday because if he had put the real reason he wanted the 
loan then the loan wouldnt have been approved. 
I can appreciate Mr Ms point here, but I feel that this further demonstrates that Mr M was 
taking steps to ensure that Loans 2 Go should feel that it was appropriate for Mr M to be 
approved for the loan. And its difficult for me to consider censuring Loans 2 Go for 
subsequently approving the loan based on the information that Mr M deliberately gave to 
them with the intention that the loan application would be approved.
Finally, Mr M has referenced the amount of the payments that he was making towards other 
loans at that time, and that he was spending more than 51% of his gross monthly income on 
other credit commitments at the time of the application. And this was information that would 
have been readily available to Loans 2 Go, had they requested current account statements 
from Mr M. 
However, as Ive previously explained, I dont feel that there was a reasonable requirement 
for Loans 2 Go to have requested Mr Ms bank statements, and I remain satisfied that the 
information that Loans 2 Go used to assess Mr Ms credit application  including information 
given to them by Mr M with the intention of providing Loans 2 Go with a picture of his 
financial position which was supportive of the loan application being approved  was such 
that it was reasonable for Loans 2 Go to have approved the loan being applied for, without 
the requirement for further checks.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr M was wanting here, but considering the 
above, it remains my position that Loans 2 Go didnt act unfairly or unreasonably by 
approving the loan that they did here. And it follows from this that my final decision will be 
that I do not uphold this complaint.  
I hope that Mr M can understand, given what Ive explained above, why Ive made the final 
decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman