DRN-1662996
The complaint
Mrs E took out a packaged bank account with National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) in 
April 2008 and she says it was mis-sold.
What happened
Mrs E took out a fee free account with NatWest in 2002.
She then upgraded to an Advantage Gold account (AGA) with a monthly fee again in April 
2008. 
Mrs E says she was told she had to take out the AGA to improve her credit rating and get a 
higher overdraft, so the AGA was mis-sold. Nat West says it did not tell her this and the AGA 
wasnt mis-sold.
Our adjudicator didnt think that NatWest mis-sold the AGA. But Mrs E disagrees so the case 
has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs Es complaint.
Firstly, I need to consider whether Mrs E knew she had a choice whether to take out the 
AGA in April 2008, and whether she chose to do so. I think she did, and Ill explain why.
NatWest has provided evidence that Mrs E had used a fee free bank account with an 
overdraft before she took out her AGA. So, at the time of the sale, I think its more likely than 
not that she was aware that there were a range of fee free bank accounts with overdrafts 
from both NatWest and other banks and financial institutions.
Mrs E says she was told she had to take out the AGA to improve her credit rating and get a 
higher overdraft and this was the only reason why she did so. But after taking the AGA out 
she didnt increase her overdraft for over five months, so I think its unlikely borrowing money 
was the only important thing to her at the time. 
Also, Mrs E was declined a further increase in her overdraft in March 2009, so had that been 
her only interest in the AGA, I think its likely she would have considered closing the account, 
returning to a fee free one, and borrowing money elsewhere. But she didnt and she retained 
the AGA for many years using other benefits.
So I dont think its fair for me to say its more likely than not that she only took out the AGA 
because NatWest told her she had to in order to improve her credit rating and get an 
upgrade, as I would need to, if I were to uphold her complaint on this point.
So, in my view Mrs E knew she had a choice whether to pay a fee for the AGA or not and 
she chose to take it out. 
NatWest says that this was a non-advised sale, by which it means that it didnt recommend the 
AGA to Mrs E personally or advise her to take it out. Mrs E say that NatWest did advise her to 
take it out. 
I dont know what was said during the sale, but Ive not seen anything such as any records of 
discussions about Mrs Es needs and circumstances or suitability checks to show me clearly 
that NatWest did make a personal recommendation to her. 
I accept its possible that in providing information to Mrs E and explaining the benefits of the 
AGA, NatWest may have said or implied that it was good idea to take out the AGA. But this 
isnt the same as giving a personal recommendation. And based on this services knowledge 
of NatWests sales practices at the time, I think its more likely than not that NatWest sold the 
AGA to Mrs E on an information only basis. 
This means NatWest did not have to ensure that the AGA was suitable for Mrs E, but it did 
have to provide Mrs E with good enough information about the AGA so she could make an 
informed decision about whether to have it or not.
And I think it did. I say this for the following reasons.
The AGA benefits in April 2008 included worldwide family travel insurance, mobile phone 
insurance, car breakdown service, extended warranty cover, purchase protection; better 
interest rates for overdrafts, loans, and mortgages, discounts on home insurance and a 
range of other offers. The initial cost was £12.95 per month.
I think its likely NatWest wouldve described the AGA to Mrs E at some length as it was trying 
to sell the account to her. I think the AGA was of interest to her as she subsequently used her 
overdraft and made a successful claim on the travel insurance. 
Although Mrs E says she didnt have a car or a phone at the time of sale, there was nothing in 
her personal circumstances that would have stopped her using the AGAs benefits; it was for 
her to decide what she wanted to use. And Mrs E couldve closed the account at any time, but 
she didnt.
So, in my view Mrs E knew she had a choice about taking out the AGA in April 2008 and she 
chose to take it out. And I dont think there is anything NatWest didnt tell her that would have 
changed her mind and put her off taking out the AGA.
For completeness, I note that Mrs E was migrated to a Select Platinum account in July 2015 
as NatWest changed its product offering. Under the terms and conditions of the account 
NatWest was entitled to do this and it has provided evidence that it communicated at the time 
and multiple times in the years that followed about the change and the new benefits. So, I 
think its more likely than not that Mrs E was aware of this change and NatWest did nothing 
wrong in this matter.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman