DRN-3286716
The complaint
Ms B complained that TFS Loans Limited lent to her irresponsibly and provided her with a 
loan that was unaffordable.
What happened
Ms B was given a loan by TFS as follows:
Date 
loan 
takenLoan 
amountLoan term 
(months)Monthly 
repaymentTotal amount 
repayable 
19/06/2017 £5,000 36 £242.01 £8,712.36
Ms B believes that if TFS had done more checks, then it wouldve seen that she couldnt 
afford to repay the loan
When she complained to TFS it said it had done enough checks to say that the monthly 
contractual payments for the loan would be affordable for Ms B. So it didnt uphold her 
complaint.
One of our investigators reviewed Ms Bs complaint. He didnt think that TFS shouldve 
provided the loan to Ms B and he set out the steps that TFS needed to take to put things 
right.
TFS disagreed with our investigator and asked for the case to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. It mainly said that:
the checks it carried out were proportionate
TFS made a fair lending decision
the application was approved based on the information provided by Ms B and a 
number of discussions took place to determine the details were accurate
TFS hasnt seen anything to suggest Ms B wouldnt be able to afford the loan and 
TFS was entitled to rely on what it was told 
TFS is satisfied that it had a suitable understanding of Ms Bs circumstances in order 
to ensure the loan was affordable 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Ms Bs complaint. Before agreeing to lend, lenders must 
work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses 
the borrower also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan 
payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take 
reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other 
words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender 
shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems for a borrower 
who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable way.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
 the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
 the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
higher repayments from a particular level of income)
 the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact that the total 
cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make repayments for 
an extended period).
Ive kept all these things in mind when thinking about this complaint.
When Ms B applied for the loan, TFS asked about her income. After looking at a payslip TFS 
did some calculations and recorded that Ms Bs average monthly income from work was 
approximately £1,200 (and just over £1,280 in total). It asked Ms B about her regular 
expenditure and did its own credit checks to find out about her credit history. TFS allowed for 
her spending on existing debt. TFS worked out that Ms B should still expect to have around 
£328 surplus cash after paying her TFS loan.
TFS said its affordability checks were adequate and proportionate and based on the 
information gathered at the time of the application, the loan was affordable. But I dont think 
TFS made a fair lending decision when it lent to Ms B based on the information it had 
gathered. Despite recording information that appeared to show that Ms B had spare cash 
each month, I agree with our investigator that although the loan mightve looked affordable to 
TFS, this information appeared to be at odds with the information it had gathered showing 
warning signs that Ms B had been struggling to manage her finances for some time.
I dont think that anything Ms B said was enough to explain the extent of her reliance on 
expensive credit that TFS could see or her credit history showing numerous defaulted 
accounts. TFS understood that Ms B had been in reasonably paid steady work for more than 
three years and she was living with another person who paid a lot of their shared living costs 
such as council tax, food and drink and household bills. She paid nothing towards her phone 
and broadband accounts.
Despite this, TFS could see from its credit checks that Ms B owed around £10,000 to 
existing creditors which I think was a significant amount of unsecured debt for someone in Ms Bs financial situation. And it wasnt clear why her credit history showed a significant 
amount of historical adverse information with at least eight previous defaults. Whilst these 
dated back some years, most appeared to have been active at the time and some of these 
were for relatively small amounts and would have looked relatively affordable. 
Overall, I think what TFS saw raised important questions about why someone in Ms Bs 
circumstances had needed to rely to this extent on expensive credit and it didnt address 
why she had run into such serious money problems. I agree with our investigator that her 
explanation about one of her accounts set up with an arrangement to pay didnt adequately 
explain the overall picture TFS saw on her credit file.
Additionally, this was an expensive loan that Ms B was signing up to pay back by way of 
substantial monthly repayments for the next three years. The monthly cost presented a high 
risk of becoming unsustainable over the term of the loan. TFS checks needed to be 
borrower focused which means it needed a thorough understanding of Ms Bs financial 
circumstances to be satisfied she could afford the loan in a way that would be sustainable for 
her.
It isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have a credit history showing 
other borrowing or an impaired credit record  and these things wouldnt necessarily be 
reasons to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan application. But I dont agree with 
TFS that it had seen enough information to be able to say it made a fair lending decision. 
What Ms B had told TFS about her income and expenditure, and its own affordability 
calculation suggesting she had more than £500 surplus cash each month out of which to pay 
its loan, looked to be clearly at odds with what TFS saw on its own credit checks. 
So thinking about all the information TFS had gathered, I dont think it was able to be 
satisfied on the information it had in front of it that it could safely conclude that its loan would 
be sustainably affordable for Ms B.
I think TFS should have carried out more in-depth checks and taken additional steps to verify 
Ms Bs financial situation before agreeing to provide the loan. TFS hasnt shown me it did 
that. This means I cant fairly say that it carried out a proportionate check before agreeing to 
lend this loan. So I've thought carefully about what TFS is likely to have found out had it 
done a proportionate check  and whether this information was likely to have affected the 
lending decision it made.
I've looked at bank statements provided by Ms B which I think give a useful insight into 
understanding Ms Bs overall financial situation at the time. I think if TFS had done a 
proportionate check before lending, it wouldve likely seen more information showing that 
there was a real risk that this loan wasnt likely to be sustainably affordable over the loan 
term. I say this because if TFS had gained a better understanding of Ms Bs finances and 
her use of credit, it would have seen nothing to reassure it that its affordability calculations 
could be relied on. 
It couldve seen that Ms B didnt in reality have enough spare cash to be able to afford the 
loan repayments for this loan as she was already struggling to manage her account in credit 
 for instance, there were unpaid direct debits being returned and it was apparent that Ms B 
was already spending a significant proportion of her income on other credit. So I dont think it 
was reasonable for TFS to conclude that it was likely that Ms B would be able to repay this 
loan sustainably over the term and TFS shouldnt have provided it.
For these reasons, I am upholding Ms Bs complaint that she should not have been given 
this loan.As Ms B has been further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on a loan that 
she shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that she has lost out as a result of what 
TFS did wrong. And a recent credit report provided by Ms B makes me think that she hasnt 
paid this loan  it looks like it ran into arrears when she still owed around £5,616 and its 
unclear if the full balance has been paid. So, Im planning to say that TFS needs to put 
things right in the following way.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Ms B has nothing further to add,
I have heard nothing further TFS and the deadline for responses has now passed so I think 
its reasonable for me to proceed with my review of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
Given that Ive not received any further evidence or comment that changes my mind about 
this complaint, I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision and I still think 
its fair to uphold this complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
I havent seen anything which makes me think TFS acted unfairly towards Ms B in any other 
way. 
So Im not awarding any additional redress. 
And I think it is fair and reasonable for Ms B to repay the principal amount that she 
borrowed, because she had the benefit of that lending. 
But she has paid extra for a loan that should not have been provided to her. 
In line with this Services approach, Ms B shouldnt repay more than the capital amount she 
borrowed.
If TFS has sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then take 
the following steps. 
Otherwise, TFS should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below 
and do the following:
 add up the total amount of money Ms B received as a result of being given the loan. The 
payments Ms B made should be deducted from this amount
 if this results in Ms B having paid more than she received, then any overpayments should 
be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the overpayments were 
made until the date of settlement) if any capital balance remains outstanding, then TFS should attempt to arrange an 
affordable/suitable payment plan with Ms B bearing in mind the need to treat her positively 
and sympathetically in those discussions.
 remove any adverse information placed on Ms Bs credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to take off tax from this interest. TFS must give Ms B 
a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Ms Bs complaint and direct TFS Loans Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman