DRN-3371113
The complaint
Ms B and Mr J complain about their mortgage with Santander UK Plc. They complain that 
Santander will not agree to waive an early repayment charge (ERC) when they sell the 
property.
What happened
Ms B and Mr J bought a property together, with a mortgage with Santander, when they were 
married. Theyve since separated, and Ms B lives in the property with their son. She took a 
seven year fixed rate in 2018, which expires in April 2025. 
As part of the divorce arrangements, there was a court order that Ms B would continue to 
live in the property until their son reached the age of 18  which is in July 2024. The property 
should then be sold and the proceeds divided between Ms B and Mr J.
This means that if the property was sold at the time specified in the court order, there would 
be an early repayment charge (ERC) of around £8,000.
Ms B asked Santander to agree to waive the ERC. But it wouldnt do so, so Ms B 
complained. She brings this complaint to us with Mr Js agreement.
Santander said it would be willing to consider Ms B and Mr Js circumstances at the time of 
any sale of the property, but it wasnt willing to give an open-ended agreement to waive the 
ERC years in advance. It said it wasnt yet known when or whether the property would be 
sold, how long would be left on the fixed rate, or what the wider circumstances would be.
Our investigator thought that was fair, so Ms B asked for an ombudsman to make a final 
decision. She explained that she needed certainty, so that she could plan for her future and 
not have to spend the next few years worrying. And she was concerned that paying the ERC 
might mean she wasnt left with enough to buy a new property when this one was sold. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered everything thats been said in this case. I do understand the point 
Ms B has made  that if the property is sold and the ERC is paid, that will reduce the equity 
to be shared between her and Mr J and might restrict their future options. And I know shes 
particularly concerned about this because of everything shes been through and also 
because of her sons disability and her own health concerns.
Im satisfied that when Ms B took out the fixed rate, the ERC was clearly explained to her 
and she was given enough information to understand its implications. I know she says she 
didnt realise what it would mean at the time, but I think Santander did enough to explain it to 
her.
Ive also considered the divorce court order. The court was aware that an ERC would be 
payable  since at para 11 (i) of the court order, which sets out how the proceeds of sale are 
to be divided, the court said that the proceeds should be used to repay the mortgage, pay 
the costs of sale, pay any ERC and then any remaining equity be split between Ms B and 
Mr J in the proportions set out in the order. So the possibility of an ERC was taken into 
account at that time.
An ERC is a standard feature of a fixed rate. Taking the fixed rate significantly reduced the 
payments Ms B has to make each month, making the mortgage more affordable. Shes 
benefitted from that. But in order to be able to offer a fixed rate, Santander needs to know 
that it will be able to recover its costs  which is why its fair that the rate includes an ERC 
which is payable if it ends early.
I dont think Santander can be expected to agree to waive the ERC so long before it ends, 
and before theres any certainty about when, or whether, the property will be sold.
I dont think this leaves Ms B and Mr J without options. Although the court order says that the 
property should be sold by July 2024, Ms B and Mr J could agree between them to delay any 
sale for a few more months to avoid the ERC  doing so would increase the equity they both 
take out of the property. Or if they cant agree, theres always the possibility of returning to 
court to have the order varied to delay the sale  though I dont know whether a court would 
agree to that, and that might be something to seek legal advice about.
If Ms B and Mr J do end up selling the property before the ERC expires, Santander has said 
its willing to consider whether or not to enforce the ERC at that time. It will take full account 
of their circumstances and the stage the mortgage is at when making any decision.
I think thats fair. I wouldnt expect Santander to offer a guarantee it wont charge the ERC 
now, when we dont know what the situation will be when  or if  it becomes payable. Its 
reasonable that it will consider matters at the time rather than some years in advance. And if 
Ms B and Mr J are unhappy with the decision it makes at that time, theyll be able to 
complain about it then.
I do appreciate that this doesnt give Ms B the certainty she seeks. And Im sorry about that. 
But I dont think I can fairly ask Santander to give her a commitment to waive the ERC at this 
stage.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 April 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman