DRN-1436165
 
The complaint
Mr B says Elevate Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny (Sunny), irresponsibly lent 
to him. Mr B has told us he had a gambling problem which caused him to get into a cycle of 
debt.
What happened
This complaint is about ten short-term loans Sunny provided to Mr B between December 
2017 to November 2018. Mr Bs borrowing history is as follows:
 
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 16/12/2017 17/05/2018 6 £500.00
2 10/02/2018 17/05/2018 6 £200.00
3 27/04/2018 17/05/2018 6 £350.00
4 22/06/2018 10/08/2018 6 £550.00
5 22/06/2018 05/10/2018 6   £50.00
6 13/10/2018 02/11/2018 6 £150.00
7 13/10/2018 30/11/2018 6 £100.00
8 13/10/2018 30/11/2018 6 £150.00
9 13/10/2018 28/12/2018 6 £200.00
10 09/11/2018 28/12/2018 6 £200.00
 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Bs complaint and thought the loans from loan five 
onwards shouldnt have been given. The adjudicator thought that if Sunny had carried out 
further checks about Mr Bs financial position it would have seen that he was struggling to 
manage his money.
Sunny disagreed but did offer to uphold the complaint from loan nine onwards. We put the 
offer to Mr B but didnt hear back from him. As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me to decide in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr B could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Mr B didnt comment on the adjudicators opinion that loans one to four shouldnt be upheld. 
Because of this, I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I 
wont be making a decision about this lending. But the loans were part of the borrowing 
relationship Mr B had with Sunny. So, it is something I will take into account when 
considering the other loans he took. Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint. After doing so, Ive decided to partially 
uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why. 
I agree with the adjudicator that Mr Bs borrowing behaviour would suggest he was having 
problems managing his finances and I think that when he returned for further credit at loan 
five, Sunny should have done more to build up a bigger picture of his financial 
circumstances. 
When Mr B took loan three, he still had loans one and two outstanding. Sunny has told us 
that it allows for more than one loan to be taken at a time which offers its customers flexibility 
in managing their finances. But I think it can equally be an indication that a person is 
struggling to manage their money. At loan three Mr Bs debt to Sunny had increased from 
the initial borrowing of £500 up to a total of £1,050 within four months.
Mr B then repaid all of that borrowing on 17 May but returned a month later to take loans 
four and five on the same day. This would suggest that whatever the circumstances that had 
caused Mr B to take high cost credit in the first instance hadnt been resolved. So, I think 
Sunny should have done more to establish what Mr Bs financial position was at loan five. 
And Mr B was repaying his loans earlier than the agreed term dates. While I accept this 
would have saved Mr B interest charges, I also think that it can be an indication that a 
person is having problems managing their money and may be juggling their finances in order 
to make ends meet. 
If Sunny had carried proportionate checks at the time Mr B applied for loan five, it would 
have seen that Mr B was spending a significant proportion of his income on on-line gambling 
websites and was clearly having problems because of that. 
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr B, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Bs case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
seven. I say this because:
At this point Sunny ought to have realised Mr B was not managing to repay his loans 
sustainably. Mr B had taken out seven loans within ten months. So Sunny ought to 
have realised it was more likely than not Mr B was having to borrow further to cover 
the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his finances and that Mr Bs 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr Bs first loan was for £500 and the total he borrowed at loan seven (he took four 
loans on the same day) was for £600.  At this point Sunny ought to have known that 
Mr B was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in his income but to meet 
an ongoing need which in Mr Bs case was to finance his gambling habit. 
Mr B wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Sunny. Loan ten was 
taken out 11 months after Mr Bs first. Mr B had paid large amounts of interest to, in 
effect, service a debt to Sunny over an extended period.
 
I think that Mr B lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan seven 
onwards because:these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Bs indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the number of loans which Mr B borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mr Bs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
 
So, like the adjudicator, Im also upholding the complaint about five to ten and Sunny should 
put things right.
 
Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Mr B paid on loans five to ten;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans five and six from Mr Bs credit file;
the number of loans taken from loan seven onwards means any information recorded 
about them is adverse. So, all entries about loans seven to ten should be removed 
from Mr Bs credit file.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Bs complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman