DRN-4236142
The complaint
Mr B complained about what happened when he tried to sell his house, and redeem his 
mortgage with Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax.
What happened
Mr B decided in 2022 to sell his property. He sold it to a family member, and sent Halifax the 
money to pay off his mortgage on 30 August 2022. But Mr B told us Halifax wouldnt redeem 
his mortgage. It said there was a freezing order, which prevented it from accepting the 
money.
Mr B wanted Halifax to accept the money, allow the sale of his property to complete, and to
waive interest it charged after 30 August 2022, when hed first tried to pay the mortgage off.
Shortly before this case came to our service, Mr B went back to court, and obtained
evidence that the earlier order was no longer in force. Halifax then accepted that, and
redeemed his mortgage. But it wouldnt waive the interest. It said that it couldnt redeem the
mortgage until the further evidence Mr B had supplied recently, was received. And it said it
acted promptly to redeem the mortgage, once that happened. So Halifax didnt think it had
done anything wrong.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld in part, but neither side accepted
his resolution, and this case came to me for a final decision. I then reached my provisional 
decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Although I dont think Halifax has to pay back all the interest it has charged since August
2022, I do think there has been some delay here on the part of Halifax, and that Mr B 
has ended up paying more interest, because of this. Ill explain why I think that.
Looking at the internal notes of Halifaxs contact with Mr B, I can see Mr B started telling 
Halifax that he planned to sell his house, in February 2022. On 30 June, the family 
member who was buying Mr Bs house, asked Halifax for a redemption statement.
Halifax asked its redemption team for a statement, and received a response on 18 July
saying no statement would be provided. The response was clear on the reasons for this 
 Halifax understood Mr B was still subject to a freezing order, which meant he wouldnt 
be able to just sell the house. These notes also set out clearly and helpfully, what 
Halifaxs call handlers can say to Mr B himself, and what they can say to a third party.
The family member contacted Halifax again to get the redemption statement. The notes
suggest Halifax had a letter of authority, allowing it to speak to this family member, but
Halifax appears to have had some concerns about speaking to him, or indeed to Mr B 
on the same or a later call. I do not criticise Halifax for wanting to ensure the 
safeguarding of its customers, but that doesnt seem to explain why no one, neither Mr 
B nor the family member who was buying the house, was told anything about the legal 
order which was in place, in line with the notes provided by the redemption team.
I think Mr B could have been told on 19 July 2022, when he spoke to Halifax about a
payment to his account, that Halifax had concerns about the redemption of his 
mortgage, because it understood that an order was still in place. Our service asked 
Halifax when it told Mr B this, and it said this happened on 21 September.
Mr B then sought to persuade Halifax that the order was no longer in force. Notes from 
Mr Bs solicitors show he was consistently advised that this was the position, correctly 
as it turned out. But I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Halifax not to accept 
the evidence Mr B offered on 27 September. That showed a judge decided the year 
previously that the order affecting the sale would not continue in force if the claimant in 
that case didnt object within four weeks. But its what this didnt show that I think is 
important here. There was simply nothing to show Halifax that the claimant hadnt 
objected within this time.
For completeness, I should also say that I dont think this was Mr Bs fault either. It 
seems to have been a result of the phrasing of the 2021 order, which set aside the 
injunction unless further steps were taken by the original claimant. So I think this 
problem was simply the result of a practical difficulty in showing that the 2021 order had 
taken effect.
Mr B took further steps to demonstrate this to Halifax. I think that would inevitably have 
taken some time, and it would also have involved some legal costs. I dont think that 
time or expense is Halifaxs fault, so I dont think it has to either waive interest for this 
period, or pay legal fees Mr B incurred.
Mr B was advised of the problem with redeeming his mortgage on 21 September 2022. 
He sent a copy of a court order from 2022, making clear that the 2021 order had taken 
effect, to Halifax on 23 November 2022.
Halifax accepts that this order wasnt correctly allocated, and so it wasnt actioned
immediately. Once it was allocated, Halifax lifted its objections to redeeming the 
mortgage the next working day. If this allocation mistake hadnt been made, I think this 
would have been done by Halifax on 24 November, not 5 December.
For those reasons, I think that Halifax did cause some of the delay in this case. And I
understand that these are periods for which Mr B has paid interest on his outstanding
mortgage. I dont think thats fair and reasonable, and I think Halifax should refund to Mr 
B the additional interest it charged on his mortgage, as a result of the delays it caused 
between 19 July and 21 September 2022, and between 24 November and 5 December 
2022.
Because Halifax caused some of the delay in redeeming Mr Bs mortgage, and in 
particular because it didnt tell Mr B that there might be an issue with accepting the 
redemption funds until after hed committed to a sale and paid those funds across, I 
think Halifax should also pay £250 in compensation to make up for the distress Mr B 
was caused. 
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B accepted the decision. He said he felt it was fair, and he didnt want to offer any further 
evidence. Mr B wanted to check his understanding of my award. He thought that he would 
be receiving a total of 77 days of interest, and £250 in compensation. 
Halifax asked whether I was also suggesting that interest should be awarded on the 
refunded sums. I didnt include that in my award, as I thought that the refund noted plus the 
compensation proposed, did provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
I wrote to both sides in this case, to set out the effect of my decision. I said that a refund of 
interest to Mr B in this case would run for 75 days, not 77. My provisional decision was that 
Halifax caused two avoidable delays. 
The first delay ran from 19 July 2022 to 21 September 2022, but not inclusive of that final 
day. Briefly, thats because Mr B was told something on 21 September, which he should 
have been told on 19 July. So the delay starts (meaning interest stops) on the day that Mr B 
should have been told about problems with his redemption (and as a result, is not charged 
for a period relating to 19 July 2022 onwards) but then restarts on the day Mr B was told 
about these problems (so is charged for a period relating to 21 September onwards). 
The second delay happened when Mr Bs mortgage was redeemed. I thought this could 
have been redeemed earlier. So the delay starts (meaning interest pauses) on the day that 
Halifax should have taken action, and then can restart in respect of the day Halifax finally did 
take that action, on 5 December. 
I have explained to both sides that I made that a total of 75 days of interest plus £250 in 
compensation. And I was concerned my provisional decision suggested that interest would 
stop, and start, in line with these times, which I dont think would be the right outcome for this 
complaint. So my email to both sides also explained that I wanted to put Mr B back in the 
position he would have been in, if these delays had not happened. And I think in that 
situation, Mr B would have redeemed his mortgage 75 days earlier than he in fact did. 
For those reasons, its the last 75 days of interest charged on this mortgage (plus £250 in 
compensation) which Halifax would be obliged by my decision to pay. That means Halifax 
should refund interest charged between 21 September 2022 and 5 December 2022.
Halifax asked whether I would also suggest that interest should be awarded on the refunded 
sums. I didnt include that in my award, I thought the refund noted plus the compensation 
proposed, did provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
I offered both sides an opportunity to comment further, having received the above 
clarification. Both sides have replied. Mr B said he was happy with 75 days of interest, plus 
the proposed compensation. Halifax also replied. I should note that Halifaxs reply suggests 
it has understood Im proposing it refunds interest it charged during the delays themselves, 
rather than the last 75 days of Mr Bs mortgage. As my email explained, I dont think thats 
the situation Mr B would have been in, if these mistakes hadnt been made, so thats not the 
what I propose to award here, or what Ive explained to both sides as a result of the 
questions Mr B and Halifax asked.I still think this proposal, that Halifax refunds the last 75 days of interest charged to Mr B, 
provides a fair and reasonable outcome in this case. So Ill now make the above decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax should refund to Mr B the 
last 75 days of interest charged on his mortgage, prior to its redemption on 5 December 
2022.
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax should also pay £250 in compensation to make up 
for the distress Mr B was caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2023. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman