DRN-4086377
The complaint
Ms M has complained about Aberdeen Standard Fund Managers Limited (Trading as 
Aberdeen Standard Investments Aberdeen) and how it doesnt acknowledge that she 
has an investment with it. She said Aberdeen should find her investment. 
What happened
Ms M invested £5,000 into a managed portfolio fund in 1997 with Britannia Fund 
Managers. Ms M kept paperwork to show the details of this investment. 
There were a series of mergers, and in 2006 Ms Ms investment was held with 
Resolution Asset Management. Ms M has paperwork from Resolution that showed 
details of her investment in a managed portfolio fund, the units she held and how much 
it was worth. 
There were further mergers and Aberdeen now are responsible for any legacy 
investments that were held by Resolution. Ms M has told our service that she has 
paperwork that shows she held the investment up until 2006. She said she has not 
cashed it out or transferred it to her recollection and so her investment must have 
passed to Aberdeen to manage. She said she wants Aberdeen to find her investment.
Aberdeen said it had no records of Ms Ms investment or her as a client of theirs. It said 
it only holds records of closed accounts for seven years so it said it stands to reason 
that Ms M must have withdrawn the investment or transferred it between 2006 and 
2014. It has mentioned these dates because 2006 is the last date that Ms M holds 
paperwork for the investment. Ms M complained to Aberdeen in 2021 and it couldnt find 
any records about her. It said it holds records for seven years, so it was sure it didnt 
hold her investment from 2014 onwards.  
Ms M wasnt happy with Aberdeens response so referred her complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said he hadnt seen enough 
to show that Aberdeen should be holding the investment. He concluded on balance that the 
investment had been sold or transferred. 
Ms M didnt agree. She made several points about Aberdeen holding the investment. She 
said the investment should still be held and retained by it. She said she only had one 
bank account and if the investment had been liquidated it would have shown in there. She 
said Aberdeen should from the historical ledger, show a transaction paying the 
investment out to her. She said this should be available to Aberdeen. Ms M asked for an 
ombudsman review and so her complaint comes to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not upheld Ms Ms complaint, and these are my findings that explain why:
I have seen and looked through the documentation Ms M has submitted and 
referred to. I can see why she would query with Aberdeen about the information 
on these forms. It says on the documents from 1997 that she holds that she has 
paid £5,000 and that there were 7734 units held by her in the managed portfolio 
fund. Later documents from 2006 reaffirms this.  Again, I can see why Ms M 
would want to see what this was about and if the investment was still in existence 
especially as she doesnt recollect selling or transferring it.
Aberdeen said there is nothing within any documentation that it holds to indicate 
the investment is still in existence. It said it holds records of any closed accounts 
for a period of seven years and it has nothing in relation to Ms M.
Aberdeen said it cannot see any regular statements or any documentation to say 
the investment is still in existence. It would seem to me that if the investment had 
not been cashed in or transferred then on balance Aberdeen would have held at 
least some records of it. But it has nothing at all. 
On balance, I dont think Aberdeen has held Ms Ms investment as it can find no 
record of it. I havent seen enough from Ms M about what happened to her 
investment after 2006 that would suggest anything different. Ms M does hold 
documentation of the investment from 1997 and again in 2006 but I cannot place 
any weight on this other than to say she held the investment back when that 
correspondence was sent to her. 
Ms M has asked several questions about her investment that she said Aberdeen 
need to answer for, but I can see that the points she has made are on the 
assumption that Aberdeen still have her investment. And I have concluded on 
balance that it doesnt. 
Ms M also said Aberdeen should be able to provide proof from a historical ledger 
that it or another company had paid out the money to her. But Aberdeen has 
explained that it doesnt hold information about closed accounts after seven 
years. So, with that mind, I dont think Aberdeen would hold information about Ms 
Ms investment if it had been sold before 2014, and I have concluded on balance 
that this is more likely what has happened here. 
With the information I have in front of me, I am persuaded by what Aberdeen has 
said and the explanation it has given as to what more likely than not has 
happened here. There is a period between 2006 and 2014 where it is more likely 
than not the investment was either sold or transferred. 
In conclusion I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint about whether an investment she made back 
in 1997 still is in existence. 
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Ms M, but I hope she will at least feel 
that her complaint has been fully considered and that the way I've set things out helps to 
explain how I've reached my conclusions.My final decision
I do not uphold Ms Ms complaint about Aberdeen Standard Fund Managers Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman