DRN-3097142
The complaint
Miss G complains that Aviva Insurance Limited increased the premium for her home 
emergency policy without a satisfactory explanation.
What happened
Aviva sent Miss G her renewal information in August 2020. This showed an increase in the 
annual premium from £100 to £168.48. She asked the company to explain the increase. She 
says its website confirms the standard annual premium for a customer in their second year is 
£102.72, assuming no claims have been made. 
Miss G says she was able to get Aviva to re-price her renewal premiums in previous years, 
by referring to the information on its website. She says it didnt agree to this in 2020 and 
didnt provide a reasonable explanation as to why. 
Aviva says discounts were applied to Miss Gs policy each year from 2015 up to and 
including 2019. But says these are applied at its discretion. It says many factors are 
considered when premiums are calculated, including a customers claim history. The 
company highlights Miss G has made several claims on her policy since 2012 when it was 
taken out. It says the premium has been calculated correctly.
Miss G remained unhappy with Avivas response and referred her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt think the available information 
showed Aviva had charged Miss G unfairly. The pricing information it supplied showed the 
premium had been calculated accurately. And although discounts had been offered in 
previous years, this wasnt guaranteed. 
Miss G disagreed with this outcome and asked an ombudsman to review her complaint. It 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. My reasoning is broadly the same as our 
investigators. I understand Miss G will be disappointed with my findings, but I will explain 
why I think my decision is fair. 
Miss G says since 2015 she has contacted Aviva each year on receipt of her renewal notice, 
to ask for the premium to be reduced. She has provided a screen print from its website that 
says:
£5 per month in the first year for new customers onlyThe price will increase at renewal. 
Customers in their second year are currently paying £8.56 per month. £102.72 for the year, 
provided they have made no claims.
Miss G expects her premium to reflect the second-year premium set out on the companys 
website. And at the time of the renewal in 2020 she says she hadnt made a claim in the 
previous three years. 
Aviva says the price Miss G was quoted in her renewal letter was correct. It has supplied 
information showing the premiums other customers, with a similar claims history, are 
charged in the same area. These premiums are the same as Miss G was quoted in her 
renewal letter. 
I acknowledge Miss Gs comment that she had not made a claim under the policy in the 
previous three years. But the webpage she referred to states, provided they have made no 
claims. This doesnt say that only claims within the last three years are relevant. 
I understand Miss G made five claims under her policy whilst she was with Aviva. These 
claims were considered by the company when calculating her premium. Given the criteria 
set out on the website states no claims can have been made, it is apparent this price was 
not available to Miss G.
Aviva says it applied discounts from 2015 when Miss G contacted it. She says her premium 
was re-priced as opposed to discounts being applied. She says a customer can expect to 
pay the standard price advertised online, provided they have made no claims in the prior 
year. 
Based on the pricing information provided, the premiums in the renewal notices were 
correct. These were subsequently discounted when Miss G contacted Aviva. The website 
doesnt say claims will only be counted from the last policy year. Although I acknowledge the 
point she is making, Aviva has shown it followed its underwriting process when calculating 
her premiums. 
Miss G benefitted from several discounts over the years. But a discount wasnt agreed in 
2020, which means the full premium of £168.48 was payable. This doesnt mean the 
premium was incorrectly calculated. Whether a discount was applied or not was a decision 
for Aviva to make. I dont think the company has treated Miss G unfairly in this respect.      
Aviva has explained that in their first-year its customers receive a discount. After the first 
year the price increases in stages, with a slight increase in the second year, and the true 
price reflected in the third years premium. This practice is common in the industry. I dont 
think its unfair for premiums to increase to recoup the initial discount. 
When considering Miss Gs complaint, I have also thought about if she could be considered 
an inert customer. Thats to say a customer who doesnt engage with their insurer but 
continues to pay increasing premiums over the years. We expect insurers to treat customers 
fairly and not take advantage of a customers loyalty, because of a lack of engagement.
In this case Aviva has shown that its premium is the same for other customers in the area 
with a similar claims history. I note the last two years premiums were the same, and 
although prices did increase over the previous years, Miss G was able to obtain discounts on 
her premiums every year from 2015 onwards. So, I dont think she can be considered inert 
or that she has been charged unfairly. 
Miss G has requested detailed information to explain the 70% increase in her premium. She 
has referred to GDPR legislation to support her request. I dont think its been shown that the 
premium has increased by this percentage. Rather the difference is explained by the 
discounts applied in previous years, not being agreed for the 2020 policy year. I must also 
consider that Avivas assessment of risk and how it calculates premiums is a commercially 
sensitive matter. Im satisfied from the information it has supplied, that its premium was calculated appropriately. But it isnt appropriate for me to require that it shares this sensitive 
information with Miss G. 
In summary, I think Aviva treated Miss G fairly when setting its premium and explaining why 
this was higher in the 2020 renewal. I dont think Miss G has shown that a different premium 
should apply, so I cant reasonably ask the company to do any more to resolve this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman