DRN-3516694
The complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) unfairly applied interest and charges to 
accounts he held with it in his capacity as a sole trader. This complaint relates to three 
business loans  taken out in 1992, 1994 and 1996  as well as the overdraft on a business 
current account.
What happened
I issued a decision last month setting out why I could only consider Mr Bs concerns about 
interest and charges applied to his business current account from 21 January 2004 onwards 
and his loan accounts from 16 March 2007 onwards. In short, his complaint about charges 
applied prior to those dates was made out of time.
I gave both parties an opportunity to provide any final submissions in relation to the interest 
and charges that I said I could consider. HSBC didnt respond. Mr B said that he was nave 
at the time and feels that HSBC treated him unfairly by rolling over the interest. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B submits that the charges were wrong and unfair. But he hasnt explained why he feels 
that to be the case, other than saying that the balance on his accounts was made up of 
charges. 
I understand HSBC closed Mr Bs business current account some time in 2011 following a 
demand for repayment of the overdraft. So, the account appears to have been closed for 
over ten years. And seeing as the loans which Mr Bs specifically complained about were all 
taken out in the 1990s, I think its most likely that they were also closed over ten years ago.
Due to the length of time thats passed since then, only limited information is available 
regarding these accounts. As our investigator explained in his view, it isnt unusual or 
surprising that records going that far back arent available. In line with data retention 
obligations, businesses arent required to keep customer information for any longer than 
necessary. So, Ive had to consider Mr Bs complaint against this background. 
Banks apply fees and charges to their customers account for various reasons. In the case of 
business customers, banks may also charge arrangement fees in certain situations. The 
account terms and conditions set out what the charges are and when theyll be applied. A 
bank is also entitled to apply a charge when a customer breaches the terms of the account. 
While the law places some restrictions, a charge isnt unfair simply because its been 
applied.  
In order to uphold a complaint, I would need to be persuaded that the business did 
something wrong. In Mr Bs case, due to limited records, Ive been unable to establish what 
interest and charges were applied to the accounts in question. That being the case, I cant 
fairly say that the charges werent applied in line with the account terms and conditions. 
In the absence of any persuasive evidence, and Mr Bs testimony isnt persuasive on its 
own, I dont find HSBC acted unfairly in relation to the interest and charges applied to his 
accounts.
I appreciate that this will come as a considerable disappointment to Mr B, not least because 
of how long it has taken to get to this point. And I do acknowledge the strength of his feelings 
on the matter. But after considering the information available to me, I dont think the bank 
acted unfairly or unreasonably.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman