DRN-3011555
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) did further damage to his car 
when recovering it to a garage as part of his breakdown policy.
Reference to IPA includes its agents.
What happened
Mr Ms car was damaged when he hit a speed bump/debris in the road near his mums 
house and the car started losing oil. He took it to his mums and called IPA for help. At that 
time his car wasn't taxed and IPA said it couldn't help him until it was. Around three days 
later, having taxed the car, IPA recovered Mr Ms car to a garage. Mr Ms mum told Mr M the 
recovery operator was rude to her. The garage later spoke to Mr M and told him that the 
recovery operator had driven the car a short distance when delivering it. And that driving the 
car without oil had caused the pistons to fuse.
Mr M complained but IPA said it hadn't done anything wrong. Mr M brought his complaint to 
us. One of our investigators looked into it. He initially suggested that IPA should have the car 
assessed. But IPA refused. Mr M then provided a report from a second garage that said that 
the cars engine had been initially damaged by the speed bump. It said the engine was 
completely seized which was consistent with running it without oil. The second garage said 
the car would need a replacement engine. 
Our investigator didn't think IPA had dealt with Mr M fairly. So he said it should pay Mr M the 
market value of the car, £2,300, less the amount Mr M received for its salvage, £372. So he 
said it should pay Mr M £1,928. He said it should also reimburse Mr M £140 which hed paid 
to the second garage to assess his car. And that it should also pay Mr M compensation of 
£300 for his distress and inconvenience. 
IPA didn't agree with our investigator's assessment of the complaint so it's been passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm going to uphold it. 
Did IPA do further damage to Mr Ms car?
IPA said its recovery operator didn't drive the car. It said he winched it on and off his 
recovery truck and delivered it to Mr Ms chosen garage on the truck. So he says he didn't at 
any point drive the car. IPA believes the damage to Mr Ms cars engine was done before its 
recovery operator collected the car.
In contrast the manager of the garage that IPA delivered the car to provided a signed 
statement, endorsed with the garages stamp, which said he and his staff witnessed the 
recovery operator drive the car from the corner of the road to the garage. The garage said 
that running the car without oil would have caused or contributed to irreversible engine 
damage. 
Mr M's said that shortly after he hit the speed bump in the road a warning light came on. 
And, as he was close to his mums house, he took it to her road, which was very close by. 
So his account is that he only drove the car a short distance after the damage and at that 
time the engine was still running well. I accept Mr Ms account here. Two garages have 
confirmed that a small hole in the engine, caused by the impact, had allowed oil to escape. 
But it seems likely that the car wouldn't have lost all of its oil immediately. And given that 
Mr M only drove his car for a short distance before switching the engine off, its likely the car 
still had some oil in it for that short journey. So I think its unlikely that the catastrophic 
damage to the engine was caused in that short journey.
But, because the car wasn't taxed, IPA didn't pick it up straightaway and only did so around 
three days later. During that time the car would have continued to lose oil. So it would have 
had far less, or no oil at all, by the time IPA collected it.
IPAs said its recovery operator didn't drive the car. The garage manager said he did. So I'm 
faced with two opposing points of view. And in circumstances such as this I have to decide 
which view I think, on balance, is the most persuasive. And having thought about this very 
carefully, I find the evidence of the garage manager more persuasive than IPAs statement. 
Ive seen no evidence that the garage manager had anything to gain by making up a story 
that the recovery operator had driven the car if that hadn't actually happened. In contrast, 
IPAs recovery operator will be aware that he could be held liable for the damage caused if 
he admitted to driving the car without oil. So I'm satisfied that the garages evidence is more 
likely than not to be accurate. And as the damage to the car was consistent with it being 
driven without oil, it also seems more likely than not that the damage happened when the 
recovery operator drove it onto the garage forecourt. So I think that IPA has caused 
additional damage to the car that should have been avoided.
Mr M said the damage to his car rendered it a write off. Thats because he was told the costs 
to repair the engine was likely more than the car was worth. So hes disposed of it. That's 
not something he would have had to do if the engine hadn't seized. So I think hes only lost 
the car because of IPAs actions. And that's not fair. To put things right I think its fair that 
IPA pays Mr M the market value of the car at the date it recovered it, less what Mr M has 
already received for its salvage. So I think IPA should pay Mr M £1,928.
Also, Mr M had to pay himself to have the car assessed to support his allegation that it was 
IPAs actions which caused damage to his car. And in those circumstances I think its fair 
that IPA refunds him that amount, which was £140. 
Service
Mr M said that when the recovery operator came to collect his car he was rude to Mr Ms 
mum. IPA told us the recovery operator said that no words were exchanged between the 
two. 
Once again I'm faced with opposing versions of events. Mr Ms mum has given a statement 
setting to how the brief exchange went. Her account is entirely plausible and I find the 
likelihood that no words at all were exchanged extremely unlikely as it would be usual to 
exchange at least a greeting and confirmation that he was there to pick up the car. Mr Ms mums account doesn't say that the recovery operator said anything that, of itself, 
might be considered rude or particularly discourteous. Instead she paints a picture of his 
attitude being terse and offhand. And Mr Ms said that she rang him shortly after the 
recovery operator had collected the car to tell him how the recovery operator had behaved. 
I don't think shed have done that if she didn't think the recovery operator was rude. 
Its possible that the recovery operator simply didn't appreciate how his manner could be 
perceived as being rude. But I can't see that Mr Ms mum had anything to gain by alleging an 
event that didn't happen. So I accept her version of events. And Ive factored the distress 
this would have caused Mr M when thinking about compensation.
Compensation
I can understand that the whole episode has been a source of distress and inconvenience 
for Mr M. Its resulted in him losing his car and learning that the recovery operator had been 
rude to his mum in the process. So I think IPA should pay him £300 compensation. I 
understand Mr M thinks this sum is on the low side. But, having thought about this carefully, I 
think it's in line with awards we make in other cases of similar seriousness; so I think its fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Inter Partner Assistance SA 
to pay Mr M:
£1,928 for the value of his lost car
£140 which he paid to have his car assessed
£300 compensation 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman