DRN-3393461
Complaint
Mrs M has complained about loans AvantCredit of UK, LLC (Avant Credit) provided to her. 
Background
Avant Credit provided Mrs M with an initial loan for £4,750.00 in February 2019. This loan 
was due to be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of just under £230. Mrs M repaid this loan 
early and in March 2019, Mrs M was provided with a second loan on exactly the same terms 
as the first one. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mrs Ms complaint and she thought Avant Credit shouldnt 
have provided Mrs M with either of these loans. So she thought that Mrs Ms complaint 
should be upheld. Avant Credit disagreed so the case was passed to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs Ms complaint. Having 
carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why in a 
little more detail.
Avant Credit needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Avant Credit needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether    
Mrs M could afford to repay any credit it provided. Our website sets out what we typically 
think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we 
think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information Avant Credit has provided suggested that Avant Credit carried out a credit 
check. The results of which are more likely than not to have demonstrated that Mrs M was 
significantly indebted and had a history of payday type lending. Furthermore, while the 
purpose of these loans might have been recorded as debt consolidation there is no 
indication of which debts Mrs M was going to consolidate. So its unclear to me how or what 
was going to be consolidated and more crucially how this was going to improve Mrs Ms 
financial position. 
Im persuaded by what Mrs M has said about already being in a difficult financial position at 
the time. And while its possible her credit file reflected her choices rather than because she 
was struggling, Id add that my experience of these types of cases suggest this is unlikely, in 
the absence of any reasonable or plausible arguments from Avant Credit, Ive been 
persuaded to accept Mrs Ms version of events. 
As this is the case, I do think that Mrs Ms existing financial position meant that she was 
unlikely to be able to afford the payments to these loans, without undue difficulty or 
borrowing further. And Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more 
like than not have shown Avant Credit that it shouldnt have provided these loans to Mrs M. 
As Avant Credit provided Mrs M with these loans, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed 
to act fairly and reasonably towards her. Mrs M has ended up paying interest, fees and 
charges on loans she shouldnt have been provided with. So Im satisfied that Mrs M lost out 
because of what Avant Credit did wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Avant Credit needs to do to put things right for Mrs M
Having thought about everything, Avant Credit should put things right for Mrs M by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Mrs M paid on her loans;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on the refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Mrs M to the date of settlement
removing all adverse information it recorded on Mrs Ms credit file as a result of these 
loans. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Avant Credit to take off tax from this interest. Avant 
Credit must give Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Ms complaint. AvantCredit of UK, LLC 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman