DRN-2737301
The complaint
Miss W complains that U K Insurance Limited mishandled a claim on her motor insurance
policy.
  
What happened
In late September 2019, Miss W had a car policy under which UKI was responsible for
dealing with claims. Where I refer to UKI, I include claims-handlers and others insofar as I
hold UKI responsible for their actions.
On 28 September 2019, just after Miss W drove out of a parking space, a passenger from a
third party vehicle chased Miss W and claimed she had damaged the third partys vehicle.
Miss W reported the incident to UKI. She denied causing damage to the third partys vehicle.
She characterised the claim as a scam. She didnt make a claim for damage to her own
vehicle.
UKI intended to register the claim as non-fault or split pending investigation. However, by 
the same afternoon, UKI had recorded a fault claim against Miss W and arranged for the 
repair of the third partys vehicle.
After the repair, the third party and the passenger made personal injury claims. UKI
contacted Miss W about that in late October 2019. She complained to UKI that it was
mishandling the claim. UKI acknowledged an error and offered Miss W £70.00 
compensation.
Unhappy about the effect on her insurance premiums, Miss W brought her complaint to us in
early November 2019. UKI paid the £70.00 in early December 2019.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that UKI
had registered the claim incorrectly, so it did no investigation to see if there was consistent
damage on both vehicles before the third partys vehicle was repaired. That had caused
delay and caused Miss W considerable distress and inconvenience.
The investigator thought UKI had paid £75.00. She recommended that UKI should (in
addition) pay Miss W a further £100.00, making a total of £175.00 compensation.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss W 
and to UKI on 4 February 2021. I summarise my findings:
UKI paid for repair of the third partys vehicle without any investigation. And the 
investigation it did afterwards showed that the damage to the third partys vehicle and 
the claims for personal injury werent consistent with the insignificant damage to Miss 
Ws car.
Subject to any further information from Miss W or from UKI, my provisional decision was that 
I was minded to uphold this complaint. I intended to direct U K Insurance Limited to:
1. pay Miss W (insofar as it hasnt already paid her) £175.00 for distress and 
inconvenience; and
2. remove the September 2019 fault claim from its internal records and from 
external databases such as Claims Underwriting Exchange; and
3. write a letter to Miss W confirming that it has done so after it incorrectly recorded 
that claim as a fault claim.
Miss W says in response to the provisional decision that:
UKI haven't contacted her in any way throughout the process and it was only 
because she was chasing up the personal injury claim that she found out that the 
claim had been paid out without any investigation of her vehicle.
Her policy was due to expire on 7 February (2021) so she was already in the 2nd 
year of having a claim on her policy that she feels is unfair.
UKI have provided a £70.00 compensation payment on the 5th December (2019) 
after several chasers by her.
UKI disagreed with the provisional decision. It says, in summary, that its forensic report 
concluded that an impact between the vehicles was more probable that not.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Motor insurance policies cover the policyholders liability to third parties. Comprehensive 
motor policies also cover damage to the policyholders own vehicle.
Most motor insurance policies include a term allowing the insurer to decide how to deal with
a claim involving a third party. Miss Ws policy with UKI included the following term:
We are entitled to:
take over and carry out the negotiation, defence or settlement of any claim in your
name
The effect of that term is that  on a question of liability to a third party  UKIs view would
prevail over Miss Ws.
When Miss W complained, UKI said it hadnt made a decision about liability. However, UKI 
had almost immediately arranged repair of the third partys vehicle and registered the claim 
as fault. It had in effect decided Miss W was liable. So I will consider whether UKI applied 
the policy term fairly.
Unlike a court, we dont hear from both drivers and decide the extent to which ether of them
is responsible for causing damage or injury.On 31 October 2019, UKI got an engineer to inspect Miss Ws car. When she sent us her 
complaint form about UKI, Miss W said the following:
due to their error, they can't investigate this properly as the other car has already
been repaired so it is impossible to now check the damage against the small scuff
marks found on my car
But UKI had arranged the repair through its network repairer. So  after a delay until about
20 February 2020  UKI got the repairer to send it images of the third partys vehicle. I have 
recently seen those images. They would show the damaged vehicle before repair.
So UKI was able to get an internal engineer to do a review (which is at page 81 of the 155-
page file UKI sent us). It is as follows:
Internal engineer review
I have reviewed the images of TPV and PHV and I am concerned over a couple of
issues the only abrasive marks on PHV are extremely light scuffing to front nearside
of lower bumper cover and a light surface scrape to rn/s wheel arch. Nothing in any
way significant and if contact had been achieved with TPV there would be in all
likelihood - zero body roll/ movement TPV damage is not consistent with ours as too
high and wide spread and no colour transfer or rubber marks to suggest it was our 
tyre that caused the damage.
But more concerningly is the alleged general damages being claimed. This vehicle
would not have had any significant body movement whatsoever. It would be less than
driving off a curb or over a speed bumper etc.
I cannot prove PHV did not contact PHv but damage not consistent and causation is
main concern
From that review, I find that the UKI engineer had compared images of the third party vehicle
and the policy holders vehicle. I dont understand his reference to Miss Ws rn/s wheel
arch.  Miss Ws offside wheel arch was damaged. 
But it is clear that the engineer considered that the damage to the third partys vehicle was
too high and widespread to be consistent with the insignificant damage to Miss Ws car. The
engineer was concerned about the claim for general damages (for personal injury) which
he clearly found unlikely in the absence of significant body movement.
When it sent us its file in early April 2020, UKI said it was awaiting a forensic report. I now 
know that UKI got a forensic report dated 26 February 2020. It belatedly sent us a copy in 
response to the provisional decision. The report included the following:
8.7 I am aware the Defendant denies any contact, but their vehicle has minor 
damage which could in theory match the damage to the Claimants vehicle, therefore 
with reasonable consistent damage it is more probable than not that the vehicles 
made contact. 
Accident Circumstances 
8.8 I have given consideration of the available information that describes the 
circumstances of this road traffic accident, my findings on the basis of the data set 
out within this report is such that it is my opinion that the findings support the basic 
account of this incident. 
8.9 The basic accident being related to the Defendant pulling out of a parked position 
clipping the parked Claimants vehicle. 8.10 It is my opinion that there is a possible level and nature of damage sustained by 
the vehicles which is reasonably consistent with the vehicles having contacted in the 
manner described and being accountable for one anothers level of damage
I find that UKI paid for repair of the third partys vehicle without any investigation. And the 
investigations it did afterwards showed conflicting opinions about whether the damage to the 
third partys vehicle was consistent with the insignificant damage to Miss Ws car.
So Im not satisfied that UKI fairly applied the policy term allowing it to decide how to settle 
the third partys claims. And Ive thought about what UKI should do to put this right.
Miss Ws main concern is that the fault claim will cost her money in increased premiums for
about five years. From what she says, UKIs policy expired in February 2020. Miss W told us 
she hadnt renewed with UKI because it wanted to increase her premium by about £170.00 
from the previous year.
UKI has told us that Miss W had about nine years of no claims bonus and this was
protected. So I find it likely that she carried that no claims bonus with her to a new insurer.
Miss W told us that her new insurer had asked for a premium about £50.00 more than UKIs
premium for the previous year. But I havent seen any policy schedule for the period since
UKIs policy expired.
In any event, premiums may increase as a result of inflation or other factors. So Im not
persuaded that UKI caused Miss W a financial loss in that regard.
 
Putting things right
However I find it fair to direct UKI to remove the September 2019 fault claim from its internal 
records and from external databases such as Claims Underwriting Exchange. Also, UKI 
should write a letter to Miss W confirming that it has done so after it incorrectly recorded that 
claim as a fault claim. Miss W may show that letter to other insurers.
I dont doubt that  by paying for repair of the third partys vehicle before any investigation 
UKI unfairly caused Miss W distress and inconvenience including concern about the cost of
insurance. Overall, I find £175.00 fair and reasonable compensation for such distress and 
inconvenience. I will direct UKI to pay Miss W that amount insofar as it hasnt already paid it.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct U K 
Insurance Limited to:
1. pay Miss W (insofar as it hasnt already paid her) £175.00 for distress and
inconvenience; and
2. remove the September 2019 fault claim from its internal records and from external
databases such as Claims Underwriting Exchange; and
3. write a letter to Miss W confirming that it has done so after it incorrectly recorded that 
claim as a fault claim. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 May 2021. 
Christopher GilbertOmbudsman