DRN-2521853
Complaint
Mr M has complained about a loan Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) provided to him. He says 
L2G provided him with this loan without him signing for it or making him aware of the interest 
rate and loan term.
Background
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr M and L2G had told us. And she thought that L2G
hadnt done anything wrong or treated him unfairly. So she didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint.  
Mr M disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why 
in a little more detail.
Mr M made an application for a loan via a third-party credit broker in December 2019. The 
information was passed on to L2G who provided Mr M with a loan for £450. The loan had an 
APR of 1,275.7% and was to due be repaid in 78 weekly instalments of £26.37, which meant 
the total amount to be repaid was £2,056.86. 
Mr Ms says he never saw these terms or signed any form of credit agreement. But Ive been 
provided with a credit agreement which appears to have been signed electronically. Ive 
seen what Mr M has said about always using his initials as well as his surname on an 
electronic agreement. But each provider will have its own criteria and preference on how it 
wants an electronic agreement to be signed. 
Im also mindful that it isnt in dispute that Mr M did go through at least some form of online 
application process. Equally, the funds were provided to him, werent immediately returned 
to L2G and Mr M appears to have made the weekly payments until July 2020 without 
querying the payment amount or the lack of him signing an agreement. In these 
circumstances, Im afraid I cant reasonably make the finding Mr M didnt agree to this loan.      
Ive also thought about what Mr M has said about the terms of this loan. The amount Mr M 
was expected to pay can only be described as eye-watering. But the credit agreement 
makes no attempt to disguise and arguably brazenly sets out just how egregious these terms 
are. Its possible that Mr M didnt pay much attention to these terms as it was a quick online 
process and his focus was on receiving the funds he sought. But as I think its more likely 
than not Mr M did accept the terms of this loan, overall I cant say that L2G has acted 
unfairly towards him given all the circumstances.
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr M. But I hope hell understand the reasons 
for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
Although Mr M has spoken to L2G about settling this loan in full and Im not upholding this 
complaint, Id like to remind L2G of its ongoing obligation to exercise forbearance should it 
choose to collect payments from Mr M and it be the case hes experiencing financial 
difficulty.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman