DRN-2485097
The complaint
Mr M complains about three loans that he took out with PDL Finance Limited, trading as    
Mr Lender, (PDL), which he said were unaffordable.
What happened
Mr M was given three instalment loans by PDL from April 2018 to November 2018. All the 
loans have been repaid.
A summary of the loans taken out by Mr M is shown below:
Loan 
number Date of loan Repayment 
dateLoan 
amount Number of monthly 
repayments 
1. 25/4/18 27/9/18 £300 6
2. 11/10/18 14/11/18 £300 6
3. 21/11/18 11/3/19 £1,000 12
Mr M said that PDL had lent him loan after loan causing him financial stress and health 
issues. In addition, his borrowing had put extreme pressure on his family and friends to 
assist him in paying the loans off. Mr M said that PDL didnt assess his financial details 
responsibly and it didnt bother to look at his bank statements which would have shown that 
he was getting one loan to pay another. 
In its final response letter, PDL said that it had carried out thorough affordability checks and 
credit checks with a credit reference agency. It obtained information about Mr Ms income 
and outgoings. PDL didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint as it was unable to ascertain how the 
loans issued didnt meet its responsible lending criteria. But as a gesture of goodwill, it 
offered Mr M a £25 voucher and to remove the adverse entries from his credit file.
Mr M rejected PDLs offer. He said that his credit report would have shown he was 
thousands of pounds in debt and that he had many other payday loans. He said that a family 
member helped him to repay his payday loans.
PDL responded to say that its checks had indicated that Mr M was a creditworthy customer 
and it deemed his loans affordable. It said it wasnt under a duty to request bank statements. 
It offered Mr M a refund of £25 and to remove the adverse entries from his credit file. 
Our adjudicators view
The adjudicator recommended that Loan 3 should be upheld. He said that by Loan 3, Mr Ms 
overall pattern of borrowing suggested that he had become persistently reliant on short-term 
loans. This was because Mr M had taken three loans in around seven months and remained 
indebted to PDL for the majority of this period. The amounts he borrowed didnt significantly 
decrease over this period. So, in his view, the pattern of lending itself showed that Loan 3 
was unsustainable
Mr M disagreed and said that his complaint about Loans 1 and 2 should also be upheld.
PDL disagreed and responded to say that no pattern of lending had been formed which 
would indicate any reliance or difficulty in repaying the loans. Loan 3 was issued seven days 
after Loan 2 was repaid and was for an increased amount and a longer duration.  Mr M still 
advised that he had a significant amount of disposable income, after he repaid his monthly 
outgoings (£860). At that stage in the relationship it was fair for PDL to rely on the 
information he provided it. From the information Mr M provided and his borrowing history, it 
would have been disproportionate to request any further information such as bank 
statements at that stage in the borrowing relationship. The number of loans given to Mr M 
was small and these were taken over a small duration. For this reason, PDL did not believe 
that Mr M was indebted over a long period. So PDL did not believe that Loan 3 should be 
upheld. 
As this complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it had been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to investigate.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr M 
and to PDL on 24 December 2020. I summarise my findings:
I noted that when PDL lent to Mr M the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and 
relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). The 
CONC contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
CONC said that a lender needed to check that a consumer could afford to meet his 
repayments in a sustainable manner. This meant a consumer being able to meet his 
repayments out of his normal income without having to go without or borrow further. 
The regulations werent prescriptive about what checks PDL needed to carry out in order to 
reasonably assess whether or not Mr M would be able to meet his repayments sustainably. 
But the regulations said that such checks needed to be proportionate. This suggested that 
the same checks might not be the appropriate thing to do for all consumers, or for the same 
consumer in all circumstances. 
In general, Id have expected a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential 
risk to the consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for 
example, Id expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Id said that PDL had made a number of checks before it lent to Mr M. It had asked him for 
details of his monthly income and expenditure. Mr M had declared his monthly income as 
£1,590 before all the loans and his expenditure as between £501 and £730. Id noted that     Mr M lived with his parents and did not pay rent or utilities. Hed declared that most of his 
expenditure was on other loan payments and PDL had said that it had considered these 
before lending. 
PDL had also said that it had checked Mr Ms credit file before agreeing to the loans. PDL 
had provided this service with a brief summary of its credit checks. These showed that Mr M 
wasnt bankrupt or in an individual voluntary arrangement. 
I couldnt see that wed received a credit report from Mr M. So, I couldnt say there were any 
entries on that which might have caused PDL additional concerns. 
But I was also aware that when a lender carried out a credit check, the information it saw 
didnt usually provide the same level of detail that a consumers credit report would, and it 
wasnt necessarily up to date. A lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit 
file, or some data might be missing or anonymised. I was also aware that not all payday and 
short term lenders reported to the same credit reference agencies. So, this might have 
explained any differences between the information provided by PDLs credit check and       
Mr Ms actual situation.
I noted that although the amounts that Mr M needed to repay each month were smaller than 
if hed taken a normal payday loan, he was also committing to making those repayments 
over a longer period.
Loans 1 and 2 were for £300 and were repayable by six monthly repayments. The highest 
monthly repayment on each loan ranged from around £112 to £120. 
Id thought about whether PDLs checks were proportionate for Loans 1 and 2. I could see 
that the information Mr M gave PDL about his income and expenses indicated that the loan 
repayments were affordable.  And I didnt think the repayment amounts on Loans 1 and 2 
were so large that it was obvious they wouldve caused Mr M financial difficulty.
I thought that the checks PDL carried out before agreeing Loans 1 and 2 were proportionate. 
And given Mr Ms repayment amounts and repayment history, I didnt think it wouldve been 
proportionate for PDL to have asked him for the amount of information that would have been 
needed to show the lending was unsustainable. So, I didnt think PDL was wrong to have 
given Loans 1 and 2 to Mr M. 
I accepted that Mr Ms actual circumstances might not have been reflected in the information 
hed provided to PDL before Loans 1 and 2. But in the absence of anything to suggest that it 
was likely to be unreliable, I thought PDL was entitled to rely on the information Mr M had 
provided. I didnt think there was any reason for PDL to have doubted the information Mr M 
gave it at that stage. Loans 1 and 2 were his first loans with PDL and the repayments were 
relatively modest. PDL was also aware that Mr M lived with his parents and didnt pay the 
usual household outgoings.  
Loan 3 was Mr Ms third loan in around seven months. Hed been borrowing from PDL for 
most of that time with only about a three week gap. The loan was for £1,000 which was more 
than three times higher than Mr Ms previous loans. I thought that by the time of Loan 3, the 
higher loan amount and the fact that the loan was taken out just a week after Loan 2 was 
repaid might have suggested to PDL that Mr M had some longer term financial problems 
rather than just using the loans to help with a temporary cash flow problem. 
In addition, Id noted that Mr M was committing to repay Loan 3 over 12 months. That was a 
substantial commitment that he was entering into, and so I thought PDL should have taken 
great care to ensure that Mr M was able to repay the loan in a sustainable manner. So, I thought PDL should have been concerned about whether it knew enough about Mr Ms true 
financial situation and I thought PDL should have taken steps to independently verify Mr Ms 
true financial position. Looking at the checks it had made, I didnt think it had done this.
Id carefully looked at Mr Ms bank statements for the month before Loan 3 to see what 
better checks would have shown PDL. In the four weeks prior to Loan 3, I could see that    
Mr M had taken out at least seven short term loans totalling almost £6,000 as well as other 
high cost credit. He appeared to be using the proceeds of most of his short term loans to 
repay other borrowing. I thought the extent and nature of Mr Ms borrowing would likely have 
suggested that Mr M was having significant difficulties managing his money if PDL had made 
better checks. And I thought these difficulties would likely have suggested that there was a 
real risk that Mr M wasnt going to be able to sustainably repay Loan 3 and the potential 
difficulties or adverse consequences for him. So as a responsible lender, I didnt think PDL 
should have given Loan 3 to Mr M. 
Subject to any further representations by Mr M or PDL my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to order PDL to put things right as 
shown below. 
In deciding what redress PDL should fairly pay in this case Id thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Mr M from Loan 3, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr M might have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between him and this particular lender which he might not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, he might have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, he might have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which might or might not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Id seen in this case, I certainly didnt 
think I could fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr M in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, I wasnt persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr M would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, I said that it wouldnt be fair to now reduce PDLs liability in this case for what 
Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
putting things right  what PDL needs to do
1. Refund the interest and fees Mr M paid for Loan 3; 
2. Pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement; 
3. Remove any adverse information about Loan 3 from Mr Ms credit file. 
*HMRC requires PDL to take off tax from this interest. If Mr M asks PDL for a certificate 
showing how much tax PDL has taken off, it should provide this. 
Mr M responded to my provisional decision to say that he had no other evidence to add.PDL responded to my provisional decision to say that it disagreed with it. PDL said it was 
disproportionate to obtain bank statements at that stage in the borrowing relationship based 
solely on the factor that Mr M required an increased amount. From reviewing his payment 
history with it, there was no cause for concern or reason to request such extensive 
information. This was Mr Ms first loan with it that was taken over a period of 12 months. So 
PDL didnt feel that requiring bank statements was necessary.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
I have considered carefully PDLs response to my provisional findings. I appreciate that this 
will be very disappointing for it, but I am still of the view that it was irresponsible for it to have 
agreed Loan 3 for Mr M. Ive explained my reasons in my provisional decision and also 
below.
I note that PDL said it was disproportionate to obtain bank statements before Loan 3 based 
solely on the factor that Mr M required an increased amount. It said that a review of his 
payment history with it showed there was no cause for concern or reason to request such 
extensive information. But I disagree. 
As Ive said above, in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks may 
be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors may point to the fact that a lender 
should fairly and reasonably do more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the 
consumer. These factors include a higher amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be 
more difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income). And they also 
include the longer period of time that Mr M would be indebted for. This reflects the fact that 
the total cost of credit is likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make 
repayments for an extended period. 
I also think that successfully meeting his earlier loan repayments doesnt automatically mean 
that Mr M managed to do so without difficulty, for example, without borrowing from 
elsewhere or going without. And I note that there was a gap of just two weeks between 
repaying Loan 1 and taking out Loan 2, and a gap of only a week between repaying Loan 2 
and taking out Loan 3. Repaying one loan and taking out another shortly afterwards might 
not amount to an indication of unsustainability but I think when it happens again, it could be 
cause for concern. And Mr Ms third loan was for an amount of more than three times each 
of his first two loans and he would need to meet repayments, potentially, for 12 months. So, I 
also think the substantially higher loan amount and far longer loan term should have caused 
PDL concerns. 
Mr M was entering into a substantial commitment by taking out Loan 3 and PDL should have 
taken great care to ensure that Mr M was able to repay the loan in a sustainable manner. Im 
not suggesting PDL should have declined further credit for Mr M outright, but it ought to have 
understood more about his circumstances before agreeing to lend again. 
The regulations arent prescriptive about what checks a lender ought to do. So PDL didnt 
necessarily have to ask Mr M for his bank statements. PDL could have asked Mr M for more 
information about his living costs, other commitments and debts. And it could have asked 
him to see proof of these in another form or used whatever means it thought appropriate to 
satisfy itself that it had an accurate picture of Mr Ms circumstances.As Ive explained, had PDL enquired further it would have learnt that Mr M wasnt likely to be 
able to meet his repayments in a sustainable way because of the extent of his outstanding 
short term loans and high cost credit commitments elsewhere. So as a responsible lender, I 
dont think PDL should have given Loan 3 to Mr M. 
I want to reassure the parties that I have thought carefully about everything again but for the 
reasons set out above, I see no reason to alter my provisional conclusions. It follows that I 
uphold Mr Ms complaint in part and require PDL to put things right as set out below.
  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender, to pay the compensation and 
take the steps set out below:
1. Refund the interest and fees Mr M paid for Loan 3; 
2. Pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement; 
3. Remove any adverse information about Loan 3 from Mr Ms credit file. 
*HMRC requires PDL to take off tax from this interest. If Mr M asks PDL for a certificate 
showing how much tax PDL has taken off, it should provide this. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman