DRN-3284560
The complaint
The estate of Mr B complains National Westminster Bank Plc ought to refund multiple 
payments made on his accounts in early 2013 and 2014.
What happened
The background to this complaint was covered in detail by the investigator who provided    
Mr and Mrs H with their view. In summary, Mr and Mrs H are the executors to the estate of 
Mr B - Mrs H is Mr Bs daughter. They believe Mr B was the likely victim of an unscrupulous 
merchant who exploited him into making payments on his debit card and credit card while he 
was abroad. They said Mr B was vulnerable. He suffered from several health problems and 
was in his 80s. They recall he told them someone from the merchant had accompanied him 
to an ATM to withdraw cash.
An investigator at our service found:
The complaint about the 2013 payments falls outside our services jurisdiction. We 
can only consider a complaint which is made to NatWest or our service within six 
years of the event being complained about (the payments). Or, if the complaint was 
referred after six years, then the complaint must have been referred within three 
years of when the complainant was or ought reasonably to have been aware of the 
cause for complaint.
Mr and Mrs H said Mr B told them about being brought by someone to an ATM in 
relation to the 2013 payments. So, its clear he either did or ought to have had 
concerns about the payments when they were made or at least shortly afterwards. 
But there is no evidence to show he complained to NatWest or our service within 
three years of that time.
We can consider the complaint about the payments made in 2014. Mr and Mrs H 
raised the complaint to us within six years of those payments happening.
NatWests records indicate Mr B raised a dispute about the credit card payments he 
made to the merchant in February 2014. But the records go on to indicate Mr B later 
acknowledged he made them, and he had been nave. Based on this, it was very 
difficult to conclude Mr B didnt agree to the payments, so NatWest should not be 
liable for them.
Mr and Mrs H asked for a final decision from an ombudsman, so the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide. They say they do not recall Mr B having any items which would 
represent the value of the payments which he made. And they think the spend was such that 
NatWest ought to have at some point picked up on the payments and stopped them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our jurisdiction
Our service has rules which dictate what complaints we can and cant consider. Those rules 
are the dispute resolution rules (DISP), which form part of the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
regulatory handbook. The rules are not discretionary and have to be considered for every 
complaint.
Under DISP, I can only consider a complaint which has been made within six years of the 
event being complained about. Here the event is the payments which were made on Mr Bs 
accounts. In terms of the payments which were made in 2013, more than six years passed 
since the complaint was brought by Mr and Mrs H. So, I then need to consider whether Mr B 
ought reasonably to have been aware of a cause for complaint, and if so, has the complaint 
been brought to us within three years of that time.
Mr and Mrs H recall Mr B raised the issue of the 2013 payments with them. They remember 
him saying that he was accompanied to an ATM by someone from the merchant in question. 
So, it appears he regretted what had happened. I have seen no evidence to conclude Mr B 
should not have reasonably been aware of a cause for complaint at least shortly after the 
payments were made. And there is no record of him raising a complaint about what 
happened within three years of that time. So, I find that the payments in question made 
using his credit card and debit card in 2013 fall outside of our services jurisdiction to 
consider. 
DISP says that I can consider a complaint which has been made to our service late if there 
are exceptional circumstances which prevented the complaint being made in time. I 
appreciate Mr and Mrs Hs depth of feeling about what they think happened to Mr B. But I 
havent seen his circumstances were such that he could not have raised a complaint with 
NatWest or our service about what had happened. Indeed, the fact he raised a concern 
about credit card payments which happened a year later shows he knew could raise 
concerns with NatWest about his accounts.
The Payments in 2014
NatWests records show Mr B raised concerns about the payments made on his credit card 
in early 2014. Its not evident what exactly he said because any call recordings have long 
since been deleted. 
I dont find it unreasonable for NatWest to have deleted the call recordings given how long 
ago the payments were made. Its common for firms to have deleted recordings from this 
long ago. And I dont find NatWest were required to keep those recordings for longer than 
they did. Neither do I find it odd that they still have some system notes of their interactions 
with Mr B.
Mr B could have been coerced or tricked into making the payments. I do not deny that the 
total amount Mr B spent was a lot. But its simply not possible for me to draw fair conclusions 
on this matter given the limited evidence and information available to me. Sadly, I can never 
fully know Mr Bs perspective about what happened in the lead up to the payments. 
But NatWests records indicate Mr B told them he was looking at camera equipment and 
made the payments. They also indicate he said he had been nave. And Mr and Mrs H have 
said he was a private man, which would also reveal they do not know the full picture of what 
happened. And Mr B did return to the merchant after he made the 2013 payments, which 
would be unusual if he felt the merchant caused him losses previously. It also appears he 
didnt raise a dispute about the ATM payments when he raised concerns about the credit 
card payments in 2014, which I find telling.
Mr and Mrs H said the payments made at the ATM could have been made by someone 
other than Mr B using a cloned card. But this is highly unlikely. The payments were very 
likely to have been made by chip and PIN given their size and how ATM withdrawals are 
made. Its possible for fraudsters to clone the magnetic strips on cards. But our service has 
yet to come across a complaint where we believe a fraudster has successfully cloned the chip in a card in order to make successful chip and PIN payments. So, I find Mr B most likely 
made the ATM payments using his card and his PIN.
Mr and Mrs H do not recall Mr B having any expensive products which would represent the 
value of the payments. But I havent seen persuasive evidence to show Mr B would not have 
bought expensive items for himself or others or that his health situation was such that his 
ability to make decisions to purchase goods was compromised or that he would only make 
high value purchases if he was being exploited or coerced. There are large payments he 
made in the past following the receipt of a large sum of money.
I do not have investigatory powers to compel evidence or information from third parties in the 
way a court of law or the police could in order to determine what really happened when Mr B 
made the payments. Indeed, that is not my role as an ombudsman. So, on balance I cannot 
reasonably conclude based on the information I do have that Mr B was tricked or coerced 
into making the payments.
So, even if NatWest had contacted Mr B before it processed the payment requests, I cannot 
fairly conclude that Mr B would not still have wanted to go ahead with the payments or that 
NatWest should have gone against its general duty to obey its customers mandate.
I understand Mr H is unhappy that NatWest didnt inform him about the matter Mr B raised in 
2014. But I am not considering the customer service he received. I can only consider losses 
experienced by Mr B. Mr H represents Mr Bs estate in bringing this complaint, but under 
DISP he is not an eligible complainant in his own right in relation to this complaint.
I am not going to direct NatWest to refund the payments or pay compensation to the estate 
of Mr B.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above I have decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision on behalf of the estate of Mr B before 4 March 2022.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman