DRN-3749868
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Lloyds Bank PLC unfairly rejected her claim in respect of a timeshare
purchase under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). The purchase was made by Mrs W
and her husband, but the credit card is held in her sole name and so in this decision I will
refer to her as being the purchaser for the sale of simplicity. Mrs W is represented by firm of
solicitors, which I will refer to as S.
What happened
In August 2010 Mrs W bought a points-based timeshare from a timeshare supplier I will call
H. It cost some £8,450 and this was funded in part by a payment made on her credit card.
In July 2020 S made a claim against Lloyds on behalf of Mrs W for problems she said she
had encountered with the timeshare. S set out a number of issues which I will summarise as
follows:
The product was misrepresented.
Mrs W was told the maintenance fees were fixed but they have increased over the
years.
Mrs W wasnt given a cooling off period
Mrs W was led to believed she could sell the timeshare in the future, but this has not
been possible.
Mrs W wasnt told about the possibility of accommodation not being available when
she wanted it.
Lloyds responded to the claim but said it had been brought too late. S brought a complaint to
this service and argued that the timeshare was misrepresented by C for much the same
reasons they had set out in the claim to Lloyds.
It also argued that the timeshare agreement was null and void due to the impact of an EU
Court decision regarding floating weeks timeshares. S said the terms of the contract were
unfair under consumer law. It argued that this meant the loan was also null and void.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but concluded that Lloyds had acted fairly
in turning down the claim.. S disagreed and asked for the complaint to be passed to an
ombudsman for a decision. It argued that s 8 Limitation Act allowed for a 12-year period in
which to bring a claim. I issued a provisional decision which read as follows:
Under the rules that govern how I assess complaints, I must take account of law and
regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice and good
industry practice, when I make my decision.
I also focus on what I think is material and relevant to reach a fair and reasonable outcome.
So although I have read everything that has been supplied to me, I may not address every
point that has been raised.
Having considered everything, I think there are several elements to the claim that Mrs W is
making to Lloyds I will consider each in turn.
The claim under s.75 CCA
Mrs W said that C misrepresented the nature of the membership to them when she bought it.
However, under s.9 LA, Mrs W had to make that claim within six years of when she entered
into the timeshare and credit agreements  which was in August 2010  because that is
when she says she lost out having relied on false statement of fact.
As she first made a claim to Lloyds in or around July 2020, that fell outside of the time limit
set out in the LA.
A claim under s.140A CCA
I appreciate S has not raised this point but I will address for completeness. While only a
court has the power to make a determination under s.140A CCA, as it is relevant law, I have
to consider it when deciding what is a fair and reasonable outcome.
Much like a claim under s.75 CCA, the LA also applies to claims under s.140A CCA. Under
s.9 LA Mr and Mrs W had to make her claim within six years of when the indebtedness
ended  which was in September 2010. But as the claim was made in July 2020, it was
made outside of the time limit that applies.
Could limitation be extended?
The LA provides for extensions of the time limits in certain circumstances. I have considered
the facts of this complaint and I do not think the lime limits I have set out above can be
extended under any of the provisions of the LA.
I am satisfied s.9 LA applies to this claim, not s.8 LA, as Mrs W is making a claim for sums
recoverable by statute
S.140A CCA looks at the fairness of the relationship between a debtor and creditor arising
out of the credit agreement (taken together with any related agreement). But once Mrs W
paid off the debt in full, the agreement between her and Lloyds ended. I note she cleared her
credit card account on 3 September 2010. As it was only the relationship between Mrs W
and Lloyds that could be found unfair, limitation started to run when the sum paid by credit
card was repaid.
Is the loan agreement voidable?
S argues that the timeshare agreement was null and void, which meant the related Lloyds
indebtedness was voidable and Mrs W now wishes to exercise her right to rescind it. If the
timeshare agreement was voidable, I think it is likely that the related indebtedness would
also be voidable on the recission of the agreement it was used to fund. This is something
that could be considered under a s.140A CCA claim, but for the reasons I have already
explained, I think that claim was brought too late. But it could also be a freestanding claim in
its own right, so I have considered it separately.
S has asked me to consider an EU Court judgement, but nothing in that leads me to
conclude the timeshare agreement is voidable. Having read all of the relevant legislation,
rules and regulations, I cannot see anything that would have the effect Mrs Ws
representative seeks. In fact, in the recent House of Commons Library Briefing Paper,
Timeshares: common problems faced by UK owners, it was said that a floating week or
points based timeshare were basic timeshare models that were not described as being a
problem in and of itself.
Further, these types of agreements fall within the definition of a timeshare contained withinthe Timeshare Regulations 2010. Based on the evidence I have seen, I do not think either
the timeshare agreement nor the related credit agreement is voidable for the reasons said.
Ongoing Maintenance Demands
I note that S claims that the continued requirement to pay maintenance fees extends the
limitation period and each demand starts the clock running for Mrs W in which to make her
claim against Lloyds. I am not persuaded this is correct. As I understand it Lloyds did not
fund the maintenance payments and so it cannot be held to be party to them. The event
which gives rise to Mrs Ws claim is the initial purchase and not the ongoing maintenance
payments.
Conclusion
I sympathise with Mrs W for the issues that she has had with the timeshare but I find that it
wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require Lloyds to refund any
of the credit that she used to pay for the timeshare, to pay her any compensation or to take
any other action in response to her complaint.
For the reasons set out above, I currently think Lloyds acted fairly in turning down Mrs Ws 
claims as they were brought too late. Nor do I think the agreement was voidable
S did not agree and said it took issue with my summary of the complaint as it believed their 
clients complaint lay within a specialty which allowed a 12-year limitation period as per 
section 8 LA.
It went on to say that the complaint was that there had been misrepresentation and 
fraudulent misrepresentation with concealment. Their client only became aware of the issues 
after seeing material online about the mis-selling of timeshares. 
It argued, after referencing two court decisions, that where the merchant has been guilty of 
fraud the consumer has a like claim against the credit company. 
It disputed that the agreement ended when the debt was settled as it was ongoing and the 
agreement was sold in perpetuity.
Finally, it didnt consider I had given a full consideration to the grounds of misrepresentation 
and had not attached sufficient weight to Mrs Ws testimony.
The business had nothing further to add
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have given consideration to the points raised by S in its response to my provisional 
decision, but I do not consider I can reach a different conclusion. I will explain why.
Firstly, is the matter of section 8 and the speciality claim. S has argued that under s.8 LA, 
the actual time limit is twelve years. This provision covers actions on a speciality. I do not 
think Mrs Ws agreements with the timeshare provider and Lloyds Bank were anything other 
than simple contracts, and not specialities. But if Im wrong about that, it was held in Green v 
Eadie and others [2011] EWHC B24 (Ch) that any claim brought under s.2(1) of the 
Misrepresentation Act 1967 fell within s.2 or 9 LA and this meant the six year limitation period was to be used and not the twelve year period specified in s.8 LA.
If facts relevant to the causes of action were deliberately concealed from Mrs W, the 
limitation period may be extended. However, I do not consider that the concealment alleged 
by Mrs Ws representative concealed facts which could be viewed as essential elements of 
those rights of action advanced by her. In any event, I do not consider there was sufficient 
evidence to support the assertion that those facts were indeed concealed; therefore, I think 
that s.32 LA does not extend the limitation period.
As for the claim that the agreement was ongoing it was held in Patel v. Patel [2009] EWHC 
3264 (QB) that when considering s.140A CCA, the time for limitation purposes ran from the 
date that the credit agreement ended if it was not still running at the time the claim was 
made. As with an action under s.75 CCA, the limitation period is six years, so Mrs W would 
have had to have brought an action within six years of 3 September 2010. As she didnt do 
that, I think she brought their claim too late. 
As for the issue of whether the agreement was voidable I have not seen any persuasive 
evidence of misrepresentation or breach of contract. All S provided was its summary of what 
allegedly happened when Mrs W entered into the agreement. There is little of factual detail 
in that short summary and that makes it difficult to share the same conclusion as reached by 
S. Mrs W is seeking a substantial payment and it is only reasonable that the bank is given 
reasonable evidence in support of the claim. I appreciate that collating such evidence can be 
challenging, but a short summary of the claimants recollections of events is not sufficient to 
allow me to uphold this complaint.
In summary I am not persuaded that the limitation period can be extended or that 
misrepresentation or breach of contract has been adequately demonstrated.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman