DRN-3201072
The complaint
Mrs B has complained about the service she received from Astrenska Insurance Limited
(AIL) under her boiler breakdown and home emergency insurance policy having been told
that her boiler was beyond economic repair.
References in my decision to AIL includes its agents and contractors.
What happened
Mrs B had a boiler breakdown and home emergency insurance policy with AIL. Her boiler
had been fitted in 2018. AILs contractor attended on 27 April 2021 to give the boiler its
annual service. He noticed some rusty water and advised that there was a fault with the heat
exchanger. He didnt continue with the service and told Mrs B shed receive a report.
Mrs B says she contacted AILs claims department on 30 April to check on the progress of
the report on her boiler. She was told that her boiler was beyond economical repair (BER)
and would need to be replaced.
There was no further communication until 6 May, when Mrs B chased AIL. By 11 May Mrs B
still hadnt received the engineers findings and confirmation of AILs decision. She raised a
complaint about the lack of communication and contact.
AIL investigated Mrs Bs complaint and accepted that she hadnt been given clear concise
information regarding the diagnosis, next steps, or the BER process.
The BER process is stated in Mrs Bs policy to be as follows:
Beyond economic repair
Where your boiler is deemed beyond economic repair, we will pay a contribution
towards the cost of a new boiler being installed. Once you send us an invoice from a
qualified Gas Safe Contractor upon installation of a new boiler we will pay a contribution 
of £500, less any premium outstanding to us. A boiler can be uneconomical to repair for a 
number of reasons. These include:
 The cost of parts (including VAT) to repair the main heating system is greater than
85% of the manufacturer's current retail price of a replacement or a similar model, it
would cost more to repair the boiler than to replace it with a new one; or
 New, genuine parts are no longer available to our suppliers;
 The type of fault which has caused the boiler to fail and the extent of the repairs
which will be required to fix it;
 Any repair is only expected to result in a temporary fix and other faults are likely to
occur shortly afterwards.
Any decision regarding whether or not it is economical to repair your boiler will be
made by our contractor, using their knowledge and experience of similar boilers and
faults.
You may find another contractor who will be willing to repair your boiler, and this is
your choice. However, we would not be able to continue to insure your boiler, even if it
has been repaired by someone else."
Mrs B had been waiting for AIL to contact her whereas AIL had been waiting for Mrs B to
contact it with evidence that her boiler had been replaced to enable it to calculate and issue
the £500 contribution towards its replacement. As she wasnt aware of what was happening
and as she didnt know the boiler was safe to use, she arranged for a private boiler service
to be completed which cost her £80.
AIL accepts that following receipt of the diagnosis it shouldve called Mrs B to advise her of
the findings and explain the next steps. AIL awarded her £100 compensation for the delays,
lack of communication and inconvenience.
Mrs B also disputed AILs assessment. She didnt believe that the boiler, which was only
three years old, needed to be replaced, but she went ahead and purchased a new boiler.
She wants AIL to provide a refund of the full boiler replacement cost. She arranged for an
independent firm to assess the old boiler that had been replaced.
Mrs Bs engineers opinion was that there couldve been a very minor problem with the heat
exchanger and recommended that it be replaced in the near future, but it didnt recommend
that the boiler be replaced as it was too new to be declared BER. It said it wouldve replaced
the heat exchanger.
In response to this, AIL said that Mrs Bs engineer had confirmed its own diagnosis that the
problem was with the heat exchanger and that in the circumstances it was bound by the
policy terms and conditions, whereas Mrs Bs engineer was not. And the policy terms and
conditions require a boiler to be declared BER if the cost of parts exceeds 85% of the 
manufacturers retail price for a replacement boiler.
AIL has said that a new boiler of the same or similar model would be in excess of £1,000. It
has estimated the cost of replacing the heat exchanger to be £1,190 + VAT. This is
calculated as follows:
Cost of heat exchanger - £431.00 +VAT
Seals and gaskets - around £40.00 + VAT
Labour - £720.00 + VAT
(cost of boiler removal and full strip down and rebuild, boiler refitting and recommissioning 
and testing - 8 hours for one man and 4 hours for second person for lifting as per H&S 
regulations @ £60.00 + VAT)
Total cost -£1,191.00 +VAT
So AIL has said that because the cost of replacing the heat exchanger exceeds 85% of the
retail cost of a new boiler of the same or a similar model, Mrs Bs boiler was BER.
Mrs Bs own engineer has estimated that the cost of supplying and fitting a new heat
exchanger would be about £850 including VAT.
As Mrs B wasnt satisfied with AILs assessment, she brought her complaint to this service.Our investigators view was that she couldnt say that AIL was wrong to advise that Mrs Bs
boiler was BER and she didnt consider that there was an error in the way that Mrs Bs claim
had been processed.
Mrs B didnt agree with our investigators view and asked that her complaint be referred to 
an ombudsman for a final decision from this service.
As I came to a different view to that of our investigator, I issued a provisional decision and 
received comments on this from Mrs B and from AIL which Ill refer to below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered AILs response to my provisional decision, Im continuing to uphold Mrs 
Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
In its final response to Mrs B, AIL gave its reason for deeming her boiler to be BER. It said
as follows:
The reason the boiler was deemed to be beyond economic repair was due to the cost
of the part and labour versus the current value of the appliance. As it was found the
repair costs exceeded 85% of the value of the boiler the beyond economic repair
decision was made." (my emphasis underlined)
This is an incorrect comparison. The relevant section of the policy, which Ive quoted above,
states that it is The cost of parts (including VAT) to repair the main heating system... " that 
is to be compared with the manufacturer's current retail price of a replacement or a similar
model. In both cases the cost of labour is excluded.
In making its determination as to whether Mrs Bs boiler was BER, AIL has added the
significant labour cost to the cost of the heat exchanger itself. If it had not done so, a very
different comparison would have been made. Based on the figures that AIL has itself
provided, the cost of the heat exchanger (£431+VAT) is considerably less than 85% of the
retail cost of a new boiler.
So if the BER assessment had been correctly undertaken, Mrs Bs boiler would not have 
been BER.
That leads me to the view that Mrs B was encouraged to replace her boiler by being told that
unless she replaced it, shed no longer be covered by AILs policy and no other insurer
would cover her either. In my view she didnt need to replace her boiler. AIL should either
have repaired it, or, as her boiler hadnt actually broken down and therefore a repair wasnt
required as a matter of urgency, advised her that she should have it repaired in the near 
future although this might not be covered by her policy. Whilst the latter course might have
cost her money, it wouldve been considerably less than the cost of a new boiler.
In response to my provisional decision, AIL said it disagreed with my finding. It said that it 
shouldnt be liable for the full replacement costs for Mrs Bs boiler as it was her decision to 
replace it. It also said that Mrs B only disputed its contractors' findings after the boiler had 
been replaced, which didnt give it a chance to dispute the diagnosis with its contractors and 
enable it to undertake a repair. If I disagreed, its liability should not exceed what the repair 
costs wouldve been as Mrs B will continue to benefit from a new boiler.Having considered AILs submissions, Im not persuaded by them. I dont consider that it 
was Mrs Bs decision to replace her boiler.  Shed been told by AIL that if she had a repair 
done by a third party shed no longer be able to make a claim on her current policy, and 
shed also be unable to buy cover elsewhere. So she was effectively tied to whatever 
decision AIL made about the repair of her boiler. AIL also had had the opportunity to 
consider the report from Mrs Bs engineers which said that they wouldve replaced the heat 
exchanger and wouldnt have found it necessary to replace the boiler. AIL said that this 
confirmed its own engineers diagnosis. So the diagnosis was not in dispute, but AIL says it 
was bound by the terms and conditions of the policy with regard to BER.
So I consider that Mrs B didnt act unreasonably in purchasing a new boiler given AILs 
decision that the need to replace a heat exchanger rendered her boiler BER. And I dont 
consider it would be reasonable for Mrs B to only receive an amount equal to what the repair 
costs wouldve been, leaving her with a substantial financial loss which couldve been 
avoided if AIL had correctly applied the BER criteria.
Im therefore upholding Mrs Bs complaint and require AIL to refund to her what she paid for 
the supply and fitting of her new boiler less any sum that AIL has previously paid to her, 
excluding the £100 compensation which I think it is reasonable for Mrs B to keep as
compensation for AILs accepted communication failures.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Mrs Bs complaint.
I require Astrenska Insurance Limited to refund to Mrs B what she paid for the supply and 
fitting of her new boiler less any sum that AIL has previously paid to her, excluding the £100 
compensation shes previously received.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman