DRN-3744574
The complaint
Mrs and Mr T arent happy with the compensation paid to them by Barclays Bank UK PLC in 
regard to an attempt to fraudulently access their account by an illegitimate third-party.
What happened
On two occasions, an illegitimate third-party called Barclays and attempted to access Mrs 
and Mr Ts account. The third-party provided Barclays with Mrs and Mr Ts personal 
information which enabled them to pass Barclays security screening and access the 
account. The third-party then requested that replacement debit cards and PINs be sent out.
Mrs and Mr T noticed via Barclays online banking app that these illegitimate requests had 
been made and contacted Barclays about it. But they werent happy with the service they 
received after contacting Barclays, including that Barclays couldnt provide satisfactory 
information as to what had happened or who had perpetrated it. So, they raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at Mrs and Mr Ts complaint. They noted the third-party had been able to 
pass the telephone banking security protocols and had made a seemingly legitimate request 
to send new debit cards and PINs to the address already held on file for Mrs and Mr T. As 
such, Barclays felt it was understandable that the third-party hadnt been recognised as 
being illegitimate until Mrs and Mr T informed Barclays that was the case. Barclays also 
confirmed to Mrs and Mr T that if any money had been taken fraudulently from their account 
that it would have been reimbursed to them by Barclays.
However, Barclays acknowledged that Mrs and Mr T didnt receive the standard of service 
from they should reasonably be entitled to expect when speaking with Barclays about the 
attempted fraud, and Barclays apologised to Mrs and Mr T for this and made a payment of 
£500 to them as compensation for any trouble or upset they may have incurred. Mrs and Mr 
T werent satisfied with Barclays response, so they referred their complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that the response that 
Barclays had issued to Mrs and Mr Ts complaint, including the £500 compensation, already 
represented a fair and reasonable outcome to the complaint. Mrs and Mr T continued to be 
dissatisfied, so the matte was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied that the £500 compensation that Barclays have already paid to 
Mrs and Mr T is a fair amount of compensation in regard to whats happened here, and so I 
wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Barclays to take any further action.
One reason for this is because I feel it was reasonable for Barclays to have allowed the 
third-party to order the new debit cards and PINs as they did. This is because the third-party 
had access to Mrs and Mr Ts personal information, including the answers to Barclays 
security questions, and so was able to pass the telephone banking security protocols. 
As such, Im satisfied this was clearly a sophisticated and well thought out attempt to access 
Mrs and Mr Ts account. And given the information the third-party was able to provide to 
Barclays, I dont feel that its fair to say that Barclays ought reasonably to have recognised 
that an attempt to fraudulently access the account was taking place in the first instance.
Another reason is because I feel the compensation Mrs and Mr T have received from 
Barclays is fair for the level of upset and inconvenience that theyve incurred here for which I 
feel Barclays should reasonably be held accountable for. This includes the service they 
received when trying to understand what had happened, as well as for the upset they 
incurred in not being able to access their accounts for a time. 
This isnt to say I dont sympathise with the upsetting situation that Mrs and Mr T must have 
found themselves in, but only to say that I feel that Barclays have already fairly compensated 
them for the elements of their trouble and upset that I feel Barclays should reasonably be 
held responsible for.
Mrs and Mr T have explained that they want Barclays to provide recordings of the telephone 
calls between the third-party and Barclays, but Barclays have declined to provide these on 
the basis that Mrs and Mr T  not being a party to those calls  have no right to them. 
This service isnt a regulatory body, and so its not for me to state whether Barclays declining 
of Mrs and Mr Ts request is within regulations or not. Such a decision would be better suited 
for the relevant regulatory body  in this case, the Information Commissioners Office. 
Instead, the remit of this service is based on fairness. And Barclays position here does seem 
fair to me. Mrs and Mr T acknowledge they werent on the telephone calls, and so I dont feel 
that Barclays should fairly be instructed to provide recordings of those calls to them.
Mrs and Mr T have explained they wanted to listen to the calls to assess whether they felt 
Barclays payment of £500 compensation was fair. Mrs and Mr T have later confirmed to this 
service that they would like at least a further £1,000 compensation from Barclays.
However, as explained above, Im satisfied the £500 compensation that Barclays have 
already paid to Mrs and Mr T already represents fair compensation for what Barclays did 
here. And I can confirm that if Barclays hadnt awarded any compensation to Mrs and Mr T, 
then I myself  in consideration of the level of responsibility and accountability that I feel 
should fairly be prescribed to Barclays here  would have instructed Barclays to pay 
compensation to them at an amount that would not have exceeded £500.
All of which means that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Barclays to take 
any further action. I hope Mrs and Mr T will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive 
made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 December 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman