DRN-4498916
The complaint
Ms R is unhappy with British Gas Insurance Limiteds (British Gas) handling of a claim made
under her plumbing and drainage insurance policy.
Where Ive referred to British Gas, this also includes any actions and communication by
agents acting on their behalf.
What happened
Ms R has a plumbing and drainage policy provided by British Gas for a property she rents
out. She reported an issue with the hot water and immersion heater in the property in early
July 2022.
Ultimately, due to British Gas handling of matters and delays, Ms R had to arrange for her
own plumber to carry out works to resolve the issue on 28 September 2022.
Ms R raised several complaints with British Gas throughout this period. British Gas
reimbursed £470 that Ms R paid her plumber, £80 that Ms R paid an electrician and offered
compensation totalling £235 (£115 and £120 across two complaints). However, Ms R was
unhappy with this, so she approached this service.
One of our investigators didnt initially uphold the complaint as she thought the
reimbursement and compensation already provided by British Gas was fair. Ms R didnt
agree, and the investigator reconsidered things.
As a result, the investigators view on matters changed. She said that British Gas should pay
a further £55 compensation. In addition, she said British Gas should also reimburse (subject
to proof) the £230 Ms R had compensated her tenants for being without hot water for a
prolonged period.
British Gas didnt agree so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision as I reached a different outcome to our investigator on what I 
thought British Gas needed to do to put things right.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im issuing a provisional decision. Ive reached a different outcome to our investigator 
on what British Gas needs to do to put things right, so Im issuing a provisional 
decision to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my initial findings before I 
reach my final decision.
I should also point out that I dont intend on commenting on every event which 
occurred throughout the claim. I dont mean this as a discourtesy to either party, 
instead it reflects the informal nature of this service and my role within it. But Id like 
to assure both parties that Ive considered all the information theyve provided when 
reaching my provisional decision.
It isnt in dispute by British Gas that the claim wasnt handled in line with Ms Rs 
reasonable expectations. British Gas accepts that. I wont list everything that 
happened, but some key things are:
Delayed appointments
Multiple phone calls needing to be made to try to progress things
Initial repair not completed correctly and left leaking
Missed/cancelled appointments without informing Ms R in advance
Parts not being ordered and delays collecting them
Poor communication about next steps and updates
Poor repair which resulted in continued issue with hot water and electrics 
tripping
Misdiagnosis by British Gas that it was electrical rather than immersion issue
Tenant left without hot water for a month due to British Gas handling and 
delays
Ultimately due to the time taken by British Gas, Ms R arranged for her own plumber 
to resolve the issue and restore the hot water. British Gas has reimbursed this cost 
totalling £470. They also reimbursed the £80 Ms R incurred in arranging an 
electrician as a result of their misdiagnoses.
However, Ms Rs tenant was left without hot water for around a month. They had 
asked for Ms R to put them up in a hotel at a considerable cost as they were 
unhappy with the lack of hot water. Ms R negotiated with the tenants and 
compensated them £230, to effectively give them a rent reduction for the 
inconvenience.Our investigator recommend British Gas should meet this cost incurred by Ms R 
(subject to proof being provided) as she thought Ms R had acted reasonably. British 
Gas said this isnt covered under the policy and referred to the following exclusion:
Any other loss or damage
Were not responsible for any loss of or damage to, or cleaning of property, 
furniture or fixtures as a result of your boiler, appliance or system breaking or 
failing unless we caused it, for example damage caused by water leaks. 
Were not responsible for any reduction in value or damage which results 
indirectly from anything insured by your agreement, such as loss of earnings 
or travel expenses, or anything which happens naturally over time including 
deterioration or wear and tear, settlement or shrinkage. Were also not 
responsible for any losses incurred as a result of delayed, rearranged, or 
cancelled appointments or failure to have a CP12 in place.
As British Gas is aware, whilst we do take into account policy terms and conditions, 
we also consider what is fair and reasonable in all circumstances of the case. So, 
whilst the policy terms may not cover this specifically, if it is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the case, I can direct British Gas to pay this outside of the 
terms.
Having considered all the information provided by both parties, Im minded to 
conclude it would be fair and reasonable for British Gas to reimburse Ms R this cost 
(subject to proof being provided). Its clear that being without hot water for a month, 
due to British Gas handling of matters, would have been extremely inconvenient for 
Ms Rs tenant. The tenant had requested hotel accommodation which would have 
cost Ms R significantly more, but she mitigated this by effectively reducing the rent 
via a payment.
If British Gas had handled the claim reasonably and in a timely manner, the tenant 
wouldnt have been without hot water for such an extended period and Ms R wouldnt 
have needed to compensate them. So, I think it would be fair and reasonable for 
British Gas to reimburse this amount (£230), subject to proof being provided. 8% 
simple interest would also need to be added to this from the date Ms R paid it to the 
tenants to date of reimbursement.
The investigator also recommended a further £55 compensation. She took into 
account what had already been provided in British Gas final response (£120). And 
additionally, Ms R had already been given £115 compensation at an earlier point. Its 
clear that things werent handled in line with Ms Rs reasonable expectations, and 
she ultimately had to arrange repairs which should have been completed under her 
policy. Im minded to conclude a further £55 compensation, in addition to what has 
already been offered, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, taking the total 
amount to £290.
Ms R has also asked for a reimbursement of policy premiums for the period the claim 
was ongoing as she said British Gas didnt provide the service she was paying for. I 
dont intend to direct British Gas to reimburse this. This is because whilst I accept the 
service was poor (which Im awarding compensation for), Ms R was able to benefit 
from the policy by British Gas reimbursing her own plumber costs. So, the claim has 
been fulfilled, albeit in a different way. So, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable 
to reimburse the premiums on this basis.So, if my final decision remains the same as my provisional decision, Ill be directing
British Gas to provide a further £55 compensation payment and to reimburse the 
£230 subject to proof of payment from Ms R being provided.
However, there is another financial loss Ms R says she has incurred which wasnt
considered by our investigator.
Ms R says she was unable to have the new tenant move in until 9 August 2022. So, 
she says she incurred a loss of rent. This is because she says the tenant should 
have been able to move in on 15 July 2022. But as a result of British Gas handling of 
things, they couldnt move in until 9 August 2022 when the initial repair was 
completed (before it later failed). So, Ms R says that she lost out on £816.75, which 
is 27 days at £30.25 (the rent was £920 per month) pro-rata rent for this period.
Ms R has provided evidence from the tenant, and her cleaner, in support of her 
having a tenant who was planning to move in. Im persuaded this demonstrates the 
tenant could and would have moved in much sooner but for the ongoing issue.
Ms R has provided messages, and this shows the cleaner was originally planned to 
attend on 14 July 2022. This then had to be moved back to 9 August 2022 due to the 
ongoing issue with repairs. But having considered the information provided, it does 
appear that the earliest the tenant would have been able to move in, but for the issue 
with the heating, I think would have been 19 July 2022, rather than 15 July 2022 as 
Ms R says. Ill explain why.
It appears that the tenant informed Ms R shed provide all the documents required on
11 July 2022, she also confirmed that she would look to start the tenancy as soon as 
the references were confirmed. Ms R then responded on 18 July 2022 (PM) and said 
all the documents appeared to be in order and the remaining thing to do was confirm 
identity which could be done when they next met.
Ms R said she could take a holding deposit then to secure the property and it would 
be refunded once the tenancy was commenced. Ms R said she was just awaiting the 
plumbing issue, then would arrange a professional clean and the move in date could 
be confirmed.
So, allowing a reasonable time for repair from when British Gas attended 
(7 July 2022) as parts were required, I think repairs should have been completed by 
14 July 2022.
Whilst the cleaners were originally scheduled to attend then, it doesnt appear that all 
the referencing for the prospective tenant was completed until 18 July 2022. So, the 
earliest I think the tenant could have moved in was the following day, 19 July 2022. 
Consequently, I think the period British Gas should pay compensation for loss of rent 
for is 19 July 2022 to 9 August 2022. This equates to £665.50 based on 22 days at 
£30.25 per day.
Taking into account what Ive said about the policy terms above not covering this 
type of loss, the same principle applies, that unless anything changes as a result of 
the responses to my provisional decision, Im minded to conclude it would be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances for British Gas to pay this outside the terms.
8% simple interest would also need to be added to this amount from 19 July 2022 (as 
Ms R would have received the rent upfront) to date of reimbursement.So, I was minded to uphold the complaint in part and to direct British Gas to:
Pay Ms R a total of £290 compensation (including the £235 already offered)
Reimburse Ms R £230 that she compensated the tenants (subject to proof)
Add 8% simple interest to the reimbursement from date it was paid to the tenants to 
date of reimbursement
Compensate Ms R £665.50 for loss of rent
Add 8% simple interest to that amount from 19 July 2022 to date of settlement
The responses to my provisional decision
Ms R responded agreeing with the provisional decision. She also provided evidence of the 
£230 payment she made to the tenant.
British Gas also responded and agreed in principle with the provisional decision. However, 
they said that loss of rent wasnt something they were automatically obliged to consider. 
They also said that in order to provide the additional sums theyd need proof of the losses.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive thought carefully about the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision, and 
the responses to it. Having done so, my final decision remains the same as my provisional 
decision.
I note British Gas has said they arent automatically obliged to consider loss of rent. I already 
recognised in my provisional decision that this isnt something covered under the policy 
terms. But I also outlined that, as British Gas is aware, I can direct them to pay 
compensation, including for the equivalent of loss of rental income, outside of the policy 
terms if I conclude it is fair and reasonable to do so in all the circumstances of the case. For 
the reasons explained in my provisional decision, I think it would be fair to do so here.
British Gas has said that upon receipt of the proof of loss of rental income and the dates, 
then they will pay this. However, as outlined in my provisional decision, Im satisfied the 
evidence supports a tenant was looking to move in, but for the issue with hot water. So, 
there wasnt already a tenant in place who moved out or stopped paying rent, instead there 
was a delay in the new tenant being able to move in. So, Ms R wont be able to show a loss 
of rent via bank statements etc in the same way she can for the compensation payment later 
made to the tenants.
I didnt agree with the period Ms R was asking for either. Instead, as explained in my 
provisional decision, I was persuaded, on balance, this should be from 19 July 2022 as this 
was the earliest, I think, the tenant could have been able to take the tenancy from (but for 
the issue with the hot water). This is because Ms R hadnt confirmed satisfactory references 
had been provided until 18 July 2022, so the tenant wouldnt have been able to take up the 
tenancy before then. But like I say, there isnt evidence showing the actual physical loss 
such as a bank statement, instead, I was persuaded that the tenant was delayed in being 
able to take up tenancy. And my view on that, and the time period, still remains. So, my 
direction here remains that British Gas need to reimburse the £665.50, with 8% simple 
interest added from 19 July 2022 to date of settlement.In my provisional decision, I also said that British Gas should refund the £230 Ms R paid to 
the tenant subject to proof being provided. And I said 8% simple interest should be added to 
this amount from the date this was paid to the date of reimbursement.
In response to the provisional decision, Ms R provided evidence of this in the form of a bank 
statement and accompanying faster payment receipt. However, my direction on this will still 
be for British Gas to reimburse this with 8% simple interest added - subject to proof being 
provided. This is because, whilst Ms R has provided evidence of this to this service, Im not 
able to share this as it contains sensitive banking information, such as unconnected banking 
transactions, account numbers and other sensitive information, and I dont have permission 
to share this. So, if Ms R accepts my final decision, shell then need to liaise with British Gas 
directly and provide the proof required directly at that stage.
My view on the appropriate level of compensation also remains, that a total of £290 should 
be provided, including the £115 and £120 already offered.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part and direct British Gas Insurance 
Limited to:
Pay Ms R a total of £290 compensation (including the £235 already offered)
Reimburse Ms R £230 that she compensated the tenants (subject to proof)
Add 8% simple interest* to the reimbursement from date it was paid to the tenants to 
date of reimbursement
Compensate Ms R £665.50 for loss of rent
Add 8% simple interest* to that amount from 19 July 2022 to date of settlement
*If British Gas Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms R how much its taken off. It should 
also give Ms R a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman