DRN-3517330
The complaint
Mrs S has complained about the advice she received from ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) to 
invest in 2003.
Mrs S is represented by a third party, but for ease of reference I shall refer to Mrs S in my 
decision. 
What happened
In 2003 Mrs S received advice to invest £6,000 into an Investment Planning Bond. Mrs S 
surrendered the investment in 2016 and received £9,220.32.
Mrs S later saw a newspaper advertisement about the suitability of advice given by financial 
institutions, engaged with her representative and raised a complaint with ReAssure. 
Mrs S said she was 70 years of age when the advice was given and was an inexperienced 
investor. She trusted the adviser and didnt have an understanding of the product she 
invested into. Mrs S was exposed to too much risk given her age and the advice didnt match 
her attitude to risk. She wanted compensation comparing the performance of a fixed rate 
bond to the performance of her investment. 
ReAssure didnt think the complaint had been brought to the Financial Ombudsman within 
the time limits that apply. Those are that a complaint should be brought within six years of 
the event complained about or three years after the customer should have reasonably been 
aware they had cause for complaint. However, one of our ombudsmen decided that the 
complaint was brought to the Financial Ombudsman within the time limits that apply for 
jurisdiction purposes and that the merits of the complaint could be considered. 
ReAssure then issued its final response to Mrs Ss complaint. It said;
There was nothing from the point of sale to show the bond was unsuitable.
Mrs S had been identified as a no risk investor and had been recommended she 
invest in an ISA and unit trusts which was more in line with her risk profile. It had 
been Mrs Ss decision to invest in an Investment Bond which potentially still carried 
an element of risk depending on the funds chosen. 
Mrs S had been given a description of the funds she could have invested into and the 
key features document for the fund she chose was shown as being moderate risk. 
Mrs S received regular annual statements detailing the performance of her 
investment.
Our investigator who considered the complaint didnt think it should be upheld. They said;
ReAssure had fully considered Mrs Ss circumstances before making the 
recommendation to invest. 
To meet Mrs Ss investment objectives and attitude to risk the property fund 
investment wasnt unreasonable for her. 
They were satisfied that even though Mrs S was an inexperienced investor she was 
given enough information to understand where her funds were invested. 
Mrs S didnt agree with the investigator. She said it was the advisers job to tell the customer 
which investment was suitable for her and should have provided guidance and advised of 
the downfalls of property investment. Property funds can be illiquid, and her assets were 
held within one fund which was inappropriate for her age as a first-time investor.
Mrs Ss response didnt cause the investigator to change their mind. As the complaint 
couldnt be resolved, it has been passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ss circumstances
ReAssure has given us a copy of the 31-page Personal Financial Review completed at the 
time of the sale. Ive used this document and others provided by ReAssure as well as       
Mrs Ss testimony to consider her circumstances.
Its recorded Mrs S was aged 70 years and retired, was widowed, and living with her son in 
his home. Mrs S said she was in good health. Mrs Ss income came from personal and state 
pensions as well as a disability allowance. Her excess income over expenditure was £300 
per month. Mrs S had no reported liabilities. 
Mrs Ss assets totalled £15,286 and were all cash based including a cash ISA. I note £5,500 
was as a result of a matured bond but theres no record of what that investment had been. 
The adviser identified that Mrs S was looking for Capital investment and its noted Mrs S 
agreed with this. It was also identified that at that time 100% of Mrs Ss holdings were 
exposed to no risk. For her revised portfolio its recorded Mrs S was willing to take a low risk 
and wanted to invest for growth only.
Attitude to risk
As mentioned above, under investment needs in the Personal Financial Review it recorded 
Mrs S wanted growth only and for her overall portfolio after the advice was given to be of low 
risk. I have considered how ReAssure made Mrs S aware of the varying levels of risk implicit 
in different investments, particularly bearing in mind Mrs S has told us she was a novice 
investor. I note that of Mrs Ss assets £5,500 came about as a result of a maturing bond, but 
I dont have any idea what it was previously invested into. 
However, Mrs S was seeking advice because she didnt have the knowledge or experience 
to make such an investment decision unaided. So, ReAssure needs to demonstrate that 
gave suitable advice taking into account Mrs Ss circumstances, understanding and 
knowledge after ascertaining Mrs Ss attitude to risk. 
While clearly, I cant know what happened at the meeting, I think its likely that risk was 
discussed with Mrs S. I say this because of the Personal Financial Review document. It 
includes a capital risk factor v growth potential chart which identifies varying levels of risk 
and the investments that would be typical of those different levels. These levels go from no 
risk to capital to high risk to capital and under each section there is a short explanation of 
how that would impact on potential growth and returns. At the time Mrs Ss assets were identified in ReAssures chart as being no risk to capital 
which continued with the explanation But lowest growth and income potential over the 
medium to long term. For low risk to capital it said Aims to provide returns which are better 
than cash deposits. Medium to long term which I take to mean five years plus. The risk 
levels increased with the accompanying explanations detailing the increasing potentials for 
growth and income. 
Mrs S has said she trusted the adviser and didnt understand what she invested into. But 
because of the above I think its likely that Mrs S was made aware of the varying risk factors 
posed by different investment types and I think she reasonably would have understood the 
risk of the investment as a result of that meeting. 
So taking all of this into account, I think the levels of risk implicit in investing were explained 
to and discussed with Mrs S and she was content to expose her investment money for a 
portion of her available assets in order to achieve the potential of growth.
The advice
While Im satisfied it was most likely the case that Mrs Ss attitude to risk was assessed by 
the adviser, Ive considered whether what was recommended to her was right for her 
circumstances and investment objectives. 
As Ive said above, without any investment experience  that I am aware of  Mrs S would 
have been totally reliant upon the advice given to her and Ive borne in mine what she had 
previously done with her money done her money  by putting it in a risk-free environment of 
cash based investments. 
Mrs S has argued that as a first-time investor and considering her circumstances the 
property fund invested into was too high risk for her. But in order to meet her investment 
objectives and taking everything into consideration Ive seen nothing to conclude that this 
was the case. Ill explain why. 
As mentioned above its recorded that Mrs Ss investment objective was for the potential for 
capital growth so it seems likely that Mrs S did want to explore the opportunity to make her 
money grow more that I would do in cash based investments. Overall, Im persuaded it was 
more likely that Mrs S was willing to take some risk with her funds. 
Ive thought very carefully about Mrs Ss personal circumstances, including her age, her 
income, and her living arrangements. Mrs S has told us she was in good health at the time of 
the sale and her financial and living circumstances seem to have been stable. Mrs S did 
have excess monthly income over expenditure but clearly because of her being retired and 
aged 70 years she wasnt in any real position to make up any significant losses to her capital 
if she incurred a loss. 
There is conflicting information from the parties about what happened during the meeting. 
Mrs S has said she trusted the adviser and didnt understand what she invested into. Its the 
advisers recollection that it was Mrs S who made the decision about what she invested into. 
There are various investment choices recorded in the Personal Financial Review document. 
Its recorded under the capital for investment needs section it shows a recommendation of 
£3,000 into an ISA and £3,000 into a unit trust for capital for growth only which ReAssure 
has said was of a lower risk than the fund eventually chosen. ReAssure has said it was Mrs Ss decision about which investment she finally selected. And 
the various investment options referred to above suggest there was some discussion about 
it. I note the capital for investment needs section it also says; 
Does the investor wish to be primarily responsible for their own asset class 
selection, or would they prefer Legal & General to select the asset classes? 
And underneath the Client Selects box has been clicked rather than the L&G Selects 
which indicates to me that it was Mrs Ss decision. 
I also note that under the representatives soft facts and notes section of the form it is 
handwritten;
 client chose fund from recom [which I take to mean recommendation] in newspaper. 
Which further suggests to me that Mrs S had her own opinions about her investment choice. 
However, Mrs Ss recollection is that she saw the offer on a whiteboard/poster inside the 
branch itself and not from a newspaper. And Mrs S has said she only ever read the local 
newspaper and its unlikely that a financial busines would advertise in the local press in such 
detail that an investor would have been determined to make an investment as a result. 
Mrs S has said her adviser should have guided a novice investor, such as herself, of the 
downfalls of property funds such as their illiquidity bearing in mind Mrs Ss age and life 
expectancy. 
Clearly, I cant know what happened at the point of sale, but I do think the advisers 
handwritten comment does have some weight and is quite compelling as it is a 
contemporaneous record made during the sale. It was also recorded that it was Mrs S who 
selected the underlying investment. And while I accept what Mrs S has said I have also 
borne in mind that memories can and do fade over time and this sale did take place nearly 
20 years ago.
However, for the outcome of this complaint I have to decide whether the investment was 
suitable for Mrs S. ReAssure has said the Investment Bond itself was low risk but that it 
depended upon the underlying funds chosen. At the time ReAssure has said the property 
fund was of a moderate risk and the application form would have made her aware of this. 
So, even though the fund only invested into UK properties, which would have reduced its risk 
rating, it exposed Mrs S to a higher level of risk than the adviser had identified she was 
willing to take which was low risk.
I accept that an adviser has a responsibility to make an investor aware that the decision they 
are making may not be what the adviser would recommend and why. But in the particular 
circumstances of this complaint I think it more likely that Mrs S did choose the investment 
and I am satisfied that the adviser made her aware of the alternatives he would recommend 
which would have exposed her to a lower level of risk than the property fund within the 
Investment Bond wrapper. But the fund chosen did offer Mrs S the potential for capital 
growth which was identified at the time as being her investment objective. 
So, overalI; 
Im satisfied alternative options were discussed and explained to Mrs S, as well as 
the different levels of risk implicit from different types of investment. 
I think it was made clear to Mrs S that the adviser recommended that Mrs S split her investment of £6,000 into two different investment types which were lower risk and 
more diversified than £6,000 into the one investment chosen. 
Ive concluded that Mrs Ss circumstances were stable.
Contemporaneous evidence suggests Mrs S made the investment choice and had 
her own ideas. The adviser had identified Mrs S as a lower risk investor than implicit 
in the fund she chose but that fund suited Mrs Ss investment objective.  
Mrs S still retained 60% of her available assets in cash-based investments, 
I think ReAssure clearly explained lower risk alternatives to Mrs S and it was ultimately her 
decision to invest. And she did so knowing the acceptable level of risk the adviser had 
identified for her and that the chosen fund exposed her to a higher level of risk but that she 
was willing to take that level of risk in order to achieve the potential of her required capital 
growth.  
In conclusion, I dont think ReAssure acted inappropriately. I think it made clear to Mrs S 
what her options were and what it would recommend. So, I think it most likely that Mrs S 
made a sufficiently informed investment decision to invest a portion of her capital in a higher 
than low risk environment as had been recommended by the adviser. And I think Mrs S was 
willing to take some risk with her capital in order to achieve her investment objective of 
medium risk.
So, in the particular circumstances of this complaint I am not upholding it. No doubt Mrs S 
will be disappointed, but I hope I have been able to explain how I have made my decision 
and why. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mrs Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman