DRN-3129729
The complaint
Ms G complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limiteds (RSA) handling of her claim 
for damage to her car under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Ms G was involved in an accident with a motorcycle in July 2020 and made a claim to her 
insurer, RSA. Her car went to RSAs approved repairer, but Ms G said when it came back it 
was still faulty. She said cable ties were holding parts together instead of the correct fixings, 
and it was only partially repaired. 
Ms Gs partner contacted RSA and the car went off for further repairs, but Ms G said it was 
returned with the bumper hanging off and damage not repaired. The car had to go back to 
the garage again. Ms G complained to RSA about poor repairs, non-inclusion of a damaged 
tyre, and the time they have taken.
RSA said that when the car was repaired Ms G and an independent engineer inspected the 
vehicle and Ms G agreed the repairs were suitable. But Ms G noticed the bumper was 
misaligned shortly afterwards and the car went back for further repair.
RSA obtained an engineers report which stated that fixing the bumper had proved to be very 
difficult but had now been resolved. RSA said the remaining damage is unrelated to Ms Gs 
accident as this was assessed when the car came in for repairs but relates to a separate 
impact. RSA paid Ms G £250 compensation for poor communications and delays to her 
claim.
Ms G She was dissatisfied with RSAs response and brought her complaint to our service. 
She said she has CCTV of the accident that RSA hasn't reviewed, and she wants her car 
fully repaired, including the damaged tyre. 
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said the repairs werent 
carried out properly and Ms Gs car had to go back for more work, but this was resolved 
fairly by RSA. She said the compensation RSA paid to Ms G was reasonable for the 
problems caused. She said based on RSAs expert evidence it was fair for it not to include 
Ms Gs damaged tyre in the claim.
Ms G disagreed, saying she didnt want to have a second claim for the damaged tyre and 
wheel. She said the way she had been treated over the claim was terrible. Ms G requested 
an ombudsman review her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked carefully at RSAs handling and decisions on Ms Gs claim to see if it has treated 
her fairly and in accordance with the terms of her policy. Its clear from the records that Ms 
Gs claim was prolonged by poor service in terms of the standard of the repairs to her car. I 
was sorry to learn about the problems Ms G faced in having her accident repair claim dealt 
with properly. 
Ms G has let us know that her car has been repaired to a satisfactory standard in terms of 
what has been looked at. Im pleased thats the case though I can see it took some time to 
reach this conclusion. I can see that the initial and return repairs werent satisfactory and Ms 
Gs use of her car was interrupted. 
My role in this investigation isnt to decide whether I think the tyre should be included as part 
of the claim for the accident. My role is to decide whether I think it was fair of RSA to 
conclude that the damage to the tyre wasnt caused as part of the accident based on the 
evidence they had.
The engineer reported to RSA that the damage to Ms Gs tyre and wheel wasnt consistent 
with the accident damage that had been reported as the impact occurred to the other side of 
Ms Gs car. I think it may have been possible for RSA to have extended this position on the 
claim to the damage to Ms Gs bumper, but Im pleased RSA has eventually had this 
repaired.
Ms G has sent CCTV footage of her accident to RSA and ourselves. RSAs engineer 
reviewed the footage and said it didnt show any damage to Ms Gs nearside front wheel and 
tyre from this incident. Ive also seen the footage. It shows the motorbike approaching from 
Ms Gs offside and hitting her car on the offside front. The footage shows that Ms G hasnt 
deviated from the line she was following, and her car doesnt appear to make contact with 
anything else. 
The tyre damage was recorded by RSAs agents when the vehicle was collected after the 
accident. And the CCTV footage doesnt show any damage to the nearside front wheel and 
tyre from this incident. And so, from the evidence Ive seen I think it was reasonable for 
RSAs engineer to conclude that the tyre damage was likely to have been caused by a 
separate event. It is open to Ms G to bring a separate claim about this damage to RSA if she 
wishes.
 
When the parties to a dispute disagree about the cause of damage, we have to rely on the 
available expert evidence. In this case that only comes from RSAs engineers and they are 
satisfied the accident-related damage has been dealt with. In the absence of any 
contradictory evidence I dont think it was unreasonable for RSA to rely on this report for its 
decisions on the claim.
Given the requirement for Ms Gs car to be returned for repairs or to correct previous poor 
work, its not possible to say that the repairs were initially completed to an acceptable 
standard. Ive considered the service she received in terms of compensation. All-in-all I think 
the £250 RSA paid to Ms G is about the right reflection of the effect upon her of the poor 
service she received.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Andrew FraserOmbudsman