DRN-3964159
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Hub Financial Solutions Limited (Hub) gave her mis-leading 
information when they sold her an equity release mortgage.
Mrs F is being represented on this complaint by her son, Mr F. 
What happened
Mrs F contacted Hub in 2008 and she explained she was looking into taking out an equity 
release mortgage as she wanted to raise funds to help her son with a deposit for a property. 
Mrs F took out a lifetime mortgage with an initial advance of £100,000 and a drawdown 
reserve of £40,000 should she need it in the future. The interest rate on the mortgage was 
6.59% and the lender was Just Retirement Limited. 
Mrs Fs son, Mr F, said he later took over his mothers financial affairs because she had 
been diagnosed with dementia. He said he had been looking through the paperwork and 
discovered that the amount of the loan had doubled. 
Mr F, on behalf of Mrs F, said that Hub told his mother that she wasnt allowed to make any 
payments towards the mortgage  and this is why the outstanding balance has reached the 
level that it has. Mr F said that they could have paid £6,000 per year which would have 
helped bring the outstanding balance down. Mr F didnt think that Hub had explained how 
the roll up interest worked, and he was also unhappy that he wasnt present when Mrs F was 
given advice by Hub. 
Mr F said he would like Hub to put the mortgage back in the position it would have been, had 
Mrs F been given correct information about making payments to the mortgage  which he 
says she would have done since it was taken out in 2008.
Mr F complained to Hub on behalf of Mrs F and Hub explained they were satisfied that they 
gave all the information to Mrs F and that they didnt mis-lead her when she took the 
mortgage out. 
Mr F wasnt happy with what Hub said so he brought the complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service where it was looked at by one of our investigators. The investigator 
didnt uphold the complaint and found that Hub followed the correct procedures and 
explained everything to Mrs F when she took the mortgage out. 
Mr F disagreed. He made the following comments:
The link to Hub Financial Solutions Limited takes you to their home page and in the 
corner, it clearly states Part of Just. Mr F said he was told these are two separate 
firms which is not the case and leads to further questions.
- What other financial products would the adviser offer rather than Just products?
- Did Hub declare their relationship with Just?
- Did the adviser make it clear that only limited Just products were being offered?
- Was this product the most suitable for Mrs F?
The solicitor who signed the contracts had been investigated a number of times and 
this is worrying as Mrs F was not going to get any help from him after looking at his 
track record
Mrs Fs health has deteriorated in the last three years. It has only just come to light 
that she was diagnosed with depression in 2008 and was put on anti-depressants. 
She now has dementia and was 85 years old at the time of taking out the equity 
release mortgage. How did Hub ensure that she was of sound mind at the time?
Mr F then went on to explain about time limits and how long it has taken the Financial 
Ombudsman Service to review Mrs Fs complaint. He said waiting for Hub to send 
information to us, as well as the time its taken us to deal with the complaint  has meant Mrs 
F has missed out on changing her interest rate to a lower one over the course of time.
As Mr F, on behalf of Mrs F, disagreed with the investigator, he asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 30 January 2023. I said:
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Im sorry to hear that Mrs F is ill and appreciate this has been a difficult time for both 
Mrs F and Mr F. 
Should Hub have insisted that a family member was present at the meeting?
The mortgage was taken out a long time ago, so Ive looked at details from the sale 
of the mortgage and what was regarded as good industry practice at the time. Ive 
considered whether Hub did anything wrong when the mortgage was initially taken 
out. In doing that, I cant take into account the regulatory standards that are in place 
now as they dont apply retrospectively, and standards in place in 2008 were 
different.
I have looked at the records from the time of sale to try and get the best impression 
possible as to what was discussed. Ive also looked at the circumstances of Mrs F at 
the time of sale to try and establish if the mortgage was in fact mis-sold and if Mrs F 
was given mis-leading information. 
There are concerns that Mrs F wasnt asked if anyone else, such as a family 
member, should be present at any time during the process. 
The documentation shows that Mrs F went through a very detailed questionnaire with 
Hubs adviser. There is no suggestion in the documentation that Mrs F was suffering 
from any ill health or that she was vulnerable, which prevented her from 
understanding what she was doing  or that she shouldnt have been allowed to 
make her own decisions about her own property. 
I have listened to the telephone call from 6 October 2008 that Mrs F had with 
someone at Hub, before she had the face-to-face meeting with the actual adviser. 
Hub did ask if Mrs F would like her son to be present at the appointment with the 
adviser and Mrs F said she would like him to be but explained he is quite busy and 
may not be able to. Hub then explained to Mrs F that after she had met with the 
adviser, Hub could send her son a copy of the documentation directly, and then her 
son could contact the adviser and speak with him directly if she wanted. 
I think Hub have done what we would have expected them to do here. There is no 
obligation for them to ensure that someone was present at the meeting with Mrs F, 
and Im satisfied that she was given this option.
Did Hub give mis-leading information to Mrs F?Mrs Fs situation at the time was that she was over the age of 55 and she owned her 
own home. Mrs F said she wanted to borrow the money to help her son with a 
deposit for a house.
Mr F said that Mrs F wanted to make repayments and that she was told she couldnt 
 and this has meant that the outstanding balance has increased significantly. He 
also doesnt think that the roll up interest was explained to her. 
Ive taken a look at the key facts illustration from the point of sale and section 8 what 
you will owe and when shows the amount of interest and fees over the course of 15 
years. This clearly lays out what Mrs F would owe at various times and what the 
outstanding balance would be. 
The recommendation letter that was also given to Mrs F confirms that Mrs F 
understood that the interest on the lifetime mortgage would roll up and this would 
continue to reduce the overall value of her estate. I havent seen anything that looks 
like Mrs F wasnt aware of how the interest worked other than what Mr F has told us, 
so I cant agree that Hub didnt explain this to her. 
I have also looked at the fact find document where there is a section on priorities. 
One of the factors of importance is the ability to make partial repayments and its 
been ticked as not important. 
Section 14  additional features/overpayments also says the following:
You can make partial repayments if you wish, but these will be subject to an early 
repayment charge. Where a partial repayment is made and there is more than one 
cash advance, the amount to be repaid will be split pro-rata across all advances.
I think the documentation makes it clear that Mrs F was able to make repayments 
towards the lifetime mortgage if she wanted to, but these would have been subject to 
an early repayment charge.
I understand that Mr F said that Mrs F asked if she could make payments and she 
was told she couldnt by Hub  and that he was told the same thing initially until Hub 
said he could. I have listened to several telephone calls that Mrs F had when she 
was arranging the lifetime mortgage and there wasnt any indication that she wanted 
to make repayments on the mortgage. I would have expected to have seen evidence 
that Mrs F wanted to do this from the level of calls that she had, but I havent seen 
any evidence that Mrs F asked about making repayments but even so, the 
documentation makes it clear that she can  and Mrs F was provided with this. She 
could have made repayments, but these would have been subject to early repayment 
charges. And these types of mortgages arent intended to be repaid early as they are 
not standard mortgages  lifetime mortgages operate differently. 
Concerns surrounding solicitor
Its a requirement for all equity release borrowing that lenders expect borrowers to 
get independent legal advice before taking out the loan. The solicitor does not advise 
on the suitability or amount of the mortgage  they do not offer financial advice. But 
they do ensure that the borrower understands the nature of what they are agreeing to 
and the terms they will be bound by.
I acknowledge the concerns that Mr F has raised regarding the solicitor that Mrs F 
used. He said that she had her own solicitor that she would use and hes not sure 
how its ended up with Mrs F using the solicitor that she did. 
Its not clear at this stage what happened in 2008. Hub can use several solicitors on 
their panel which is what could have happened in this situation. However, even 
though I cant say for sure what has happened regarding this, I cant hold Hub 
responsible for something that may have happened in the future with the solicitor. This would have been an unforeseen event which neither party would have been 
aware of. And it doesnt necessarily follow that all information given by the solicitor 
would have been incorrect. As Ive already mentioned, a solicitor in this capacity 
wouldnt give financial advice, they would just ensure that Mrs F understood what she 
was entering into. I cant also make a finding about the actions of a particular solicitor 
when considering a complaint about suitability as what is being considered here are 
the actions of Hub. So while I note the comments that Mr F has made about the 
solicitor, I dont find that Hub are responsible for this. 
What is the relationship between Hub and Just Retirement Limited?
Mr F doesnt believe that Hub and Just Retirement Limited are indeed two separate 
entities. Having looked into this, Hub are part of the Just Group and they have not 
hidden this at all. But even though they are part of the same group they are separate 
regulated entities. 
Just Retirement Limited are the lender who Mrs F took her mortgage out with and 
there isnt anything of concern with the fact that they are both part of the same group. 
Its also worth adding here that Hub are also able to sell mortgages with different 
lenders  and will ultimately decide which lender they use based on individual 
circumstances of the borrower.  
Did Hub ensure that Mrs F was of sound mind to take out the lifetime mortgage?
Mr F has explained that Mrs F was vulnerable and on anti-depressants at the time of 
making the application. I think the first thing to mention here is that age doesnt 
necessarily mean that someone is vulnerable. Lifetime mortgages are designed for 
people who are of a certain age and who would like to release money from their 
property  so this in itself doesnt mean there was an issue.
Ive looked at the application form that Mrs F signed when she took out the lifetime 
mortgage. There is a section which covers her health.
When asked if Mrs F was currently (or within the last five years) on any prescribed 
medicine, Mrs F answered no. So Mrs F didnt declare that she was on any 
medication and even if she did, this doesnt mean that the mortgage wouldnt have 
been recommended to her or that she wouldnt have had capacity to understand it. 
Having also listened to the calls that Mrs F had with Hub, she didnt give the 
impression to Hub that she wasnt aware of what she was entering into. It appears 
that Mrs F deemed herself to be in good health. I havent seen anything that 
suggests that Hub would have been aware that Mrs F may not have understood what 
she was doing or the terms of the mortgage, so I cant say that Hub have acted 
unreasonably here. 
For completeness, I would just like to address the point that Mr F has made with 
regards to how long the complaint has been with the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Mrs F was still able to make decisions about the mortgage even though we were 
looking into her complaint. She wouldnt have been prevented from looking at 
alternative interest rates if she wanted to do so. And as Mrs F may not have been 
able to do this because of her illness, Mr F could have looked into this for her. So I 
therefore dont agree that she couldnt have made alterative arrangements during this 
time.
Overall, I cannot conclude that Hub mis-sold the mortgage to Mrs F. I appreciate that 
both she and Mr F will be disappointed with my decision but for the reasons Ive 
given, I am not minded to say that Hub acted unreasonably when they recommended 
the lifetime mortgage. 
DevelopmentsHub responded to the provisional decision and didnt have anything further to add. Mr F 
responded and said he was disappointed with the provisional decision. He said he still 
disagreed that Hub is part of Just despite being told of their independence. He also 
reiterated again that he was told he couldnt make any payments towards the mortgage 
which was underpinned by what his mother was also told. Mr F also feels that the credibility 
of the local solicitor has also been washed over despite the solicitors financial irregularities. 
Mr F said he cannot provide any further evidence and it looks like his mother will have to 
fend for herself.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr F is disappointed with the provisional decision and sorry to hear that he 
feels his mother will have to fend for herself. However, I gave my reasons in the provisional 
decision as to why I didnt think Hub were unreasonable when they recommend the lifetime 
mortgage to Mrs F. 
I certainly wasnt brushing over the concerns Mr F raised regarding the solicitor. I have 
already addressed this in my provisional decision and explained that I cant hold Hub 
responsible for something that may have happened in the future with the solicitor. And I 
couldnt make a finding about the actions of the solicitor when considering a complaint about 
suitability as what I have to look at are the actions of Hub. 
While I understand that Mr F isnt happy, there really isnt anything further I can add to this. 
Mr F hasnt been able to provide any further evidence to support his arguments and while I 
note his frustration on certain points and his disappointment on the matter, I see no reason 
to depart from my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman