DRN-1588839
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him a personal loan 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr C took out the policy in 2001 at the same time as arranging the loan, by filling in a form 
that he picked up in branch. The policy covered Mr C for accident, sickness and 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr C disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr C says he didnt know that there was PPI on the loan account  therefore it was added 
without his knowledge or consent. 
Ive seen a copy of the application form that Mr C filled in. There is a separate section for 
PPI containing Yes and No boxes to either request or decline the PPI. Mr C has ticked the 
Yes box. Ive also seen a copy of the loan agreement that Mr C signed. There is a table of 
financial information that includes a separate column for Optional Credit Insurance. This 
details the cost of the PPI premium, the interest payable, the total amount payable and the 
monthly cost. Rather than being small print that could easily have been missed, the table 
(and the PPI information within it) is a prominent part of the form.
Ive no doubt that Mr C has provided his genuine recollection of events. But the sale 
happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr Cs memory of events has 
faded somewhat. Based on the available evidence, I think that Mr C decided to buy the 
policy, knowing that he didnt have to, even if he no longer remembers doing so.
Nationwide didnt advise Mr C to buy the policy, so it didnt need to ensure that it met his 
needs. But it did need to provide enough information for him to make an informed decision 
about whether or not the policy was right for him.
I consider that Mr C would have known something about the policy  that it would have 
covered his loan repayments if he was unable to work due to accident, sickness or 
unemployment  because I dont think hed have decided to buy the policy without knowing 
anything about it.Mr C may have received some sick pay from his job. But the policy would have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than Mr C would have received full pay for. 
Mr C says that his wife would have helped financially. But other people cant always be 
relied upon as their circumstances can change. Overall, I consider that Mr C had a need for 
the policy and could benefitted from it at what would have been a difficult time.
Its possible that Nationwide didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should 
have, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr C wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I think that Mr C had an interest in the cover and decided to buy it, Im not 
persuaded that further information would have caused him to change his mind. So Mr H isnt 
any worse off as a result of anything Nationwide may have done wrong, so theres nothing 
that Nationwide needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman