DRN-4257872
The complaint
Mrs M has complained that she is unhappy with the quality of two vehicles she acquired in 
May 2020 and November 2021 using hire purchase agreements with Black Horse Limited, 
trading as Land Rover Financial Services (Black Horse).
What happened
Mrs M bought a used Land Rover in May 2020, with a mileage at the point of supply of 
3,755. The car was about eight months old. The price was £27,000, of which Mrs M 
borrowed £23,050.87 using a 37-month hire purchase agreement. The monthly payment 
was £362.57, with a final payment of £16,341 if she decided to keep the car at the end of the 
agreement.
Mrs M said the car had issues from the outset, in particular with the Diesel Particulate Filter 
(DPF), which were highlighted to Black Horse. After numerous issues she said she had to 
sell the car as it was unfit for purpose and undrivable.
She traded the car in in November 2021 and acquired another car through a different 
dealership. Again this was a used Land Rover, (an online check suggests it was just over 
two years old) with a mileage at the point of supply of 20,316. The price of the car was 
£44,950, of which Mrs M borrowed £42,760.27 using a 49-month hire purchase agreement. 
The monthly payment was £691.85, with a final payment of £19,393. Mrs M said this car was 
delivered with a number plate which fell off after the delivery, a speeding ticket to pay from 
the delivery driver, and issues with marks on the car. She added that the dealer would not 
accept a return, so after 4 weeks she chose to sell the car.
Mrs M then acquired a third vehicle, through a third dealership, but did not raise a complaint 
about the quality of this vehicle. Having said that, after our investigator issued his view on 
the complaint, Mrs M did allude to some issues with the third vehicle. However, as it does 
not seem that Black Horse has had an opportunity to consider those issues, I cannot 
consider the third vehicle in this decision. Mrs M should contact Black Horse in the first 
instance if she remains unhappy about the third vehicle.
I should also say that Mrs M has complained about the financing arrangements for the 
vehicles, in particular the affordability, but this is being considered separately  in this 
complaint I am looking only at the quality of the vehicles.
Mrs M complained to Black Horse about the first car in July 2022. In its final response letter, 
Black Horse said it did not uphold Mrs Ms complaint about the first vehicle, in summary 
because a third-party main dealer confirmed that the reason that she was experiencing 
issues relating to the DPF on the vehicle was due to her driving style rather than there being 
a fault with the DPF system.
Mrs M also complained to Black Horse about the second car in July 2022. Black Horse 
issued its final response letter the following month, saying that it had partly upheld the 
complaint, and offering compensation of £143.73 for loss of enjoyment and trouble and 
upset. Black Horse said that the dealership had offered to cover the cost of the repairs, but 
there was no evidence that Mrs M had arranged for the repairs to be completed prior to 
trading in the vehicle, and that she had chosen to trade it in rather than taking up the 
dealerships offer, and this was before Black Horses involvement in the case. 
Black Horse also told us that it was not aware of Mrs Ms concerns about the cars until July 
2022.
Mrs M was unhappy with Black Horses response, so she brought her complaint to this 
service. Our investigator looked into the complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. Mrs 
M disagreed and asked that the complaint be passed to an ombudsman for review.
I issued a provisional decision earlier this month, in which I explained that, although I agreed 
with the investigators view, more information had since been provided so I wanted to give 
both parties an opportunity to comment.
Black Horse said it had nothing further to add. Mrs M responded to say that she didnt accept 
the outcome. I have set out her comments in more detail below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Because Black Horse supplied each car under a hire-purchase agreement, its responsible 
for a complaint about the quality, and theres an implied term that the car was of satisfactory 
quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a reasonable person 
would expect, taking into account all of the relevant circumstances such as (amongst other 
things) the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. When considering satisfactory 
quality, I also need to look at whether the car is durable  that is, the components within the 
car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time.
In this case, the first car was about eight months old and the second about two years old, 
with mileages of 3,755 and 20,316 respectively. The prices were lower than those of new 
cars. So its reasonable to expect that parts of each car would have suffered a degree of 
wear and tear, and that a used car would likely need repair and maintenance sooner than a 
new car.
Ive taken account of the relevant law, in particular the Consumer Rights Act 2015, (CRA). 
There are certain times, set out in the CRA, when a consumer is entitled to reject goods, in 
this case the car, if they dont conform to contract  a short term right to reject within 30 days 
of taking delivery, or a final right to reject if a repair or replacement hasnt resulted in the car 
subsequently conforming to contract  that is, it then being of satisfactory quality.
In my provisional decision I set out my reasoning as follows:
I set out above the information that Mrs M and Black Horse provided about the sequence of 
events. Black Horse sent in copies of the hire purchase agreements and notes of its contact 
with Mrs M, as well as its notes from its review of Mrs Ms complaint. Mrs M sent in copies of 
correspondence with Black Horse, further information about the timeline of events, and four 
breakdown reports from occasions when roadside assistance was needed with the first car 
(although she said there were numerous other occasions).Looking at the first car, Black Horses notes of its contact with Mrs M show that she called on 
23 June 2020 to say that the car had broken down three times since purchase. 
Unfortunately, there is no call recording, and no more detail on the notes, so I have no 
further information on what was discussed. But I can see that there was no further contact 
logged with Black Horse until August 2021, when Mrs M requested a settlement figure for 
the agreement, and no further reference to problems with this car until Mrs M made her 
complaint.
Ive looked at the breakdown reports, which were dated 11 and 13 June 2020, 26 November 
2020, and 25 August 2021. Three refer to DPF issues, and one to an issue with the oxygen 
sensor. Mrs M had mentioned other breakdowns, so we contacted Land Rover Assistance. 
Although it could only give us limited information over the phone, it did confirm the dates of 
call out  but the only dates on its system for Mrs Ms period of ownership were those 
corresponding to the four reports Mrs M had sent in.
Ive also looked at the information provided by Black Horse. In its final response letter it 
referenced the four breakdown reports mentioned above. Black Horse also said that the 
dealership that supplied the car to Mrs M had stated that it had not seen the vehicle since it 
was supplied, but that another garage - a third-party main dealer - confirmed the repairs it 
had completed.
I dont have the job sheets for these repairs, but Black Horse said that the first was in June 
2020, when the DPF was replaced at a mileage of 4,137. In October 2020 there was an oil 
and filter change. A few months later, in February 2021, the DPF was replaced again, at a 
mileage of 7,729 miles. And in June 2021 there was another oil and filter change.
I can see from the complaint-handling notes that when Black Horse contacted the third-party 
main dealer, a fifth repair was stated, in December 2020, relating to the oxygen sensor. This 
seems to follow on from the breakdown report for November 2020 mentioned above.
Black Horse said the third-party main dealer had stated there was no fault with the DPF and 
the reason for the issues occurring was due to the type of journeys the vehicle was being 
subjected to.
Black Horse further referred to the vehicles handbook, which described the DPF self- 
cleaning process (called regeneration) and the driving conditions required to achieve this, 
along with the consequences of these driving conditions not being met. And it referred to 
comments provided to it by the manufacturer, which included the following:
A driving style consisting of mainly short journeys or low speeds (<20 minutes, <25mph / 
40kph) results in the vehicle not being able to meet the parameters required to carry out an 
automatic regeneration.
In these conditions, soot levels can build up and cause the vehicle to present an amber 
warning light, followed quickly by a red warning light if driving styles are not changed to allow 
an automatic regeneration cycle.
Ive had a look at the manufacturers website, and it says:
During normal driving conditions, the DPF collects particulates in the exhaust to be burned 
off when it reaches a high temperature. As the filter becomes full, a cleaning process occurs 
automatically. This is known as regeneration. Shorter journeys, such as those often taken in 
a city, can make this process more difficult to achieve as the system does not get hot 
enough.On the website there is also an explanation of the relevant warning lights (red, amber and 
green) and what to do when the amber or red lights show. All this is consistent with the 
manufacturers comments to Black Horse.
Clearly the first replacement of the DPF in June 2020 was very soon after Mrs M acquired 
the car  the following month  and Mrs M had only driven around 380 miles. And there had 
been two breakdowns, with the DPF mentioned on the reports. So I accept its possible there 
was a fault with the DPF when Mrs M acquired the car. But this was remedied when the DPF 
was replaced, and I understand this was done under warranty and at no cost to Mrs M.
The second replacement of the DPF took place in February 2021 (also under warranty) only 
eight months later. But I can see that Mrs M had driven just under 3,600 miles in that period, 
which is lower than average. So its possible that Mrs Ms driving pattern didnt meet the 
conditions for an automatic regeneration cycle to take place. I also note that the breakdown 
report dated six months later - in August 2021  which referenced a regeneration of the DPF 
having been performed, showed a mileage of 11,019 miles. So Mrs M had driven about 
3,300 miles in the six months since the replacement of the DPF - again lower than average.
Ive thought carefully about what both parties have said. As the car was sold some time ago, 
and therefore a separate, independent, inspection isnt possible, I have to base my 
conclusions on the evidence I do have.
I accept that the DPF had to be replaced a second time, but the information from the 
manufacturer, and that from the third-party main dealer, suggests that this was due to the 
driving pattern - and the relatively low mileage is consistent with this. If there had been an 
ongoing fault with the DPF system, I would have expected to see more frequent reports of 
performance issues with the car, but at this point I havent seen evidence of this. Of the four 
breakdown reports provided, the first two were prior to the first DPF replacement, the third 
was unrelated to the DPF system, and the fourth showed that a regeneration of the DPF 
system was required and completed.
I appreciate that Mrs M has referred to other breakdowns, but no evidence has been 
provided, and as I mentioned above, Land Rover Assistance only had the four breakdown 
dates mentioned above on its system. So taking everything into account, Im not satisfied 
theres enough evidence to say that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply (or at least after the initial replacement of the DPF).
With regard to the second car, I have very limited information, and Mrs M only kept the car 
for a very short time. The brief description I have of the faults that Mrs M complained about - 
a number plate that came off and marks on the car - does not suggest that Ms M had 
problems driving the car. I understand that the dealership offered to remedy the faults, but 
Mrs M chose to trade in the car. And as I noted above, Black Horse offered compensation of 
£143.73 for loss of enjoyment and trouble and upset.
Ive looked at what both parties have said about the second car, but the faults mentioned 
dont seem to be unreasonable for a car of that age and mileage, and I dont have enough 
evidence to suggest that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when Mrs M acquired it. I 
consider Black Horses offer of compensation to be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, so I dont propose to ask it to do anything further.
I further said in my provisional decision that my conclusion was that there was insufficient 
evidence for me to fairly say that the cars werent of satisfactory quality, and therefore I 
didnt propose to uphold Mrs Ms complaint.As I noted above, Black Horse had nothing further to add. Mrs M was unhappy with my 
conclusions, saying that the first car broke down within days and was less than a year old 
when she acquired it. She said there were known issues and considerable breakdowns, and 
she had provided us with the dealership and Land Rover Assistance details as they would 
hold details of all of the faults along with the device history from the sale which they refused 
to provide to her.
I do understand that Mrs M feels strongly about this, in particular the first car. However, I 
explained in my provisional decision that we contacted Land Rover Assistance, and that the 
dealership that supplied the car to Mrs M had stated that it had not seen the vehicle since it 
was supplied. I reviewed all of the evidence available, but as the car was sold some time 
ago, that evidence is necessarily limited. 
Ive carefully considered Mrs Ms comments, but no new evidence has been supplied and 
therefore I have no basis on which to change my conclusions. So I am not upholding this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman