DRN-4056038
Complaint
Miss M has complained about loans Christian Paul Gachet (trading as 
Easylogbookloans.Tv) provided to her. She says she had a poor credit history and so it 
was irresponsible for her to have been provided with these loans.
Background
Easylogbookloans provided Miss M with two loans. The first of which was for £1,600.00 and 
taken in March 2017. This loan was to be repaid in 18 monthly instalments of £118.90. 
Miss M was then provided with a second loan in December 2018, which was 3 months after 
loan 1 had been settled. This was a loan for £800 and was due to be repaid in 18 monthly 
instalments of just over £100.
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Miss M and Easylogbookloans had told us. And he 
thought that proportionate checks would have prevented Easylogbookloans from providing 
these loans to Miss M. So he didnt uphold Miss Ms complaint. 
Miss M disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Ms complaint.
Easylogbookloans needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Easylogbookloans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to 
understand whether Miss M could afford to repay before providing these loans. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Easylogbookloans provided Miss M with loans for £1,600.00 in March 2017 and £800 in 
October 2018. Both loans had 18 month terms. Easylogbookloans says it agreed to Miss Ms 
applications after she provided details of her monthly income and expenditure. It says it 
cross-checked this against payslips that it asked her to provide to evidence her income. In its 
view, the income and expenditure information obtained showed that Miss M would be able to 
make the repayments she was committing to. Easylogbookloans says, in these 
circumstances it was reasonable to lend to Miss M on each occasion. 
On the other hand, Miss M has said she had a poor credit history and that these loans 
worsened her position. 
Ive carefully thought about what Miss M and Easylogbookloans have said. The first thing for 
me to say is that Easylogbookloans did take steps to verify at least of the information Miss M 
provided and didnt simply rely on what it was told. It asked for payslips to verify Miss Ms 
income. 
It looks like Miss M also said that she was in rented accommodation and paid £900 in living 
costs and had around £300 in other expenses including payments to existing credit 
commitments. So at face value, at least, the monthly repayments for both these loans did 
appear affordable. 
That said, bearing in mind the circumstances here, I do think that it would have been 
proportionate for Easylogbookloans to have taken further steps to obtain some more detailed 
information on Miss Ms committed expenditure. In my view, Easylogbookloans needed to 
take steps to verify Miss Ms committed expenditure. To be clear this does not mean that 
Easylogbookloans needed to obtain bank statements from Miss M.
Nonetheless Ive had a look at the copies of the bank statements Miss M has provided to us 
now, in order to get an idea of what Easylogbookloans is likely to have found out had it took 
steps to find out more about Miss Ms committed expenditure, at the time it provided these 
loans. 
By committed expenditure Im referring to Miss Ms actual living costs and regular credit 
commitments. And having seen what these were at the time Miss M was provided with her 
loans, Im satisfied that had Easylogbookloans requested this information  for example by 
carrying out a credit check - it would still have lent to Miss M. What Miss M was paying 
towards this didnt make the loan repayments unaffordable.
I accept Miss Ms actual circumstances at the time were far worse than she let on and 
having seen her bank statements the reason for this is clear. But the key here is that its only 
fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a lender did 
something wrong. And given the circumstances here, I dont think that proportionate checks 
would have extended into Easylogbookloans requesting bank statements from Miss M. So I 
dont think its fair and reasonable to expect it to have known why repaying the loans might 
have proved more difficult that the rest of the information shows. 
Finally, Ive also considered whether Easylogbookloans ought reasonably to have realised 
that it was increasing Miss Ms indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise 
harmful. However, Miss M made all of her payments towards loan 1. And it was a few 
months later that Miss M was provided with loan 2. So I dont think that it was immediately 
apparently that Miss M took out loan 2 to cover any possible hole left in her finances by loan 
1. Furthermore, Miss M only borrowed half the amount that she did for loan one when she 
was provided with loan 2. And she wasnt indebted to Easylogbookloans for an extended 
period of time either. 
As this is the case, Im satisfied that Easylogbookloans didnt increase Miss Ms 
indebtedness in a way that unsustainable or otherwise harmful.   
So overall, Ive not been persuaded that Easylogbookloans did anything wrong in deciding to 
lend to Miss M. Ive not been persuaded that reasonable and proportionate checks would have shown the loans to have been individually unaffordable. And I dont think that the loans 
were provided in circumstances where Easylogbookloans ought reasonably to have realised 
that it was increasing Miss Ms indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise 
harmful. 
As this is the case, Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Miss M. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman