DRN-3829681
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim she 
and her husband, the late Mr S, made under sections 75 and 140 and of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel system including a voltage optimiser 
and boiler doctor (the system).
Mrs S is represented by a claims management company (the CMC). Mr S has passed 
away since the complaint was made. But since he was present at the time of sale, I do refer 
to him regularly in this decision. 
What happened
The CMCs initial letter of claim under section 75 alleged that the following 
misrepresentations had been made that induced Mr and Mrs S to enter into the contract:
The solar system would not cost more than what could be recovered from the FIT 
(Feed-In Tariff) payments. 
Mr and Mrs S could make money from the solar panel system which would more than 
cover the cost of the loan. 
The salesman recklessly put forward calculations as to performance of the system 
which were false. 
And there was a breach of contract because:
The quote formed part of the contract  and since the promised returns have not 
been achieved this is a breach of contract.
The statement that Mr and Mrs S would not suffer loss by buying the system was a 
warranty which has been breached.
Shawbrook rejected the claim. The CMC wrote a further letter to Shawbrook which added a 
claim under section 140 of the Act and claimed that Mr and Mrs S relationship was unfair 
because:
The putting it all together table in the quote exaggerated the benefit of the voltage 
optimiser and the total savings, and the cost of credit was not taken into account.
Various reports have found voltage optimisers to provide much less benefit than 
quoted by P.
The self-consumption rate of 75% is unreasonably high.
The benefit of buying solar panels was greatly inflated by P, whilst the risks ignored.
Shawbrook again rejected the claim. The CMC then added some further points to the claim, 
including.
In 10% of cases involving P which the CMC was involved with, the figures used to 
calculate the benefits of the system over its lifetime did not match the ONS data on 
which P claimed it was based. The CMC said this was evidence that P was 
systematically and fraudulently inflating the figures to make the system appear more 
attractive to customers. 
Shawbrook rejected the claim again and the CMC referred the complaint to us, making the 
following points about the quote:
The voltage optimiser prediction was inaccurate, was not calculated using the 
consensus of independent reports available at the time of sale and was beyond the 
range of reasonableness. 
The personal allowance for electricity savings at 75% was a forecast not made with 
reasonable care and skill. 
The cost of credit was unaccountably omitted from the "putting it all together" section 
and the profit calculations. Including the cost of credit would have reduced the profit 
margin by £7,086.20.
Shawbrook still did not uphold the claim, and the CMC referred a complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Our adjudicator did not think the complaint should be upheld. The 
CMC responded to make made some additional points including:
For Mr and Mr S, and the average consumer, the quote is complex and difficult to 
understand. It is made more difficult by the implied verbal representations made by 
the sales representative which directly contradict what is written in the quote.
Because the adjudicator has been unable to resolve the complaint, Ive been asked to make 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The CMC has made the claim under sections 75 and 140 of the Act. So, I have considered 
these sections in particular, as well as other relevant law and regulations, relevant regulatory 
rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. I have read all of the 
CMCs and Shawbrooks submissions and taken all of these into account when making my 
decision. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service was set up to be a quick and informal alternative to the 
courts. So, I will not refer to every submission, comment, or relevant consideration. Instead, 
my decision sets out what I think are the most important points in order to explain my 
decision in a way that is intended to be clear and easy to understand. 
The quote  Your Personal Solar Quotation
Mrs S has said that her husband was interested in and followed the calculations that the 
salesperson took them through. So, I think that Mr and Mrs S were provided with the quote, 
and that Ps salesperson took them through this during the meeting. That is in line with my 
understanding of Ps sales process. 
So, I think the quote provides important evidence of what was likely discussed before Mr and 
Mrs S agreed to the purchase. The CMC has made specific points about where it thinks the 
quote was misleading, and its view that what Mr and Mrs S were told contradicted what was 
shown in the quote.The basic price and overall cost of the system
The basic (or cash) price of the system was set out clearly in the quote and the credit 
agreement as £7,520.00. However, the overall cost to Mr and Mrs S was more, due to them 
paying for the system using an interest-bearing loan. 
The quote showed several repayment options, including one over 180 payments of £79.28 
per month. This was slightly less than the actual amount on the credit agreement, since the 
initial repayment was deferred, which slightly increasing the overall interest payable. 
Nevertheless, I think Mr and Mrs S wouldve understood from the quote roughly how much 
the loan would cost per month. 
The credit agreement clearly sets out that the loan was repayable through 180 monthly 
payments of £80.59. It shows the total amount payable would be £14,606.20. So, I think that 
is the total cost that Mr and Mrs S wouldve expected to pay for the system.
Alleged misrepresentation - the solar system would not cost more than what could be 
recovered from the FIT 
As mentioned above, I think Mr and Mrs S wouldve understood that the price of the system 
was £7,520.00 but that overall, they would pay £14,606.20 due to the loan. 
The quote includes a table setting out the estimated performance of the system over 30 
years. This included the estimated FIT generation and export payments each year and a 
total for each at the bottom. The FIT payments were only shown for 20 years, since this is 
how long a customer would receive FIT payments from the date they registered for the FIT 
scheme.
The table showed the following totals for FIT payments over 20 years:
Generation Tariff £1,458.64 
Export Tariff £818.79
The quote did not go on to show the total 20-year FIT payments of the generation and export 
tariffs added together. Nevertheless, I think it wouldve been clear that the total of these two 
amounts added together (which is £2,277.43) was less than the basic price (£7,520.00) and 
overall cost (£14,606.20) that Mr and Mrs S had agreed to pay. 
In light of this, I think it is unlikely that the salesperson wouldve represented the cost of the 
system as being no more than the FIT income, when the quote showed that was not the 
case. 
Alleged misrepresentation  Mr and Mrs S could make money from the solar system which 
would more than cover the cost of the loan; The salesman recklessly put forward 
calculations as to performance of the system which were false. 
Ive found above that the quote made clear the estimated FIT income that Mr and Mrs S 
could expect to receive over 20 years was £2,277.43 in total. 
The same table included figures for the estimated savings over a 30-year period. The totals 
over 30 years were as follows:
Solar panel savings £7,584.01
Voltage optimiser savings £3,559.98Boiler doctor savings £3,821.62 
The table provided a total for all estimated income and savings over 30 years, which was 
£17,243.05. Mrs S has indicated she was aware of this total. This is more than the basic 
price of the system and the total payable under the loan agreement. So, I accept that Mr and 
Mrs S were likely to have been told that the overall benefits of the system over 30 years 
were estimated to exceed what they would pay for it overall, which was £14,606.20.
So, the question is whether this was a misrepresentation that induced Mr and Mrs S into 
purchasing the system when they otherwise wouldnt have done so.
FIT payments
The quote and MCS certificate show the system was expected to generate 1,296 kWh of 
electricity each year. The FIT statements provided show that it has on average exceeded 
this estimate each year since installation. So, the system is performing as expected in terms 
of electricity generation. 
The FIT payments are made based on the amount of electricity generated, with a certain unit 
rate paid per kWh of electricity generated. So, given the system has generated in line with 
what was expected, I have no reason to think the total FIT payments received are not (and 
would not continue to be) in line with what Mr and Mrs S were told. The CMC appears to 
have confirmed that is the case. So, the FIT income was not misrepresented.
Savings
The solar panel and voltage optimiser savings will be made on what Mrs S pays for 
electricity versus what she wouldve paid without the system. And for the boiler doctor (a 
boiler optimiser) savings would be made on her gas bill, again in comparison to what she 
wouldve paid without the system. So, this would not be money paid to Mrs S, but rather 
money she will have that she otherwise wouldve paid to her energy supplier. The savings 
are discussed further below.
Solar panel savings and the self-consumption rate
To calculate the savings from the solar panels, P used a self-consumption rate of 75%. Self-
consumption rate is the proportion of electricity generated by the solar panels that P 
assumed that Mr and Mrs S could use themselves, rather than exporting it to the grid. My 
understanding is that P tailored the self-consumption rate based on what it knew about the 
customer and how they used electricity. 
For example, since solar power would be generated in daylight hours, a person that is 
usually home during the daytime is able to use more of the power generated than someone 
who only tends to be home during the evenings. 
The CMC has argued that P shouldve used the industry standard self-consumption rate of 
50% when calculating the savings. But I dont think it was unreasonable for P to tailor the 
self-consumption rate based on the information available to it. And I have not seen sufficient 
evidence to persuade me that the self-consumption rate used by P was unreasonable in this 
instance (bearing in mind information available at the time of sale). Im aware that P has 
used lower self-consumption rates on other quotes that I have seen  which reinforces its 
claim that it was tailoring it to each customer.I think that the electricity savings from the solar panels were based on reasonable 
assumptions about the amount of electricity generated by the system and the self-
consumption rate. So, I dont think those savings estimates were a misrepresentation. 
That remains the case even if the savings have not in fact been as high as estimated. The 
savings will be dependent upon how electricity is used in the home and that is beyond Ps 
control. The quote included the following clarification in the section about electricity bill 
savings  The amounts saved will depend on the amounts used. So, I dont think the 
estimated savings were presented as being guaranteed.
Voltage optimiser
The CMC has suggested the estimated voltage optimiser savings were too high, given 
various reports that were available at the time. However, I understand that Ps method of 
calculating the savings was approved by an industry body, which is more qualified than I am 
to know if it was reasonable. 
How P calculated the savings was also explained in the quote, with reference to a specific 
report that informed its method of calculation. The quote also included the following 
statement alongside the figures for electricity savings from the voltage optimiser:
Savings are dependent on individual circumstances and may be higher or lower than 
those stated above and are based on the manufacturers own figures.
Overall, I think there were a number of reports which found that voltage optimisers could 
provide various levels of benefit. Considering those reports, I think that Ps estimated voltage 
optimiser savings in this case are not outside of a reasonable range. 
One report mentioned by the CMC said that the benefits of voltage optimisers would reduce 
over time. So, the CMC argued that savings from the voltage optimiser shouldve reduced 
rather than increased as shown in the quote. But it appears to me that P estimated the 
benefit of the voltage optimiser based on what it knew about the product it was selling, Mr 
and Mrs S home and how they used electricity. I am not persuaded that Ps estimate of the 
benefit of the voltage optimiser was unreasonable. And Im not persuaded that the benefit of 
the voltage optimiser shouldve been estimated to reduce each year, rather than increase 
with inflation. 
The CMC has raised no objection to the estimated benefits of the boiler optimiser. So, I have 
not considered this further. 
Summary of findings regarding savings
Overall, I think the underlying assumptions used to calculate the savings were reasonable. 
As such I dont think those figures constitute a misrepresentation. 
Allegation  In 10% of 80 cases involving P which the CMC was involved with, the figures 
used to calculate the benefits of the system over its lifetime did not match the ONS data on 
which it was claimed to be based. The CMC said this was evidence that P was 
systematically and fraudulently inflating the figures to make the system appear more 
attractive to customers. The CMC said I should infer from this that P had a predilection for 
misleading consumers.
Im not persuaded by the CMCs argument here. If there is an error in 10% of cases, that 
does not strike me as a systemic issue. Nor do I think it can be inferred from this that P had a predilection for misleading its customers by exaggerating the benefits of the products it 
was selling. 
Nevertheless, I have checked the inflation figures used by P in this case to see if there was 
an error. I can see that the figures used do not exactly match the average inflation figures for 
the ten-year period stated on the quote. 
However, the figures used by P in the quote are slightly lower than what I have calculated 
they should be (based on available on the ONS website on 30 November 2022). Im not sure 
why this is but it seems that P could reasonably have used slightly higher inflation figures 
here and they would still have been in line with the ONS data on which P said it had based 
its calculations. So here the figures were not incorrect in a way that exaggerated the benefits 
of the system. As such, this error was not to Mr and Mrs S detriment.
I dont think how P calculated the predicted annual inflation of the FIT payments or energy 
savings was unreasonable. It was based on ten years of historical inflation data from a 
reputable source (albeit P may have made an error in its calculation that did not adversely 
affect Mr and Mrs S). P explained in the quote how it had reached these figures and 
indicated that the actual inflation rates could be higher or lower. So, I dont think there was a 
misrepresentation due to the inflation figures used to illustrate the potential benefits of the 
system. 
I also think that the quote did make clear that other outcomes were possible, since it 
included graphs based on inflation being 0% throughout, and half the rate it used in the other 
tables. It also stated in the section about the ONS that, In reality the return may be higher or 
lower depending on the actual growth.
The quote formed part of the contract  and since the promised returns have not been 
achieved this is a breach of contract.
The quotation stated the following:
"The performance of solar systems is impossible to predict with certainty due to the 
variability in the amount of solar radiation (sunlight) from location to location and from 
year to year. This estimate is based upon the Standard Estimation Method set by 
MCS and is given as guidance only. It should not be considered as a guarantee of 
performance." 
However [P] will guarantee your Standard Performance Estimation output in year one 
that we stipulate in your contract.
The estimate referred to by this guarantee included the FIT generation income of £55.99, 
FIT export income of £31.43 and electricity savings from the solar panels only of £151.34 in 
year one  a total of £238.76. Mr and Mrs S did not make a claim under that guarantee. 
Overall, Im not persuaded that the estimated benefits over 30 years formed a contractual 
term. I dont think it would be reasonable to expect estimates to be accurate over such a 
long period given the potential fluctuations in energy prices. 
P did guarantee the benefits derived from the electricity generated in the first year but, as 
mentioned above, Mrs S system has been generating electricity as set out in the quote.
I think that estimates should be based on reasonable assumptions. And Ive discussed 
above that I think they were.The statement that Mr and Mrs S would not suffer loss by buying the system was a warranty 
which has been breached.
Mrs S said in her statement that they were told the system would be a great investment, a 
good idea and that there was nothing to lose. And that they agreed to go ahead because, 
we saw this as a worthwhile investment, we wanted to make the forecasted income and 
savings.
As set out in the quote, the financial benefits of the system will increase over time due to 
inflation increasing the FIT, electricity, and gas unit rates. While the actual inflation rates 
over future years cannot be known, Im satisfied that over the lifetime of the system the 
benefits will likely exceed what Mrs S paid for it. That is, in time I think it is likely that the 
system will be self-funding. 
So, while I dont think a warranty was created in the way suggested by the CMC, I also do 
not think that Mrs S will overall suffer a loss due to the purchase. 
For Mr and Mr S, and the average consumer, the quote is complex and difficult to 
understand. It is made more difficult by the implied verbal representations made by the sales 
representative which directly contradict what is written in the quote.
I have not found that the system was misrepresented to Mr and Mrs S. While the quote is a 
long document with a lot of information in it, there are graphs and tables, some of which I 
have mentioned above, which I do not think were complex or difficult to understand. Im also 
satisfied that the salesperson talked through the quote with Mr and Mrs S in an attempt to 
avoid any misunderstandings and allow them to ask questions if they were unsure. 
There was a breach of contract because P failed to carry out the work with reasonable care 
and skill, installed a system which is not fit for purpose, is not of satisfactory quality and/or 
does not operate as described.
Im not persuaded there was a breach of contract. The system is generating electricity as 
expected, so I think it is fit for purpose, of satisfactory quality and operating as described. 
Barring an issue Mrs S mentioned in her statement, which she confirmed has been resolved 
to her satisfaction, the system appears to have been installed with reasonable skill and care. 
I think that the CMC is implying the system did not operate as described and was not of 
satisfactory quality because the benefits have not matched the estimates in the quote. 
I have explained above that the estimated benefits shown in the quote were based on 
reasonable assumptions and discussed why I dont think the system was misrepresented to 
Mr and Mrs S. So, I do not think that the system producing lower benefits constitutes a 
breach of contract where that is due to FIT and energy unit rates not increasing as much as 
expected, or Mrs S not using as much electricity from the solar panels as predicted by P at 
the time of sale. 
Mr and Mrs S relationship with Shawbrook was unfair because: The benefit of buying the 
system was greatly inflated by P, whilst the risks ignored; Various reports have found voltage 
optimisers to provide much less benefit than quoted by P; The self-consumption rate of 75% 
is unreasonably high; The putting it all together table in the quote exaggerated the benefit 
of the voltage optimiser and the total savings, and the cost of credit was not taken into 
account.
I have explained my findings on the voltage optimiser, self-consumption rate and whether 
the benefits of the system were inflated or exaggerated. I think the estimated benefits were based on reasonable assumptions, and the quote included clarifications that these were 
estimates and not guaranteed returns. 
The putting it all together table would have been clearer if the table had included the cost of 
credit. However, I must consider the relationship as a whole, not just one table in one of the 
documents that were provided at the time of sale. 
Having done so, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs S knew what they were paying for the system, 
including the cost of credit. This was shown on the credit agreement. So, they could 
compare this to the estimated benefits, which it appears they did in deciding to buy the 
system.
In addition to this, the repayments table and the estimated performance over 30 years 
table in the quote both did incorporate the cost of credit into its illustration of the benefits of 
the system. 
The repayments table showed the annual benefit would not exceed the annual loan 
repayments within the period of the loan. And the estimated performance table showed it 
would be about 25 years before the overall benefits of the system exceeded the total amount 
payable under the loan agreement. 
I have not seen evidence that persuades me that P sold the system in a way that was not 
fair or clear, or in a way that was misleading. I think the information provided to Mr and 
Mrs S before they agreed to the purchase showed the cost and expected benefits of the 
system. The expected benefits were set out over 30 years, with warnings that those benefits 
were not guaranteed. I think it is likely that this was discussed with Mr and Mrs S before they 
agreed to the purchase. 
So, I do not think an unfair relationship was created between Shawbrook and Mr and Mrs S 
as a result of Ps actions when selling the system to them.
Summary
In summary, my findings are that:
There was no misrepresentation or breach of contract on the part of P. As such, I 
dont think Shawbrook would have any liability under section 75 of the Act. 
I do not think that a court would find that there was an unfair relationship between 
Shawbrook and Mr and Mrs S due to the way P sold the system to them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and the 
estate of Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman