DRN-2815283
The complaint
Mrs D complains about the way Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax administered her 
mortgage account when it provided a payment holiday for her in the summer of 2020.
What happened
Mrs D is unhappy with the way her account was managed following a three-month payment 
deferral period between July and September 2020 when she also making payments to her 
mortgage. Mrs D has the following issues:
Mrs D was coerced into a payment holiday that she didnt want and was told that 
there would be no added interest or increase to her contractual monthly payments 
(CMPs).
Mrs D believes that the repayments increased more than they should have and that 
payments havent been correctly allocated to her account
The term of the mortgage increased. It was to end on her 60th birthday but was now 
showing as her 61st birthday
Mrs D got a letter from Halifax in December saying that she missed a mortgage 
payment when shed paid it. 
Our investigator didnt believe that Halifax was responsible for any errors and didnt 
recommend that this complaint should be upheld. Mrs D disagreed saying that our 
investigator had not dealt with the issue that she had been told that there would not be any 
additional charges and that she could continue making payments as normal.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There seem to be two central aspects to this complaint. Firstly, that Halifax coerced Mrs D 
into a payment holiday that she didnt want and secondly that Halifax has increased the CMP 
unfairly. 
On the first point, the three-month payment deferral period or holiday was established 
following a phone call between Mrs D and a Halifax adviser on 16 June 2020. At that stage 
Mrs D said that shed been furloughed and had only received £200 the previous month. Mrs 
D thought she was unlikely to return to work until September. The monthly payment for June 
was then due. The payment for May had been made from Ms Ds overpaid balance on the 
mortgage. The Halifax adviser suggested that Mrs B may like take advantage of a payment 
holiday for the following three months (July, August and September) but as a result the CMP 
would increase although the adviser was unable to say at that stage by how much. Many 
thousands of people took advantage of payment holidays at this time as it offered assistance 
to consumers who were experiencing a sudden fall in their income by not requiring payments 
for three months. Beside the income advantage, there was a credit file advantage in that the 
non-payment wouldnt be reflected adversely on the credit file. This was offered to Mrs D in 
circumstances where she was facing difficulties making the mortgage payments and she 
accepted it. Given the circumstances Mrs D was in, I cant fairly say that such an offer was 
inappropriate. Nor can I say that this offer discussed and agreed to by Mrs D in a phone call 
and that appeared at that stage to meet her needs amounted to coercion.
Although Mrs D was granted a payment deferral period, she didnt take advantage of it and 
continued to make payments during the three-month period. I can see that following the end 
of the deferral period there was some adjustment of the CMP and I can understand that Mrs 
D is concerned that the payment deferral period had an adverse effect on the CMP.
It seems that prior to the deferral period, Mrs Ds repayments were on Halifaxs standard 
variable rate and payments were to be £669.21 from May 2020.  In the event no payment 
was made by Mrs D for May 2020 and the June payment was less than expected but Halifax 
used Mrs Ds overpaid balance to make up the balance of these payments. The change in 
the mortgage balance as a result would affect the calculation of the CMP.
I note, in order to assist Mrs D that our investigator exhibited a table in his view summarising 
the position as regards payments due, payments received and the arrears balance. The 
difference between what Mrs D was told she would be paying in May and then from 
December was caused by there being an increased balance on the mortgage because of the 
overpayment balance being reduced through the payments in May and part payment in June 
from the overpayment balance. As the mortgage balance increased, when a recalculation 
was done, the CMP increased. In my view the payment deferral period had no adverse effect 
on the CMP. 
Mrs D also had concerns about the term of the mortgage, but the term has not changed from 
when Mrs D took out the mortgage. I also appreciate that Mrs D received some complex 
information about the adjustments to the CMP which may have been confusing and a letter 
about arrears when a payment had just been made. That letter was presumably written for 
information purposes and didnt result in any detriment to Mrs D. 
But I expect there was some complexity in these calculations given that Mrs D had asked for 
and not taken advantage of the payment holiday and the adjustments to the CMP because 
of the changing mortgage balance from the use of the overpayment balance in May and 
June. But, again, from the information that Ive seen, the CMP that was finally arrived at 
appears to be correct and I cant see that the term of the mortgage has been affected. 
Overall, looking at the issues that Mrs D has raised in this complaint, I cant fairly say that 
Halifax has done anything wrong, so I dont uphold this complaint.
  
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman