DRN-3941343
The complaint
Mr S complained that he was pressured into taking out life and critical illness cover 
alongside a mortgage by Bank of Scotland plc (Bank of Scotland) in 2010.
What happened
In early 2010 Mr S transferred his mortgage from joint names to his sole name and took out 
a further advance. At the same time, he took out life and critical illness cover in relation to 
the borrowing. It looks as though the sale took place during a meeting at a branch of the 
bank. 
For the sake of clarity, Bank of Scotland offered a product called a Total Mortgage 
Protection Plan (TMPP) which could include life and critical illness cover and also payment 
protection insurance. In this case, the TMPP under consideration is policy number ending 
28807 and consisted only of life and critical illness cover. Mr S initially complained to Bank of 
Scotland about the sale of this policy in 2017, and it responded at the time. He has now 
raised a further point of complaint  that of being pressured into taking out the cover  and 
that is the only point I will consider in this decision. I cannot consider any other aspect of the 
mis-sale because  as Mr S is already aware - this would be outside the time limits that this 
service has to apply.
I should also say that Mr S held a separate TMPP, which Bank of Scotland noted as being 
originally taken out in 2006 and amended at various points, and which included only 
payment protection insurance. Mr S also complained to Bank of Scotland about the sale of 
this policy some time ago and this has been dealt with separately - it is not the subject of this 
complaint. 
Mr S said that he felt pressured into taking out the life and critical illness cover. In summary, 
he said he was going through a stressful period as he was caring for a parent as well as 
settling matters with his former wife (hence the need for further borrowing). He felt that the 
adviser put words into his mouth and that he was coerced into agreeing to something he 
didnt need.
Our adjudicator looked into Mr Ss complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr S 
disagreed, and asked that it be referred to an ombudsman for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr S sent in a letter setting out his recollections of what happened, along with a copy of the 
demands and needs statement he was given by Bank of Scotland. This recorded the advice 
given about the life and critical illness cover. He also sent in a copy of the cancellation notice 
for the policy. Bank of Scotland provided copies of the letters it sent to Mr S in response to 
his complaints about the policy. 
I summarised Mr Ss circumstances above, but Ive taken into account all of the information 
he provided, and its clear that he was going through a very stressful period in 2010. 
The sale of the policy took place during a meeting, so I cant know exactly what was said. 
But I have Mr Ss recollections, which Ive carefully considered, along with the demands and 
needs statement, which is the only documentary record of the meeting from the time. I 
accept that pressure is a subjective issue, but from what Mr S described Ive not seen 
enough to make me think he was pressured into taking the life and critical illness cover. 
Mr S was advised to take the life and critical illness cover, so I also have to take account of 
the possibility that he has remembered the suggestion that he should have the cover as 
being a requirement that he must have it  Im conscious the sale took place some 13 years 
ago and memories can fade with time. I can also see from the demands and needs 
statement that the adviser recommended PPI cover, but Mr S declined it (although its 
possible he did this because he already had the PPI policy he took out in 2006). So I think 
he could reasonably have chosen to decline the life and critical illness cover too. 
Ive also taken into account the cancellation information that Bank of Scotland gave Mr S at 
the time, which clearly referred to a cooling-off period of 30 days, but also went on to say 
that the policy could be cancelled at any time. Mr S said he didnt attempt to cancel the 
policy because he felt that he would be told that he still needed it. But its not clear why he 
may have reached this conclusion given that the document clearly stated you may cancel 
your policy at any time.. and gave a phone number that seems to be that of a central 
administration office rather than the adviser who sold him the policy. Ive also kept in mind 
that Mr S was using a conveyancer to deal with the transfer of the property into his sole 
name, so he seems to have had a separate source of legal advice if needed.
Taking everything into account, I cant fairly say its more likely than not that Mr S was 
pressured into taking the cover, which is what Id have to do to uphold this complaint. There 
simply isnt enough evidence that that was the case. So for the reasons Ive set out, Ive 
decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2023.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman