DRN-3123490
The complaint
Mrs C has complained about the identification that National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) required from her in order to update her address. 
What happened
Mrs C explains that shes banked with NatWest for around 30 years and has used her local 
branch to complete her day-to-day banking for as long. 
Mrs C approached NatWest in the branch to update her address. She says that despite 
being known to a number of the members of branch staff, she was still required to provide 
identification before her address was updated. Mrs C has complained that she thinks this 
could be related to the fact that shes either black, or female. Mrs C has also explained that 
recently shes felt that her relationship with the branch manager has been getting 
progressively worse. 
Mrs C complained to NatWest but it didnt uphold the complaint. In its response NatWest 
explained that Mrs C had been shown the system screen which required her to provide 
identification, to which she responded in a loud and aggressive manner. Mrs C was unhappy 
with NatWests response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered everything but he didnt recommend the complaint should be 
upheld. 
Mrs C didnt agree with the investigators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me 
to make a decision and bring matters to a close.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know itll likely come as a disappointment to Mrs C but Im afraid Im not upholding her 
complaint. 
Id firstly like to explain that Ive thought very carefully about everything that Mrs C has said. 
And in reaching my decision I havent lost sight of how concerning it must be for Mrs C to 
feel shes being discriminated against. 
I wanted to understand NatWests process for changing an address  as the key point here 
is to know whether NatWest has treated Mrs C any differently to how it should have, and if it 
did, why. So I asked NatWest to provide me with evidence of its address change process in 
branch  and it provided me with its internal processes as well as an explanation from a 
member of its branch staff. 
I note that NatWests process is to identify a customer in branch using their chip and PIN 
debit card, which I understand was done on this occasion. 
I also asked NatWest why Mrs C was required to provide additional identification, despite 
having been identified using chip and PIN. It explained that its system does, on occasion, 
require further identification to be verified before completing a transaction. This identification 
needs to be recorded on the system in order for the transaction to proceed. NatWest 
explained that if a customer is unable or unwilling to provide that identification, its unable to 
bypass the requirement, and it would then need to direct to customer to make their 
transaction using another channel such as online or telephone banking. 
I understand that NatWest showed Mrs C the screen which requested additional 
identification. So Im satisfied that this was required, and I think its unlikely that the staff 
member wouldve been able to manipulate the process to ask for identification that wasnt 
really required. And I havent seen anything else to suggest why, or how, this process 
wouldnt be random.  
Mrs C has explained that she shouldnt have had to provide identification as shes well-
known to several members of staff in the branch. And I do understand why it probably felt 
unnecessary to identify herself amongst several people who recognised her, especially as 
one of the members of staff has confirmed that he wouldve been willing to waive the 
identification requirement for Mrs C, given that she was known to him. But as the system 
required the identification to be shown and recorded, there wasnt an option to waive the 
requirement, so I dont think NatWest acted unreasonably in how it handled the request to 
update Mrs Cs address. 
Turning to Mrs Cs mention of discrimination based on her race or gender, Under the 
Equality Act 2010 businesses must not discriminate, either directly or indirectly, against 
consumers who have a protected characteristic, because of that protected characteristic. But 
for the reasons Ive explained above, Ive no reason to believe that NatWests branch staff 
asked Mrs C to provide identification for any reason other than because it was required by 
their process. In fact, Id be more concerned to learn that NatWest hadnt thoroughly verified 
Mrs Cs identity if the process required it. 
Ive also thought about what Mrs C has explained in relation to how the branch manager 
interacts with her in general. Again Ive thought carefully about this because I realise its 
important to Mrs C, especially as she has a longstanding relationship with the branch. 
Whilst I understand that Mrs C might feel as though shes treated differently to all other 
customers, by the branch manager, Im not persuaded Mrs C would know that this is the 
case. I say this because Mrs C wouldnt be aware of the way in which the branch treats all of 
its other customers, except for when shes in the branch. I dont know how often that is but I 
think its reasonable to assume that its only a small fraction of all of the branchs opening 
hours in any given week or month. 
NatWest has provided testimony from two members of staff from its branch, which suggests 
that Mrs C has previously had altercations with its members of staff and other customers. 
Both members of staff have also explained that on this particular occasion Mrs C raised her 
voice and became argumentative. I understand that the branch manager then invited Mrs C 
to have a chat about the situation in private. 
So whilst I dont know the full history or Mrs Cs relationship with NatWests branch staff over 
a longer period of time, Im not persuaded that shes treated differently to all other customers 
of the branch as a result of her race, gender, or otherwise. Its certainly clear to me that the 
relationship between Mrs C and the branch staff may have become somewhat difficult, but I 
havent seen enough to make me think that on this occasion NatWest acted unreasonably or 
discriminated against Mrs C.  I note that Mrs C has also referenced other complaints and their outcomes within this one. 
Whilst Ive seen what Mrs C has said, I have to base my decision here on the facts of this 
complaint alone. And for the reasons Ive explained, whilst I know its unlikely Mrs C will 
agree with me, my decision is that NatWest hasnt acted unfairly or discriminated against 
Mrs C by requiring identification to change her address.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint against National 
Westminster Bank Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Sam Wade
Ombudsman