The complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about charges hes been asked to pay by Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited (VWFS) trading as Audi Financial Services.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr B acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated
consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints
about it.
The terms of the finance agreement held Mr B responsible for keeping the car in
good repair and condition. He would be responsible for any damage to or
deterioration of the vehicle in excess of fair wear and tear.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are
returned at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and
Leasing Association (BVRLA).
Ive considered the photograph of the damage to the alloy wheel that was provided in
the inspection report completed after Mr B returned his car. Im persuaded that the
damage is beyond what would be considered fair wear and tear under the BVRLA
guidance and is therefore chargeable.
DRN-1592250I understand that Mr B says he wasnt present when the inspection happened and
that he suggests the damage must have happened after hed returned the vehicle.
But I think its more likely to have happened at some point in the 57,000 miles Mr B
travelled in the car during his lease, than in the significantly shorter period between
handover and inspection. So, Im not persuaded the damage wasnt present when
Mr B returned the car.
Ive reviewed the quotes provided and Im persuaded that the business are seeking a
reasonable sum to replace the wheel.
So, I dont think the business need to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2020.
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman