DRN-2831656
The complaint
Mr A complains about information shown on his Experian Limited credit file.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. In my provisional decision I said: 
Mr A had a current account with a bank that had an overdraft. The account number ended in
305. In 2018 Mr A reached an agreement with his bank to enter a payment arrangement to
repay the overdraft. The bank opened a new account for Mr A and transferred the overdraft
balance to it. The new bank account number ended in 808.
The bank reported that it had agreed a payment arrangement for the outstanding balance on 
Mr As credit file. Payments were taken from Mr As account ending 305 and used to
repay the balance of account ending 808 each month. Mr A cleared the outstanding balance
early and arranged for account ending 808 to be closed. The current account ending 305
was closed a short time later.
In January 2020 Mr A complained to Experian and his bank that arrears had been recorded
for 10 out of 12 months on his credit file. Mr A said he had made all the repayments due for
account ending 808 on time so no arrears shouldve been recorded. Experian raised a
dispute with the bank to check the information recorded.
Mr As bank responded to Experians dispute and said no amendment to his credit file was
required. Experian went on to reject Mr As complaint and explained the bank was
responsible for the information it reported.
Mr A referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought
Experian had queried the wrong account and upheld Mr As complaint. The investigator
thought Experian should dispute the information with Mr As bank again and pay him £100
for the trouble and upset caused.
Experian asked to appeal and said it had disputed the correct account after Mr A got in
touch. As Experian asked to appeal, Mr As complaint has been passed to me to make a
decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator thought Experian disputed the wrong account with the bank after Mr A got in
touch, but I havent found that to be the case. Experian has provided a copy of the dispute it
sent to the bank in January 2020. The dispute clearly relates to the account that was set up
by the bank in 2018, not Mr As original current account. Experians dispute says The
customer states there should be no late payment/arrears recorded on this account. Please
confirm status history.
The bank responded to say it had looked at the dispute, the payment arrangement had been
correctly applied to the account and no amendment was required on Mr As credit file in
respect of late payments or arrears. Im sorry to disappoint Mr A but Im satisfied the
information on file does show Experian disputed the correct account on his behalf in January
2020.
Experian isnt in control of the information the bank reports. I understand Mr A also 
complained to the bank and was told it cant tell credit reference agencies how to interpret 
the data reported. But I can see Experian has specifically checked the information reported  
by the bank concerning arrears on the account ending 808. And the bank confirmed no 
amendment was required. In this case, I can only look at Experians actions. And Im 
satisfied it did dispute the information reported, in line with Mr As request, and received a 
response that confirmed no changes were required.
I invited Mr A and Experian to respond with any additional comments or information they 
wanted me to consider before I made my final decision. Experian responded to confirm it 
accepted the provisional decision. We didnt hear back from Mr A. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given me new information to consider, I see no reason to change the 
conclusion I reached in my provisional decision. I still think Experian dealt with Mr As 
dispute and complaint fairly, so Im not going to tell it to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons give above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman