DRN-3927294
The complaint
Ms K is unhappy about Zurich Insurance PLCs (Zurichs) handling of a claim she made for 
damage to her property, caused by subsidence.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on 12 January 2023 explaining why I was intending to 
uphold this complaint. Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
What happened
Ms K says that she first noticed cracks in the garden wall and front bay wall of her 
property in August 2018. Tree roots were found under the bay and the tree was 
removed in 2021. Almost three and a half years on from when the cracks were first 
observed, Ms K says no real progress has been made to properly repair the damage 
caused to her property by the subsidence. 
Over time Ms K says the cracks have worsened so shes filled them in with 
expanding foam in an attempt to stop the cold. During that time the exterior of the 
property has also deteriorated. Ms K says shes had to spend more to keep warm 
over the last three winters and it has affected her mental health.
Zurich have accepted that some of the items Ms K has claimed for are covered by 
her policy, however, it has also identified areas of repair which arent covered by the 
policy so are Ms Ks responsibility to repair.
Ms K isnt happy with Zurichs report or the proposed schedule of work and has said 
that shed like them to properly repair the bay, not just with a quick fix of cement in 
the gaps as they have proposed.
Ms K complained to Zurich, however in its final response it concluded that the claim 
had been correctly dealt with. Still unhappy, Ms K brought her complaint to this 
service. 
One of our investigators looked into what happened and issued her view not 
upholding the complaint. She felt that Zurich had made reasonable attempts to obtain 
the councils agreement to the removal of the offending tree. She explained that it 
was the council, rather than Zurich, who were responsible for the delays in 
progressing the claim. 
In relation to the scope of works prepared by Zurich, our investigator concluded that 
the offer made by Zurich was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Our 
investigator also concluded that Zurichs proposal for using helibars and epoxy resin 
infill to repair the bay and sill section was reasonable. She explained that if Ms K 
wasnt happy with Zurichs proposals, she needed to obtain her own report and 
schedule of work and provide that to Zurich to be considered.
Ms K didnt accept our investigators view. She said she was asking for help with the 
gaps in the front of the bay. In Ms Ks opinion, not all the wood needed to be 
replaced, but the gaps she filled with expanding foam were supposed to be a 
temporary fix and she felt it was unfair to leave someone in that state. With regard to 
obtaining her own report or scope of works, Ms K said she asked two builders to give 
her a quote for repairs to the front bay to support her position that the subsidence 
caused the large gap between the wood and the windowsill, but they didnt get back 
to her. Ms K asked for an ombudsmans decision on her complaint. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to a different conclusion to our investigator and Im 
intending to uphold this complaint in part. I will explain why.
Ive first considered the period of time in which Ms Ks claim has been ongoing to 
decide whether or not Zurich should be held responsible for any of the delays, and if 
so, whether any compensation is warranted.
Compensation for delays in settling claim
Ms K first reported the claim on 30 July 2018. Zurich sent its contractor, F, to 
complete a Geotechnical Survey Report in August 2018, which identified abundant 
roots in the soil. In September 2018, Zurich sent its arborist P, to complete an 
arboricultural assessment. Ps engineer found that the damage to the property was 
likely due to subsidence caused by an Alder tree, situated on the adjacent street, 
owned by the council. 
F carried out regular monitoring from September 2018 to November 2021 (which 
included five months after the tree had been removed in June 2021). The November 
2021 monitoring reports showed that following the removal of the tree, the ground 
movement had stopped. 
Zurichs claims handler, C, wrote to Ms K enclosing monitoring reports, periodically 
while the claim was ongoing. However, between 7 December 2018 and June 2021, 
the only update provided was that P was chasing the council to remove the tree with 
no other meaningful updates on next steps. 
During this time period, in February 2020, the council decided to appoint their own 
independent specialist to review the monitoring information. At that time, C said that 
should no positive decision be forthcoming in the near future they may seek an 
alternative way forward to prevent further unnecessary delays. In March 2020, C 
asked whether Zurich might be able to bring some pressure to bear on the local 
authoritys insurers to obtain an earlier response. Ive not seen any evidence that 
Zurich did so, and as it took a further 14 months for the tree to be removed, Im not 
persuaded Zurich took any additional steps to move the matter forward.
As our investigator explained, subsidence claims can be lengthy and drawn out, 
especially where an insurer is reliant on a third party to co-operate regarding the 
cause of the subsidence. Where trees are owned by other parties, an insurer cant 
remove them without permission, and often detailed evidence is required to support 
that request. However, ICOBS 8.1.1 requires an insurer to settle claims promptly and 
fairly. After considering the action taken on the claim since 2018, I think Zurich has 
provided Ms K with poor service and caused some avoidable delays. In terms of the impact of the cracking that Ms K had to live with, I understand that this reduced her 
ability to enjoy the property, but Im also mindful that they werent so significant that 
they caused her property to be uninhabitable, so, despite some loss of enjoyment, 
Ms K was still able to live in her home during this period. 
Taking everything into account, I think that Zurich could have taken more proactive 
steps to engage with the council regarding the trees removal, from March 2020 when 
C first requested assistance. Or, as C suggested, an alternative way forward could 
have been considered from February 2020. I think that either of these actions could 
have served to move the claim forward more efficiently. 
I asked Zurich for more information about why neither step appears to have been 
taken, but as the people whod originally been involved with the claim are no longer 
available to answer questions about the claim, no further clarity could be provided. 
However, Zurich did forward copies of emails from their agent to the council, which 
showed that between January and October 2019, Zurichs agents sent four emails to 
the council regarding the tree removal and received three responses from the 
council. A further 20 months passed before the tree was removed.
Ms K has told us that the time taken to progress the claim caused her worry and 
discomfort as she had to live in a cold house, and inconvenience as she had no help 
from her insurer with carrying out temporary repairs, that she had to do herself in the 
meantime. I dont think Zurich has treated Ms K fairly in the way its handled her 
claim and Im currently of the view that its actions have caused her stress and 
inconvenience at points over a prolonged period. 
So, Im intending to require Zurich to pay Ms K £500 for the distress and 
inconvenience shes been caused by the way its handled her claim.
 Ive next considered Zurichs scope of works and its proposed settlement of Ms Ks 
claim. 
Has Zurich made a fair offer to settle Ms Ks claim?
On 11 August 2021, following the removal of the tree, Zurichs contractor attended 
the property with Ms K and her representative, to consider the damage Ms K had 
claimed for and clarify whether or not it was covered by the policy. Notes of this 
meeting were included in Zurichs business file for Ms Ks complaint. 
Ms K believes that an effective repair could only be achieved by replacing the bay 
and the window above it. However, our investigator thought that the works proposed 
by Zurich were likely to achieve an effective repair without doing so.
Having considered all of the available evidence, and after asking Zurich for further 
information relating to its scope of works and proposed settlement offer, Ive come to 
a slightly different conclusion than our investigator. While I agree the replacement of 
the bay and window isnt necessary to repair the damage, I dont think the settlement 
amount is adequate. I say this because, having reviewed the meeting notes referred 
to above, it seems that there are some areas of repair highlighted by the loss 
assessor, that havent been included in the scope of works, or provided for in the 
settlement offer. I asked Zurich to provide its comments on each of these elements of 
the claim, however, it was unable to do so, due to key individuals who were involved 
in the claim, no longer being contactable.
Ive set out below the five elements of repair that I think have either been omitted, or 
not adequately accounted for in Zurichs proposed settlement offer. In section 1.8 of the minutes dated 11 August 2021, the loss adjuster noted that the 
location of the external wall was adjacent to the damage to the front of the property. 
He suggested the foundation was likely to be minimal in depth with holly bushes 
growing adjacent to the wall. He said that area of cover would need to be explored 
further. However, Ive not seen any evidence to suggest that further investigation was 
carried out to support the 25% contribution the loss adjuster later arrived at. In the 
circumstances, I think a 50% contribution would be a fairer way to resolve this part of 
Ms Ks claim. Ive explained the reasons why I think this should be increased, along 
with other parts of the claim, below. 
The scope of works sent to Ms K, attached to the offer letter, detailed works required 
to be carried out to the living room (which I assume was the lounge, as referred to in 
the minutes), bedroom and external areas. However, the August 2021 minutes refer 
to two other areas for which the loss adjuster recommended a cash settlement be 
made for the decoration works. In particular, severe cracking was observed to the 
hallway lounge wall which he said needed to be repaired, lined and redecorated. 
Also, the loss adjuster recommended cash settling the repair works needed to 
redecorate the cracking in the front bedroom landing wall (which appears to be 
distinct from the area for which the claim was declined  namely the left hand side 
alcove and ceiling). Therefore, Im minded to conclude that Zurich also need to 
include this in the settlement which Ive outlined below, along with the reasons why.
There were two other areas of damage, highlighted by the loss adjuster, which I dont 
think Zurichs proposed works go far enough to repair either. The first is in relation to 
the front bay window on the ground floor. The loss adjuster observed that the sill 
could have been adequately repaired with a cement fill and redecoration, if the 
windows had been in good condition. However, no proposed repair was detailed for 
the sills, in the windows current condition. As the damage caused by subsidence 
would need to be addressed, regardless of the state of the windows, I would have 
expected an alternative repair to be proposed that would achieve an adequate repair 
in the current circumstances. Therefore, Im also minded to conclude that Zurich 
need to include this in the settlement which Ive outlined below.
Also, in relation to the front room, a comment was included at the end of the minutes 
under the heading, Damp to Front Bay Window, Ceiling and Walls to say that the 
pre-damaged or pre-loss state of the relevant areas was water-damaged, so internal 
repairs and redecoration to those areas would be betterment. Again, in the context 
of indemnifying an insured party for a subsidence claim, where repair works would 
have been required to a particular area, to repair the subsidence related damage, 
then we would expect the insurer to carry out those works, or cash settle them. So, in 
this case, I dont accept that the presence of water staining would remove that liability 
to repair under the policy. I appreciate that Zurich believes issues with the roof would 
need to be repaired, so that the ceiling wouldnt suffer new water damage once 
repaired, however, as Zurich isnt carrying out the works, I dont see how that is its 
concern. The settlement offer should still cover the cost of all the repairs necessary 
to address the damage caused by subsidence. Ive explained below how I think 
Zurich should settle this part of Ms Ks claim.
How to put things right
In considering what Zurich needs to do, to put things right for Ms K, I have limited 
information to base my award on. Zurich havent been able to provide any additional 
information in relation to the five issues Ive identified above and Ms K also hasnt 
provided any reports or quotations for me to consider. As the subsidence occurred more than four years ago, I dont think that requiring Zurich to send another 
contractor to the property to re- assess the scope of works, is a viable option, as the 
passage of time will also have impacted the state of the property. So, taking this into 
account, Ive considered what is the fairest alternative way to settle the claim and 
complaint.
The offer letter sent to Ms K in November 2021 set out a gross settlement sum of 
£4,152.54, from which the £1,000 excess would be deducted, before the balance 
was paid to her. In Zurichs case file there is a record of a call between C and Zurich, 
explaining how C had arrived at that gross figure. The redecoration of the lounge was 
allocated £2,219.43, the repairs to the bedroom were allocated £797.82 and the 25% 
contribution to the repair of the boundary wall was calculated to be £1,135.29.
It is this information, together with an early schedule of costs, provided by Zurich 
which have formed the basis of my proposed award, detailed below, as I consider 
they are reflective of the likely costs relevant to each element of repair.
1. Boundary wall: C explained that the boundary wall was showing signs of wear 
and tear, and a holly bush was affecting the wall, which wasnt connected to 
the house. Elsewhere in the evidence, a comment was also made that the 
foundations were likely to be shallow, but further investigations would be 
needed before making a settlement offer in relation to the boundary wall. C 
offered £1,135.29 as 25% contribution to the wall. However, I dont think that 
is sufficient. In the absence of any further investigations being undertaken, I 
think a 50% contribution would be fair in the circumstances, given the 
proximity of the wall to the large tree which caused the subsidence, and 
taking account of wear and tear and the impact of other small vegetation near 
the wall. So, I think Zurich should increase its cash offer for repair to the wall 
by an additional £1,135.29.
2. Hallway lounge wall: The loss adjuster said this needed to be repaired, lined, 
and redecorated. Ive seen information that suggests if the entire hallway was 
repaired and redecorated the resulting cost would be approximately £650 
(excluding doors and door frames which werent accepted as part of the 
claim) but the whole area wasnt affected by the subsidence, so it would only 
be those areas that were that would be covered. On that basis, I think a fair 
contribution to the redecoration of the damaged hallway lounge wall, for the 
subsidence related damage, would be 50% of that sum, so, £325.00.
3. Landing near front bedroom: The loss adjuster also recommended cash 
settling the repair works needed to redecorate the cracking in the front 
bedroom landing wall which was subsidence related. Ive seen information 
that suggests if the entire landing near the front bedroom was repaired and 
redecorated, the resulting cost would be approximately £760. So, I think a fair 
contribution to the redecoration of the landing near the front bedroom, for the 
subsidence related damage, would be 50% of that sum, so £380.
4. Living room - ceiling above bay window: C explained that as there was water 
ingress to the bay window ceiling due to unrelated wear and tear to the roof 
above the window, the redecoration of the room would not include that 
aspect. Therefore, a cash settlement of £2,219.43 for the redecoration of the 
lounge was included in the settlement. As Ive explained above, I think the 
settlement amount should cover the redecoration or the ceiling above the 
window. Given that is proportionally, a small part of the overall room, I think 
the cash settlement amount for the redecoration of the living room should be 
increased by £300 to cover that additional area.5. Living room - repair to sill: I have no information in the case file which 
specifically refers to costs regarding the repair of the sill. However, I have 
seen estimates to repair other areas of damage with epoxy resin, and to 
redecorate wood surfaces. Based on those estimates, I think an additional 
£250 should be included in the settlement offer, to cover repairs to the sill 
which was damaged by subsidence.
So, having considered all of the available information, Ive provisionally decided that 
Zurich should increase its settlement offer to Ms K by an additional £2,390.29. 
But I should add, as Ive outlined above, the challenge here is that Ms K disputes the 
settlement is reasonable but hasnt provided any expert reports to demonstrate 
otherwise. And Zurich has only been able to provide very limited details, as those 
involved in the claim are no longer available for comment.
So, Ive reached a provisional conclusion on what the fairest settlement is, based on 
the limited information I have available, which I think is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case. If Ms K obtains further information in support of her 
position, such as builders reports or schedules of work, then she should submit this 
to Zurich to consider in the first instance. But based on all the (limited) evidence both 
parties have provided, Im minded to conclude the settlement Ive outlined is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
I concluded by saying I was intending to uphold the complaint and require Zurich to pay, in 
addition to the initial offer of £3,152.54, an additional £2,390.29 to fairly settle Ms Ks claim, 
together with interest, and £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience shed 
been caused by the way her claim had been handled.
I asked both parties to provide any final comments or information they wanted me to 
consider, by 25 January 2023. Ms K accepted the conclusions set out in my provisional 
decision. However, Zurich didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as neither party have provided any new arguments or information for me to 
consider, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. I 
therefore uphold this complaint and require Zurich to pay the awards detailed below.
Putting things right
For the reasons detailed in this decision (which include the reasons set out in my provisional 
decision), I uphold this complaint and require Zurich Insurance Plc to pay Ms K:
the initial settlement sum of £3,152.54;
an additional £2,390.29 in full and final settlement of her subsidence claim;
8% interest on the two awards detailed above, from the date of the original offer (11 
November 2021) to the date the payment is made to Ms K (Note: If Zurich Insurance 
Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Ms K how much its taken off. It should also give Ms K 
a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate); and£500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience shes been caused by the 
way Zurich Insurance Plc has handled her claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Zurich Insurance Plc to pay the 
awards detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman