DRN-2525348
The complaint
Mr Rs complaint is about a transfer from a Child Trust Fund (CTF) with Forester Life 
Limited. He is unhappy that the value transferred was calculated using the unit price on the 
date the transfer request was received by Forester, rather than that of the date of the 
transfer, as that would have given a higher value. 
What happened
In 2017 Mr R started the CTF, which was subsequently transferred to Forester. In 2019 he 
decided to change to a junior ISA with another provider. 
The new product provider wrote to Forester on 22 August 2019 with instructions to transfer 
the cash value of the CTF to it. That instruction was received by Forester the following day.
Before Forester started to process the instruction, a further direct debit contribution was 
called for from Mr Rs bank account. This was paid on 2 September 2019 but had to clear 
through the banking system before allocation to the CTF could be confirmed. Due to this 
payment, Forester delayed processing the transfer until the payment had cleared. The 
transfer was completed on 11 September 2019, including the additional payment, but based 
on the unit value on the day the instruction was received. 
Mr R wasnt happy that despite the transfer not taking place until 11 September, the unit 
value used was that from 23 August. This was because the September value was higher 
than the August value and Mr R believed Forester had deprived his child of money that was 
rightly his. He complained to Forester.
Forester responded to the complaint, but didnt uphold it. It explained the transfer request 
was received on 23 August 2019. It aims to process transfers in five to seven working days, 
however, the actual time for processing is dependent on workflow at the time. Forester 
confirmed the processing time must allow for uncleared contributions to process so the funds 
can be included in the transfer. It explained if the transfer was being processed whilst a 
payment was being collected it can cause further delays due to the funds having to be 
recalled by the bank. Any slight delay in the processing doesnt alter things as the date of 
instruction remains the date used for the calculation of the transfer value. 
One of our investigators considered Mr Rs complaint. Ultimately, she upheld it in part. She 
was satisfied there was nothing wrong with Forester processing the transfer as at the date of 
the instruction  it was normal practice in the industry. Nor did she think that the transfer was 
unduly delayed or that this was done in order for Forester to retain growth between 
instruction and transfer. 
However, the investigator considered that Mr R had made a valid point when questioning the 
treatment of the additional contribution paid shortly after the transfer instruction was received 
by Forester. She concluded that it was not appropriate for Forester to backdate the value of 
the contribution to the date of the transfer instruction, given it hadnt been made at that date. 
As such, she concluded Forester should pay the value of the contribution as at the date it 
was received, less whatever had been paid out already. Interest at 8% simple should be 
added from 11 September 2019 to the date of settlement. In addition, she considered this 
matter had caused Mr R some upset and inconvenience, and it should pay him £50 in 
recognition of this. 
Forester said that when it gets transfer instructions it doesnt cancel the direct debit mandate 
separately when a transfer instruction is made, although a customer could do so. It also 
quoted from HMRC guidance which states:
The transfer should be carried out by the old provider as soon as requested by the new 
provider, subject to the reasonable business period required to carry out the transfer (not 
exceeding 30 calendar days). The transfer should not be delayed due to waiting for re-
registration of investments, or receipt of outstanding government contributions or dividends 
or other income from investments. Any sums received after transfer should be forwarded to 
the new provider together with details of the CTF in respect of which the sums have been 
received.
Forester said that is what happened in Mr Rs case. It asked that the complaint be referred to 
an ombudsman.
Our investigator highlighted to Forester that the additional payment made to the CTF after 
the transfer instruction was received was not simply forwarded to the new provider. Rather it 
was invested into the CTF as of the date it was received, and its value backdated to the date 
of the transfer. 
In response Forester calculated what difference to the amount it would have transferred to 
the new provider if the 2 September 2019 payment had its value not been backdated. It 
calculated this as 18 pence. It repeated its request for the complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman.
Mr R said his understanding from selling shares in the past is that its standard in the 
industry for a transfer to be done in five business days. He didnt consider Forester dealt with 
the transfer in a reasonable business period and it manufactured a longer period by waiting 
to see if the next payment would be made. Mr R also considers the terms and conditions are 
unclear as the effective date is not defined. He also commented that Forester didnt explain 
why the CTF holdings werent sold on the effective date, but rather 11 September 2019 - 19 
days later. He remained of the opinion this was Forester using the CTF to make money for 
itself.
In addition, Mr R accepted the loss on the 2 September 2019 payment was 18 pence. 
However, he thinks the true loss is the £56.64 difference in unit value between 23 August 
and 2 September 2019. 
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is about the transfer of an investment for Mr Rs child from Forester to 
another provider. Whilst Mr R has said he wanted the investment transferred as it was, 
i.e. as the investment contained within the fund, that wasnt going to be an option as he was 
transferring to a different provider that used a different fund for investment. If hed wanted to 
move the investment from the CTF to a junior ISA with Forester that was to be invested in 
the same fund, it may well have been possible to transfer the holdings between the two products. However, a transfer from one business to another will need to involve a cash 
transfer value being passed to the new provider, which will be why the new provider 
changed the transfer form.
When a transfer request is made it is normal for the provider to treat the transfer as being 
done with effect from the date the instruction is received. This prevents a consumer being 
subject to the vagaries of the administration process within the product provider. Most 
providers will have normal service standards for completing the administration on changes to 
products, but these standards are not always met because a provider cant always predict 
when it is going to be busier than usual. Forester has confirmed its normal service standard 
is five to seven working days, which is quite typical within the industry, but that doesnt mean 
it will have been deemed to have done something wrong if it doesnt comply with the normal 
timings if that was for good reason. 
In this case the transfer instruction was received on 23 August 2019. It was entirely 
reasonable for Forester to use that date as the one used for the valuation of the CTF for 
transfer purposes. I know that Mr R believes Forester should pay out what the fund value 
was on 11 September when it was actually transferred, because the value was higher than it 
was on 23 August. I can understand why he would want the higher value. However, had the 
administration taken less time, and happened at a point where the fund value was lower, I 
dont think Mr R would have been happy with that situation. As we have explained it is quite 
standard practice for the transfer value to be calculated using the date the instruction was 
received and I dont think Forester did anything wrong in doing so. As such, I wont be asking 
it to make any settlement in this regard.
Had the administration of the transfer instruction been started within the first couple of days 
of receipt Forester could have stopped the direct debit payment being called for, not that this 
is something it routinely does. However, the paperwork started being processed after the 
automated system had called for the 2 September 2019 payment, so it was always going to 
be collected. Whilst the payment was received, when a direct debit is collected there is a 
window in which the payment clears, during which it might be recalled. So Forester couldnt 
include the payment in a transfer until it was satisfied the payment wasnt going to bounce. 
In light of this, I am not persuaded Forester purposely delayed the processing of the transfer 
to make a profit from the situation as Mr R believes.
That said, Im not persuaded Foresters treatment of the 2 September 2019 payment was 
appropriate. The payment was received after the effective transfer date and shouldnt 
reasonably have been applied to the CTF and then its value recalculated using a unit value 
from before its payment. Forester has confirmed if the £12.09 had simply been added to the 
transfer value, the transfer value would have been 18 pence higher. This reasonably should 
be paid to the new provider now, along with interest at 8% simple per annum.
This matter has clearly caused Mr R significant upset. Whilst I dont consider most of that 
was due to anything Forester did wrong, I do think the addition of the issue with the 
September 2019 payment would have increased the upset. In light of this, I consider 
Forester should pay Mr R £50 compensation.
Putting things right
Forester should forward to the new provider the amount it has calculated plus simple interest 
at 8% per annum, from 11 September 2019 to the date of settlement. In addition, it should pay Mr R £50 for the upset and inconvenience this matter has caused 
him. 
My final decision
My decision is that I partially uphold this complaint and require Forester Life Limited to settle 
the complaint as detailed above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am 
required to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman