DRN-4389437
The complaint
Mrs M complains that First Complete Ltd cancelled a policy and started another policy on her 
life without her knowledge.
All references to First Complete include its appointed representatives.
What happened
The facts of this matter arent in dispute. In summary in 2018 Mrs M took out a term 
assurance policy written on her life and settled in trust  the trustees being Mr M and Miss 
M. In 2020 the policy was cancelled and replaced with a Relevant Life policy. The owner of 
that policy was a business that Mrs M was a director of at the time  Ill call the business V. 
Mrs M became aware of the replacement policy in 2022. The policy was cancelled by the 
provider when it learned that incorrect information had been given during the application 
process. This complaint is about First Complete who sold the policy. A separate complaint 
has been set up against the provider.
First Complete said it took instructions regarding the cancellation from Mr M. Mrs M 
remained very unhappy  she said that the policy had been set up fraudulently.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld. She said that First Complete 
should have checked with Mrs M before cancelling the first policy and its failure to do so had 
left Mrs M without life cover. Accordingly, she recommended that First Complete offer to 
source a new policy on the same terms as the cancelled one. If the premium was greater 
than £75.77, she said that First Complete should calculate the difference in premium and 
multiply it by the number of months the policy would run. She said the offer should be open 
for 12 months. She also recommended that compensation was paid to Mrs M in the sum of 
£400.
First Complete didnt agree. It said that it was reasonable to assume that she provided 
permission for Mr M to act on her behalf. It also felt that it was more likely than not that Mrs 
M would have been able to afford payments on the first policy  therefore the cover would 
have cancelled, and she would have no cover in place. So it didnt agree with the suggestion 
to source a new policy for Mrs M.
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware Ive summarised the background to this complaint. No discourtesy is 
intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I find are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. Ive fully reviewed the complete file. For the following 
reasons I agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator:
Im satisfied that First Complete cancelled Mrs Ms original policy without her 
permission. This is at the heart of this complaint. I dont agree that it was reasonable 
for the adviser to assume that Mr M had Mrs Ms consent. The adviser should have 
spoken to Mrs M before taking any action. This accords with the providers guidance 
for intermediaries which makes clear that the person to be covered will need to 
answer all questions about themselves. However, the adviser has confirmed that he 
only spoke to Mr M.
I havent disregarded First Completes point that correspondence was sent to Mrs 
Ms home address therefore had she not agreed with the policy she would have 
raised a concern earlier. However Mrs M believes her post was being intercepted, 
which is plausible given the background to this complaint. In the circumstances I find 
that Mrs M was unaware of the policy cancellation until 2022. Likewise, Im not 
persuaded that the change in premiums alerted Mrs M to the fact that the policy itself 
had been changed. But in any event my finding is that First Complete shouldnt have 
cancelled the first policy without speaking to Mrs M.
First Complete applied for a second policy through the provider which it transpired Mr 
M and Mrs M werent eligible for. The policy was cancelled, and premiums refunded 
 but Mrs M now has no life cover in place, I find it would be fair and reasonable for 
First Complete to source a new policy for Mrs M. I accept that by Mrs Ms own 
admission she may struggle to meet the premium payments. For this reason, I find it 
reasonable for the offer to be open for 12 months in order for Mrs M to arrange 
finances. Of course, if she chooses not to or for any reason doesnt do so, the offer 
will lapse.
I agree that it would have been distressing for Mrs M to find that the life cover she 
had in place had been cancelled without her knowledge. She wanted the security of 
having cover in place for her adult daughters. I find compensation is due for the 
distress and upset she experienced. Having taken all the circumstances into account 
Im satisfied that £400 is merited.
Mrs M feels very strongly that the cancellation of the first policy and the taking out of 
the Relevant Life policy was fraudulent. But First Complete didnt conclude that a 
fraud had been committed. I dont find that was an unreasonable conclusion in the 
circumstances. For completeness I would add that even if my conclusion had been 
different, I have no power to require First Complete to report the matter to any 
prosecuting authority. I note that Mrs M is now pursuing this matter independently.
Putting things right
Mrs Ms original policy had:
A sum assured of £200,000
A policy end date of 12 July 2050
A monthly premium of £75.77First Complete should source a policy on the terms set out above. If the premium exceeds 
£75.77 First Complete should calculate the difference in premium and multiply it by the 
number of months, the policy would run. The resultant lump sum should be paid to Mrs M, if 
she wishes to proceed with the policy. This offer should be valid for 12 months.
Additionally for the distress, upset and trouble this matter has caused Mrs M First Complete 
should pay her £400.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require First Complete Ltd put things right 
as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman