DRN-3238014
The complaint
Mrs and Dr R complain that the settlement payment AXA Insurance UK Plc offered doesnt 
cover the cost of repairs to a damaged fence, following a claim on their home insurance 
policy. 
Mrs and Dr R are being represented by their daughter Ms R in this complaint.
What happened
In August 2020 a stolen car crashed into a section of fence that forms the perimeter of Mrs 
and Dr Rs property. They made a claim to AXA in March 2021, which it accepted under their 
home insurance policy. 
AXA sent a surveyor to inspect the damage. His view was that to replace the damaged 
section of fencing and remove a large tree stump left when a tree was knocked over in the 
crash, would cost £3,121.98 (excluding the excess payment). This was for 15 linear meters 
of fencing, which was judged to require 12 fencing panels to complete. 
Ms R says there are 14 and a half panels that were damaged by the crash. In total she 
thinks its reasonable for AXA to pay for 15 fence panels to be replaced. Based on the 
average of the quotes she obtained, she estimates the additional three panels will cost 
around £750 to install. Ms R says the surveyor paced out the damaged section instead of 
measuring it accurately She says the total length of damaged fencing is closer to 22 meters.
Ms R also says AXA underestimated the cost of a tree surgeon, waste removal, general 
gardening and clearing in the settlement figure. In addition, a gate was damaged during 
repair works when the last fence post was removed. She says moving the post disturbed the 
gate and it now needs replacing. 
AXA says the claim was assessed correctly and replacing 12 panels is appropriate to 
reinstate the damaged fence. 
Ms R says temporary panels were installed in the interim to provide some security and 
privacy, at a cost of £150. She says the pandemic has caused timber prices to rise by 
around 30%, which AXAs quote doesnt consider. She also says her parents house is in a 
prestigious area, which often means contractors inflate their quotes. Because AXA didnt 
change its view, Ms R referred her complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Rs complaint. She thought AXAs inspection report 
showed it had assessed the damage, repair work and area of fencing to be replaced fairly. 
She says the length of fencing panels detailed in the schedule of works, when multiplied by 
12 cover a length of just under 22 meters. This fits with Ms Rs measurement of the 
damaged section. 
Ms R didnt think this was a fair outcome and asked for an ombudsman to review her 
complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mrs and Dr Rs complaint. I appreciate this will 
be disappointing for them, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Theres no dispute that the damage was caused by an insured event covered under Mrs and 
Dr Rs policy with AXA. So, I neednt consider this point further. My remit here is to consider 
whether AXA handled the claim fairly and whether its offer of a settlement payment is 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Ms R says that following the crash the fence was damaged in multiple areas and street 
furniture had also been destroyed and flung onto her parents property. She says this 
included a damaged letter box, lamp post and a large tree. 
I have seen photos of the damage taken immediately after the incident and later when Ms R 
took a video showing the expanse of damaged fencing. Its clear that significant damage was 
caused to the fencing, tree and that street furniture was uprooted causing further damage. I 
can understand how this must have been a distressing incident for Ms R and her family.       
Ms R says she spent some considerable time dealing with contractors. She says many of 
whom wouldnt deal with insurance claims, and many were extremely busy and unwilling to 
provide written comprehensive quotes required by AXA. Ms R says the complexity of the job 
caused by leaning and obstructive trees also put some contractors off. 
AXA says it received an initial contact regarding the damage in December 2020. It says this 
was to ask for information about the cover provided. No claim was logged at this time as 
information regarding costs were to be obtained. Ive read the claim notes AXA supplied. 
The notes show Ms R contacted it again in March 2021 and advised she had been delayed 
due to ongoing communication with the local council. The notes say she had only now 
received quotes from contractors, and these seemed higher than shed thought they would 
be.
In an email to AXA in April 2021 Ms R sets out the additional costs involved, including the 
removal of the tree stump, debris clearance and gardening. She says the council had 
refused to clear away debris from the damaged street furniture, as what was left was now on 
private land. I can see the quotes Ms R obtained were for £4,050 and £4,290.
AXA thought the quotes Ms R obtained were excessive and appointed a surveyor to inspect 
the damage. 
The surveyors report says:
the section of the perimeter fence that has been damaged is for 15 Lm along the bushes, 
some of the bushes and tree stump will have to be removed to access the fence posts and 
panels that have been damaged, the policy holder has advised that we dont want this 
partially doing we want all of this replacing as it will look odd, Ive advised of the insurers 
liability that they will cover the damaged area only, anything more than that would be 
betterment, Ive further advised that should they wish to replace the whole fence then this 
would be fine although this would be their liability and not the insurers. The TPS scope of 
works has been compiled using start items for machine and operator with PC sums for thematerials. The scope of works provided I feel fulfils the insurers liability in this matter.
And:
approximately 15 linear metres of fencing have been damaged as opposed to the 30 Lm 
that the Policy Holder is claiming for, this is in an area behind the bushes on the road, some 
of these will have to be removed to access the area and replace the damaged fence panels 
posts and gravel boards, the machine has been included with an operator to carry out the 
scope of works, The scope of works provided I feel fulfils the liability of the insurer in this 
matter, however this comes to £3121.98 of which the PH will not accept.
The schedule of works AXA produced shows 12 fencing panels are needed. It provides 
details of the type of panel, concrete post and base panels that are to be used. The 
dimensions of the fence panels are confirmed as 1.83m in width. The posts are 90mm in 
width. Based on this 12 panels and 13 posts will stretch just over 22m, which is the length of 
fencing Ms R says needed replacing. So, from this, my understanding is 12 panels will cover 
the damaged section.
I have thought about Ms Rs concern that AXAs surveyor paced out the distance rather than 
using a more accurate measure. We asked the business for it to obtain comments from its 
surveyor on this point. The response says:
   
what I explained to Miss [R] at the time was that the whole fence cannot be allowed for, 
insurers will not pay for undamaged fence panels and posts to be replaced, I explained that 
the insurers liability was to cover for the damaged areas only, she was quite adamant that 
they would like a full replacement so that everything was matching, I advised that once 
pained [sic] they will all look the same 
With regard to my pacing out a measurement, I have done this for years where an awkward 
measurement couldnt be taken as the property is on a corner. I hope this is ok? 
AXAs schedule of works includes the cost of machinery (to remove a stump and excavate 
for the new posts and panels), a skip, fencing materials, a general labourer, and a fencing 
labourer. Based on the description of the damaged fencing the schedule of works 
adequately covers the required repairs. I cant see that the quotes Ms R has supplied include 
additional work, which isnt detailed in AXAs schedule. I also note the quotes Ms Rs 
supplied dont include measurements of the area of fencing being replaced. This is quoted in 
panels.  
I must rely on the expert opinion provided to determine what work is required and how much 
this should cost. Its been shown that AXAs surveyor measured the length of fencing 
needed and costed repairs for roughly the same length of fencing Ms R had measured. Its 
settlement offer includes the cost of moving and disposing of the debris left on Mrs and Dr 
Rs property. As well as the removal and disposal of the tree root using a digger. 
I acknowledge Ms R thinks AXAs scope of works is inadequate. However, I dont think this 
is shown to be the case from the information supplied. And I havent been provided with an 
alternative expert opinion that shows otherwise. 
I can appreciate it was frustrating for Ms R to arrange for quotes to be provided. From what 
she has said this took some time and effort. But I dont think this demonstrates that AXA 
behaved unfairly. Based on the records provided Mrs R initially told AXA in December 2020 
that she was unsure if a claim was going to be submitted. She said she would like to obtain 
costs beforehand. When quotes were provided to AXA it offered a cash settlement that 
covered its assessment of the insured loss. This is because it didnt agree with Ms Rs contractors costing of the work required. AXA says its costing is based on national rates 
using approved scoping software that incorporate local variances. Based on the information 
provided I think AXA has shown it arrived at its settlement payment fairly. 
Ms R also says that damage was caused to her parents gate when her contractor was 
replacing fence posts. We asked AXA for it to comment on the additional costs claimed here. 
It says it hasnt been made aware that further work was required when repairs had 
commenced. So, this hasnt been considered as part of the claim. It says its claims team will 
be able to look at the additional costs on provision of the evidence.
Repairs to the gate were highlighted in the referral to our service. But based on the 
information Ive seen this wasnt communicated to AXA as part of the claim. Mrs and Dr R 
should first contact AXA and provide evidence of their further costs for it to consider. 
Having considered this point, I think AXAs response is fair.  
I acknowledge Ms R says temporary panels were put in place at a cost of £150 whilst repairs 
to the fence were being arranged. Although I understand the reasons why this was done, it 
isnt something thats provided for under Mrs and Dr Rs policy and I havent seen evidence 
that it was agreed with AXA. Because of this I dont think its reasonable that AXA should 
have to pay for this cost.  
In summary, having considered all of this, I think AXA behaved fairly in relying on the terms 
of its policy when handling Mrs and Dr Rs claim and offering a settlement payment. So, I 
cant reasonably ask it to do anymore to resolve their complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Dr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman