DRN-1641239
 
The complaint
Mrs H complains that National Westminster Bank Plc mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance ("PPI") policy.
 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy which Mrs H took out when she opened a credit card 
account in 1999. NatWests told us that the account came with two credit cards.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Hs case.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I need to decide what I thinks most likely 
based on the information I have.
I've decided not to uphold Mrs H's complaint. I'll explain why.
Due to the time thats passed, NatWest no longer has a copy of Mrs Hs credit card 
or PPI application. I dont find that surprising, given how long ago she opened the 
account. Mrs H says she didnt know she had PPI. But without stronger evidence, I 
can't safely conclude that she wasn't made aware that the PPI was optional.
 
I've also borne in mind that the monthly premiums for the PPI would have shown on 
Mrs H's credit card statements. I would have expected her to check her statements, 
and to query the premiums with NatWest if she wasn't sure what they related to. I've 
seen nothing to suggest that she did so.
 
Overall, I think it's more likely than not that NatWest made it clear that the poilcy was 
optional, and that Mrs H decided to take it, knowing that she had a choice - but I can 
understand how she my no longer remember this, so many years after the event.
 
NatWest and Mrs H agree that it didnt recommend the PPI to her, or give her advice 
about it. This means that NatWest didn't have to check that the policy was suitable for Mrs H. It was for Mrs H to decide whether to take the PPI, knowing what other 
means she'd have had of making repayments if she was off sick, or if she lost her 
job. But NatWest did need to give her enough information to allow her to decide for 
herself whether the policy was right for her.
 
Ive borne in mind that Mrs H has told us shed have been entitled to between three 
and six months pay from her employer if shed been off sick. But if shed made a 
successful claim on the policy for accident, sickness or unemployment, the policy 
would have helped with her monthly credit card repayments for up to 12 months per 
successful claim. Thats longer than Mrs H has told us shed have been entitled to 
sick pay or redundancy pay for. Whats more, it would have paid out in addition to 
any payments Mrs H received from her employer. So she could have used those to 
meet other day-to-day expenses. And she wouldnt have had to use any savings she 
may have had to make her credit card repayments.
 
I acknowledge that Mrs H has told us she was on a low wage at the time. But the 
amount of PPI premium added to her account each month depended on the 
outstanding balance. So if she hadnt spent much on the card, the premium would 
have been correspondingly low. And since she was paying for it monthly, she could 
have cancelled it at any time with no further cost if she decided she no longer wanted 
it. I note that Mrs H has told us her cancellation rights werent explained to her. But 
Im satisfied that shed have been aware at the time that she had the policy. And if 
shed wanted to cancel it, I think its likely shed have contacted NatWest about this. I 
can see from NatWests records that the policy was, in fact, cancelled in January 
2003.
 
I accept that its possible the information NatWest gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt 
as clear as it should have been. But Ive explained that Im satisfied, on balance, that 
Mrs H chose to take out the policy. So I think she was interested in this type of cover, 
even if shes understandably forgotten that no, so many years later. Based on what 
I've seen of Mrs H's circumstances at the time, she wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations and the policy (for example, conditions about unusual 
employment arrangements or existing medical conditions). So I think the policy could 
have been useful for her if she'd been off sick, or if she'd lost her job. 
 
Taking everything into account, Im not convinced that Mrs H would have made a 
different decision, even if better information had been provided. On balance, I think 
shed still have taken out the policy.
 
Ive taken account of all Mrs Hs comments, including what shes told us about her difficult 
personal situation at the time. But while I sympathise with her, this doesnt change my view 
that the PPI wasnt mis-sold.
This means NatWest doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H.
But NatWest has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H because:
NatWest got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs H about that. Because NatWest didnt tell Mrs 
H, that was unfair.To put that right, NatWest has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
 My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so National Westminster Bank Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H.
But National Westminster Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mrs H any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2020.
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman