DRN-4024774
The complaint
Mr M complains that Scottish Equitable Plc (trading as Aegon) poorly administered his
pension including charging him the wrong fees over several years.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties and spanned several years. As 
such Ive only summarised them below.
On advice from his IFA Mr M opened a personal pension with Scottish Equitable in 2013. 
Mr Ms advisor had negotiated a discounted rate of management fees for the plan. Scottish 
Equitable paid Mr Ms advisor a set-up fee of £7,000 from Mr Ms funds.
In 2015, due to a change in the available fund choices, Mr Ms pension was moved onto the 
Aegon Retirement Choices (ARC) platform and he was told that his fee structure would 
remain the same.
In 2017 Mr M became concerned that Scottish Equitable had been collecting their 
management fees at a higher level than hed agreed to since the plan started in 2013.
Over the following years Mr M made several complaints to Scottish Equitable about the 
incorrect fees being charged and their administration of his pension. Ive only summarised 
below what I consider to be Mr Ms main concerns.
He said;
The fees Scottish Equitable had taken since the start of the plan were incorrect. And 
he was specifically told when he moved onto the ARC platform that the fees wouldnt 
change.
He wanted to see the invoice his IFA had sent Scottish Equitable for the set-up fee. 
And he didnt think they should have sent the IFA any money unless the request had 
come directly from him as the terms of his policy noted.
As part of a subject access request (SAR) hed been sent documents relating to 
other customers plans.
The SAR revealed a third-party company that he did not recognize had paid a 
cheque to Scottish Equitable. So, he wanted to know what their relationship to his 
plan was.
His name and personal data had appeared on paperwork from a company called 
Novia who hed never heard of. He didnt think Scottish Equitable should be sharing 
his data with other parties without asking him first.
He asked for an updated SAR in his email to Scottish Equitable on 6 March 2020. 
But they failed to provide him with the requested information.
Scottish Equitable issued several final response letters and other communications to Mr Ms 
complaints. In summary the relevant parts said;
February 2018  Scottish Equitable concluded in their investigation that Mr M had 
been incorrectly charged since the plan was opened in 2013. They said theyd 
calculated Mr Ms losses as £901.58 and £57.54 for loss of interest which was 
calculated using the Bank of England base rate of 0.5% plus 1%. Scottish Equitable 
also offered £750 for the inconvenience they caused. They explained Mr M was 
moved on to the correct charging structure in October 2017.
July 2018  Scottish Equitable sent Mr M a spreadsheet showing their calculations.
December 2018  Scottish Equitable apologised for including other customers 
information in Mr Ms SAR. They also explained that they hadnt received an invoice 
from Mr Ms IFA, but the set-up fee was requested as part of the IFAs online journey 
in setting up the plan.
October 2019  Scottish Equitable reiterated their previous offers. They said they 
relied on Mr Ms IFA to notify them of agreed fees to be paid. Regarding the third- 
party Mr M had concerns about, they were unable to comment on their relationship 
with Mr Ms plan due to the passage of time. They clarified that Novia administered 
their platform services between 2013 and 2014. And again, apologised for including 
others information in Mr Ms SAR.
Mr M also made a complaint to his IFA regarding the set-up fees as he thought theyd been 
paid more than the agreed amount. An ombudsman at our service made a final decision on 
that complaint against the IFA upholding it. They asked the IFA to pay Mr M back the 
additional fees plus interest.
Mr M brought his complaints about Scottish Equitable to our service. He said his complaint 
about the fees has been ongoing for several years, hes had to speak with many different 
members of staff at Scottish Equitable and the whole situation has affected his mental 
health.
Our investigator said it was unfair to apply only 1.5% returns to Mr Ms overpayment of fees. 
And suggested Scottish Equitable should use the actual rate of returns Mr Ms plan has seen 
over the period. But he said the £750 offered by Scottish Equitable was fair compensation 
for the upset theyd caused.
Scottish Equitable conducted another loss assessment which they say showed a loss of 
£592.80. They say theyve mistakenly paid this amount to Mr M already, acknowledging that 
he hadnt accepted our investigators view. They initially said the incorrect fees had only been 
charged between 2015 and 2017. But later, when challenged by Mr M, acknowledged the 
incorrect fees had been charged between 2013 and 2017. So, they agreed to conduct 
another loss assessment.
Mr M said he thought that the loss hed suffered due to the increased fees should be grown 
by 8% simple interest as hed seen in other decisions by this service, including that of his 
complaint against his IFA. He didnt think wed addressed his concerns about his SAR 
request; the incorrect set-up fees and the way Scottish Equitable had handled his data. He 
was also concerned that Scottish Equitable were doing the calculations themselves and said 
he couldnt trust the results. And he didnt think it would be fair for Scottish Equitable to 
deduct any tax if the compensation was paid to him directly.
I sent Mr M and Scottish Equitable a provisional decision on this complaint. In it I said I didnt 
think Scottish Equitable had acted fairly. I set out how they needed to put things right for 
Mr M. Ive included the findings from my provisional decision below. 
My provisional decisionIn my provisional decision I said;
Its clear that Mr M has very strong feelings about his complaint, having provided detailed 
submissions in writing in support of his complaint points, which I can confirm Ive read and 
considered in their entirety. However, I trust that Mr M will not take the fact that my findings 
focus on what I consider to be the central issues as a discourtesy. In line with this services 
role as a quick and informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding 
whats fair and reasonable here.
Theres no dispute that Scottish Equitable charged Mr M the incorrect fees on his pension 
plan. And Scottish Equitable have now agreed that the fees were incorrect from 2013 (as 
they also did in a letter from December 2018). It isnt my role to punish a business when they 
do something wrong. My role here is to assess whether Scottish Equitable have put things 
right by putting Mr M in a position as close as possible to what he would have been in had 
the error not occurred.
In trying to put things right Scottish Equitable have agreed to carry out a loss assessment to 
calculate how much Mr M has overpaid his fees. Scottish Equitable then said theyd add 
interest to that figure at a rate of 1.5%. I agree with our investigator that the interest element 
of the compensation is unfair. Had the correct fees been taken then the additional funds 
would have remained in Mr Ms pension and seen growth in line with his investments. 
Therefore, fair compensation would be for Scottish Equitable to calculate the returns that 
each overpayment would have received using the actual growth of Mr Ms fund. Ill set out 
below how I think Scottish Equitable need to put things right.
I appreciate Mr Ms concerns that Scottish Equitable themselves will be doing the 
calculations which he doesnt trust. However, Im satisfied Scottish Equitable are in a 
position to accurately calculate Mr Ms losses. If Mr M accepts my final decision it will 
become legally binding and may be enforced against Scottish Equitable through the courts if 
he demonstrates theyve failed to follow the directions Im making.
Ive also considered Mr Ms concerns that Scottish Equitable paid an incorrect initial fee to 
his IFA when the pension was set up.
In the ombudsmans decision about the IFA I can see that there was a discrepancy between 
the client agreement Mr M held with his advisor which said Mr M would pay a fee of 3% 
(around £6,730) and the recommendation report his advisor produced which noted a fixed 
fee of £7,000 to be paid.
The ombudsman ruled that the IFAs fee should have been 3% and not the £7,000 that they 
were paid. And directed the IFA to repay the additional fee plus interest.
I can appreciate Mr Ms disappointment that Scottish Equitable havent provided evidence of 
what fee was requested by his IFA as a set-up fee. But where evidence is conflicting or 
missing  as it is in this case  I base my decision on what I think is most likely to have 
happened. And considering the wider circumstances of Mr Ms complaint against his IFA, I 
think its likely Mr Ms IFA requested an incorrect fee of £7,000 from Scottish Equitable during 
their application for his plan. And Scottish Equitable simply followed that request. 
While I can see Mr Ms view that fees should be agreed by him before theyre paid. I have to 
consider whether Scottish Equitable made an error that led to a financial loss. And in this 
case Mr Ms IFA has redressed the financial loss hes suffered. So, I dont think 
Scottish Equitable need to do anything more to put right the incorrect set-up fees being paid.Mr M also has concerns about how Scottish Equitable have administered his pension in 
terms of the data theyve shared with other parties. As part of a SAR Mr M said his pension 
had received a cheque from a company he didnt recognise. And I can understand Mr Ms 
upset that Scottish Equitable, due to the passage of time, are unable to explain to him how 
that company were linked to his pension.
The ARC was a Self-invested personal pension (SIPP). A SIPP is a wrapper which you can 
put a wide range of investments and financial instruments into. So, its common for several 
parties to be involved. But while theres no evidence of Mr M suffering a financial loss as a 
result of this third parties involvement in his SIPP, Ive kept this in mind when considering 
the redress for the impact of Scottish Equitables administration of Mr Ms plan.
Mr M is also concerned with the involvement of Novia in the administration of his SIPP. 
However, while Mr M may not have been aware that Novia supplied administration and 
development services to the ARC platform, I wouldnt necessarily expect a customer to know 
the exact details of how Scottish Equitable operated their business.
Ive seen no evidence that Mr Ms data was mishandled by Scottish Equitable. But even if 
Scottish Equitable didnt have the correct authority to pass Mr Ms data on to Novia, I cant 
see that hes suffered any financial losses from his data being shared. Although I accept 
Mr M is upset by this.
In his email to Scottish Equitable on 6 March 2020 Mr M said;
I will now prepare my court action documents to recover the stolen monies and costs 
from Aegon under the Simple Procedure process but before I submit this, I am 
hereby making a further Subject Access Request under Article 15(1) of the GDPR, as 
the previous request only covered the period up to June 2018.
Mr M says Scottish Equitable never responded to his SAR and so he didnt receive the 
information he requested. The SAR is connected with Mr Ms concerns around 
Scottish Equitables administration of his pension and the incorrect fees they claimed from 
his funds. As Mr Ms SAR relates to the operation of a personal pension, it is something our 
service can consider. But as Ive already said, it isnt my role to punish a business when they 
do something wrong. Ive got to consider the impact of Scottish Equitables error.
I dont believe Mr M has instigated any court proceedings as he awaits a determination from 
this service. So, I dont think Mr M has suffered any kind of financial loss as a result of the 
SAR not being actioned. However, I can see how his request being ignored has caused 
Mr M further annoyance and upset. Therefore, Ill consider this when deciding how much to 
award for the impact of Scottish Equitables errors.
I can see more generally Mr M has been upset by Scottish Equitables administration of his 
plan. For example, he says they initially incorrectly valued his plan, he was sent information 
about other customers and he received conflicting information about the initial and on-going 
fees from Scottish Equitable when he questioned them about it. Ive also kept this in mind 
when deciding if Scottish Equitable have done enough to put things right for Mr M.
Mr M has also questioned why our Service wouldnt direct Scottish Equitable to apply 8% 
simple interest to the compensation, rather than calculating the growth on his fund. As he 
said it would make it difficult for him to be able to assess whether Scottish Equitables 
calculations were accurate. He also made reference to a past decision on his IFAs 
complaint where 8% was added.I appreciate Mr Ms point that it would be easier for him to check the calculations if a simple 
8% was added. However, we look at each case individually and my aim is to put Mr M into, 
as close as possible, a position he would have been in had the error not occurred. And as Ill 
set out below, I think the fairest way to settle this complaint is to use the actual returns Mr M 
saw on his plan during the period in question.
The responses to my provisional decision
Scottish Equitable responded to my decision to say the calculations, dating back to 2013, 
and factoring in various transactions is complex. So, theyre concerned that the calculations 
couldnt be interpreted as clear and simple. 
Scottish Equitable also put forward an offer to Mr M to settle the complaint. The offer 
included deductions for compensation Scottish Equitable say theyve already paid Mr M. 
They said £118.90 was added to Mr Ms funds in November 2017 and £582.90 was added in 
December 2022. 
Mr M rejected Scottish Equitables offer and provided a detailed submission to comment on 
my provisional decision. He also sent evidence which he says demonstrates 
Scottish Equitable havent paid him the compensation they say they did in 2017 or 2022. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also reconsidered my provisional decision which forms part of my final decision.
As I said in my provisional decision, while I may not comment on everything raised in Mr M 
and Scottish Equitables latest submissions to our service, Ive thoroughly read and 
considered all the evidence and arguments from both sides. My decision focuses on the 
relevant key issues, and on what I consider fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
the case.
Firstly, Id like to assure Mr M that this complaint is set up against the correct business. 
Aegon is a trading name of Scottish Equitable.
Mr Ms concerned that Scottish Equitable arent able to accurately assess his losses. He 
says this was demonstrated when they did an incorrect calculation in December 2022 which 
contradicted their earlier calculations. Mr M says he hasnt been told what the figure of 
£582.90 represents. However, I dont think the calculations behind the figure 
Scottish Equitable paid in error makes a material difference to this complaint other than to 
show a further error that they made. 
I say that because Scottish Equitable seem to accept that the loss calculation in 
December 2022 was incorrect and only considered incorrect fees from 2015, not 2013 as 
they should have. And they say the amount was paid to Mr M in error. 
Mr M also says Scottish Equitables offer mentioned an amount of £118.90 which they say 
was paid to him in 2017. However, Mr M says this amount was never paid to him and wasnt 
mentioned in any of his complaint responses or SAR requests to the business. 
I appreciate Mr Ms concerns that he cannot see in his account the payments that 
Scottish Equitable say they paid him in November 2017 and December 2022. Hes sent in transaction statements for his SIPP over the two periods which dont show any incoming 
payments of these amounts.
However, the statements show a transaction summary in the SIPP and dont include a cash 
balance. Its possible the payments have been made into the cash wrapper as 
Scottish Equitable suggest but arent showing on the report that Mr M has supplied. But in 
any case, its fair to say Scottish Equitable must demonstrate to Mr M that previous 
compensation payments have been made before deducting them from their current loss 
calculation. And while Ive considered Mr Ms submission carefully, Scottish Equitable are 
still best placed to carry out the loss assessment.  
Mr M has clarified that the cheque seen in his SAR was to Scottish Equitable from a third 
party he didnt recognise, not received by them. Its disappointing that, due to the passage of 
time, Scottish Equitable are unable to explain to Mr M what the involvement of this third party 
was in relation to his SIPP. I understand that Mr M finds that upsetting. And thats something 
Ive considered in my assessment of the compensation Ive recommended. But, on balance, 
Im not satisfied theres evidence to show the cheque was paid in error or that Mr M suffered 
any financial loss in relation to the cheque being paid to Scottish Equitable. 
Mr M is also still concerned that Ive said Scottish Equitable may make a notional reduction 
for income tax from the compensation if it cant be paid into his plan. 
Scottish Equitable have said that they should be able to pay any compensation into Mr Ms 
cash wrapper  as they say they did in December 2022. But if they cant because it will 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance, its fair for them to make a notional 
deduction for the likely income tax Mr M would end up paying at the point he would have 
taken that from his pension as income. 
I agree with Mr M that had the erroneous additional fees not been taken they would have 
remained in his fund. But the tax deduction is only applied if Scottish Equitable are unable to 
pay the compensation into Mr Ms fund. If the money was paid to Mr M from his pension it 
would be subject to income tax at his marginal rate. Which is what Ive asked 
Scottish Equitable to deduct but only if the compensation has to be paid directly to Mr M.  
Mr M also asked me to consider directing Scottish Equitable to pay for set-up fees for a new 
pension so that hes able to transfer away from them. I can understand why Mr M may be 
unhappy with Scottish Equitable. And he is free to consider his options for the future of his 
pension. But it wouldnt be fair for me to direct such an award because transferring away 
from Scottish Equitable is a matter of personal choice for Mr M. It isnt a direct consequence 
of Scottish Equitables errors with Mr Ms pension.
As Ill set out below, Scottish Equitable will now need to conduct a loss calculation to assess 
Mr Ms losses. I accept that these are complex calculations, and it may be subjective as to 
whether they can be provided to Mr M in a clear and simple format. However, its 
reasonable for Mr M to ask for a copy of the calculations so that, if he wants to, he can check 
them for accuracy. So, Scottish Equitable should supply Mr M with a copy of the calculations 
that clearly demonstrate how they arrive at the final figure of compensation. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Scottish Equitable to put Mr M, as far as 
possible, into the position he would now be in but for their delay.To put matters right Scottish Equitable should calculate the loss on each incorrect fee taken 
from the plan opening in 2013 to when it corrected the fee structure in October 2017. They 
should use the notional value of the plan had the correct fees been taken in each calculation.
I also consider that Mr M will have lost out on investment returns on this loss amount 
between the date each fee was taken and now. So, losses need to be brought up to date by 
calculating the returns Mr Ms plan has actually seen between the date of each incorrect fee 
being taken and the date of my final decision.
The compensation amount should if possible be paid into Mr Ms pension plan. The 
compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
I understand from Scottish Equitable that it should be possible to pay the compensation into 
Mr Ms plan. However, if a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or 
allowance implications, it should be paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a 
notional reduction to allow for future income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
If Mr M hasnt yet taken any tax-free cash from his plan, 25% of the loss would be tax-free 
and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement 
presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional reduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
Scottish Equitable claim to have already paid some compensation after an earlier loss 
calculation. If Mr Ms losses exceed whats already been paid its fair for Scottish Equitable to 
deduct the sum already paid from the redress they now pay. But they must first evidence the 
earlier payments into Mr Ms plan.
Scottish Equitable should pay interest at the rate of 8% simple per annum on the 
compensation calculated as at the date of my final decision if its not paid to Mr M within 28 
days of us notifying Scottish Equitable that Mr M has accepted my final decision.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Scottish Equitable considers its required 
by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr M how 
much its taken off. It should also give Mr M a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so 
he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Details of the calculations should be provided to Mr M in a clear format.
Ive considered the full circumstances of Mr Ms complaint which has spanned several years. 
In this complaint the impact of Scottish Equitables mistakes have caused considerable 
distress, upset and worry as well as a considerable amount of inconvenience and effort to 
sort out. However, I consider that Scottish Equitables offer of £750 for the upset and 
inconvenience caused fairly reflects the overall impact on Mr M. So, Scottish Equitable 
should pay Mr M £750 if it hasnt done so already.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Scottish Equitable Plc to 
compensate Mr M as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman