DRN-2813224
The complaint
 Mr W complains that Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited hasnt offered
him fair compensation after it accepted that it had mis-sold him a long-term savings plan in
1991.
What happened
Sun Life made its offer after Mr Ws representative had said:
Mr W was 21 and single at the time of advice, and couldnt predict his future plans 
and so shouldnt have been sold a long-term savings plan
There is no evidence of him having had adequate savings set aside for emergencies 
 the equivalent of three months income
There is no evidence that the advisor discussed other more suitably flexible and/or 
lower-risk savings options
The plan itself was misleading, implying it could be used for shorter-term objectives
He had no need for the life insurance, particularly at such a high level and had a car 
loan with 13.5% interest; this should have been addressed before committing to a 
savings plan
Sun Life accepted that it shouldnt have sold a long-term savings plan given Mr Ws
circumstances and that the risk level was too high. Instead, it said the advisor should have
recommended a medium-term (10-year) plan invested in a medium risk, managed fund. It
also said that any policy should have included the minimum life cover required to meet
qualifying rules. It therefore compared the return Mr W had received with what he would 
have got via such a medium-term product, offering Mr W just over £900 in compensation.
An adjudicator at this service felt Sun Lifes compensation offer was reasonable.
Mr Ws representative disagreed, saying:
We have had hundreds of claims against Sun Life upheld where the policy involved is 
an Outlook for Savings one
Sun Life agreed that the term was unsuitable, the risk profile unsuitable, and has 
acknowledged that there were no emergency deposit-based savings
Where these three points are upheld, it always pays compensation based on a return 
of premiums plus interest at 1% over base
Therefore, its deviation from the norm is inconsistent, and we believe unfair
In a Provisional Decision, I said:
While Sun Life upheld Mr Ws complaint and agreed that the recommended policy 
was not suitable, it is still important for me to assess this issue in order to decide 
whether the compensation was appropriate.
Firstly, I am not persuaded that Mr W, at the age of 21, was in a position to know 
whether he would be able to afford (or want) to commit to a 10-year savings plan, let 
alone a 20-year plus one.
During ones 20s and 30s many/most people go through major life changes including 
getting marriage, taking on a mortgage, having children, changing jobs/having 
periods out of work (for differing reasons) and other financial commitments. As such, 
few people at this age are in a position to know that they will definitely want or be 
able to commit to a monthly savings plan throughout this period, particularly one with 
very significant drawbacks to early cessation or withdrawal.
The fact that Mr W did keep this plan for 10 years does not alter the fact that it was 
not a suitable recommendation in the first place. In almost cases, it would be more 
appropriate to recommend a flexible savings plan without such early withdrawal costs 
or unnecessary life cover deductions.
I have seen no evidence that the advisor pointed this out or discussed what, in my 
view, would have been more appropriate alternatives. If, as Sun Life argues, the 
advisor could only recommend from a narrow range of options, then he should not 
have made any recommendation, as opposed to proposing an unsuitably-inflexible 
one with excessive life cover reductions. Given Mr W was single and with no 
dependents, he had no need for any life cover, the cost of which provided a drain on 
potential returns. 
As such, I am also not persuaded that the 10- year plan Sun Life refers to would 
have been a suitable recommendation either  unless, at least, the advisor had fully 
explained the impact of such deductions and the client agreed that the potential tax 
benefits were something they wanted.
Also, Sun Life admits that it did not have sufficient evidence that Mr W had a 
sufficient emergency fund to commit to a savings plan. 
So, overall, I do not accept that Sun Lifes redress offer is fair. In my view, he should 
not have been recommended a medium-term plan, particularly one with life insurance 
reductions. As I am unable to say what particular type of savings plan Mr W might 
have chosen, if advised appropriately, I am satisfied that compensation should be 
based on the standard formula used by this service for investment returns dating 
from this period.
It should therefore pay compensation by calculating how much Mr Ws invested 
money would have been worth  on the date of surrender  if it had earned interest at 
BoE plus 1%. If this shows a loss, it must pay this and add 8% simple interest per 
annum to this loss figure from the date of surrender to the date of settlement of this 
complaint.
Both parties accepted my conclusions, with Sun Life adding it does not accept the CMCs 
claim that it had had hundreds of complaints upheld about these types of policies.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons previously outlined, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
Sun Life should therefore pay compensation by calculating how much Mr Ws invested 
money would have been worth  on the date of surrender  if it had earned interest at BoE 
plus 1%. If this shows a loss, it must pay this and add 8% simple interest per annum to this 
loss figure from the date of surrender to the date of settlement of this complaint.My final decision
I uphold this complaint and instruct Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited 
to pay compensation as outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman