DRN-4287185
The complaint
Mr B complains that Clydesdale Bank PLC trading as Virgin Money  didnt refund a £25  
cash advance fee after the transaction was refunded. He would like Virgin Money to have 
systems in place to avoid this happening.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
I appreciate Mr Bs frustration in that he has told us that although his transaction was 
refunded the transaction fee wasnt. The terms and conditions of Mr Bs account 
allow for a fee to be charged on cash advances or money transfers. So, I cant say 
that Virgin Money were wrong to charge this fee.
As I understand it Mr Bs main point is that , in his view, the transaction was pending 
and didnt go through so on this basis the fee shouldnt have been charged and 
should be refunded. Virgin Money has told us that the payment was processed on 31 
March 2023, was  a pending payment until 2 April 2023 when it debited Mr Bs 
account and was refunded on 4 April 2023.  That accords with the statement 
information I have seen. So I cant agree that the payment wasnt made and 
therefore the charge not incurred.
In addition, Virgin Money has explained that the charge was not an internal one, but 
one applied by the card scheme provider not Virgin Money. So, its not a fee that 
Virgin Money can simply refund.
I appreciate  Mr B has referred to four other payments made in April and refunded in 
May 2023. And that he would like Virgin Money to amend its systems for  what he 
considers to be pending payments made then refunded. Unfortunately, its not for us 
to tell businesses what systems or processes to use .
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman