DRN-4318664
The complaint
Miss M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wont reimburse the money she 
says she lost to a scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In March 2022, Miss M made a payment of 
£11,309.40 from her Barclays account. At the time she believed she was settling an invoice 
from a building firm  I will refer to as P. This was the fourth instalment due to the builder  
with the first three payments coming from her husbands account (this is being dealt with 
under a separate complaint reference).
Miss M had contracted with P (who had been recommended to her by another firm who had 
fitted her windows) to do work at her home. The payment was paid into an account in the 
name of P.
In June 2022, Miss M concluded shed been the victim of a scam  she reported this to 
Barclays and employed a solicitor and attempted to start court proceedings but it seems P 
had disappeared and stopped responding to Miss M and her legal representative. Ultimately 
Barclays said they were unable to recover or return any funds. 
Barclays considered this to be a civil dispute between Miss M and P, it also said it had no 
concerns about the beneficiary account and no other claims of a similar nature had been 
made. Miss M complained and when Barclays maintained its position, she referred her 
complaint to our service. 
One of our Investigators recommended the complaint should be upheld. In summary he 
thought this was a scam and Barclays should refund Miss M in full under the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code. Barclays disagrees and maintains this is a buyer seller 
dispute and it cannot conclude for certain that the builder had intentions from the start to 
scam Miss M.
I issued my provisional decision on 11 August 2023 explaining why I was reaching a different 
outcome to the investigator and concluding that this is a civil dispute. Miss M didnt agree 
and outlined a number of reasons why she considers this to be a scam. Barclays did not 
reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law and
regulations; regulatory rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
I understand Miss M has strong views about what has happened. I want to assure her that 
Ive considered everything shes provided to support the complaint very carefully. I have read 
the detailed response to my provisional decision. I have listened to the calls and all the 
evidence on the file. 
However, my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not all the points 
raised. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point the parties have raised 
or to answer every question asked. My role is to consider the evidence presented by all 
parties and reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the 
case.
I think I should make it clear I am in no way finding in favour of P. The complaint I am 
considering is against Barclays. I appreciate Miss M may feel that because I have deemed 
this a civil matter and not a scam that I am supporting P - but that is not what Im saying. I 
cannot decide the case between her and P. This is the whole point of my decision - that this 
is a civil dispute.
Listening to the calls Miss M has referred to - I cant comment on the content before the call 
happens but what Ive listened to just reinforces in my mind this is a civil dispute between the 
two parties. In the call with P, he seems to want to reach an agreement to carry on and still 
wants to do the job. Both parties are talking about solicitors and court action.
The reasons we cant deal with matters like this is quite simply we are not set up for this  I 
cannot call witnesses (such as the new builder) or demand a third party such as P to give his 
version of events. I can only look at Miss Ms dispute with Barclays.
In terms of the beneficiary bank account  I did explain in my provisional decision that I am 
unable to share details about a third party and the nature of their relationship with their bank. 
But I did explain the evidence Ive seen, regarding the beneficiary account (including 
statements) indicates that the builders account was legitimate and had been established 
long before Miss Ms payment was made. And the bank hasnt said it had any concerns 
about how the account was being operated prior to Miss M making her payment. I asked it 
again recently to confirm no other similar claims had been made and it confirmed this was 
still the case. This is not typical of a scammers account.
I appreciate Miss M does not agree, but this situation doesnt display the hallmarks most 
typically associated with a scam. Even if I take the window fitters recommendation out of the 
equation  I cant safely say that this situation meets the high legal threshold and burden of 
proof for fraud. This is not to say that there is no issue at all between Miss M and the builder. 
Clearly there is. But this type of dispute isnt something that the CRM Code covers (or we as 
an organisation are set up to deal with). So, I dont think it was unfair for Barclays to take the 
view that it was unable to refund Miss M under the CRM Code. 
I also understand how helpless Miss M may feel and how frustrating it is - as I cant 
adequately answer her questions  but this type of cross examination is better placed as a 
civil dispute. 
I realise how difficult things have been for Miss M and her husband and I know she will 
remain very disappointed by my decision. However, for the reasons I have explained, Im 
satisfied Miss M isnt due a refund under the CRM Code. Nor can I see there are any other 
grounds on which I could say Barclays should, fairly and reasonably, have done more or that 
it should bear the responsibility for the remaining loss.Despite Miss Ms detailed response to my provisional decision and strength of feeling, my 
decision remains the same and for completeness, I have set this out below:
It isnt in dispute that Miss M authorised the payment that left her account. But she alleges 
that she has been the victim of an Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam and that Ps intent 
from the start was to deceive her. 
Barclays are also a signatory to the voluntary CRM Code. This is a scheme through which 
victims of APP fraud can sometimes receive reimbursement from the banks involved. But the 
CRM code does not apply to private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a 
legitimate supplier for goods, services, or digital content but has not received them, they are 
defective in some way, or the Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier.
So, I need to decide whether Barclays acted fairly, when concluding that this amounted to a 
civil dispute and not a scam. Im intending to find that they did, and Ill explain why.
Whilst I can quite understand why Miss M feels that P has scammed her, there is a high 
legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false representation 
and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for himself or of 
causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006). And there 
are a number of potential reasons (other than a scam) for the breakdown in a relationship 
between two parties and for a dispute to exist. 
Miss M has provided a picture which shows work in progress  including foundations and 
blocks laid. I appreciate Miss Ms opinion is that the value of the work completed does not 
reflect what they had paid, and she feels the quality of that work was inadequate and unsafe. 
Whilst this would clearly be unacceptable to Miss M, this doesnt mean that it meets the bar 
to be considered a scam where its required for the intention to have been to deceive from 
the start.
In addition, the Councils building inspector report (on the linked case) shows numerous 
visits to the site between 21 January 2022 and 11 May 2022. The entries reflect that 
foundations appear to have be laid and damp course proofing and lintels were in place. I 
also acknowledge Miss M says the work was done poorly or incorrectly, but that isnt, in 
itself, evidence of this being a scam. 
The payments, which include those made from Miss Ms husbands account, took place 
between 21 December 2021 and 18 March 2022 (around three months in total). Whilst there 
may have been delays and occasions when the builder wasnt on site (for example the 
inspectors entry of 4 February 2022 indicates the builder was not on site due to rain) there 
was presumably enough work done during this time to reassure Miss M sufficiently to make 
further payments  including what ended up being the final one on 18 March 2022.
Miss M also told us that P had been recommended by another reputable firm who had fitted 
her windows. This doesnt support that P was operating a scam, rather that something 
seems to have gone wrong and that this was a private civil dispute between Miss M and P.
Whilst I am unable to share details about a third party and the nature of their relationship 
with their bank, the evidence Ive seen, regarding the beneficiary account, indicates that the 
builders account was legitimate and had been established long before Miss Ms payment 
was made. And the bank hasnt said it had any concerns about how the account was being 
operated prior to Miss M making her payment. I asked it again recently to confirm no other 
similar claims had been made and it confirmed this was still the case. Its entirely possible that P had overcommitted in the work hed taken on and had been 
unable to complete all the work hed agreed. Certainly, the last Council inspection entry 
might suggest that. The last entry on the Councils inspection report does indicate there may 
have been a minor boundary dispute and that the fence was in the wrong place against land 
registry information. The note suggests the inspector had advised the builder to contact 
planning.
I must make a decision on what I think is most likely to have happened. And, based on the 
evidence Ive seen, I think its more likely the builder here was attempting to operate as a 
legitimate business at the time and that other factors ultimately meant the building work 
wasnt completed. I dont think the builder set out from the beginning with the intent to 
defraud Miss M, or that Miss M has been the victim of a scam here.
Barclays did intervene when Miss M made the payment and gave a warning. Im not going to 
go into detail on this because, given that Im supportive of Barclays decision to conclude this 
is a civil dispute, there isnt any basis upon which any intervention ought reasonably to have 
caused concern with the payment. So, I cant fairly criticise Barclays for not having done 
more in these circumstances. 
I know this will be a huge disappointment to Miss M  especially as my conclusions differ 
from the Investigators. This is not a decision Ive made lightly. I appreciate how Miss M feels 
about this case, and that her property was left unfinished and she has had to pay for another 
builder to finish the work. And some of the information she has sent us does suggest the 
builder wasnt acting professionally. I sympathise with the position Miss M has found herself 
in, and Im in no way saying she did anything wrong or that she doesnt have a legitimate 
grievance against the builder. But, for the reasons Ive explained above, I dont think it would 
be fair to hold Barclays responsible for the money shes lost.
So, I dont think the payments Miss M made to the builder are covered under the CRM code, 
or that Barclays should be required to refund the money she lost.
 
My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman