DRN-2242218
The complaint
Mr N complains that Friends Provident (FP) gave him unsuitable advice to transfer deferred 
benefits from his defined benefit (DB) occupational pension to a personal pension plan. 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited is now responsible to answer this complaint.
What happened
In 1999 Mr N was advised to transfer his DB pension to a personal pension. 
In 2018 Aviva did a pension review on historic DB pension transfer cases which had been 
advised on by FP between 1994 and 2011. Mr Ns pension transfer was part of this review. 
Aviva initially told Mr N the advice he had been given was unsuitable, but later confirmed this 
had been a mistake and a more in-depth review showed it had been suitable in Mr Ns 
circumstances. 
They particularly pointed out that Mr N had been a financial adviser at the time of the advice 
and would have understood the risks explained to him and the advice he received regarding 
his pension. They paid Mr N £250 for the incorrect information they gave him and for the 
distress and inconvenience this caused.
Mr N complained to this service. He said the advice given to him in 1999 had been 
unsuitable. The adviser told him transferring out of the DB scheme would lead to better 
returns and a significantly improved pension and lump sum in retirement. He had worked in 
financial services for many years, but this had been in customer service, banking and 
lending and he had no involvement with pensions or investments. He only qualified as a 
financial adviser about a year before the advice and he had no experience with DB pension 
transfers. He said he relied on FPs recommendation and trusted that the experienced 
adviser with additional qualifications was best placed to suggest the suitable course of 
action. He didnt have the relevant experience and knowledge to understand a transfer 
wasnt suitable for him.
One of our investigators considered Mr Ns complaint and upheld it. He didnt think it was 
likely Mr Ns personal pension could improve on or even match his DB benefits and so a 
transfer shouldnt have been recommended. He didnt agree with Aviva that Mr N was a 
speculative investor. And whilst the investigator acknowledged Mr N might have had a better 
understanding of investment risk than some retail investors, he didnt think he had the 
necessary specialist knowledge required for DB transfers and so he would have relied on 
FPs advice.
Aviva disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
The advice was given during the period when the regulator was publishing 'discount rates' 
for use in loss assessments resulting from the industry-wide Pensions Review. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable when the advice was given in this case. The investment return 
(critical yield) required to match Mr Ns occupational pension at retirement was 8.9% per 
year. This compares with the discount rate of around 7% per year for 23 years to retirement 
in this case.
Aviva says the adviser would have likely not referred to these discount rates. However, even 
so, the projections rates given by the regulator at the time and which were used for 
illustrations were 5%, 7% and 9% for low, medium and high returns. So based on this it 
should have been clear to the adviser that in order for Mr N to exceed his DB benefits in the 
new pension  and Aviva agrees only then would a transfer be financially viable- he would 
continuously have to achieve high returns exceeding 8.9% by a reasonable margin. 
I consider this would only be realistic for someone with a very high attitude to risk who was 
investing his pension accordingly. For most customers I would say a transfer would mean 
they very likely would be worse off financially in retirement and unless there were other 
pressing arguments why a transfer was suitable, Id say the adviser should have 
recommended against this transfer.
Mr Ns main objective was to achieve better benefits than in the DB scheme. It was 
mentioned he wanted flexibility of how to take benefits and to choose his own investments 
However, Mr N was only 37 at the time of the advice, so he could have transferred nearer 
retirement if he still thought he wanted to take benefits differently then. And the ability to 
choose your own investments seems fairly irrelevant if existing benefits cant be improved 
on. So whether Mr N could improve on his DB benefits is the key issue here. 
The contentious point in this complaint is Mr Ns attitude to risk and his experience and 
knowledge of pensions and investments when he took the advice.
Mr N had qualified as a financial adviser about a year before the advice. However, he was 
not qualified to advise on pension transfer advice. This is a complex area and requires 
additional qualifications. So Im satisfied that Mr N was reliant on FPs advice.
Mr Ns attitude to risk (ATR) was recorded as 6/7 out of 10. Aviva argues this means he was 
a speculative investor. They pointed to FPs internal guidance at the time of how ATR should 
be assessed by their advisers and which they say Mr N would have known about (as he had 
worked for FP too). The guidelines said in summary that ATR is determined by reference to 
a) a clients stated preference as to the type of investments with what they feel 
comfortable and 
b) the profile of the clients existing portfolio of investments. 
The adviser should have regard to these factors together with the term and amount 
of the proposed investment.
Aviva confirmed that the investments Mr N chose for his personal pension had a risk profile 
of 6.8 out of 10. Looking at the composition of his chosen portfolio I think its reasonable to 
say this was a medium to high risk portfolio. 
Aviva says taking into account Mr Ns other existing investments his ATR would have been 
established as speculative (over 7.5 out of 10).Mr N had an FSAVC, mortgage endowments, a personal equity plan which was a share 
save scheme by his ex-employer and £3,000 invested in penny shares. Other than the 
penny shares which was only a small investment amount I dont consider Mr Ns other 
holdings are persuasive evidece of him being a particular high risk or speculative investor.
Also, if Mr N had been a speculative investor its likely he would have invested his personal 
pensions accordingly. However, he didnt. He invested in a medium to high risk portfolio 
which was broadly in line with his recorded ATR of 6.7 and which as explained above was 
very unlikely to meet and even less likely to exceed his DB benefits.
For the reasons set out above, the transfer was unsuitable and FP should have advised 
against it. Mr N told us that he initiated the transfer when he was still working for FP and he 
was worried about his performance. He said his supervisor told him he could share the credit 
for the transfer with his adviser. In these circumstances there could have been an argument 
that Mr N might have proceeded in any event to save his job, even if FP had advised against 
the transfer. However, by the time Mr N actually received the advice he had already moved 
to a different firm, so I cant see any motives for Mr N to ignore FPs advice.
I think if they had clearly explained that it was unlikely he could exceed his benefits (even 
with high risk investments which he didnt choose) and if they had recommended him to 
remain with his DB pension, I think on balance he would have listened to them and not 
transferred out.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Aviva to put Mr N, as far as possible, into the
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice he was given. I consider he
would not have transferred from his DB scheme.
Aviva must undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review
guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9:
Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
https://www.fca.org.uk/publications/finalised-guidance/fg17-9-guidance-firms-how-
calculateredress-unsuitable-defined-benefit-pension-transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly
following receipt of notification of Mr Ns acceptance of the decision.
Aviva may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ns
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ns SERPS/S2P
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid
into Mr Ns pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mr N as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Ns likely income 
tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr N within 90 days of the date
Aviva receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Aviva
to pay Mr N.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Aviva considers its required by
HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr N how 
much its taken off. It should also give Mr N a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so 
he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Aviva Life & Pensions Ltd to pay Mr N compensation as 
set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman