DRN-2322338
The complaint
Mr K complains that, when he ended a hire purchase agreement with BMW Financial 
Services (GB) Limited (which Ill refer to as BMW), he was promised a refund of £294.42, but 
only received £32.82.
What happened
In March 2018 Mr K took a car on hire purchase from BMW. He set up a direct debit to pay 
the monthly instalments of £294.42, which were due on the 13th of each month.
In September 2019 Mr K asked BMW for a settlement figure on the agreement  that is, the 
sum he would have to pay to end the agreement. BMW provided a figure of £14,741.13.
That figure was stated to be valid from 9 September to 7 October 2019 and included a 
rebate of £327.24. The letter providing the quotation also said:
This settlement figure has been calculated assuming any repayment which we are currently 
processing will still be paid (in addition to the settlement figure). However, if your rental due 
on 13 September 2019 is paid, you can reduce your settlement figure to £14446.71, 
providing settlement is received by the expiry date.

If the settlement amount is not received by 7 October 2019 a new quotation will be 
required.
Mr K cancelled the direct debit due to be paid on 13 September 2019 and instead made a 
card payment for the September instalment a few days later. He was not intending to pay the 
settlement figure himself; it was to be paid by a dealership. BMWs settlement quotation also 
said:
If a dealership or insurance company is settling your agreement, it remains your 
responsibility to ensure that we receive total settlement.
BMW received a payment of £14,773.95 from the dealership on 8 October 2019. On 13 
October 2019 BMW tried unsuccessfully to take a further direct debit payment; that failed 
because the direct debit instruction had been cancelled.
Over the following months BMW told Mr K on several occasions, both over the phone and in 
writing, that he was due a refund of £294.42  that is, one months instalment under the hire 
purchase agreement. Instead, however, he received only £32.82.
Mr K complained to BMW. It said however that it had received the settlement funds after the 
expiry of the settlement quotation and no further refund was in fact due. It acknowledged that 
it had given Mr K incorrect information, however, and offered him £75 in recognition of that.
Mr K referred the matter to his service, and one of our investigators considered it. She 
concluded that Mr K was due a refund as he said and recommended that BMW pay it with 
interest at 8% a year. BMW didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman review the case.
I did that and, because I was minded to reach a different conclusion from that reached by the 
investigator, issued a provisional decision.
I noted that the settlement figure provided to Mr K included two figures  one which would 
apply if the September payment were received, and a second, higher, figure which would 
apply otherwise. Mr K cancelled the direct debit before the September payment was taken; 
instead, he made that payment by card. 
However, the settlement figure was only valid until 7 October. I took that to mean that it was 
valid as long as payment was received on or before that date. I noted that BMWs ledger 
indicated that it received payment on 8 October, the day after the settlement quote expired. 
For that reason, I was satisfied that no further rebate was due to Mr K. He had no control 
over the date on which the dealership paid BMW, but it was a fact that payment was made 
after the settlement quote had expired.  
I agreed that BMW had provided confusing and misleading information on several occasions 
and had led Mr K to believe he was due a further refund. The proper remedy for that, 
however, wasnt to require BMW to make the refund, but to consider the impact of the 
incorrect information on Mr K. I thought that BMWs offer of £75 was fair in the 
circumstances. 
Mr K responded to my provisional decision with some further comments. He said he had 
done everything he should have done and should not be out of pocket. I should therefore 
require the new dealership to make the refund, as it had paid the settlement late. He 
commented too that it wasnt right that BMW should be able to provide incorrect information 
without any consequences.             
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill deal first of all with Mr Ks comments about BMWs actions. As Ive said, it provided 
misleading information on a number of occasions. It shouldnt have done so, and Mr K 
should be compensated for that. The real issue here though is how he should be 
compensated, and Ive explained why I dont believe that its appropriate for him to receive 
the full refund he was told (wrongly) that he was due. 
I also accept that Mr K did all that was required of him, and I understand why he feels hes 
been penalised for that. As I commented in my provisional decision, he had no real control 
over the date on which the settlement figure was paid. However, the overall settlement figure 
that he did pay was what was due under the hire purchase agreement.
Mr K says that, if the new dealership was responsible for the late payment, I should require it 
to compensate him. However, the complaint Im deciding here is Mr Ks complaint about 
BMW. I make no comment therefore on the actions of the new dealership  and in particular 
on whether it should have made the settlement payment sooner than it did. 
In the circumstances, I havent changed my view from that set out in my provisional decision. 
I leave it to Mr K to decide whether or not to accept BMWs offer of £75, assuming its still 
available.     
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont require BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited to do anything 
more to resolve Mr Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman