DRN-1995828
The complaint
Mr H complains that HSBC Bank plc (HSBC trading at First Direct) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1996. The policy was added 
to Mr Hs credit card account when he applied for the card. Its likely that Mr H applied 
by post, after arranging a credit card application on the phone. The card and insurance 
ended in 1997.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr H disagreed 
with the adjudicators opinion. So, his complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint and I will explain why.
Mr H says he was not aware of the PPI policy. The application form that Mr H completed 
included a separate section headed Visa Cardholder Repayment Protector. There were 
clear options to accept or decline the PPI and Mr H ticked the yes box to confirm that he 
wanted it. So, I think HSBC made Mr H aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose 
to take it  although I can understand why he no longer remembers this as the sale took 
place many years ago.
From reading the application form I cant see clear enough information about how much 
the PPI policy cost or anything about the main features of the policy. Its possible that 
there wouldve been a leaflet with all this information that came with the application form. 
But I dont know if Mr H received this and if he did whether he read it.
So, I cant be sure that HSBC did everything it shouldve in terms of giving Mr H the 
information he needed. But on this occasion, I dont think it mattered because:
Mr H was eligible for the policy. And he wouldnt have been affected by the main 
exclusions or limitations in the policy, such as those for existing medical 
conditions or unusual employment situations.
Mr H told us that he had 6 months full sick pay cover to fall back on if he 
couldnt work. But I think hed have found the benefits of PPI useful if hed been 
ill for an extended period. And the policy also provided Mr H with peace of mind 
about his repayments if hed become unemployed.
The policy was competitively priced and couldve been cancelled at any time.
I think Mr H would still have bought the policy if the information that HSBC had given him 
about the PPI had been better. This means Mr H isnt worse off as a result of anything 
HSBC did wrong, and theres nothing it needs to do to put things right. Overall, I dont 
uphold Mr Hs complaint for the reasons I have given above.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2020.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman