DRN-3028636
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 2000, 
alongside a loan. Mrs and Mr C say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold that PPI policy.
What happened
Although Mrs and Mr C had a joint loan, the PPI was set up to cover Mr C only  not Mrs C. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mrs and Mr Cs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. They didnt raise any 
new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs and Mr Cs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs and 
Mr Cs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below. 
Mrs and Mr C told us that the PPI was sold to them in a Nationwide branch. I havent seen 
any evidence to suggest their recollection on that point is mistaken, so I have treated this as 
a branch sale. I cant know what was said to Mrs and Mr C at that meeting. So to help me 
decide whats most likely to have happened, Ive looked at what they remember about it, and 
Ive also considered the documentary and electronic evidence thats available from the time. 
The first thing Ive thought about is whether Mrs and Mr C would have known the PPI was 
optional and they didnt have to take it out if they didnt want it. I can see from the credit 
agreement that PPI was described clearly as an optional and separate product. So if the 
person selling PPI had portrayed the cover as compulsory, I think theyd have queried this at 
the time. But the evidence doesnt suggest they did. I can also see that the cost of the cover 
was set out separately to the cost of the loan, so Im satisfied Mrs and Mr C would have 
appreciated that it was a separate financial product. 
The evidence Ive seen doesnt suggest this was an advised sale. But even so, Nationwide 
still had to give Mrs and Mr C enough timely information about the cover so they could 
decide for themselves whether it was a good fit for their needs. 
Although I said the cost of the cover was set out on the application form, I cant see any 
reference to any of the policys exclusions or restrictions. So I accept its possible that 
Nationwide didnt tell Mrs and Mr C everything about the policy that it should have done. 
But that doesnt mean I can automatically uphold the complaint. I next have to look at 
whether Mrs and Mr C would have still taken the policy out if Nationwide had provided the 
requisite information. And to help me decide on that point, Ive looked at what we know 
about the terms and conditions of the cover. Ive also given careful thought to what Mrs and 
Mr C told us about their personal circumstances at the relevant time. 
As I said above, the policy covered Mr C only. So if Mr C was off sick from work, the loan 
repayments would have been covered for up to 24 months. If he was made redundant, the 
repayments would have been covered for up to 12 months. 
I understand Mr C was entitled to less than three months pay from his employer if he 
became unwell and neither he nor Mrs C had any other means, like savings, to fall back on if 
Mr C wasnt working. I must stress that this borrowing was secured on their home, which 
could have been put at risk if Mrs and Mr C fell behind with their repayments. So I can see 
how the PPI could have been helpful to them at what would have no doubt been a difficult 
time if Mr C wasnt able to work. 
Ive next considered whether any of the policys exclusions could have impacted their 
decision to take the PPI cover. I can see that Mr C had a number of musculoskeletal 
problems many years before the policy was sold. But I understand that those conditions had 
healed well and Mr C was no longer troubled by them in 2000 when the cover was sold. So I 
dont think hed have been affected by any of the policys exclusions on medical conditions. 
Those representing Mrs and Mr C made a number of submissions about the policys 
perceived limitations around back and mental health conditions. Having considered the 
policy document, Im satisfied there were no such limitations. And I havent seen anything 
else that was unusual about Mr Cs employment that would have stopped him from being 
able to make a successful claim if he needed to. 
I can see submissions were also made about the perceived additional interest Mr and Mrs C 
had to pay for the PPI. But this was a regular premium policy that was paid for each month. 
It was not a single premium policy, it did not incur interest and it could have been cancelled 
at any time.  
With all of these things in mind, I dont think Mrs and Mr C would have declined the cover 
even if Nationwide had given them more or better information about it. 
Mrs and Mr Cs representative also raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it is argued apply to all PPI complaints. These general points 
include: a claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the 
regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with 
the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Nationwide should have 
disclosed the poor value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and 
the impact it had on the chances of making a claim.
But Mrs and Mr Cs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mrs and Mr Cs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs and Mr Cs particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
This means Nationwide doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mrs and Mr Cs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman