DRN-2414213
The complaint
Mrs C says Loans 2 Go Limited lent to her irresponsibly. And it didnt deal with her fairly 
when she told them she was unable to make the repayments. 
 
What happened
Mrs C took out an 18-month instalment loan from Loans 2 Go on 12 March 2019. It was for 
£500 and the monthly repayments were £114.28. The total repayable was £2057.04. I 
understand the loan remains outstanding.
Mrs C says the loan was unaffordable for her, she was in a cycle of borrowing more to pay 
back previous loans. If her credit file been checked thoroughly it would have been apparent 
she had multiple debts.
Our adjudicator found that the loan should not have been given. He said Loans 2 Go carried 
out proportionate checks, but from the information it gathered it should have seen that Mrs C 
was having problems managing her money and not approved the loan. 
Loans 2 Go disagreed saying Mrs Cs credit report showed that all of her active accounts 
were up-to-date so it determined that she was managing her finances fine. The monthly 
repayment was only 2.9% of Mrs Cs declared income and she had good disposable income. 
So the loan was suitable and affordable for Mrs C. 
As agreement wasnt reached the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and 
Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when Loans 2 Go lent to Mrs C required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay what she 
owed in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment 
or an affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So Loans 2 Go had to think about whether 
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for 
Mrs C. In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of 
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mrs C.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied 
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether Loans 2 Go did what it needed to before agreeing 
to lend to Mrs C. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Mrs Cs loan applications to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? 
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
did Loans 2 Go make a fair lending decision?
did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see Loans 2 Go asked for certain information from Mrs C before it approved the loan. It 
asked for details of her monthly income and expenditure, including her existing credit 
commitments. It says it validated these using third-party data sources and adjusted 
accordingly, reducing her declared income and increasing her declared costs. It also 
reviewed her credit file. These checks led it to conclude Mrs C had a monthly disposable 
income of £514.38 so the monthly repayments of £114.28 were affordable for her.
Im satisfied the checks were proportionate. But, like our adjudicator, I dont think that Loans 
2 Go made a fair lending decision based on the information it gathered. Mrs Cs credit file 
showed that she had 11 active credit accounts with total unsecured debt of almost £13,000. 
She was managing her revolving credit lines at, or close to, their limit. And she was regularly 
using high-cost short-term credit, having taken out nine loans in the previous year, two of 
which remained outstanding at the time of the application. The fact that Mrs C had several 
credit cards up to or close to their limit and still needed to take out payday loans recently 
should reasonably have suggested to Loans 2 Go that Mrs C was having difficulties 
managing her finances. 
In response to the adjudicators view Loans 2 Go said that as all of Mrs Cs active accounts 
were up-to-date it concluded her finances were fine. But I dont think that is a fair or 
reasonable conclusion. I think it ought to have realised from her recent credit history that 
there was a substantial risk that Mrs C was most likely meeting her credit commitments by 
borrowing to repay.
I dont think Loans 2 Go has evidenced that it made a borrower-focused assessment. It 
argues that the monthly loan repayment was a very small percentage of Mrs Cs declared income, but this doesnt change my conclusion. I think it ought to have realised from Mrs Cs 
credit history that it was unlikely Mrs C would be able to repay her loan sustainably  even if 
it seemed affordable on a pounds and pence basis. And this was what Loans 2 Go needed 
to check to meet its regulatory obligations as CONC 5.2A.12(R) stated: 
The firm must consider the customers ability to make repayments under the agreement: 
(1)  as they fall due over the life of the agreement and, where the agreement is an open-end 
agreement, within a reasonable period;
(2) out of, or using, one or more of the following:
(a) the customers income; 
(b) income from savings or assets jointly held by the customer with another person, income 
received by the customer jointly with another person or income received by another person in 
so far as it is reasonable to expect such income to be available to the customer to make 
repayments under the agreement; and/or
(c) savings or other assets where the customer has indicated clearly an intention to repay 
(wholly or partly) using them;
(3) without the customer having to borrow to meet the repayments;
(4) without failing to make any other payment the customer has a contractual or statutory 
obligation to make; and
(5) without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers financial 
situation.
I think Loans 2 Go ought to have realised giving more credit to Mrs C put her at high risk of 
going on to experience financial difficulties. And she went on to have problems making her 
repayments only five months into the 18-month loan term.  
Overall, I think Loans 2 Go should have made a different lending decision. It follows I think 
Mrs C has lost out because of what Loans 2 Go did wrong.
I have then looked at whether Loans 2 Go acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other way. 
Mrs C says it didnt treat her fairly when she was having financial difficulties and was unable 
to make her repayments. From what I can see she first told Loans 2 Go see was having 
problems when she made her complaint. And I can see Loans 2 Go made several attempts 
to contact Mrs C by email and text when she started to miss repayments. I cant see that she 
replied to these contacts. So overall I dont find Loans 2 Go acted unreasonably in this 
regard. However, as Ive said I dont think that Mrs C should have been provided with the 
loan, so Loans 2 Go should put things right for her.
Putting things right
 I think its fair and reasonable for Mrs C to repay the capital that she borrowed because she 
had the benefit of that money. But she has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt 
have been provided to her. I note she has already repaid in excess of the capital she 
borrowed.
If Loans 2 Go has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back if it is able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If Loans 2 Go is not able to buy the debt back, then it should 
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan and treat all the payments Mrs C 
made as payments towards the capital.
As reworking Mrs Cs loan account will result in her having effectively made 
payments above the original capital borrowed, then Loans 2 Go should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Cs credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go should 
give Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
 I am upholding Mrs Cs complaint and Loans 2 Go Limited must now put things right as set 
out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman