DRN-1645145
The complaint
Mr P, on behalf of the late Mrs P, has complained that AXA France IARD mis-sold Mrs P a 
store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
AXA France IARD, the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for the sale of such policies. To 
keep things simple, Ill therefore just be referring to AXA in this decision.
What happened
Mrs P took out the policy over the phone in July 2000.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr P disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint and Ill explain why.
This is a difficult case to decide as the sale took place a long time ago and AXA no longer 
has any of the sales documentation or a recording of the phone call, which isnt surprising 
given the time that has elapsed. So Ive based my decision on the evidence that we do have 
and what I think is most likely to have happened. 
AXA has provided evidence that Mrs P opened her store card account in 1995. She didnt 
take out the PPI until 2000, when she was sold it over the phone. As Mrs P had already had 
the card for some time, she cant have thought that the PPI was a condition of having the 
credit. Based on the available evidence, I consider that Mrs P would have known that she 
had a choice about taking out the PPI. It seems to me that she probably decided to buy it, 
knowing that she didnt have to.
I dont know if AXA advised Mrs P to buy the policy or not, but that makes no difference to 
the outcome of my decision. If it did advise her to buy it, AXA would have needed to ensure 
that the policy meet Mrs Ps needs. And from what I know of her circumstances at the time, 
the policy was suitable.
Mrs Ps employer would have given her six months full pay, followed by six months half 
pay, if she was off work sick. But the policy would have paid out in addition to this and 
potentially for longer than Mrs P would have received full pay for. Apparently Mrs P had 
other insurance at the time that Mr P thinks covered her for unemployment. But I think its 
likely that was taken out to cover some other spending and so did not duplicate the cover 
provided by this policy. Mr P says he could have covered the store card payments if Mrs P 
hadnt been working. But other people cant always be relied upon as their circumstances 
than change. Mrs P had a pre-existing medical condition. But this was controlled with medication and Mrs 
P had never needed to have any time off work as a result. So I dont think Mrs P would have 
ever thought shed need to make a claim on the policy for that condition.
Overall, I consider Mrs P had a need for the policy and could have benefited from it if shed 
been unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment.
I consider that Mrs P would have known something about the policy  that it would cover her 
store card repayments if she was unable to work  because I dont think shed have decided 
to take it out without knowing anything at all about it. Its possible that AXA didnt provide as 
much information as it should have about the policy, particularly about the things that it didnt 
cover. But, for the reasons mentioned above, Mrs P wasnt really affected by any of those 
things. Because I think she had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont think 
that more information would have caused her to change her mind. So she wasnt any worse 
off as a result of anything AXA may have done wrong, so theres nothing that AXA needs to 
do to put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr P, on behalf of the late Mrs Ps, complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and the 
estate of Mrs P to accept or reject my decision before 1 June 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman