DRN-3961245
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Sesame Limited didnt act in his best interests when it arranged 
the renewal of his home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr C bought a home insurance policy with an insurer for several years. The insurance policy 
was administered by Sesame. 
Before the renewal date in November 2021, Sesame told Mr C that the scheme was closed 
and so it could no longer provide him with a renewal quote from the insurer. 
On shopping around, Mr C found a quote for around half the price hed been paying for his 
policy through Sesame. Mr C complained to Sesame. 
In November 2021 Sesame rejected Mr Cs complaint. It said that the renewal price 
previously provided by the insurer was calculated correctly. 
Mr C remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. Our Investigator issued her 
first view, in relation to the pricing of the policy in previous years, which is set by the insurer. 
She didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr C said his complaint had been misunderstood. He said Sesame provided a broker 
service to theoretically find him the best deal on the market - his complaint is that Sesame 
failed to do this. 
In February 2023 our Investigator issued a second view. She didnt find anything to show 
that Sesame had led Mr C to believe it would look to other insurers for a better price for him. 
She found that in the renewal documents Sesame had provided since 2019, it explained that 
Mr C had the option to shop around and - in summary - the onus was on him to check he 
was getting the best deal. 
Mr C didnt agree. He says Sesame provided a broker service which he paid a fee for to get 
the best price on the market, so the onus was on Sesame, not Mr C. He said he had 
documents from Sesame going back as far as 2004 and was unhappy the Investigator 
hadnt asked him for this information earlier. 
Mr C says he rang Sesame over the years to discuss the price at renewal and was assured 
he was paying the best price. Mr C says he might have accepted a price difference of 
around 10%, but not 50%.
So Mr C wants an ombudsman to decide. 
Our Investigator asked Mr C to provide a copy of the renewal documents he referred to. As 
the time to provide this has passed, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sesame has provided a copy of the available renewal documents it sent to Mr C in 2019 and 
2020. Sesames representative told us that it acted on behalf of the insurer of the scheme, 
not Mr C. 
A key statement from the renewal documents read:
Your renewal is a good time to check that your policy still meets your needs and you 
may wish to consider shopping around. If you choose to do so, please consider the 
level of cover you may get as well as the cost of the policy.
From the information available to me, I havent seen anything that suggests a representation 
was made that Sesame would seek out the best price by searching a wider group of insurers 
on behalf of Mr C. The wording above directly points out that Mr C can shop around, and 
that Mr C could contact Sesame to make sure hes getting the best value for money. 
We have seen cases where a broker acts on behalf of a customer. This is set out in the 
documentation provided - explaining whether theyve searched the market and if the policy 
they are offering at renewal represents the best value. 
Sesame provided its contact notes from 2018. This shows a note of a phone call from Mr C 
in January 2019 where Mr C asked to confirm the sum insured and updated his contact 
details. This is the only record of contact according to its notes up until Mr C complained in 
November 2021. 
From the renewal documents available to me, Sesame administered the policy on behalf of 
the same insurer under the scheme, providing Mr C with the renewal premium and dealing 
with the administration of the scheme until it closed. 
I understand how strongly Mr C feels about his complaint. But there isnt anything to show 
me that Sesame represented to Mr C that it would search the whole insurers market on his 
behalf for the best price at renewal. So I cant safely conclude that Sesame acted 
unreasonably. 
From the renewal documentation provided by Sesame, I think it made it clear that Mr C had 
the choice to use them or he could shop around elsewhere if he wished to. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr C. But for the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding his 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman