DRN-2496125
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (which Ill call MBFS)
didnt do enough to resolve problems with a car she took on hire purchase.
What happened
In March 2017 Mrs K took a car on hire purchase from MBFS under a four-year agreement.
Almost immediately, she experienced problems with a faulty sat nav system and rattling
dashboard. Both were fixed by the dealership.
In June 2018 and again on two occasions in February 2019 the car lost power and braking
performance. The issue was resolved when an engineer identified a poorly-fitted spark plug,
although she had a similar problem a few months later. Mrs K was provided with a courtesy
car while the problem was fixed, although she was unhappy that a similar model to her own
wasnt available.
In March 2019 Mrs K said she received documents from MBFS in an unsealed envelope.
She thinks that was a breach of data protection laws.
In July 2019 Mrs K noticed that she was suffering a loss of tyre pressure, a problem traced
to a cracked alloy wheel. Other problems have arisen since Mrs K made her complaint.
Mrs K has now returned the car and ended the hire purchase agreement. Because she had
already paid more than half the amount due under it, she was able to do so without having to
make any further payments.
MBFS considered what Mrs K had said about her time with the car. It accepted that the
various issues with it would have caused her inconvenience and distress. It offered £250 in
compensation. Mrs K didnt think that was enough and referred the case to this service,
where one of our investigators considered it. He recommended that MBFS increase the
compensation to £500. Neither MBFS nor Mrs K accepted his recommendation, however 
Mrs K didnt think £500 was enough, and MBFS thought it was too much.
I considered the case and issued a provisional decision, indicating that I thought that 
MBFSs offer of £250 had been fair in the circumstances. I didnt think it needed to increase 
that offer.
I noted that MBFS had been under a duty to provide a car of satisfactory quality. It hadnt 
done so, but had arranged for repairs, to which Mrs K had agreed. I accepted however that 
Mrs K should not have been put to the trouble of arranging repairs, so should receive some 
compensation in recognition of that. I thought that £250 was fair compensation. 
I noted too that Mrs K had complained about being sent documents in an unsealed 
envelope. I thought that might be in breach of MBFSs duty to keep information secure, 
although there was no suggestion that anyone else had accessed Mrs Ks data. 
MBFS accepted my provisional findings, but Mrs K didnt respond to them.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since MBFS accepted my provisional findings and Mrs K didnt respond to them, I see no 
reason to reach a different final conclusion. I shall therefore simply leave it to Mrs K to 
decide whether, on reflection, she wishes to accept MBFSs offer.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited to take 
any further steps to resolve Mrs Ks complaint. It is now for her to indicate whether she 
wishes to accept the offer of £250. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman