DRN-3409523
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax) cant provide more information about the 
money he had in his savings account with it.
Halifax is a division of Bank of Scotland, for ease Ive referred to Bank of Scotland 
throughout. 
Mr C is represented by Mr M and again for ease Ive referred to statements made by Mr M 
as being made by Mr C.
What happened
Mr C and his wife had several savings accounts with Bank of Scotland, they say the last 
communication they had on these accounts was a statement they received dated April 1997. 
Mr C and his wife visited the branch to enquire about the accounts, but say they were told 
the bank had no recollection of them. Mr C isnt happy with this and would like Bank of 
Scotland to pay them the balance from these accounts plus interest.
Bank of Scotland said Mr Cs Tessa account closed in February 1999 when the balance was 
withdrawn, but it couldnt provide any further information because of the length of time that 
has passed since it closed. It said it was only obliged to retain records for six years at the 
time the account closed.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She thought the statement Mr C 
had from 1997 only showed a snapshot of the accounts, and said the individual account 
statements showed they had been closed. Our investigator also thought it was 
understandable that Bank of Scotland had limited information considering the length of time 
that had passed. Mr C didnt accept the investigators opinion, so the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Cs complaint relates to several savings accounts he and his wife held with Bank of 
Scotland. Ive reviewed their joint accounts and Mrs Cs sole account under separate 
references. Therefore, Ive only considered Mr Cs Tessa savings account here. Having 
done so, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator and for similar reasons. Ill 
explain why. 
Ive carefully considered the Tessa account statement provided by Bank of Scotland 
alongside the 1997 shares account statement provided by Mr C. The 1997 shares account 
statement shows the balances in his savings accounts as at February 1997. I can see the 
balance shown on Mr Cs Tessa statement for that time is the same as shown on the 1997 
statement. So, Im satisfied the figures are accurate for that time. However, I dont find the 
account still held the same amount of money by the time Bank of Scotland says it closed.
Bank of Scotlands records show Mr Cs Tessa was opened in August 1993 and matured five 
years later in August 1998. They also show the balance was withdrawn in February 1999, 
after it matured, and there were no further transactions. The status of the account shows it 
was closed as at the time of the report in January 2000 and it also shows the last statement 
for this account was produced in February 1999. 
Mr C thinks the funds from his account may have been transferred to various charities, but I 
dont think so. When an account is left dormant, the bank may transfer money left in it to an 
organisation to be distributed to several charities. However, the statements show Mr Cs 
Tessa was active and they dont indicate it was left dormant, so on balance I think its likely 
Mr C withdrew the funds or transferred them elsewhere and closed the account. 
Bank of Scotland says due to the time that has passed since this account closed, it has 
limited information and cant tell where the funds went on closure. Banks arent required to 
hold information indefinitely, and considering its been more than 20 years since the 
transaction was carried out, I dont think what its said is unreasonable.
Based on the available information, I think its likely Mr Cs Tessa account closed around the 
time the funds were withdrawn from it in February 1999. I also havent seen anything that 
suggests the account carried a balance beyond the date Bank of Scotlands records show it 
closed. So, I dont think its reasonable to ask it to pay Mr C the money he previously held in 
his Tessa. Bank of Scotland suggested Mr C check statements for accounts he held with 
other banks to see whether the funds had been transferred elsewhere, and I dont think 
thats an unreasonable suggestion.
Its unfortunate Mr C had to visit the branch and didnt get the answer he had hoped for. 
Bank of Scotland acknowledged the service he received was poor. Ive addressed this under 
a separate reference, so I wont go over it again here. In the circumstances, I think Bank of 
Scotland has been fair and reasonable in its investigation into Mr Cs account. So, for the 
reasons set out above, I dont think Bank of Scotland need to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman