DRN-3932640
The complaint
Miss H complains about the quality of a car she was supplied with under a hire purchase 
agreement (agreement) with Oodle Financial Services  trading as Oodle Car Finance 
(OCF).
Miss H is represented in her complaint by a third party. But for ease I will simply refer to 
Miss H in this decision rather than Miss H and her representative. 
What happened
In March 2022 Miss H entered into an agreement with OCF for a used car that was 
approximately nine and half years old and had travelled approximately 100,000 miles. The 
cost of the car was £7,894.
Under the terms of the agreement, everything else being equal, Miss H undertook to pay 
54 monthly payments of £216.24 making a total repayable of £11,676.96 at an APR of 
20.1%.
In May 2022 Miss H complained to OCF that the car had been diagnosed as having a faulty 
transmission control module, but the supplying dealership wasnt being particularly helpful in 
arranging a repair.
In July 2022 OCF contacted Miss H to say that as a resolution to her complaint it was 
prepared (amongst other things) to arrange for the car to be collected and taken to the 
supplying dealership for repair free of charge. 
OCF then contacted Miss H to ask where the car was located so it could arrange for it to be 
taken to the supplying dealership, but Miss H refused to confirm to OCF the cars location.
In August 2022 OCF contacted Miss H to say her agreement was in arrears. It also 
contacted her to say that it wasnt able to assist her any further given that she wasnt 
prepared to confirm where the car was located and given that the suppling dealership had 
agreed (amongst other things) to undertake a repair free of charge.
In September 2022 OCF contacted Miss H to say her agreement was in arrears.
In September 2022 Miss H complained to our service.
Miss Hs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it 
shouldnt be upheld. In summary she said that given the supplying dealership had agreed to 
repair the car OCF needed to do nothing further.
Miss H responded to the investigators view to say she didnt agree with it and she should be 
able to reject the car.
The investigator considered Miss Hs response to her view but wasnt persuaded to change 
her mind. Therefore, Miss Hs complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Miss H has very strong feelings about this complaint. But the purpose of my 
decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them, rather than addressing 
each and every point raised. I also note that Miss H would have liked the opportunity to 
discuss her complaint with me (as the ombudsman deciding her case) by telephone. But Im 
satisfied that I can decide this case without this being necessary.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments I can confirm that Ive reached 
the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons. 
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Miss H was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to investigate complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, OCF 
are responsible. 
OCF doesnt dispute that the car Miss H was supplied with was of unsatisfactory quality. But 
that doesnt mean Miss H has the right to reject it.
The CRA says that where a car is diagnosed with a fault that makes it of unsatisfactory 
quality when it was first supplied, then the finance provider has one chance to undertake a 
repair to remedy that fault.
Given that the supplying dealership has agreed to undertake a repair to the car Im satisfied 
that OCF need do nothing further in respect of this complaint.
For the sake of completeness, I would add that OCF is under no obligation to supply Miss H 
with a courtesy car whilst hers is undergoing a repair by the supplying dealership, and it 
certainly isnt required to provide her with a courtesy car of the same specification as to her 
current car. But I would remind OCF that whilst any repair is being undertaken to Miss Hs 
car it should ensure that where she isnt provided with a courtesy car (by it or the supplying 
dealership) then it should fairly and reasonably compensate her for this fact. But I make no 
finding, nor do I need to make a finding, on what this compensation should be in this 
decision.
If Miss H agrees to a repair being undertaken and that repair isnt successful, or if after the 
car is returned repaired Miss H isnt satisfied with what OCF has done, or offered to do, to 
compensate her for not being offered a courtesy car whilst hers was undergoing a repair, 
assuming of course no courtesy car is offered, then she is free to raise a new and separate 
complaint in these respects.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman