DRN-2546578
The complaint
Ms B, represented by a claims management company (CMC), complains that she was mis-
sold a Flexible Investment Portfolio (FIP) by a predecessor of Sanlam Life & Pensions UK 
Limited.
What happened
Ms B was sold the FIP in 1988. At the time she was aged 21 and working full-time. She 
invested £4,500, initially in the UK Convertible Deposit Fund. 
Over the course of the following months she made several withdrawals from the FIP. She 
then instigated a fund switch to the Property Fund in October 1988. Several further 
withdrawals followed before Ms B fully surrendered the FIP in March 1989.
Her CMC made a complaint on her behalf to Sanlam in 2020. In brief, it said that the 
investment had left Ms B with nothing in the way of liquidity. It said that at the time deposit 
accounts were offering interest rates in excess of 10%, so there had been little point her in 
putting her money into the Deposit fund in the FIP and incurring an immediate 5% charge for 
doing so. Lastly, as a 21-year-old, it was high likely Ms Bs circumstances would change in 
the short to medium term, so investing her money at that time was too inflexible.
Sanlam didnt uphold the complaint. It noted that the sale had been made Pre-A Day, at a 
time when regulations were far less stringent than they are today. It acknowledged that, 
nevertheless, the adviser still had a responsibility to demonstrate a reasonable level of care 
and skill and not misrepresent in any way. 
Sanlam said that while Ms B had no other funds available to her, the FIP allowed for free 
withdrawals, so this gave her flexibility. It also said the documentation made clear the costs 
involved and that fund choices were the consumers and that it was made clear that making 
early withdrawals would impact upon the investment returns. 
The complaint was referred to this service where our investigator thought it should be 
upheld. 
She said she didnt think Ms B, given her age and lack of any other money, wouldve been in 
a position to commit to the sort of term needed to make investing worthwhile  five years or 
longer. The investigator felt this was supported by the frequent withdrawals Ms B made from 
the FIP and the very early surrender. She proposed that Sanlam compensate 
Ms B by comparing the performance of her FIP with a no-risk benchmark.
Sanlam didnt accept the investigators view and reiterated that the sale had been made pre-
A day. 
As no agreement could be reached, the matter was referred to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons.
Its important to highlight that the sale of the FIP to Ms B must be considered in the context 
of it having taken place in January 1988, before the Financial Services Act 1986 came into 
force in April 1988. At the time  pre-A day  there were no regulations relating to the 
ensuring the suitability of advice. Rather, as Sanlam noted, an adviser had to show 
reasonable care and skill and make a recommendation that was a reasonable fit for the 
consumers circumstances.
At the time of the advice Ms B was 21. She was working, on an average salary and she 
doesnt appear to have any money aside from the £4,500 she was advised to invest. Given 
these circumstances, it doesnt strike me as likely that she wouldve been in a position to 
commit the money to a medium-term investment. Its likely her personal and financial 
circumstances would be subject to change over the next five years, in ways that might well 
lead to her needing the money for other purposes. 
Sanlam has highlighted that withdrawals from the FIP were free of any charges. So, it could 
effectively be used in much the same way as a deposit account  which is what it appears 
Ms B did. But this was quite possibly for precisely the reasons suggested above  that she 
required flexibility to adapt to her changing circumstances.
While it was clearly beneficial that she didnt incur any charges for making the withdrawals, 
nor for surrendering the FIP early, she did, however, incur costs at the outset. A 5% charge 
was applied, meaning that only £4,275 was invested. So, this put her at an immediate 
disadvantage, particularly if she did end up holding the FIP for only a short period, as was a 
clear possibility. 
This being so, I think it seems clear that the FIP was not a reasonable fit for Ms B. I note 
she did make one fund switch, which might suggest she was engaged with the FIP as an 
investment, to a degree at least. But the full surrender came only five months after this, 
which to my mind counters that argument and instead supports the view that it wouldve 
been more appropriate for Ms B to have simply deposited the money somewhere where she 
could earn a reasonable rate of interest while retaining easy access to the money.
Putting things right
I think the complaint should be upheld and compensation paid to Ms B. The purpose of 
compensation is to place her as close to the position she would probably now be in if she 
hadnt been given inappropriate advice. 
I take the view that she wouldve invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely what 
she wouldve done differently. But Im satisfied, given her circumstances, that she was not in 
a position to take any risk with her money. 
As such, Sanlam should compare the amount invested with the returns based on
the Bank of England base rate up to the date of surrender (accounting for withdrawals
made). To any loss arising, add interest at the rate of 8% simple (15% to 1 April 1993) from 
the date of surrender to date of settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Sanlam Life & Pensions UK Limited to pay compensation to Ms B as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman