DRN-4312390
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complained that they were mis-sold a home insurance policy by their broker, 
Cia Insurance Services Limited (Cia).
What happened
Mr and Mrs R were sold an insurance policy for an empty property they owned. They had 
recently agreed a sale on the property, so wanted cover until the sale completed. 
When Mr and Mrs R made a large claim with their insurer, they discovered they werent 
covered by the policy. Mr and Mrs R felt Cia had mis-sold the policy as they didnt think Cia 
adequately advised them of the risks associated with it. They didnt think Cia sufficiently 
questioned them about their cover requirements for it to offer an alternative or appropriate 
product.
Cia said at renewal we quoted the policy based on an unoccupied property, pending sale, at 
your request. The cover was offered a 3-, 6- or 12-month policy based on restricted cover. 
Fire, Lightening, Explosion, Earthquake, impact by aircraft and subsidence, this was 
explained to you during the call and also replicates the cover that was currently provided on 
your policy. All documentation was then emailed over to you providing full details. All our 
policies are sold on a limited disclosure basis, we advise you to read through your policy and 
we provide a 14-day cooling off period should the cover provided not suit your needs. At no 
time did we have any contact from you or any questions regarding the cover provided. We 
have attached the documentation provided to you and a copy of the call recording from 
renewal.
Mr and Mrs R want Cia to pay the costs of the claim itself as they felt Cia had mis-sold the 
policy.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She didnt think it was mis-sold. She 
said the agent was clear the sale was on a limited disclosure basis and set out what the 
policy covered. She said Cia followed this up by sending out all the detailed policy 
documents and signposted Mr and Mrs R to the cooling off period. Mr and Mrs R disagreed, 
so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate this has been a stressful time for Mr and Mrs R as theyve had a significant 
claim declined. However, Im going to further disappoint them, as I wont be upholding this 
complaint. I dont think the policy was mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs R have explained that they dont think Cia fulfilled its obligations. They dont 
think Cia advised them of all the key terms of the policy. Mr and Mrs R said it used Cia as a 
broker for several years and had always relied on their expertise. They said they dont 
understand much of the terminology and caveats of insurance which is why they used a 
broker. They said they didnt use a comparison website but used a broker as they required 
their specialist knowledge.
Ive listened to the call of when the sale of the policy happened. I can hear Cias call agent 
clearly stating the policy covers fire, lightning, explosion, earthquake and subsidence. As 
Mr and Mrs Rs claim was for escape of water, I cant reasonably think the agent misled 
them as the agent never mentioned the cover did cover this type of incident.
I can also hear the agent at the end of the call signpost Mr and Mrs R to the detailed terms 
and conditions which Cia sent shortly afterwards. The policy itself was consistent to what 
Cias agent had set out on the call i.e., there was no mention of cover for escape of water.
Ive also read the documentation sent out to Mr and Mrs R and there is a clear expectation 
that Mr and Mrs R would be required to check these documents. The wording states full 
terms and conditions of the policy are provided in your policy wording. Please take time to 
read this policy document to make sure you understand the cover it provides. I dont think 
its unreasonable for Cia to have expected Mr and Mrs R to check the policy was what they 
needed. The policy also had a cooling-off period, whereby Mr and Mrs R had the opportunity 
to cancel the policy if they werent happy with it.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs R said they were reliant on Cias expertise, but I cant see that it 
provided any advice or were asked to. Mr and Mrs R didnt ask any questions when they 
bought the cover. Mr and Mrs R said they didnt understand insurance, but there is no 
evidence they ever informed Cia of this fact or asked for any help. So, based on the 
evidence, I cant see that Cia has done anything wrong, so I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Cia Insurance Services 
Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman