DRN-3386364
The complaint
Ms M has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold her fee-paying Gold Service 
and Platinum accounts, that were sold to her in January 2002 and June 2006, respectively. 
Ms M has given a number of reasons why she says they were mis-sold. These include that:
Ms M was told taking out the packaged accounts with an overdraft would be better, 
compared to a loan, but no price comparisons were provided;
Ms M was mis-led on the value of the packaged accounts and cost effectiveness, 
and didnt need the benefits they come with;
Ms M was told taking out the accounts would help fund property renovations and 
shed get favorable consideration in terms of overdrafts and loans;
Ms Ms ex-husband was an electrician, plumber and builder, and says shed told the 
bank this, so says she didnt need the account benefits - like home emergency cover;
Ms M didnt need winter sports cover and she didnt think the home emergency cover 
would cover her five rental properties.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and he didnt think that either of the 
accounts had been mis-sold.
Ms M disagreed with the adjudicator, so the matter was referred for an ombudsmans 
decision.
Ms M has complained about the sale of other packaged accounts that she had on another 
bank account. As her complaint about that account is being looked into separately, I wont be 
commenting on the sale of those packaged accounts in this decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website, and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, I dont 
think that the packaged accounts were mis-sold. I will explain why.
Ive started by considering if Ms M was given a fair choice. I note that Ms M has not said that 
she thought she had to have either of the packaged accounts in her testimony. And I can 
see that Ms M did hold a fee-free account with Lloyds alongside these accounts. So Im 
satisfied that when Ms M agreed to them, I think she did so knowing that she didnt have to 
have them and that fee-free alternatives were available. So I think that Ms M was in all 
likelihood given a fair choice when she agreed to take out the two packaged accounts.
Both of the packaged accounts were sold on an advised basis. This means Lloyds had to 
make sure they were a good fit for Ms M, based on her circumstances at the time. Although I 
should point out that as they were sold as a package, it meant that Ms M could not pick and 
choose what they came with. And it follows that even if Ms M didnt want or need all of the 
benefits they provided, it does not in itself mean that they were necessarily mis-sold.
The Gold Service account cost £8 per month and provided worldwide travel insurance, card 
protection, purchase protection, extended warranty cover, travel accident insurance and 
accidental death cover. It also provided other non-insurance benefits such as discounts on 
loans, preferential interest rates on savings accounts, a £100 interest free overdraft with 
preferential rates (compared to what was charged on a fee-free account) on balances 
overdrawn by more than that amount up to the agreed limit.
 
Ms M has said that she occasionally travels, so she wouldve been able to make use of the 
travel insurance provided by the account. And Ms M was occasionally using her overdraft, so 
wouldve been able to benefit from the interest free portion on her overdraft, as well as a 
lower rate of interest on balances overdrawn by more than £100. Ms M has also said that 
she was told that by agreeing to the account, shed have access to preferential rates on 
loans. And that is correct  indeed, I can see she later took advantage of this by taking out a 
Gold Service loan  which came with a lower rate of interest compared to the interest rate 
that was available to customers who only held fee-free accounts. 
Therefore, given that Ms M was able to benefit from some of the features of the Gold Service 
account and it was the cheapest account that offered that combination of benefits, Lloyds 
recommendation seems reasonable in the circumstance. I say this bearing in mind that I 
think Ms M knew she didnt have to accept the recommendation if she didnt want the 
account in question.
In 2006, the Platinum account cost £15 per month and provided worldwide travel insurance 
(with family travel cover or winter sports for two people), breakdown cover (roadside, relay, 
home start and accident management), mobile phone insurance and card protection. It also 
provided other non-insurance benefits, such as a £250 interest free overdraft with 
preferential rates (compared to what was charged on a fee-free account) on balances 
overdrawn by more than that amount, up to the agreed limit., It also included features such 
as competitive rates on savings accounts, commission free travel money, UK airport lounge 
access, discounts on buying cars and home shopping service.
Again I think Ms M couldve made use of the (enhanced levels of) travel insurance cover, 
because although Ms M says that her father normally purchased insurance for her, Ive seen 
no reason why she could not have instead relied on the cover provided by her account. Ms 
M also said that she tried to register for the mobile phone insurance, but gave up trying as 
she found the process too difficult. However the fact Ms M tried to register suggests that she 
couldve relied on the cover provided by the account and therefore had a potential need for 
this cover when it was sold to her.
When Ms M was sold the Platinum account, her arranged overdraft limit was £8,000 - 
although her account was not operating near the limit at that point in time. But, by agreeing 
to upgrade to the Platinum account, Ms M was not only able to have a larger portion of her 
overdraft as interest free (the first £250), but it also incurred a lower rate of interest when it 
was overdrawn by more than £250 - compared to what the Gold account charged. 
Ms M has said that during the sale, she was led to believe that taking out the packaged 
account was a good way to fund property renovations. Its difficult for me to comment on this, 
because I dont know what exactly was discussed with Ms M or even know how quickly Ms 
M was intending to repay the debt that had accrued on her account. But, I can see that the 
account was substantially overdrawn when the account was sold to her. And Ms M then paid 
a substantial amount of money into the account a short while later in July 2006, which brought the account back into a credit balance  and it remained largely in credit in the 
months that followed. 
So even if Lloyds had suggested Ms M take out the Platinum account as a way to reduce the 
cost of borrowing on her account in the short term, I cant say that was unreasonable advice, 
given that it did just that. And again, I say this bearing in mind that I think Ms M knew that 
she was not obliged to have the Platinum account and could downgrade to a fee-free 
account at any point, if she wanted to.
So taking all of the above into account, Lloydss recommendation that she upgrade to the 
Platinum account does not seem unreasonable, as Ms M was again able to make use of 
some of the features it provided. 
As well as making sure the accounts were a good fit for Ms M, Lloyds also had to give Ms M 
enough information about the accounts so that she could decide for herself whether they 
were worth taking out. I think its likely that some of the features wouldve been explained to 
Ms M  after all, she says she was told that they included lower rates of interest on 
overdrafts and loans and she was aware of the need to register to be covered under the 
Platinum mobile phone cover. Ms M has also said that she was aware from the outset that 
she was being charged a monthly fee for the accounts. 
Due to the historic nature of the sales and the limited information that is now available, I 
accept that Ms M might not have been given all of the information she shouldve been during 
the two sales. But Ive not seen anything about her circumstances that makes me think that 
she wouldve been put off from agreeing to them, had she been given even more information 
about them.
Overall, I dont think that the two packaged accounts were mis-sold. On the contrary, they 
appear to have included some features that Ms M was able to make use of. And although 
Ms M may not have needed all of the features on the account, she wasnt able to pick and 
choose what they came with in any event. 
Having considered everything that Ms M has said, it seems more that case that Ms M now 
thinks, perhaps with the benefit of hindsight, that they were poor value for money and she 
now regrets agreeing to take them out. But that in itself does not mean that they were mis-
sold or that Lloyds was acting unfairly or unreasonably by recommending them to her. As 
such, based on what I have seen, I dont think it would be appropriate to require Lloyds to 
refund her the account fees for these two accounts.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman