DRN-3773572
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that Chaucer Insurance Company Designated Activity Company (Chaucer) 
declined a claim made under his Let Property Insurance policy.
What happened
Mr L is the landlord of a residential property. He took out landlord insurance, with Chaucer, 
in February 2022, to cover various risks relating to the building.
The property had the same tenant in it, from around 2010. Mr L and relevant parties had 
been able to access the property during the tenancy. But there came a point in the tenancy 
when the tenant refused access  and so Mr L hadnt been able to gain access for around 
two and a half years. 
On 14 May 2022, Mr L was finally able to gain access to the property, after the tenants 
eviction. And on doing so, he found a wide range of damage within the property  including 
in the kitchen, living room and bathroom. The damage was wide-ranging, but included issues 
such as soiled sanitary wear, marked flooring and walls and damage to doors.
On 16 May 2022, Mr L contacted his insurer, Chaucer, to make a claim for his loss. Chaucer 
considered the claim but declined it. It said the losses Mr L were claiming for, werent 
covered under his insurance policy. Chaucer said the damage in the photos Mr L had 
provided instead showed maintenance and wear and tear problems. Which werent 
something the policy provided for.
Mr L didnt consider this to be fair. He said the condition of the property had been caused by 
malicious damage and vandalism. Mr L said this was something the policy covered. So, he 
should be receiving a settlement under that element of the policy. Mr L did however that 
some of the £16,000 worth of damage was down to wear and tear. But thought about £9,000 
of the work that needed to be done was insured. 
Chaucer maintained its position on the matter. So, Mr L referred his complaint to this service, 
for an independent opinion on the matter.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. The 
investigator said that Chaucer has acted fairly in saying the damage to the property wasnt 
covered. She noted the property was dirty and poorly maintained. But that Chaucers 
assessment that the property was maliciously damaged or vandalised was reasonable. So, 
she didnt recommend that Chaucer do anything differently here.
Mr L didnt agree. He asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman, for a final 
decision on the matter.
So, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ive explained why below. 
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly. So, Ive thought about whether 
Chaucer acted in line with these requirements, when it declined to settle Mr Ls claim. 
Ive reviewed Mr Ls policy documentation, to see what cover this provides. And I can see it 
does provide cover for damage to Mr Ls building. But, as is usual with insurance policies of 
this nature, it doesnt provide cover for every scenario. Instead, the policy provides cover for 
damage, if its caused by one of the events listed within the policy. If the damage isnt 
caused by a listed event  it isnt covered, and the policy wont respond.
The events listed in the policy include damage caused by situations such as storm, theft, or 
flood or escape of water. Ive thought about whether Chaucer has acted reasonably in noting 
the loss isnt covered by any of those events listed. 
And having done so, Im satisfied it has acted fairly. Mr L feels the damage is covered under 
the listed event of malicious damage, or vandalism. So, Ive thought about this. But Im 
satisfied that Chaucer acted fairly in concluding the loss wasnt covered under this event.
I say this because Ive seen the photographs Chaucer used to make its decision. Chaucer 
has said these photos show a lack of maintenance, as well as wear. And Im satisfied 
Chaucers interpretation of these photographs is reasonable. The photos show a property in 
poor condition  in a state of disarray  for example with soiled or dirty sanitary wear, 
worktops and walls. I agree with Chaucer this sort of neglect wouldnt be considered as 
malicious damage or vandalism.
The ordinary meaning of malicious damage, or vandalism, surrounds the intentional or wilful 
damage of property. But there isnt any evidence this is whats happened here. Instead, the 
evidence is of lack of maintenance, and wear, which isnt covered by the insurance policy. 
Its important to note that an insurance policy isnt a maintenance contract. So, it isnt 
unusual for damage of this nature to not fall within the scope of an insurance policy. 
I appreciate Mr L has provided a definition of vandalism that he feels his situation meets. 
But, as above, and having looked at the ordinary meaning of vandalism myself, Im satisfied 
the damage evidenced doesnt meet the definition of vandalism. 
Ive considered whether there is any other insured event within the policy that may cover all, 
or some of the Mr Ls loss. And Im satisfied there isnt any firm evidence another insured 
event would apply. 
For example, Chaucer did consider whether some damage on the kitchen ceiling could have 
been caused by an escape of water. Which I think was fair to do. But Chaucers loss adjuster 
has noted that neither the letting agent or Mr L had found any evidence of water escaping 
from anywhere  past or present. Given there is no evidence of an escape of water 
occurring, Im satisfied it wouldnt be reasonable to expect Chaucer to provide cover under 
this section. So, I think it came to a fair conclusion here too. 
Further, Mr Ls policy with Chaucer began in February 2022. And Mr L confirmed that access 
to the property hadnt been possible for a number of years. The policy wouldnt provide cover 
for anything that happened prior to February 2022. And, the policy contains an exclusion for 
damage caused gradually, or by wear and tear. Which I think Chaucer has acted fairly in 
noting is likely to be the case. As above, it based this decision on photographs of damage to the property, which showed a lack of maintenance, neglect and wear over time. So, I dont 
find Chaucer acted unfairly in declining Mr Ls claim. 
Mr L has said he feels Chaucer didnt do enough to look into this claim. For example, no one 
from Chaucer, or its representatives, visited the property. But Id only expect an insurer to 
send someone out to the property if this was necessary. And Im satisfied it wasnt 
necessary in this instance. Chaucer had sufficient information to make a decision on the 
claim without doing this.
Mr L has my sympathy for the condition the property was left in. But, as Im satisfied the 
damage isnt covered under the policy, I dont hold Chaucer accountable for it. And so, I 
dont require it to change its decision on Mr Ls claim. 
My final decision
Given the above my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Chaucer Insurance Company Designated Activity Company (Chaucer) to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman