DRN-2955644
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Capital One (Europe) plc trading as Capital One didnt ask him which 
email address he wanted to use when setting up his credit card account and they wont 
amend his username. Also, that Capital One have refused his right to have information 
corrected under General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). 
What happened
Earlier this year, Mr M successfully applied for a credit card account through a third party. 
Capital One set up the account and created a username using the email address provided 
on the application.
A few days later, Mr M contacted Capital One to ask for his email address and username to 
be changed. Capital One updated the email address but said they couldnt amend the 
username. Mr M complained and asked Capital One to allow him to change his username as 
per his GDPR right to rectify incorrect information held about him. 
Capital One explained they werent able to change the username but said theyd let Mr M 
know if this was possible in the future. They referred Mr M to their privacy notice in response 
to his point about breaching GDPR.
Mr M remained unhappy and referred his complaint to our service. He said Capital One 
shouldnt have assumed that he wanted to use the same email address he had provided to 
the third party. He feels Capital One should have asked him which email address he wanted 
to use. Hes also unhappy he has been refused his right to correct information under the 
GDPR rules. 
An investigator looked at the complaint but felt Capital One hadnt acted unreasonably as 
they updated the email address when Mr M asked. And although they couldnt change the 
username, he felt this didnt affect Mr M beyond how he accessed his account. 
The investigator also said the assumption made by Capital One about the email address 
was reasonable. He agreed there was some inconvenience to Mr M but didnt feel Capital 
One should do anything more.
Mr M disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He explained that 
Capital One had made an assumption which was incorrect, and he didnt provide the email 
address on the application form. He doesnt feel its reasonable that Capital One have 
refused to change the email address used in his username. He says this issue has impacted 
his ability to log in.
I issued a provisional decision on 25 June 2021, and I made the following findings:
Firstly, its important for me to set out that the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) is 
best placed to address Mr Ms complaint point about Capital One refusing his right to have 
information corrected under GDPR.
I understand Mr M has previously said he will be contacting the ICO to raise his concerns. If 
he hasnt already, and wishes to pursue this aspect of his complaint, he should get in touch 
with the ICO. My decision here focuses on whether Capital One acted fairly and reasonably 
in dealing with Mr Ms request to have his email address and username amended.
I dont dispute Mr M didnt complete the application form himself. But the third party he used 
to apply for the credit card account provided the details to Capital One on his behalf. Ive 
looked at the application form and Im satisfied Capital One correctly set up Mr Ms credit 
card account using the details on provided on it. This is what Id expect them to do.
On the application form, Capital One asks for, amongst other details, an email address. I 
dont think Capital One needed to check with Mr M again, if he wanted to use the email 
address provided on the application form. It was reasonable for Capital One to assume the 
details given to them were correct.
I appreciate Mr M wanted to use a different email address, but Capital One couldnt 
reasonably have foreseen that. So, I cant fairly agree Capital One should have done more 
here.
When Mr M contacted Capital One to let them know he wanted his email address changed, I 
can see they updated their systems promptly. This means Mr M will receive any 
correspondence about his credit card account to the email address of his choice.
I think Capital One addressed Mr Ms complaint fairly. They confirmed his email address had 
been updated. They also explained that usernames are created at account opening using 
the email address provided on the application form and they arent able to change this. 
I appreciate Mr Ms disappointment that his username isnt his preferred email address. But 
Capital One are entitled to make commercial decisions on how they carry out their day-to-
day business, including whether customers should be allowed to amend their username.
Its not for me to interfere with how Capital One choose to operate more broadly, but I can 
look at how their actions impact Mr M. I accept not being able to change his username 
causes Mr M some inconvenience and frustration  particularly as he has explained, it takes 
him longer to use his online banking as he has to recall the username wasnt set up using 
the email address he wanted. 
But as I understand it, the username is only used to log on to online banking.  It doesnt 
affect Mr Ms ability to access his online banking and neither does it prevent him from 
receiving correspondence about the account.
All things considered, I dont think the impact on Mr M here is significant enough for me to 
ask Capital One to compensate him. So, I wont be asking Capital One to do anything.
Mr M didnt respond to my provisional decision. And Capital One said they had nothing 
further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided anything further for me to consider, I see no reason to depart 
from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision.My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2021.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman