DRN-4425789
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs R complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined a personal liability claim 
under a travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B and Mrs R held a travel insurance policy through a joint account, provided by AXA. 
Mrs R says she visited the banks branch in December 2016 to convert her account to a joint 
account with Mr B before going on holiday in January 2017. She says that during this 
meeting the key elements of cover required were discussed, including travel insurance cover 
for golf trips.
Mrs R was involved in an accident during that holiday in January 2017. The accident 
happened while she drove a golf buggy. In June 2019, the other party sought to make a 
claim for damages. Mrs R got in touch with AXA to claim under her travel insurance for 
personal liability. But AXA declined the claim as it said the terms excluded any claims arising 
directly or indirectly due to the use of vehicles. And AXA considered a golf buggy to be a 
vehicle.
Mrs R was able to agree an out of court settlement with the other party. But she made a 
complaint to AXA about its refusal to cover her claim. She said the breakdown cover 
provided by her bank outlined that a definition of a vehicle will not include any vehicle which 
cannot lawfully be used on the public highway. So, this would exclude golf buggies. She also 
said there were other policies provided by her bank at the time, underwritten by AXA, that 
specifically said that golf buggies whilst in use on a golf course werent caught by the 
exclusion.
Mr B and Mrs R say that the policy they hold with AXA is unclear and inconsistent. They say 
that AXA should have highlighted the different definitions and cover in its product literature to 
allow customers to make an informed decision which product to choose. Mrs R says that had 
this been made clear to her, she could have chosen to take out another policy with her bank 
that provided the appropriate cover. She wants AXA to pay for the costs she incurred, which 
are over £24,000  this includes her legal costs, as well as the settlement she paid to the 
other party.
AXA said that as the word vehicle wasnt defined in the policy, it would be fair to use an 
ordinary definition of a word. AXA said the Oxford dictionary defined vehicle as a thing used 
for transporting people or goods, especially on land, such as a car, lorry or cart. So, AXA 
thought it would be fair to say that a golf buggy would meet this definition, and therefore the 
policy exclusion applied in the circumstances.
AXA said that the other policy that was available through the bank at the same time, which 
specifically said that golf buggies whilst in use on a golf course werent caught by the 
exclusion, was attached to a bank account with a higher level of financial eligibility to qualify 
for the account, and therefore the policy included a higher level of cover. AXA said that the 
responsibility of how the two policies were explained and sold to Mr B and Mrs R rested with 
the bank, not AXA.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having done so, she didnt think 
AXA had acted unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances. This was because the policy 
Mr B and Mrs R held excluded cover for claims arising from the use of vehicles. She 
explained that when a word isnt defined in the policy, our approach is to consider what their 
ordinary, everyday meaning is. And she thought AXA had acted fairly by applying a 
dictionary definition of a vehicle. She thought this was also supported by other definitions 
shed found. 
Mr B and Mrs R didnt agree with our investigators findings. In short, they dont think AXA 
acted fairly and reasonably by not applying a same definition across the product range. 
Overall, they think the wording in the product documentation is unfair and misleading. 
As no agreement was reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued my 
provisional decision in October 2023, and I said the following:
Firstly, as Mr B and Mrs R know, I can only consider the issues that are AXAs responsibility 
under this complaint. That means that I can consider if it acted fairly and reasonably when it 
declined Mrs Rs claim, and if it applied the policy terms fairly in doing so.
The policy terms of the policy Mr B and Mrs R held provided cover under the Personal 
Liability section for:
1 Injury, illness, death or disease to another person that You cause, and
2 Loss of or damage to another persons property that You cause.
We will pay You up to £2,000,000 for
-legal costs and expenses You become legally liable to pay as compensation for any 
incident or series of incidents, and
-Your costs and expenses that We have agreed in writing.
But this section of the policy excluded cover for:
any claim arising directly or indirectly for any liability for injury, illness, death or disease to 
another person or loss of or damage to another persons property
[]
-which is due to Your ownership, possession or use of vehicles, aircraft, watercraft 
(other than canoes, punts or rowing boats), firearms or explosive devices
[]
That means that if Mrs Rs claim arose from the use of a vehicle (it arose from her use of a 
golf buggy), then her claim isnt covered under the policy terms as this is specifically 
excluded.As our investigator explained, where a word isnt defined in the policy (as is the case here), 
we apply the words everyday and commonly used meaning. And having looked through the 
definition AXA used, and the definitions our investigator added in her findings, I think AXA 
acted fairly and reasonably by saying that a golf buggy is a vehicle. Because of this, I think 
AXA acted fairly and reasonably when it declined Mrs Rs claim by relying on the above 
exclusion.
Ive then considered if there are other reasons why it might be fair and reasonable for AXA to 
cover Mrs Rs claim outside of the strict interpretation of the terms of the policy she held.
Firstly, I dont think the breakdown cover provided by Mr B and Mrs Rs bank which outlined 
that a definition of a vehicle will not include any vehicle which cannot lawfully be used on the 
public highway is relevant to their complaint about AXA. This is because this policy is 
something that Mr B and Mrs Rs bank provided as part of the bank account  rather than 
part of the travel insurance policy with AXA. So, I make no finding on this under this 
complaint. 
Ive then carefully considered the points Mr B and Mrs R have made about AXAs definitions 
in its policies. An insurer is required to highlight any significant or unusual terms in its policy 
documentation. But I dont think whether or not the use of a golf buggy should be included or 
excluded from cover in a situation such as this is a significant or unusual term that AXA 
should have highlighted in its product literature. I think the policy terms are clear that the use 
of vehicles was excluded in the circumstances of this claim. And for the reasons I explained 
above, I think AXA acted fairly and reasonably by saying a golf buggy was a vehicle.
Additionally, an insurer is entitled to decide what risk its willing to take in return for a 
premium. So, I dont think AXA acted unfairly by providing a different level of cover in 
another policy at the same time. An insurer is also entitled to review and change the terms of 
a policy at renewal. So, even if something that previously wasnt covered becomes covered 
under the new terms, that doesnt mean the insurer should retrospectively apply the new 
terms to claims where its the previous terms that are relevant to the claim.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B and Mrs R, but based on everything Ive seen so far, I dont 
currently think there are any fair or reasonable grounds for me to say that AXA did anything 
wrong here.
Mrs R was disappointed with my provisional decision. She accepts that AXA was entitled to 
decide the terms, conditions, exclusions and eligibility requirements within the various 
policies. But she doesnt think its clear why Id said that a definition of a vehicle within the 
breakdown cover wasnt relevant to the complaint. Mrs R says the policies are provided as 
part of the same bank account, and that within the full document outlining the benefits of the 
account the only definition of a vehicle is included within the breakdown cover section. She 
doesnt think its clear that the dictionary definition of a vehicle will be applied elsewhere. 
Overall, she doesnt think the policy wording makes it clear that the exclusion would apply.
AXA didnt respond to my provisional decision, and the deadline to do so has now passed. 
So, Im issuing my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As I explained in my provisional decision, I can only consider the issues that are AXAs 
responsibility under this complaint. And the products a bank chooses to offer as part of an 
account package, and what policy terms and conditions those products contain, are not 
AXAs responsibility. AXA is only responsible for its own policy terms, and for considering 
claims under those terms.
Having considered everything again, I see no reason to depart from the findings I reached in 
my provisional decision. So, Ive reached the same decision, and for the same reasons. 
Overall, I think AXA acted fairly and reasonably in declining Mrs Rs claim due to a policy 
exclusion. And I dont think there are any fair or reasonable grounds for me to say AXA did 
anything wrong in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr B and Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman