DRN-3699969
The complaint
Ms B has complained that Phoenix Life Limited provided incorrect transfer value figures to 
her over a period of time  2017 to 2021. She says that she made financial decisions based 
on the incorrect financial information that shed been given, and now has no savings as a 
result. 
What happened
Ms Bs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He sent his assessment of it to 
both parties in August 2022. The background and circumstances to the complaint were set 
out in that assessment. However in brief, the investigator referred to the statements that 
Phoenix Life had sent to Ms B from 2015 to 2021. They included information about her 
Regular Benefits and Additional Voluntary Contributions (AVCs).
The statements set out the annual members guaranteed pension and the transfer values for
both entitlements. The pension that could be provided for each section remained the same 
through all the years - £2,576.68 and £887.18 per annum respectively.
However, the transfer value figures said:
Date                             Regular Benefits           Additional Voluntary Contributions
28 April 2015               £46,882                         £7,906
28 April 2016               £47,904                         £7,975
28 April 2017               £74,938                         £10,519
28 April 2018               £86,442                         £13,829
28 April 2019               £92,722                         £15,677
28 April 2020               £93,084                         £15,814
28 April 2021               £98,474                         Not provided
30 November 2021     £49,237                          £16,922
Ms B complained to Phoenix Life about the annual statements. She said it was only as a 
result of hiring a financial adviser that she became aware that there was an error and that 
the transfer values being given were incorrect. She also asked to fully withdraw her funds 
before April 2022.
Phoenix Life said there had been an issue with its system which had affected the transfer 
value, and this was the cause of the incorrect value it provided in the 2021 statement. But it 
said all the previous statements had been correct. Phoenix Life said it would arrange to send 
Ms B £200 by way of apology and compensation.
Ms B didnt accept the firms offer. She said the matter had caused very serious problems; 
shed made financial decisions over a several year-period based on the wrong information 
Phoenix Life had provided. She said she had made financial commitments to help out her 
son; including paying his rent from May 2018 (on average about £1,500 per month over the 
years) and paying a weekly allowance of £110. And she said that she had helped out other 
members of her family financially instead of saving up for her retirement. Ms B provided 
evidence to show some of the commitments shed made. Ms B said the error had caused 
her a great deal of distress and concern for her future as a retiree.
Our investigator set out his findings on the complaint in his August 2022 assessment. He 
said the statements clearly overstated the Regular Benefits on five separate statements. 
And he said it wasnt clear why the first occurrence hadnt been identified earlier following 
Ms Bs complaint. 
The investigator explained that when an error such as this occurred, the policyholder wasnt 
usually entitled to the incorrect values. He said the basic position was that they were only 
entitled to the correct values - what the position actually was. But he then went onto explain 
that if someone had changed their position as a result of incorrect information provided to 
them, they may have cause for compensation. 
The investigator said annual statements were issued to members of the pension to enable 
them to keep an eye on their benefits. He thought it was reasonable to expect Ms B to have 
reviewed the statements and compared the values shown to those for the previous year. The 
investigator said he thought if Ms B had done this she would likely have spotted the sudden 
increase in the Regular Benefit transfer values detailed for 2016 and 2017. And especially 
when compared against the much lower increase shown for the AVC benefits. The 
investigator said if this had been queried Phoenix Life would have had the opportunity to 
correct the information and provide Ms B with an accurate transfer value.
The investigator said the transfer value wasnt guaranteed, and it could therefore decrease 
at any time as well as increase. So, he didnt think the value could be relied upon when 
making potentially life changing decisions.
Ms B had said she had selected a more expensive financial adviser as she thought she 
could afford to pay for him given the higher value of the pension. However the investigator 
said he didnt think this was a plausible argument as Ms B would otherwise be paying more 
money for what would predominantly be the same service.
Overall, the investigator wasnt persuaded that the incorrect transfer value figures had 
caused Ms B to make different financial decisions. He said, in summary, that he thought Ms 
B was providing for members of her immediate family who needed her help. The pension 
income on offer from the scheme remained the same, and wasnt a significant part of Ms Bs 
retirement income. And he thought that, on the balance of probabilities, Ms B would likely 
have prioritised her family over her savings and made the same financial decisions and 
commitments regardless of the incorrect values of the pension plan.
Overall, the investigator thought Ms B had suffered a loss of expectation and recommended  
that Phoenix Life pay Ms B £500 for the distress and inconvenience suffered.
Ms B didnt accept the investigators findings. She said, in brief, that she wasnt disappointed 
with the conclusion that Phoenix Life had done something wrong and had not acted fairly. 
But she was disappointed at the compensation amount determined. She said it was nowhere 
near enough to address even the time and inconvenience involved in dealing with the 
matter, let alone the issue itself of having made financial decisions based on the wrong 
information provided.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator, and largely for the same reasons.
Ive only summarised the investigators findings above and havent reproduced Ms Bs 
responses in detail. However Ive considered all what she said in reply to the investigators 
assessment of the case (as well as the other evidence previously provided). Ultimately, Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues in deciding the outcome of the complaint.
Its not in dispute that Phoenix Life provided incorrect values in the statements it sent to     
Ms B over the five-year period. And that Ms B only became aware of it when a financial 
adviser shed employed in July 2021 highlighted the errors. Its also clear to me that Phoenix 
Life didnt deal with the matter in a timely and efficient manner when Ms B and her adviser 
raised it with them. So what needs to be decided is what compensation is fair in the 
particular circumstances of the complaint.
The starting position is that Ms B is entitled to the correct value of the plan. Generally, where 
a firm makes a mistake it can be corrected. Where an error is made and values are 
overstated, that doesnt usually mean that the customer is entitled to the higher, incorrect, 
figure. It wont usually be fair to say a firm has to pay something that the policyholder isnt 
entitled to as a result of it making a genuine mistake. However sometimes, where incorrect 
information is given, the person who received it may be able to show that they relied on it  
perhaps by spending when they wouldnt have done had the correct information been given.
Ms B has said she undertook spending that she would otherwise not have made had 
Phoenix Life provided the correct values. Ms B has provided documentary evidence of some 
of the financial commitments that she made. And Im satisfied that Ms B spent the money as 
she has claimed.
However Ms B has had the enjoyment derived from spending the money that she has spent 
 albeit that may effectively be through the other people she helped out financially. Clearly 
Ms B will know what she would have done spending wise if the correct values had been 
given  weighing up what value she obtained by spending that money as she did, versus its 
value if she had saved it and spent/will spend it in other ways. Such decisions are matters of 
fine judgement, and very personal to Ms B. Clearly neither I nor the investigator can know for 
sure what Ms B would have done had she been given the correct values. So whilst I 
understand why Ms B considers it to be speculation, as the investigator explained, we have 
to consider the matter on the balance of probabilities; that is, what we consider was more 
likely to have happened on the balance of the evidence that is available. 
Ms Bs major financial commitment that she says she made on the back of the incorrect 
statements was in supporting her son. I havent gone into details of why she was giving 
support here due to identification risks  albeit small that they are. However I think the key 
point is that Ms B had very good reasons for providing her son with that financial support. 
And it was ongoing support  in total it worked out to around £2,000 per month (likely to 
have been a bit more or a bit less over time). 
Ms B has said that some of the financial decisions she made cant be easily reversed without 
serious consequences, particularly the arrangements for her son. She has acknowledged 
that she would always have given her son support. But said she would have taken less 
costly options.
As I have said above, I think only Ms B can really know exactly how she would/wouldnt have 
spent differently. Ms Bs spending was on real needs. It wasnt, for example, on luxuries that 
it might be easy to decide she would have done without if shed known the reality of her 
pensions value. The financial arrangements made for her son were costly. Just taking that commitment itself, 
the additional money she thought was in her pension would only have paid for this for about 
two years. Even if the inflated value given by Phoenix Life was correct it would only have 
funded that commitment for about four years. So I think there were similar risks in terms of 
having to end that commitment at some point even if the higher value had been correct; 
albeit I accept the longer period may have meant the consequences werent as severe if her 
sons situation had improved by that point. 
However, Ms B had made a long-term financial commitment that would have effectively 
exhausted the additional pension she thought she had in around two years - irrespective of 
any other spending. Ms B has said she had other options available to her that were, if less 
ideal than the one she made, still suitable and far less risky to her financially.  I accept this 
may have been the case. But given the importance of that provision for her son, I dont think 
I can reasonably conclude, on the balance of probabilities, that Ms B would likely have made 
a different decision. In my view its more likely than not that she would have provided that 
same support irrespective of the incorrect values provided by Phoenix Life given its 
importance and the benefit she effectively got from that spending.
Ms B said that she employed an expensive financial adviser as she thought she could afford 
it given her understanding of the higher value of the pension. She has also subsequently 
said the adviser reduced his fee when he realised that the value of the funds were 
considerably lower. And that he didnt charge her the additional costs of querying the 
incorrect information due to the need to query this information. So its not entirely clear to me 
if she incurred additional costs. However in any event, I dont think any additional cost was 
necessarily incurred as a result of the incorrect transfer value. It was Ms Bs decision as to 
which adviser she selected - I dont think it follows that higher cost means better advice.
Ms B has highlighted that Phoenix Life hadnt made a single mistake; it had provided wrong 
information for several years and when Ms B and her adviser had raised the issue it 
originally only accepted that it had made the mistake about the 2021 transfer value. As Ive 
said above, I dont think Phoenix Life dealt with the issues that Ms B raised in a timely or 
efficient manner. But Ive taken that into account in deciding the amount of distress and 
inconvenience caused to Ms B overall  and what fair compensation is in that context. I think 
the delays in dealing with the issues raised here were all part and parcel of this complaint. 
Its not clear to me whether Ms B is saying there were also delays in Phoenix Life dealing 
with her request to withdraw her funds. I havent considered that matter in this decision, so if    
Ms B does have such concerns they will need to be considered in a separate complaint.
The rules that I am bound to follow require that I determine a complaint by reference to what 
is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
As the investigator said, I think it was reasonable to expect Ms B to have reviewed her 
annual statements and the increase in value from almost £48,000 in 2016 to almost £75,000 
would, I think, have been noticeable. I dont say that Ms B ought necessarily to have realised 
that a mistake had been made  I agree she wasnt an expert. But I do think that the jump in 
values was significant and might have suggested that something could be wrong.
With this in mind, I think its also arguable whether it was reasonable for Ms B to have made 
significant spending decisions on the back of values which there might be some doubt about 
or, even if not, at least on the face of it to a non-expert, were subject to significant variation.
And whilst I realise that there are many arguments that can be made about what spending 
Ms B may or may not have made, like the investigator, I think the support for her family, but 
particularly her son, would more likely than not have taken priority. So I havent been 
persuaded  on balance - that Ms B would have spent differently but for the incorrect values provided by Phoenix Life.
So for the reasons I have outlined above, in my opinion it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to 
require Phoenix Life to pay Ms B the incorrect values - or part thereof. I think Ms B suffered 
a loss of expectation, as well as the distress and inconvenience caused by the matter 
overall. Taking all the above into account, I think the investigators recommendation of £500 
is fair compensation in the particular circumstances of the case.
I know my findings will be disappointing for Ms B. Ive taken into account that Phoenix Life 
Limited sent a number of incorrect statements over a five-year period. And that it didnt deal 
with the issue in a timely and efficient manner when it was raised by Ms B and her adviser. 
However I think £500 is fair for the distress and inconvenience that Ms B has suffered 
overall.
. 
Putting things right
Phoenix Life Limited should pay Ms B £500 for the distress and inconvenience the matter 
has caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint in part. I order Phoenix Life Limited to pay 
compensation to Ms B as I have outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman