DRN-3727976
The complaint
Mr B and Miss G complain that Barclays Bank UK Plc gave them incorrect information about 
the rates that would be available to them if they applied for permission to let (PTL).
What happened
Mr B and Miss G had a joint residential mortgage with Barclays with the fixed rate period due 
to end on 30 April 2022.
In mid-December 2021, Mr B called Barclays to explore obtaining PTL for the property as he 
was planning to move abroad for work in the New Year. Mr B says he was told that it 
wouldnt matter whether they re-mortgaged before or after he requested PTL and that the 
products available would be the same.
Mr B and Miss G applied for PTL on the property and this was granted at the end of 
December 2021. This application said that the tenancy was expected to start on 5 February 
2022.
Mr B and Miss G say that when they then spoke to a Barclays mortgage adviser in February 
2022 they were told residential mortgage rates wouldnt be available and that let properties 
have higher rates. They say that the incorrect information they received affected them 
financially and their decision to let the property.
Barclays upheld Mr B and Miss Gs complaint  they accepted they could have been clearer 
in the call with Mr B in mid-December 2021 and offered £75 compensation.
When Mr B and Miss G complained to our service our investigator upheld the complaint. 
They didnt agree that Barclays was responsible for any financial loss, but they did 
recommend Barclays increase the compensation to £250.
Barclays didnt agree. It said the information provided to Mr B during the call in 
mid-December 2021 was technically correct. It said PTL mortgages are residential 
mortgages and that Mr B was told there would be fewer rates available where it had agreed 
PTL.
Barclays has also said that customers are only able to switch their interest rate up to 90 days 
before their previous rate ends  so it was too early to choose a new rate in December 2021 
(i.e. before their PTL was granted) without incurring an early repayment charge (ERC). And 
that the applicable ERC would have been approximately £7,000 at the time, so it thinks its 
unlikely that Mr B and Miss G would have chosen to do this.
Mr B and Miss G also didnt agree  they are unhappy that it took so long for Barclays to 
look into the matter when they complained, and that this issue is still unresolved. They say 
Barclays has been unresponsive and that they are now on a variable rate which is costing 
them more and more as the Bank of England raises the base rate.
The matter was passed to me for consideration and I issued my provisional decision on 16 
September 2022. Here I explained that I thought Barclays offer of £75 compensation was a 
fair resolution to the complaint. In summary I didnt think Barclays had provided Mr B and 
Miss G with incorrect information or that it was responsible for the financial loss theyve 
described.
While Barclays didnt respond to my provisional decision, Mr B and Miss G disagreed with it. 
They made the following points:
They had intended to remortgage in February 2020 and could have got a better rate 
if theyd waited to request PTL until after this.
Barclays has admitted it wasnt clear in the call, and they werent told that not all 
residential mortgage rates would be available to them once they had PTL.
Barclays took too long dealing with the complaint which left them in limbo, delaying 
their ability to secure a better rate than they are currently on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, including Mr B and Miss Gs further comments, I dont think Barclays needs 
to increase the compensation its offered for the following reasons:
Ive listened to the call between Mr B and Barclays in mid-December 2021. In this call 
Mr B says hes moving abroad in the New Year and wants to explore whether they 
can get PTL. After they discuss the application process for this, Mr B says their fixed 
rate is up for renewal in April and I assume we wouldnt be able to remortgage onto 
a residential, it would effectively have to be remortgaging onto a buy to let. The 
Barclays staff member says no you can  no you keep it on a residential. So, 
because youd be looking to come back to the property, you dont have to go onto a 
buy to let, you can just keep it as your residential. You can still rent it out, umm 
youve just got less rates available to you thats all.
I think its reasonable to take from this call that Mr B had already decided to move 
abroad for work and to let out the property. While the call is to explore PTL, it 
appears hes expecting to need to move to a buy to let rate in April 2022. So, I find it 
unlikely that the conversation in mid-December 2021 affected Mr B and Miss Gs 
decisions around letting out the property.
Mr B and Miss G say they were misled into thinking it didnt matter whether they 
arranged PTL before or after they re-mortgaged. But this wasnt a specific question 
Mr B asked in the call or something I think the adviser ought reasonably to have 
thought he was trying to find out.
I dont think the information Mr B was provided with in the call was incorrect, or 
particularly unclear  hes told he can still have a residential mortgage with PTL but 
that there will be fewer rates available, which is correct.
But even if I thought the advice ought to have been clearer, I dont think this has 
caused Mr B and Miss G any financial loss. Theyve previously told us their broker 
calculated that if they remortgaged to a (non-PTL) residential mortgage rather than 
the rates available with PTL, theyd save just under £6,000 over a two-year fixed 
period. To do this, Mr B and Miss G wouldve needed to re-mortgage early and therefore incur an ERC of around £7,000 - so this wouldve been more expensive. 
Mr B and Miss G say they had planned to remortgage in February 2020 and could 
have arranged PTL afterwards. But Barclays was aware of Mr B and Miss Gs 
intention to let out the property from mid- December 2021. Mr B and Miss G wouldnt 
have been allowed to begin letting the property before PTL had been granted. Nor 
could they have remortgaged onto a non- PTL rate when they planned to let out the 
property before this fixed rate began. So, it isnt as simple as which application they 
should have made first.
Barclays offered Mr B and Miss G £75 compensation to effectively recognise its part 
in any confusion or loss of expectation experienced by them in relation to the rates 
available. As I dont think it misled Mr B or provided them with incorrect information I 
dont intend to increase this award. I do, however, think it would be fair for Barclays 
to honour this offer and make it available to Mr B and Miss G should they wish to 
accept it.
Whilst complaint handling isnt a regulated activity, and therefore not an issue we can 
consider in and of itself, I have considered the overall level of customer service Mr B 
and Miss G received in relation to their re-mortgage. Having done so, I think Barclays 
has provided an acceptable level of communication. More recently Mr B and Miss G 
have raised the issue that they are on a variable rate at the moment which means 
their interest rate increases in line with the Bank of Englands base rate changes. 
Whilst I can appreciate this would be stressful, I dont think the time it has taken to 
resolve this complaint has affected Mr B and Miss Gs ability to re-mortgage. So, I 
dont think it would be reasonable to hold Barclays responsible for any of their costs 
in relation to this.
Putting things right
I think Barclays should pay Mr B and Miss G the £75 it previously offered them.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK Plc should pay Mr B and Miss G £75 
compensation if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss G 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 December 2022.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman