DRN-3322678
The complaint
Mrs and Mr W complain that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) to them alongside a mortgage in 1999. 
What happened
The PPI policy was sold to cover Mr W only if he was off sick from work. 
When PPI was sold, Mr W had a longstanding disability which affected his ability to function 
on a day to day basis. At the point of sale, he received Disability Living Allowance because 
he needed continual supervision or frequent care throughout the day. That care was 
provided by Mrs W. Mrs and Mr W were also in receipt of a pension at the relevant time. 
Mr W worked on a self-employed basis, which involved him travelling to different clients to 
undertake work in their homes. Mr W could not undertake such work without being 
accompanied by Mrs W to each job. 
In addition to his longstanding disability, Mr W had been diagnosed with a mental health 
problem in 1997. He was prescribed antidepressants for this condition. He had also paid for 
private therapy. 
In early 1999, he was diagnosed with a further long-term condition. He had hospital 
treatment and took around three months off work at that time. 
Our adjudicator didnt think PPI had been mis-sold. Through their representative, Mrs and Mr 
W disagreed with that view. 
Our adjudicator looked at the matter again and said she thought the complaint should be 
upheld because of Mr Ws pre-existing medical conditions. Nationwide disagreed with that 
view. It said the policy would have only excluded a claim for Mr Ws pre-existing medical 
conditions for the first 12 months of the cover. Nationwide said it didnt advise Mrs and Mr W 
to take the cover out, so it didnt have to check whether it was suitable for their needs. 
As Nationwide didnt agree with our adjudicators latest view, the matter has been passed to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.  
Ive upheld this complaint. Ill explain why below. 
I agree with Nationwide to the extent that it did not advised Mrs and Mr W to buy the PPI 
policy. So it didnt have to check whether the cover was suitable for Mrs and Mr W. But it did 
have to provide them with enough information about the cover so they could decide for 
themselves whether it was a good fit for their needs. 
Nationwide told us that it would have explained the cover to Mrs and Mr W in person. But it 
hasnt provided me with a lot of evidence about what was discussed. I have seen a copy of 
the PPI application form. I cannot see that the exclusions around medical conditions were 
set out on that application form. So in my view, it is unlikely the person selling PPI would 
have been prompted to tell Mrs and Mr W about those exclusions. 
Nationwide also said that it provided Mrs and Mr W with some written information about the 
cover. In light of Mr Ws disability, it is not clear as to how useful that written information 
would have been or whether he could have discerned the relevant information from that 
document. 
With these things in mind, I cant say Nationwide told Mrs and Mr W everything it should 
have done about the cover. So, I have to look at whether Mrs and Mr W would have acted 
differently if theyd been told everything about the policy they should have been. 
I appreciate Nationwide told us that Mr W would have only been excluded from claiming in 
respect of his medical conditions for 12 months. But Mr W had a number of longstanding 
conditions, including, at the point of sale, one recently diagnosed and recurring condition for 
which he had just taken three months off work and received hospital treatment. I do consider 
it likely that Mr W may well have thought he would need to make a claim within that 12-
month period. 
It is not entirely clear to me whether Mr W would have been able to claim because of the 
disability hed had since childhood. I note that he would have been able to claim for 
disablement, which was defined in the policy document as Mr Ws  complete inability 
because or accidental bodily injury or illness.to attend [his] normal occupation Mr Ws 
longstanding disability was not an accidental bodily injury. Illness is not further defined in 
the policy, and it is questionable as to whether the longstanding disability could be said to be 
an illness in the everyday meaning of the word. 
Ive thought about what we know about Mr Ws existing resources. Nationwide accepts he 
had a pension and Disability Living Allowance. If Mr W lost his job, given his Disability Living 
Allowance, I would have expected Mrs W to have been entitled to a carers allowance if she 
wasnt already receiving that payment. If Mr W became too unwell to work, in light of his 
long-term disability, I would have expected him to be entitled to a further sickness benefit 
from the (then) Department of Social Security. 
Putting all of these things together then and in the particular circumstances of this case, I 
find it is unlikely Mrs and Mr W would have proceeded with the purchase of PPI if Nationwide 
had told them everything it should have done about the policys limitations around medical 
conditions.  The complaint is upheld on that basis. 
Putting things right
Nationwide must put Mrs and Mr W in the financial position they would be in now if they 
hadnt taken out PPI. The policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already and 
Nationwide must:
Pay Mrs and Mr W the amount they paid each month for the MPPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest and 8% a year.
If Mrs and Mr W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide can take 
off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them. It can also deduct any 
amounts its already paid regarding commission and profit share. HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide 
must give Mrs and Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
I have upheld this complaint and require Nationwide Building Society to put things right as 
set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman