DRN-3163117
The complaint
Ms G complains that PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) was irresponsible to lend 
to her.
What happened
Ms G borrowed £200 from Mr Lender on 7 July 2020. She was due to repay it over six 
months, with the highest instalment being £77.22. The loan was repaid on 26 January 2021.
Ms G says that she had a poor credit history and she struggled with the high interest and 
repayments. She adds that she got further into debt trying to make the repayments.
Mr Lender says it asked Ms G about her income and outgoings and verified the information 
with external data sources. It says it also carried out a credit check which did not indicate 
Ms G was struggling financially and it was satisfied that the repayments were affordable. As 
a gesture of goodwill, it offered to remove the loan entry from Ms Gs credit record.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied that 
Mr Lender carried out proportionate checks given the circumstances of the lending and that 
there was nothing to indicate the lending was unsustainable.
Ms G responded to say that she did not agree with the adjudicators view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms G 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers net income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customers been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing 
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Ms G could sustainably repay her loan  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, loan payments being affordable on this basis might indicate a consumer could 
sustainably make repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case because 
the Consumer Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as being without undue difficulties. In 
particular a customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting reasonable 
commitments and without having to borrow to meet repayments. And it follows that lenders 
should realise, or ought fairly and reasonably to realise, borrowers wont be able to make 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make them without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Ms Gs complaint.
This was Ms Gs first loan with Mr Lender and the repayments were a maximum of 6% of her 
income. As Mr Lender verified Ms Gs declared income and I can see nothing of concern in 
the credit check it carried out, Im satisfied the checks carried out by Mr Lender went far 
enough. I find it was entitled to rely on the expenditure information provided by Ms G and 
there was nothing in the available information to indicate she was in financial difficulties.
In summary, I cant conclude Mr Lender was irresponsible to have approved the loan, but 
Ms G can still contact Mr Lender about its offer to remover the loan from her credit file.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman