DRN-2565961
The complaint
Mr M, on behalf of Mr F, complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) deemed Mr Fs 
boiler beyond economic repair and installed a new boiler before he agreed to the cost.
While Mr M brought the complaint, for ease Ill refer only to the policyholder, Mr F, 
throughout my decision.
What happened
Mr F had HomeHeat 200 boiler cover with Aviva. He made a claim under his policy when his 
boiler developed a fault. Aviva investigated the fault and after consideration deemed the 
boiler beyond economic repair (BER). Both parties are aware of the details of the fault. Aviva 
placed a warning sticker on the boiler and advised Mr F not to use it.
Mr Fs cover provided for a free boiler if his was over seven years old and deemed BER, 
though he would need to pay for installation. Aviva provided Mr F with the installation price, 
which he thought was too expensive. He paid a deposit and asked for a breakdown of the 
figure. Aviva didnt provide any details, despite agreeing to, and went ahead with the 
installation.
Eventually, Aviva confirmed that the installation cost was a fixed price, so a breakdown 
wasnt available. 
Mr F complained to Aviva that it hadnt responded promptly to his request for a breakdown of 
the installation price. He also said that he hadnt agreed to the installation price and he 
complained that his boiler couldve been repaired. Aviva looked into his complaint. It sent 
him a final response saying it had acted within appropriate timescales; the engineers report 
confirmed the cost to repair the boiler exceeded its worth, and Mr Fs deposit was taken to 
be acceptance of the installation price.
Our investigator partly upheld Mr Fs complaint. She thought it was fair for Aviva to rely on 
the engineers report as an accurate reflection of the boilers condition, and for it to assume 
payment of the deposit meant Mr F wanted the new boiler installed. However, she didnt 
think that Aviva had responded in a timely manner to Mr Fs request for information about 
the price. For that reason, she thought Aviva should pay Mr F £100 by way of apology. 
Mr F didnt agree. He thought that Aviva had breached regulations by treating him unfairly 
and placing him in a difficult position of being without a boiler during winter. He also said that 
payment of the deposit didnt form a contract for the installation because he made it clear he 
didnt accept the full price. Mr F thought Aviva should refund the deposit and stop seeking 
payment of the balance.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For broadly the same reasons as our investigator, Ive decided to partly uphold Mr Fs 
complaint. Let me explain.
Breach 
My role is to decide on the circumstances of Mr Fs individual complaint. While I understand 
he is concerned that Aviva breached regulations by the way it treated him, only the regulator 
can determine breach of its standards. However, I can decide whether I think Aviva dealt 
with Mr Fs claim fairly and reasonably, in line with the policy terms and conditions and, if 
not, what it should do to put things right.
BER
Mr F complains that Aviva hasnt adequately demonstrated that his boiler was BER and he 
thinks it couldve been repaired. Aviva relied on the engineers report in making its decision. 
Looking at the evidence, I can see both parties agree that one part of the boiler needed to be 
replaced at a cost of almost £700. Aviva decided that another part, costing over £200 also 
needed to be replaced. Mr F doesnt agree because there was no evidence that it was 
damaged. The policy provides that a boiler will be deemed BER if the cost to repair is 85% 
or more of the boilers value. Avivas assessment of the parts which needed replacing 
brought the cost to repair above 85%, so it deemed the boiler BER. Mr Fs assessment of 
what needed replacing brought the cost to repair at about 75%.
So, here, the dispute is about whether the £200 part needed replacing. Mr F described why 
he didnt think it was damaged and Avivas engineer explained why it mightve been. Ive 
thought carefully about the evidence provided and Im persuaded by Avivas report. I realise 
this may seem unfair to Mr F, but I think Aviva had a duty to err on the side of caution with 
something as potentially dangerous as a faulty boiler. It thought both parts needed replacing 
and that, overall, meant it wasnt cost effective to repair the boiler. So, Im satisfied that it 
was reasonable for Aviva to deem the boiler BER.
Installation cost
Mr F didnt think the installation cost was a fair price and told Aviva he didnt accept it. He 
paid a deposit for the boiler installation and asked Aviva for a cost breakdown. Aviva 
confirmed it was a fixed price, but only after it had installed the boiler.
Ive thought about the sequence of events here to decide whether Avivas actions were fair. 
Firstly, I can see that Aviva told Mr F how much the installation would cost when its surveyor 
attended. I understand Mr F thought it was overpriced and he told Aviva that on more than 
one occasion. He also said he didnt accept the price quoted, [Mr F] rejects your current 
proposed maximum cost and looks forward to receiving your appropriate and justifiable 
responseI await your revised proposals.
So, theres no doubt in my mind that, prior to installation, Mr F rejected the quote.
However, while Aviva was late confirming that the price was a fixed fee and it couldnt 
provide a breakdown, I havent seen anything to suggest that it intended to negotiate the 
price with Mr F. So, at this point, Mr F was free to reject the installation and arrange for a 
boiler and installation to be done privately. The terms set out in Avivas letter to Mr F are 
clear:
We have already arranged for our approved installer to arrange a free, no obligation survey 
and quote for the fitting of the replacement boiler. If you are happy with the quote provided, 
contact the installer who will arrange a date for the replacement boiler to be installed, unless 
this has already been arranged. The installer will inform us of your decision. If you choose not to proceed with our offer of the replacement boiler and installation by our 
approved installer, no alternative option is available (including supplying the boiler directly to 
you for private installation or any cash alternatives).
Paying the deposit secured the installation and implied acceptance of the terms Aviva set 
out, including payment of the remainder after the work was done. While the overall price was 
disputed, I think that Mr Fs part payment and subsequent permission to install the boiler 
constitutes acceptance (albeit it reluctant) of the price Aviva originally offered. Mr F has the 
boiler and is making use of it, so I see no reason for Aviva to refund the deposit or waive the 
outstanding payment. 
Duress
Its here that Mr F makes the point that he felt under duress to accept the boiler because he 
wouldve been without heating during winter. I understand that Mr F is vulnerable, and 
availability of his heating was important. However, as Ive said, he was free to make private 
arrangements for a new boiler. If Mr F reluctantly accepted because the alternative would 
take longer, I cant reasonably say that Aviva has done anything wrong, or that its actions 
were unfair. I can understand that Mr F is frustrated at not having more time to consider his 
options, but, again, it would be unfair to hold Aviva responsible for that. 
Delayed responses
With all this said, I dont think Aviva handled Mr Fs claim well. He repeatedly asked for 
information about the BER details and for a breakdown of the installation cost. It took Aviva a 
month to tell Mr F the installation was a fixed fee so there wasnt a breakdown. I cant say 
with any certainty that having the information sooner wouldve made a difference to Mr Fs 
choices, but I think its fair that Aviva acknowledges its shortfall in service. Our investigator 
proposed £100 compensation by way of apology, and I think thats fair in the circumstances. 
In summary, Mr F allowed Aviva to install a new boiler even though he was unhappy with the 
price quoted. He paid a deposit and I think it was fair for Aviva to take that as acceptance of 
the original terms of its offer. On completion, it could reasonably expect Mr F to pay the 
remainder. While there were unacceptable delays in its responses to Mr F, Im satisfied that 
compensation of £100 addresses that issue. I see no reason to ask Aviva to waive the 
remaining payment or refund the deposit.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I partly uphold Mr Fs complaint and 
Aviva Insurance Limited must:
pay Mr F £100 compensation by way of apology for failing to provide information he 
asked for on several occasions, which may have assisted with his decision making.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman