DRN-2640955
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy that Mr P 
and the late Mrs P took out in 2002. Mr P and the estate of Mrs P say Lloyds Bank PLC 
(Lloyds) mis-sold them PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr and 
Mrs Ps circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations 
and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr P and the estate of Mrs Ps representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they 
didnt raise any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and 
arguments theyd previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ps. I havent set out that detailed 
information here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr P and 
the estate of Mrs Ps complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think Lloyds made it clear that Mr and Mrs P didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out. I say this because Lloyds has provided a copy of an application form 
Mr and Mrs P completed for PPI, separately from their mortgage application.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs P, so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for them. And the evidence about Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances at the time, shows that 
the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. For example Mr and Mrs P 
were eligible for the cover and they had limited means to fall back on, so they had a 
need for cover. 
There was nothing about Mr and Mrs Ps employment or occupation which would have 
made it difficult for them to claim. And although Mr P says he had a medical condition 
some time before the policy was taken out, I dont think it was wrong for Lloyds to have 
recommended it. I say this because Mr P said the condition occurred several years 
before the sale and he hasnt said that it ever reoccurred. Looking at the closest policy 
document available, there were also no additional restrictions on cover for mental health 
or back problems.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr and Mrs P as I 
concluded above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they were buying 
from the information they were given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like 
it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think 
Mr and Mrs P would have declined the cover had Lloyds done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs P would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting. And in 
those circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr P and the estate of Mrs Ps representative has raised a number of what I consider to be 
general complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points 
include: a claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the 
regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor 
value because of the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with 
the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Lloyds should have disclosed 
the poor value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the 
impact it had on the chances of making a claim.
But Mr P and the estate of Mrs Ps representative has not said how these points apply to the 
specific facts and circumstances of Mr P and the estate of Mrs Ps individual complaint  just 
that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Ps particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint.
This means Lloyds doesnt have to do anything to put things right.My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr P and the estate of Mrs Ps complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and the 
estate of Mrs P to accept or reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman