DRN-3440727
The complaint
Mrs K complains about British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) under her home 
emergency policy. Her complaint is that work carried out by a British Gas engineer led to 
more problems and she wants British Gas to complete remedial work.
References to British Gas in this decision include their agents who carry out work under the 
policy.
What happened
Mrs K had a home emergency policy with British Gas, covering her boiler, controls and 
central heating (including an annual service) plus repairs to plumbing, drains and home 
electrics. In February 2021 Mrs K contacted British Gas about a leaking basin tap in a 
basement bathroom. An engineer visited and fitted a replacement. But it was the wrong size 
and continued to leak so Mrs K contacted British gas again, who sent out another engineer. 
He said the tap would need replacing, but a new tap would need to be ordered. 
Separately Mrs K also had a problem with the cold water flow to her bathrooms. An engineer 
visited and advised Mrs K that she needed to have a pump in the attic replaced to ensure 
water flowed properly to her bathrooms. Also, it needed to be placed in a different location in 
the property to enable it to work properly. Mrs K also had an issue with air pockets in the 
basement bathroom water system, which was fixed in a separate visit. Mrs K contacted 
British Gas with another air pocket problem that was preventing cold water to her upstairs 
bathrooms and showers. Another engineer visited but advised that the issue related to the 
pump. The engineer had also been due to fit the replacement tap, but it was the wrong size 
so couldnt be carried out.
Mrs K was told that while the replacement of the pump was covered under the policy, its 
relocation wasnt, so they quoted a price for the work to be carried out. She agreed the quote 
and the replacement pump was subsequently installed. However, fitting the new pump left a 
gap in the ceiling above where it was located, so Mrs K requested that either the gap be 
filled in or the pump be boxed in. But she was also told that this wouldnt be covered under 
the policy and was provided with a quote of £266 for boxing in the pump.
Separately, Mrs K was also advised that she needed a new shower valve, to enable the new 
pump to operate effectively. This was also something that British Gas said wouldnt be 
covered under the policy, so they provided her with a quote for its replacement (£385).
Mrs K was unhappy with what had happened and complained to British Gas. She said shed 
been without functioning bathrooms for a week because of the air pocket problem. Also, that 
the work to replace the shower valve and boxing in the replacement pump wasnt covered by 
the policy. She thought the shower pump should be covered because it was needed for the 
replacement pump to work properly. And she thought the boxing in should have been 
covered under the section of the policy that covered making good. 
British Gas upheld Mrs Ks complaint in part. On the issue of the basin tap, British Gas 
offered to install a tap free of charge. But as it was a non-standard tap that British Gas 
couldnt source, Mrs K would have to source the tap herself. On the issue of the pump and 
valve, British Gas said that while the pump and its fitting would be free of charge, the boxing 
in and the installation of the shower valve that Mrs K had requested would be chargeable 
(based on the quote for the cost provided).
Mrs K then complained to this service. The main points of her complaint were that 
British Gas had wrongly charged her for the work carried out on the pump, and that 
she would have to pay a further charge for remedial work to fix the outstanding 
issues. She thought that all the work should be carried out free of charge (and that 
shed been told this over the phone). 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ks complaint, concluding British Gas didnt need to 
take any action. He thought the relocation of the pump wasnt something that would 
be covered under the policy and had been paid for by Mrs K. As such it wasnt 
something covered under the contract of insurance (the home emergency policy) and 
couldnt be considered as part of Mrs Ws complaint to this service. Regarding the 
shower pump, he concluded that this also wasnt covered by the policy, referring to 
terms and conditions that excluded showers and their parts, including shower pumps. 
On the basin tap, he thought the offer to fit a replacement tap free of charge (but Mrs 
K would have to source a tap) was reasonable.
Mrs K disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. She said shed had to arrange for her own plumber to replace the pump 
installed by British Gas (because it was faulty) and relocate it to its original position. Shed 
also been told the shower valve wasnt the issue and didnt need to be replaced. She said 
shed paid more than necessary (to have the pump replaced and relocated). She wanted to 
be refunded the cost of her policy for 2021 and compensation.
In my findings, on the issue of the replacement basin tap I concluded British Gass offer to fit 
a tap of Mrs Ks choice free of charge was fair. On the relocation of the replacement pump, I 
concluded this wasnt something covered in the policy as it was a non-insurance policy. 
Based on this, I also concluded that any boxing in of the pump associated with its relocation 
would be a non-insurance service and not something to be covered by the making good 
section of the policy. On the replacement shower valve, I concluded British Gas acted fairly 
in saying that replacing the shower valve wouldnt be covered under the policy (and was 
therefore a separate charge).
I also considered what Mrs K said about what had happened since she made her complaint 
to this service. As these issues werent part of Mrs Ks complaint to this service, I concluded 
they werent something I could consider. But they might be something Mrs K could raise with 
British Gas. 
I also considered the sequence of events and the service provided by British Gas, given 
what Mrs K told us and her asking for compensation. I noted that the tap was first replaced 
by one that continued to leak. Then a new tap was ordered but wasnt the right one. Only 
when she complained to British Gas, was she then told that they couldnt source a tap of the 
type that Mrs K had. At that point the issue had been ongoing for nearly four months, with 
attendant trouble and inconvenience to Mrs K. On the the air bubbles in her cold water 
system, the first issue was fixed quickly but not the second, leaving her without functioning 
bathrooms for a week. Taking these points together, I concluded Mrs K suffered trouble and 
inconvenience and I thought British Gas needed to do more to put things right. Taking all the 
circumstances of the case into account, I thought £250 in compensation for distress and 
inconvenience would be fair and reasonable.As I considered additional points and reached different conclusions on some issues to those 
of our investigator, I issued a provisional decision to give both parties the opportunity to 
consider matters further. This is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
My role here is to decide whether British Gas have acted fairly towards Mrs K.
While Mrs Ks complaint overall is that she shouldnt have been charged for the work carried 
out and that all the remedial work should have been carried out free of charge, there are 
several elements within the complaint. Ill consider each of them in turn, before thinking 
about whether, overall, British Gas have acted fairly towards Mrs K.
The original issue in this case was the need for a replacement basin tap. From what Ive 
seen, the need for a replacement isnt at issue. While it wasnt possible for the tap to be 
replaced at the first visit and it had to be ordered, when the replacement tap arrived to be 
fitted, it wasnt the right size. Subsequently, as the tap was of a type that British Gas were 
unable to source, in their final response they said that theyd fit a tap free of charge, but that 
Mrs K would have to source the tap herself. Thinking about this, the policy terms and 
conditions provide for replacement of parts from the original manufacturer or British Gass 
approved suppliers, or by standard parts in the British Gas range. Where this isnt possible 
(as appears to be the case here) I think British Gass offer is reasonable. 
 
The next issue Ive considered is the replacement pump. British Gas diagnosed the need for 
a replacement pump, but also that it needed to be installed in a different location in Mrs Ks 
property. The pump was installed, but from the photographs provided by Mrs K it looks to 
have been installed on top of a bookcase just below ceiling level in an upstairs location, 
leaving a gap in the ceiling through which the pipes to the pump are routed. Understandably, 
Mrs K wanted British Gas to either fill in the gap in the ceiling or (preferably) box in the pump 
itself so that it wasnt visible. Mrs K maintains that British Gas should have done this free of 
charge under the making good section of the policy (which provides cover for such costs up 
to £1,000). In their final response, British Gas say that the cost of filling in the gap or (as they 
quoted for) boxing in the pump wouldnt be covered under the policy.
As Mrs K has said that the cost of the boxing in of the pump should be covered under the 
making good part of the policy, Ive looked at the relevant sections of the policy. Access and 
making good is defined by the policy as:
getting access to your appliance or system, and then repairing any damage we may 
cause in doing so, by replacing items such as cabinets or cupboards that weve 
removed and filling in holes we have made and leaving a level surface.
Reference is then made to the General Conditions section, under the heading Getting 
access and making good it states:
In addition to the cost of parts and labour, our insurance products and our non-
insurance service and repair warranty products cover up to £1,000 (including VAT for 
getting access and making good
We wont be responsible for repairing any pre-existing damage, nor will we replace or 
restore the original surface or coverings, for example, tiles, floor coverings, 
decoration, grass or plants.Thinking about what these terms and conditions indicate, in the circumstances of the case, it 
appears the issue isnt to do with access to the pump in its original location in Mrs Ks 
property, nor to its replacement. Its to do with the relocation of the [replacement] pump to 
another part of Mrs Ks property. While British Gas covered the cost of the replacement 
pump under the policy, they said the policy didnt cover the relocation of it. That was charged 
to Mrs K as a non-insurance service. As such, it wasnt a service under the contract of 
insurance (the policy). 
British Gas have also argued that as the relocation of the pump wasnt something theyd 
cover under the policy, any associated costs of relocating the pump would also not be 
covered under the policy. Im persuaded by this argument and therefore the boxing in cost 
would also be a non-insurance service and therefore chargeable in the same way as the 
relocation itself. As that would be a non-insurance service, Ive concluded that it isnt 
something that would fall within the remit of this service.
The second element concerns the replacement shower valve that British Gas said was 
needed (to make the pump work effectively). Mrs K say that, because the valve was needed 
to make the pump work effectively, it should be covered under the policy (given that the 
replacement pump was covered under the policy). British Gas say that the shower valve is 
excluded from cover, as the policy specifically excludes cover for showers and their parts.
Given what British Gas have said, Ive looked at what the policy says about showers and 
their parts. In the Plumbing section, under the heading Whats not covered it states:
x Showers and their parts, shower pumps
While I appreciate Mrs Ks argument that the requirement for the shower valve was said to 
be to make the pump work properly, the above condition is clear that the policy doesnt cover 
showers and their parts (which would include a shower valve). So, Ive concluded that British 
Gas acted fairly in saying that replacing the shower valve wouldnt be covered under the 
policy (and therefore a separate charge).
Ive also considered what Mrs K has told us about whats happened since she made her 
complaint to this service. Shes said that shes had to arrange for her own plumber to replace 
the pump installed by British Gas (because it was faulty) and relocate it to its original 
position. Shes also been told the shower valve wasnt the issue and didnt need to be 
replaced. These issues werent part of Mrs Ks complaint to this service, so they arent ones 
that I can consider. But they could be something Mrs K may want to raise with British Gas. 
However, while Ive concluded that British Gas have acted reasonably in their offer to fit a 
tap free of charge (the tap to be supplied by Mrs K) and their decision that the boxing in of 
the replacement pump and the replacement shower valve werent covered by the policy, Ive 
also considered the sequence of events and the service provided by British Gas, given what 
Mrs K had told us and her asking for compensation. 
The original issue was the leaking tap. From what Ive seen, the tap was first replaced by 
one that continued to leak. Then a new tap was ordered but wasnt the right one. Only when 
she complained to British Gas, was she then told that they couldnt source a tap of the type 
that Mrs K had (so they offered to fit a tap free of charge if she sourced one). At that point 
the issue had been ongoing for nearly four months, with attendant trouble and inconvenience 
to Mrs K. On the issue of the air bubbles in her cold water system, the first issue was fixed 
quickly but not the second, leaving her without functioning bathrooms for a week. Taking 
these points together, I think Mrs K did suffer trouble and inconvenience and I think British Gas need to do more to put things right. Taking all the circumstances of the case into 
account, I think that £250 in compensation for distress and inconvenience would be fair and 
reasonable.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, my provisional decision is that I uphold Mrs Ks complaint in 
part. I intend to require British Gas Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mrs K £250 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
British Gas responded to say they were happy to agree to the resolution recommended in 
the provisional decision and would pay Mrs K the £250 in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience caused. They added that (should Mrs K challenge the figure) they wouldnt 
agree any further compensation was warranted. Should the figure be increased (by the 
ombudsman) they assumed theyd be given the opportunity to respond further before a final 
decision was made.
Mrs K made several points in her response. First, on the basin tap issue, she said that 
British Gas had offered to pay for a new tap but withdrew the offer when her complaint to 
them was escalated. Theyd also previously replaced taps in another bathroom. Second, she 
restated her view that the replacement pump British Gas installed was faulty and that the 
shower valve didnt need to be replaced. She was also unhappy at the quality of the work to 
install the replacement pump. Thirdly, on the figure for compensation, Mrs K appreciated the 
£250 recommended in the provisional decision, but thought it should be in addition to the 
£500 she maintained she had wrongly had to pay for removing the old pump from the loft 
and the diagnosis of a replacement shower valve she didnt think was needed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether British Gas have acted fairly towards Mrs K.
Ive considered each of Mrs Ks points in turn. On the first point, Ive considered what Mrs K 
has said but I havent changed my view that in the circumstances British Gas have made a 
fair and reasonable offer (to fit a replacement tap free of charge, if Mrs K can source it). 
While it was unfortunate that British Gas werent able to source a replacement tap of the kind 
needed to fit the basin, I dont think its unreasonable for them to offer to fit a tap of Mrs Ks 
choice. And Ive considered the impact of the delays and time taken when considering the 
distress and inconvenience suffered by Mrs K. I dont doubt what Mrs K has said about 
British Gas previously having replaced taps in another bathroom, but I dont think that 
excludes the situation where they arent able to source a specific tap of the kind needed for 
the basin. 
On the second issue, that the replacement pump was faulty and the replacement shower 
valve unnecessary, I appreciate what Mrs K has said. But the points are ones I considered 
when reaching my provisional conclusion. So I havent changed my view that these issues 
werent part of Mrs Ks complaint to this service, so they arent ones that I can consider. But 
they could be something Mrs K may want to raise with British Gas. 
On the question of compensation, Ive considered what Mrs K has said about the cost of the 
relocation of the pump (as opposed to its replacement) But I concluded that both the 
relocation (and any boxing in of the pump associated with its relocation) and the need to replace the shower valve would be a non-insurance service and not something to be 
covered by the policy. So, I dont agree that the cost of the relocation should be added to the 
£250 figure for compensation (which was for distress and inconvenience suffered by Mrs K). 
I still think thats a fair and reasonable sum.
Taking all these points together, I havent changed my view of this complaint, and my final 
decision remains the same, for the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ks complaint in part. I 
require British Gas Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mrs K £250 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman