DRN-3327684
The complaint
Mrs M has complained that Loans 2 Go Limited was irresponsible in lending to her.
What happened
In July 2018 Mrs M applied online for a loan from Loans 2 Go for £500. The loan was taken 
out over 18 months with an APR of 990.1% and her monthly repayments were £113.28 
making the total repayable at the end of the term £2,039.04. 
In August 2019 she repaid that loan with the proceeds of a second loan from Loans 2 Go for 
£1,000. That loan was also taken out over 18 months with an APR of 1013.2% and her 
monthly repayments were £228.56 making the total repayable at the end of the term 
£4,114.08. 
Mrs M complained that Loans 2 Go hadnt properly checked the loans were affordable for 
her. She said if Loans 2 Go had checked her bank statements, it would have seen that she 
couldnt afford to repay the loans.
Loans 2 Go looked into her complaint and didnt uphold it. It said it had correctly assessed 
her suitability for both loans at the time she made her applications. Mrs M referred her 
complaint to us. 
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. In 
it I explained that weve set out our general approach to complaints about 
unaffordable/irresponsible lending -including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Having carefully thought about everything, I said that there were two overarching questions 
that I needed to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mrs Ms complaint. These 
two questions were:
1. Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs M 
would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mrs M wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Loans 2 Go to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mrs Ms ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability
check.
The checks had to be borrower focussed  so Loans 2 Go had to think about whether 
repaying the loans would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loans wouldnt cause Mrs M undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That meant she should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation. In 
other words, it wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mrs M.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
In light of this, I thought that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
I carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mrs Ms complaint.
Loan 1
With regard to the first question Mrs M told Loans 2 Go when she applied for the first loan 
that her monthly income was £1,486 and she spent £665 on other living costs and credit 
commitments. To verify that, Loans 2 Go carried out a credit search and verified her income.
Loans 2 Go said it found that Mrs M had a minimum monthly income of £1,081.61 and it 
calculated that Mrs M had living costs and credit commitments of £819.63. On those figures 
she would have had a disposable income of £148.70 after making the new loan repayment 
to Loans 2 Go.
I thought Loan 2 Gos checks were proportionate for this loan. But simply performing 
proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to react appropriately to the 
information shown by those checks. Sometimes that will lead a lender to request additional 
information from a consumer. Or sometimes it will lead a lender to reject a loan application 
outright. And thats what I thought should have happened here.
Thats because I could see there was a big difference between what Mrs M told Loans 2 Go 
about her income and expenditure and what it said it could see through its checks. I didnt 
think Loans 2 Go should have accepted the loan application knowing or having reason to 
suspect Mrs M wasnt giving it accurate information about her finances. So I thought Loans 2 
Go should either have carried out further checks to establish her financial position with more 
certainty or it shouldnt have provided Mrs M with the loan.
As I concluded that Loans 2 Go should have carried out further checks for the loan, I needed 
to consider what it would have seen if it had done so. Mrs M provided some bank statements 
from around the time she applied for the loan. I wasnt suggesting here that these were the 
checks that Loans 2 Go should necessarily have done. But I thought looking at these would have given a good indication that Mrs Ms financial situation around the time she applied for 
the first loan was a lot more complicated than shed made out.
I reviewed Mrs Ms bank statements in the two month period before she applied for the first 
loan. In June Mrs Ms earnings appeared to be £860 and she received tax credits of £560 
totalling £1,420. Of this about £718 went on household bills (excluding food) and £163 on 
repaying loans or making payments to individuals. That month she sent about £205 abroad.
By the time she applied for the loan on 27 July 2018 her financial position had sharply 
deteriorated. She earned £196 that month and had tax credits of £560 making a total of 
£756. Her household bills and loan repayments up to the 27th were slightly more than that, 
being about £544 and £207 respectively. That left her with no disposable income or money 
for food.
Although these figures suggested that the loan might have been affordable in June, it 
certainly wasnt in July. In addition there were a lot of transactions for this period that werent 
clear. Mrs M had received money from other individuals but the transactions werent regular 
and couldnt be guaranteed to continue. It looked as though shed borrowed some money 
from individuals previously and was on a weekly payment plan with two other lenders. So if 
Loans 2 Go had made further checks, I thought it would have discovered that Mrs Ms 
disposable income had shrunk to nothing, she was spending around as much as was 
coming in and that further credit was likely to make her situation worse.
In summary, if Loans 2 Go had carried out the further checks that I thought were needed for 
this loan, I thought it ought reasonably to have realised that Mrs Ms financial problems were 
not going to be improved by it making this loan. And it would have probably seen that there 
was a significant risk that Mrs M wouldnt have been able to sustainably repay the loan. So I 
didnt think that Loans 2 Go had treated Mrs M fairly when it agreed to lend to her as it was 
likely that giving her more credit would simply add to her indebtedness.
Loan 2
By the time Mrs M applied for the second loan shed changed jobs. She said her monthly 
income was £1,500 and her outgoings were £642.57. Loans 2 Go thought her expenditure 
and credit commitments were more likely to be £857.43 and it added a buffer of £80 to 
account for any fluctuations in income or expenditure. After doing so it calculated that shed 
be left with disposable income of £334.01 after making the new loan repayments of £228.56. 
Loans 2 Go did another credit search which showed that Mrs Ms credit score had got 
slightly worse since her application for the first loan.
However I noted Loans 2 Go was aware that Mrs M had fallen into arrears with repaying the 
first loan after a few months. It had had to contact her a number of times during the course of 
the loan about missed repayments. If Mrs M was having trouble repaying the first loan, it 
seemed to me that Loans 2 Go should have known that it would be probably be even more 
difficult for her to repay the second loan with repayments twice as much as for the first loan.
In the light of this I thought once again Loans 2 Go ought to have had enough concerns to 
have asked for more information. If it had asked for a copy of Mrs Ms bank statements, that 
would have shown much the same picture as previously. Money was coming into and going 
out of her account from and to a number of different sources, some of whom appeared to be 
individuals whod lent her money. She still appeared to be on a payment plan with another 
lender and also had made a payment to a debt collection agency.
In July 2019 Mrs M earned £1,120 and had tax credits of £545 making a total of £1,665. Her 
household bills and loan repayments that month were £960 and £463 respectively (ignoring 
the loan repayment due to Loans 2 Go in respect of the first loan). I calculated that would have left her with £242 for the new loan repayment of £228.56, food and everything else. So 
if Loans 2 Go had made further checks, I thought it would have discovered that Mrs Ms 
financial position was still very poor and that further credit was likely to make her even 
situation worse.
I didnt think that Loans 2 Go treated Mrs M fairly when it agreed to make the second loan as 
it was likely that giving her more credit would simply add to her indebtedness.
I also considered whether Loans 2 Go acted unfairly in some other way and I said I hadnt 
seen any evidence that it did.
In response to my provisional decision Loans 2 Go made the following points:
It used information from the Office of National Statistics (ONS) to calculate an applicants 
average expenditure. Where an applicants declared expenditure was less than the ONS 
figure, it would use the ONS figure.
Even using the ONS figure, the loan was still affordable for Mrs M.
Mrs Ms credit score had only slightly worsened by the time of Loan 2.
Mrs Ms credit commitments werent significantly different by the time of Loan 2.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont have a problem with Loans 2 Go using the ONS information to calculate an 
applicants expenditure. That seems to me a valid approach. The issue I had is the big 
difference between what Mrs M told Loans 2 Go about her income and expenditure and what 
it could see through its checks. Thats why I think Loans 2 Go shouldnt have accepted the 
loan application knowing or having reason to suspect Mrs M wasnt giving it accurate 
information about her finances. I remain of the view that Loans 2 Go should either have 
carried out further checks to establish her financial position with more certainty or it shouldnt 
have provided Mrs M with the loan.
I appreciate that Mrs Ms credit score had only slightly worsened by the time of Loan 2 and 
her credit commitments werent significantly different at that point. What I think is important is 
that by that time Loans 2 Go had the benefit of having been in a lending relationship with 
Mrs M and knew that shed already had difficulty making lower loan repayments. Its a 
reasonable assumption that repaying Loan 2 would have been even harder for her.
Putting things right
To put things right I think Loans 2 Go should:
 refund all the interest and charges Mrs M paid on loan 1;
 pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date they 
were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
 remove any interest and charges still outstanding on loan 2 and treat all the payments 
made by Mrs M towards this loan as payments towards the capital;
 if reworking Mrs Ms loan 2 account as Ive directed results in Mrs M effectively having 
made payments above the original capital borrowed, then Loans 2 Go should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement;
 If reworking Mrs Ms loan 2 account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then Loans 
2 Go can use the total refund for loan 1 (after the deduction of tax) to offset this. And if there is still an outstanding capital balance, then I remind Loans 2 Go that it should take a 
sympathetic view when seeking to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mrs M; and
 remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Ms credit file in relation to the loans.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Loans 2 Go Limited to take the steps set out in the 
section above headed Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman