DRN-4161901
The complaint
Mrs Hs complaint is about the delays caused by WPS ADVISORY Ltd when she transferred 
her defined benefit occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a Self-Invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP).
What happened
In summary, Mrs Hs OPS had an arrangement with WPS Advisory Ltd (WPSA) to offer 
financial advice to its members. Mrs H was considering a transfer, and WPS Advisory Ltd 
was advising her on it. The OPS had provided a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of   
just over £1,383,600. 
Mrs H had discussions about the transfer with WPSAs adviser in April 2021. This included 
about the possibility of arranging the transfer as a buddy transfer, because Mrs H was 
entitled to take her pension benefits from age 50 from the OPS. A buddy transfer enabled 
her to retain that retirement age. In the discussions Mrs H was told a suitable buddy would 
need to be found in order to arrange the transfer on this basis. WPSA ultimately 
recommended that Mrs H transfer her benefits to a SIPP and invest in a portfolio managed 
by a discretionary fund manager (DFM). 
However just prior to the CETV expiry date (28 August 2021), WPSA found there were 
difficulties with arranging the transfer on a buddy transfer basis. It continued to attempt to 
find a way to arrange the transfer on this basis but found it wasnt possible. It told Mrs H in 
October 2021. Mrs H opted to proceed with the transfer in any event, and the transfer was 
received by the SIPP provider on 11 November 2021 (the CETV as originally offered).
The transfer value was put into cash rather than invested through the DFM. Mrs H said she 
had lost trust in WPSA, and she subsequently transferred the pension to another provider a 
few weeks later, in December 2021.
Mrs H complained to WPSA about the matter and subsequently referred it to us. It was 
considered by one of our investigators. The investigator sent his assessment of the 
complaint to both parties. In summary, the investigator noted that WPSA had said the OPS 
originally supported the idea of a buddy transfer, but it had changed its mind at the last 
minute. However the investigator said he hadnt seen any evidence that the OPS had initially 
supported a buddy transfer or that WPSA had discussed it in detail with the OPS before the 
advice had been given. 
The investigator said WPSA had been retained by the OPS to provide advice to its 
members, and although a buddy transfer was a well-known concept not all schemes offered 
it. The investigator thought given its position as the financial adviser offered by the OPS, it 
should have known the OPS wouldnt facilitate a buddy transfer. And WPSA should have 
confirmed it with the OPS much earlier in the process in any event. 
However the investigator said given all background work that was required before a transfer 
could go ahead, and that the firms records indicated Mrs Hs suitability report was to be put 
into a pool of cases to be written on 20 July 2021, he thought the intention to transfer under 
the buddy scheme didnt hold up the transfer until the transfer application itself was signed. 
The investigator noted Mrs H instructed the OPS to go ahead with the transfer on a non-
buddy basis, and also removed the instruction to invest through the DFM on 29 October 
2021. From that date it took nine working days for the CETV to be transferred to the SIPP 
provider. And 22 working days for the AVCs to be transferred. 
The investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He thought given Mrs H had 
signed the application forms on 20 August 2021, if WPSA had already been aware of the 
OPS position on buddy transfers and without the delays caused, the SIPP provider would 
likely have received the CETV on 2 September 2021 and the AVCs on 21 September 2021. 
This reflected the actual timescales from when Mrs H instructed the transfer to go ahead on 
29 October 2021. The investigator went on to outline how he thought WPSA should calculate 
fair compensation and pay it to Mrs H based on these dates. 
Both parties provided further evidence and arguments to the investigators assessment  
largely about how fair compensation should be calculated and in particular the appropriate 
dates to assume the transfer value would otherwise have been invested. Mrs H had 
suggested an earlier date given she said she had been advised to transfer in April 2021. 
WPSA suggested a later date given it thought it would take about six weeks to complete the 
transfer after the application forms were signed. It also said its liability should be ended 
earlier given Mrs H had provided an instruction to not invest the funds and for it to wait 
further instruction. It said this was a change of plan and not in line with its recommendations.
WPSA also provided evidence from the DFM it had recommended saying it would drip-feed 
the CETV into the market on a gradual basis, depending on its view of when suitable buying 
opportunities arose. However it said typically it would take approximately four months to get 
the client fully invested. WPSA thought this should be taken into account in calculating 
compensation.
The investigator considered the further points raised and responded to both parties. In 
summary, he said hed listened to the calls that Mrs H had with the adviser in April 2021, but  
he didnt think WPSA had given actual formal advice to proceed at that stage. He said the 
calls were for information gathering purposes and to provide further information to Mrs H. 
The investigator said although the firm had suggested a later date to assume completion of 
the transfer his suggested date was based on the actual timescales once the application 
forms had been signed. He said this replicated the actual position, and so thought it was 
reasonable.
The investigator wasnt persuaded that WPSA should limit its liability, as he thought the 
firms actions had caused Mrs H to lose confidence in it. He thought if WPSA hadnt caused 
delays over the buddy transfer Mrs H wouldnt have sent the instruction not to initially invest 
the funds. The investigator also didnt think the fact that the original investment manager 
would have drip fed the money into the market should be taken into account in the 
calculation of compensation given it was difficult to say exactly what investments would have 
been made  he thought the benchmark was appropriate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator that Mrs Hs 
complaint should be upheld, and for the same reasons. However Ive come to a slightly different conclusion about fair compensation.
Like the investigator, I think given WPSA had an arrangement with the OPS to advise its 
members it ought to have been familiar with the particular schemes rules, which do differ 
from scheme to scheme. But in any event, as a buddy transfer depends on the OPS and 
receiving scheme agreeing its a block transfer (buddy transfer), it ought to have checked it 
was possible earlier. 
The CETV expired at the end of August 2021. So I think WPSA ought reasonably to have 
been working towards arranging the transfer whilst the CETV that had been obtained was 
still guaranteed. I havent seen any evidence to suggest that the transfer was delayed as a 
result of factors outside of WPSAs control - the hold-up appears to be it not investigating the 
feasibility of a buddy transfer earlier and not realising that it wasnt possible until just prior to 
the expiry of the CETV. Like the investigator, in my opinion it should have established that a 
buddy transfer was possible early in the process, and if it had done so the transfer would 
also have been completed earlier.
Detailed discussions about the transfer had started in April 2021.  I accept that the direction 
of travel was to transfer. However as the investigator explained, there are a number of 
formal processes to go through before a transfer from an OPS can proceed, and formal 
advice recommending a transfer wasnt given until August 2021. As I said, I think the priority 
should have been to work towards securing the CETV that had been obtained. I think 
assuming the transfer had been paid on 2 September 2021 is reasonable in the 
circumstances, given the actual timings as explained by the investigator and that the actual 
CETV was secured.
As I set out above, WPSA said given the investment manager would have drip-fed the 
transfer value this should be taken into account in calculating compensation. This was a 
significant transfer value. In my experience this isnt an unusual approach and is prudent in 
the circumstances. WPSA has also said that given the AVCs represent a very small 
proportion of the overall value, it is happy to assume that both elements of the funds were 
received on this day. So I think when calculating compensation WPSA should assume that 
one third of the total transfer value (including AVCs) was invested on 2 September 2021, 
and then the remaining two thirds were invested in three equal proportions on 2 October, 2 
November and 2 December 2021.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Hs complaint. 
I order WPS ADVISORY Ltd to calculate and pay compensation to Mrs H as Ive outlined 
below.
Fair Compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mrs H as close as
possible to the position she would probably now be in if there had been no delay.
I think Mrs H would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what
she would have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and
reasonable given Mrs Hs circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What should WPS ADVISORY Ltd do?
To compensate Mrs H fairly WPS ADVISORY Ltd should:Compare the performance of Mrs Hs' investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the benchmark value is greater than the actual value at the end date, there 
is a loss and compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the 
benchmark value, no compensation is payable.
WPSA should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
If there is a loss, WPS ADVISORY Ltd should pay into Mrs Hs pension plan, to 
increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. WPS ADVISORY 
Ltd shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance.
If WPS ADVISORY Ltd is unable to pay the compensation into Mrs Hs pension plan, 
it should pay that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it 
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be 
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a 
payment of tax to HMRC, so Mrs H wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after 
compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs H's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mrs H is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mrs H would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
investmentBenchmarkfrom
(start date)     to
 (end    
date)additional
interest
SIPP FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Index2
September
2021       
      Date
transferred 
to another 
SIPP 
provider (I 
understand  
8 December 
2021)Any loss
should then be
brought up to
date using the
same
benchmark
until date of
decision.
As I said above, WPS should assume that one third of the total transfer value (including 
AVCs) was invested on 2 September 2021, and then the remaining two thirds were invested 
in three equal proportions on 2 October, 2 November and 2 December 2021. 
In addition
WPS ADVISORY Ltd should pay Mrs H £200 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by the delays to transferring her pension.Provide details of the calculation to Mrs H in a clear, simple format.
Interest at the rate of 8% simple per annum should be added to any loss calculated 
at the date of decision to the date of settlement if settlement isnt made within 28 
days of this service notifying WPS ADVISORY Ltd of Mrs Hs acceptance of this 
decision.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If WPS ADVISORY Ltd considers 
that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, 
it should tell Mrs H how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs H a tax deduction 
certificate in respect of interest if Mrs H asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax on  
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
It would be difficult to say exactly how Mrs H would have been invested.
Mrs H wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mrs H' circumstances and risk attitude.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman