DRN-1887828
The complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
taken out in 1996 in connection with a joint mortgage. Mr P and Mrs P say Santander UK Plc 
mis-sold them PPI.
What happened
Mr P and Mrs P took out a PPI policy in connection with their mortgage. They paid a monthly 
amount for the policy which offered accident, sickness and unemployment cover. They 
complain they were coerced into buying it.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be rejected. Mr P and Mrs P disagreed with 
our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
Mr P and Mrs P added the following points:
Mrs P cant read or write English and Mr Ps English was basic;
They were not given an interpreter to help them understand what they were buying;
They were coerced into buying PPI.
The mortgage only covered Mr P, so sometimes I will only refer to him. Although I will refer 
to Mr P and Mrs P where appropriate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ps and Mrs Ps case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Santander should have made Mr P and Mrs P aware they had a choice in buying the policy. 
They say they were coerced to buy PPI.
Neither Santander nor Mr P and Mrs P have any paperwork from the time of sale. I dont 
think thats surprising given that the sale took place around 24 years ago. But it does mean I 
have limited information about the sale, so I have to decide what I think is likely to have 
happened, given the information I do have and the broader circumstances.
Santander told us Mr P and Mrs P bought the PPI in 1996 to protect their original mortgage 
which was issued in 1983. So as there was most likely a separate application form for PPI 
with a separate direct debit mandate for the PPI purchase in 1996, I think its likely the 
optional nature would have been made clear to them. Mr P and Mrs P said they were 
coerced, but they havent told me exactly what conversations they had that day. So I dont 
think theyve said anything which makes me think Santander didnt follow its normal process 
here. 
I also noted the policy was tailored to cover Mr P only - so I think their primary concern was 
that only Mr Ps salary needed PPI support which means they probably chose to have it 
added to the mortgage account. So overall, I think its more likely Santander made it clear to 
them they had a choice about the PPI, and they agreed to buy it to cover Mr P, although I 
can understand why they may not remember this. 
Santander says the sale was advised. For an advised sale, the PPI had to be suitable for 
their needs.
I think the policy probably was suitable for Mr P because he was eligible to buy PPI, it 
seemed affordable at the time and he wasnt affected by the main things the policy didnt 
cover (the exclusions).
I noted Mr P says he had employee benefits and savings  but he didnt tell us exactly how 
much he had in savings. I also noted the policy could have paid out for a maximum of 24 
months for a successful claim. This would have been in addition to and for longer than his 
employee benefits and would have meant he could use his savings for other important 
expenses. So I dont think his employee benefits and savings made the policy unsuitable.
The PPI information had to be clear enough for Mr P and Mrs P to make an informed 
decision.
 
Looking at everything Ive been given, its possible the information Santander gave Mr P and 
Mrs P about the PPI about the cost, benefits and exclusions wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But having decided they chose to take out the PPI - it looks like they wanted this 
type of cover for Mr P. And  for the reasons Ive explained above - it looks like the policy 
would have been useful for them if something went wrong. So I think they most likely had 
enough information about the cost, benefits and the exclusions at the time of the sale and I 
think its unlikely that more information would have put them off from buying it.
Mr P told us his English was basic and Mrs P couldnt read or write in English. They said 
they needed an interpreter and they didnt understand what they were buying. I considered 
these points very carefully. Santander would be under a duty to ensure Mr P and Mrs P 
understood what was happening through an interpreter. Though we would need to see 
evidence that Mr P and Mrs P told Santander about their need for an interpreter in 1996.
 
However, they had managed to buy a house in 1983  which was a large financial 
commitment for both of them. And they also had the PPI policy tailored to cover Mr P only in 
1996. So I think its more likely they were aware they were buying PPI and for what purpose. 
If Mr P and Mrs P did not understand what was happening, they should have told Santander 
to get an interpreter or they could have used their own interpreter  but I havent seen any 
evidence from the time of the sale that show either of these things happened. So these 
points dont change my decision.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr P and Mrs P paid on their PPI  and whether 
Santander treated them unfairly.
 
Santander has told us that the commission for Mr Ps and Mrs Ps PPI was less than half of 
what they paid for each premium. Weve looked at how Santander has been working this out 
and based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr Ps and Mrs Ps commission was 
less than half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell them about 
the commission  so I dont think Santander treated them unfairly. This means it doesnt 
need to pay Mr P and Mrs P back any of the commission they paid for the PPI.
I realise that my decision is likely to be disappointing for Mr P and Mrs P. Its always difficult 
to decide a complaint on limited information. But Ive thought very carefully about what they 
said and about what Santander said. And I dont think  on balance  I can fairly and 
reasonably uphold their complaint.My final decision
I do not uphold this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 September 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman