DRN-4105775
The complaint
Mr N complains about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds decision to decline a claim 
under his home insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill provide only a brief 
summary here.
Mr N has home insurance underwritten by Advantage which covers his home and its 
contents.
He made a claim in September 2022 after discovering a water leak in his bathroom. Water 
appeared to be escaping from the area around his shower and affecting the bathroom floor 
and the ceiling of the room downstairs.
Advantage sent a loss adjuster to assess the claim and the damage to Mr Ns property. Their 
report said that the shower waste trap and water pipes were sound. And the leak was 
caused by a failure of the silicone sealant around the shower tray.
On that basis, Advantage declined the claim. They pointed out to Mr N that there was an 
exclusion in the policy which meant they wouldnt pay out for damage caused by wear and 
tear.
Mr N objected to this. He said he maintained the sealant on a regular basis  every six 
months or so.
Advantage said if that were the case, theyd rely on the exclusion relating to poor 
workmanship or maintenance. Mr N might attempt to maintain the sealant every six months, 
but the leak  according to the expert report  was clearly caused by a failure of the sealant.
Mr N complained to Advantage about their decision to decline the claim  and about poor 
communication and customer service. He said their explanations for declining the claim had 
changed when new information was presented to them. And he said they didnt respond in a 
timely manner to his requests and queries.
Advantage didnt provide a formal response to Mr Ns complaint, so he brought it to us. Our 
investigator looked into it and thought Advantage were entitled to decline the claim but 
should pay Mr N £100 in compensation for poor communication and customer service. 
Mr N disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. He doesnt think 
Advantage have shown that a policy exclusion applies. And he believes the £100 
compensation our investigator suggested is insufficient given the trouble and upset hes 
been caused by Advantages errors.
Advantage also disagreed with the outcome suggested by our investigator. They think 
compensation isnt warranted in this case because they responded to Mr N in a reasonable 
and timely manner throughout.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator said in his view on the case, there is only one qualified expert whos 
offered an opinion on the cause of the escape of water and the subsequent damage to 
Mr Ns property.
That expert  the loss adjuster appointed by Advantage  takes the unequivocal view that 
the escape of water was a result of the sealant failing, for whatever reason.
Mr N hasnt suggested that there was any specific accident or event that might have 
damaged the sealant. 
So, the sealant could only conceivably fail because of wear and tear or because it wasnt 
applied  or repaired / maintained  effectively. Mr N says he has attended to it every six 
months, so its fair to suggest the latter explanation is the most likely. 
But in any case, if either explanation is true, then Advantage are entitled to decline Mr Ns 
claim, in line with the terms of the policy.
I note that the invoices provided by Mr N for the repairs he had carried out cover 
replacement of the shower tray, shower door and tiles. That would also suggest that the 
problem was with a leak from the shower tray area  and not, as Mr N originally suggested, 
from the pipes underneath the shower.
So, Im satisfied theres nothing unfair or unreasonable in Advantage declining Mr Ns claim 
based on the evidence and information available.
Mr N believes the customer service and communication provided by Advantage in this case 
was so far below the standard expected that it merits a compensation award significantly 
higher than the £100 suggested by our investigator. 
Advantage say we shouldnt award any compensation because they responded to all of 
Mr Ns communications in a reasonable and timely manner.
Im afraid I cant agree with Advantage about that. Mr N clearly stated on more than one 
occasion that he wished to make a formal complaint. Advantage didnt take the appropriate 
steps to enable that.
Its also slightly odd that Advantage now say there were no failings in their communications 
with Mr N, when they earlier admitted to Mr N that theyd erroneously overlooked at least 
one message and apologised for the delay in addressing his queries and the further 
information hed provided.
Mr N was on occasion very quick to go back to Advantage with counter arguments and he 
was at times very persistent and unwilling to accept explanations theyd provided. 
But Im satisfied the communication from Advantage was at times poor  for example, 
Advantage have also admitted their original explanation of the reasons for declining the 
claim were mistaken  and unnecessarily delayed.
This must have caused some frustration and inconvenience for Mr N  who had to chase 
Advantage for answers to his communications at times.Putting things right
Given the degree of trouble and upset Mr N experienced as a result of the poor service and 
communication from Advantage at times in their handling of his claim and his queries, Im 
satisfied that the £100 compensation suggested by our investigator is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ns complaint in part.
Advantage Insurance Company Limited must pay Mr N £100 in compensation for his trouble 
and upset. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman