DRN-3085757
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain about the way that Great Lakes Insurance SE handled a claim they 
made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
In May 2019, Mr and Mrs T booked a two-centre holiday to countries Ill call V and T. They 
were due to travel between 5 and 19 April 2020. They took out an annual travel insurance 
policy through a broker, which provided cover between 4 March 2020 and 3 March 2021.
However, on 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a 
pandemic. On 17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO  
formerly the FCO) advised UK nationals against all but essential travel abroad. And on 22 
March, Vs government closed its borders to foreign nationals.
On 24 March 2020, Mr and Mrs Ts airline cancelled their flights. So Mr and Mrs T had to 
cancel their trip. They made a claim on their travel insurance policy. They were able to 
recover some of their costs through section 75 claims on their credit card. They tried to 
discuss their claim with Great Lakes to check whether it would be covered. Ultimately, they 
were able to reschedule both their return flights and one accommodation booking for the 
following year.
Mr and Mrs T wanted Great Lakes to confirm that it would cover their rescheduled holiday 
under their existing travel insurance policy if it had to be cancelled. 
Great Lakes said that as Mr and Mrs T had been able to rebook their flights and 
accommodation instead of cancelling those elements, they hadnt suffered any irrecoverable 
loss. But it told them that it would consider any cancellation claims for these costs while the 
policy was in force. It said that the re-booked elements of the trip constituted a new booking.
 
As Mr and Mrs T felt they had taken steps to mitigate their losses when in fact, theyd have 
been entitled to claim their full cancellation costs, they were unhappy with Great Lakes 
stance. And they also considered that theyd had to make the decision to rearrange their 
flights and accommodation without any guidance from Great Lakes. So they asked us to look 
into their complaint.
Mr and Mrs T subsequently let us know that Mr T would be undergoing surgery and that he 
wouldnt be fit to travel. They let us know that their airline had provided a full refund of their 
flight costs. And the accommodation provider had offered a partial refund of £1000, with the 
remaining balance to be put towards a future booking.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ts complaint should be upheld. He acknowledged 
that Mr and Mrs T had taken steps to mitigate their losses. But he considered that theyd had 
a responsibility to do so. He noted that Great Lakes had sent an acknowledgement to Mr 
and Mrs T prior to their decision to rearrange their flight and accommodation, which stated 
that theyd need to try to recover their losses from their travel providers before a claim could 
be considered. He felt that the decision to rebook the accommodation and flights (together 
with the subsequent refunds and effective credit voucher) represented recovery of Mr and 
Mrs Ts costs, so he didnt think Mr and Mrs T had suffered any irrecoverable losses while 
the policy was in force. He also didnt think Great Lakes had needed to agree to extend the 
term of cover beyond the policy expiry date.
Mr and Mrs T disagreed. They maintained that theyd decided to rearrange their flights and 
mitigate their losses without any guidance from Great Lakes. They felt there had been no 
requirement for them to mitigate their losses.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. Since the complaint was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision, Mr and Mrs T let us know that the accommodation owner has since 
refunded all of their booking costs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs T, Ive decided not to uphold this 
complaint and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mr and Mrs Ts policy and the circumstances of their claim, in deciding whether 
Great Lakes treated them fairly.
First, Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs T that while Ive summarised the background to this 
complaint and their communications with Great Lakes, Ive carefully considered all theyve 
said and sent us. 
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mr and Mrs 
Ts contract with Great Lakes. The cancellation section provides the following cover:
We will pay you up to the amount shown in your policy Schedule for your share of any 
irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation (including excursions), and other pre-paid 
charges which you have paid or are contracted to pay. You are also covered for any 
additional travel expenses incurred if you are forced to cancel any part of your trip prior to its 
commencement. This must be as a direct and necessary result of any cause outside of your 
control, which was unforeseen at the start date of your policy or at the time of booking your 
trip, whichever is the later.
Pages 53 and 54 of the policy set out a list of general exclusions  things which Great 
Lakes doesnt cover and which apply to the whole policy. One of these is: costs recoverable 
elsewhere.
In this case, theres no doubt that Mr and Mrs T had to cancel their holiday for reasons 
outside of their control. And I dont doubt how frustrating it mustve been for them. As Great 
Lakes later confirmed, the circumstances of the claim were covered under the policy terms. 
However, in order for the claim to be payable, Mr and Mrs T needed to demonstrate to Great 
Lakes that their losses were irrecoverable.
It's unfortunate that some weeks did pass between Mr and Mrs T getting in touch with Great 
Lakes and it providing a substantive update on their claim and the information it needed to 
progress it. With that said though, Ive seen an email from Great Lakes claims team, dated 
22 April 2020, which includes the following information:We are advising ALL customers to speak to the airline, tour operator, travel agent and 
hotelier in all instances as the primary respondent to this situation to query a refund or re-
arrangement. Your claim will only be reviewed once these options have been exhausted.
I think this email made it sufficiently clear that policyholders would need to show that theyd 
attempted to recover their funds from their travel providers before Great Lakes would 
consider paying a claim. It seems that prior to getting this email, Mr and Mrs T had begun to 
take steps to recover some of their costs through section 75 claims from their credit card 
provider. But I understand that they didnt accept the rebooking of their flights and 
accommodation until late May 2020  a few weeks after the email from Great Lakes. So it 
seems to me that Great Lakes did provide at least some guidance as to how it would be 
looking at claims. 
It's clear Mr and Mrs T did take steps to mitigate their losses as far as they could. This isnt a 
duty which is set out in the policy terms. But I agree with the investigator that policyholders 
do have a general responsibility to mitigate both their own and the insurers losses, as far as 
possible. 
In this case, Mr and Mrs T were able to recover many of their costs through section 75 
claims. And at the point they rearranged their flight and accommodation for the following 
year, Im satisfied that they effectively fully recovered these losses too. Thats because they 
no longer had any outstanding cancellation costs to claim. So I wouldnt generally have 
expected Great Lakes to make any payment at this point.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs T wanted Great Lakes to confirm that it would cover the cancellation 
of their rebooked trip. The policy remained in force until 3 March 2021 and Great Lakes told 
Mr and Mrs T that it would consider claims while the policy was active. I think this was a 
reasonable response from Great Lakes. Mr T told us in December 2020 that due to planned 
surgery, hed no longer be fit to travel and would therefore need to cancel his trip. Mr T 
became aware of this circumstance within the period of policy cover. It isnt clear whether 
Great Lakes responded to Mr T on this point. But Id still expect Mr and Mrs T to have shown 
that they couldnt recover their accommodation costs before Great Lakes would be liable to 
pay any outstanding balance even if it had considered a cancellation claim due to Mr Ts 
illness. 
Im pleased to hear that Mr and Mrs T have now been able to recover all of their costs from 
the accommodation provider. This means that now, they have no further outstanding losses 
for Great Lakes to consider. So I dont think I need to make a finding on whether Great 
Lakes shouldve extended the cover beyond the end of the policy term.
There was a delay in Great Lakes both assessing Mr and Mrs Ts claim and in responding to 
their complaint. I dont doubt that this was very frustrating for Mr and Mrs T during a difficult 
situation. And I sympathise with their position. But given the operational challenges Covid-19 
posed to businesses and the large volume of travel claims which were made, unfortunately, 
there were inevitable delays in dealing with claims. So I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable to direct Great Lakes to pay any compensation here.
Overall then, I dont think Great Lakes has done anything wrong which it needs to put right.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman