DRN-1848397
The complaint
Miss R says S.D. Taylor Limited, trading as Loans at Home (LAH), irresponsibly lent to her. 
She says the loans were not affordable. She thinks LAH shouldve seen this and not lent to 
her. 
What happened
This complaint is about four home collected loans LAH provided to Miss R between 
December 2017 and August 2018. Some of the information LAH has provided about the 
loans is in the table below. 
loan number date startedamount 
borrowedterm 
(weeks)date ended
1 27/12/2017 £400 33 18/07/2018
2 11/04/2018 £400 78 outstanding
3 18/07/2018 £400 33 outstanding
4 15/08/2018 £200 33 outstanding
Our adjudicator upheld Miss Rs complaint and thought the loans from loan 2 onwards 
shouldnt have been given. They thought that the amount of the repayment was too high in 
relation to Miss Rs recorded income. They also thought that LAH shouldve made better 
checks. If it had made these checks then they thought that LAH wouldve seen that the 
details LAH had recorded about Miss R were not correct. 
LAH disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending  including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. Broadly 
speaking, this all means that LAH needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice, this means it should have carried out proportionate checks to make 
sure Miss R could repay their loans in a sustainable manner. Additionally, there may come a 
point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrates that the 
lending was unsustainable.
Applying this to the circumstances of this particular complaint, I have reached the same 
outcome as our adjudicator, for essentially the same reasons.
Our adjudicator thought that the weekly amount that Miss R was due to repay when she took 
loan 2 was too high relative to her income. Particularly as she was due to make this 
repayment for a significant amount of time. Her income was modest and after her 
expenditure is taken into consideration I dont think she had enough left over for the 
repayments to be sustainable over the longer term. 
And our adjudicator wasnt persuaded that Miss Rs income was as high as that recorded by 
LAH. And she says that better checks wouldve shown this to LAH. LAH has said that it took 
steps to verify her income, and I accept this may have been the case. Although there is still 
some uncertainty around this. 
But I have independently reviewed the evidence of Miss R income and expenditure. Having 
done this, I can see that Miss R was having problems managing her money. And if LAH had 
made better checks it wouldve seen this and that the loan repayments were not sustainable. 
So the points raised by LAH havent changed my decision and Im upholding this complaint 
in part.
Putting things right
LAH shouldnt have given Miss R loans 2 to 4.
If LAH has sold the outstanding debts LAH should buy these back if LAH is able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If LAH is not able to buy the debts back then LAH should liaise 
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) LAH should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss R towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything 
LAH has already refunded.
B) LAH should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Miss R 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss R originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) LAH should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Miss R as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Miss R having made 
overpayments then LAH should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. LAH should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B 
and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus 
then the surplus should be paid to Miss R. However if there is still an outstanding balance 
then LAH should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Miss R. LAH shouldnt 
pursue outstanding balances made up of principal LAH have already written-off.
E) LAH should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Rs credit file in relation to 
loans 2 to 4. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires LAH to deduct tax from this interest. LAH should give 
Miss R a certificate showing how much tax LAH has deducted, if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Miss Rs complaint. S.D. Taylor Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 September 2020.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman