DRN-3674242
The complaint
Miss H complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk 
(MoneyBoat) didnt carry out proportionate affordability checks before it granted her loans. 
Miss H also says she reached out for assistance from MoneyBoat to freeze the interest and 
charges, but it didnt do so. 
What happened
Miss H was advanced three instalment loans by MoneyBoat and a summary of her 
borrowing follows. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
instalmentsinstalment 
amount
1 £500.00 19/09/2021 26/11/2021 3 £211.46
2 £600.00 01/12/2021 01/12/2021 3 £282.80
3 £1,000.00 01/12/2021 outstanding 6 £301.92
It seems that loan 2 was taken and then cancelled on the same day before Miss H went onto 
apply for her third loan of £1,000. 
Miss H has provided copies of emails between herself and MoneyBoat which shows that 
from the start of June 2022 its possible Miss Hs final loan has been defaulted and a record 
of this has been reported to the credit reference agencies. 
 
Following Miss Hs complaint MoneyBoat wrote to her on 9 March 2022 outlining the checks 
it had carried out before these loans were approved and it considered these checks to be 
proportionate. The checks also showed these loans were likely to be affordable for Miss H 
and so it didnt uphold her complaint.
Miss H didnt accept the outcome and referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
An adjudicator initially reviewed the complaint and based on the information she had she 
concluded MoneyBoat needed to have carried out further checks before these loans were 
approved, but she couldnt say what MoneyBoat may have seen as she didnt have Miss Hs 
bank statements. 
Miss H didnt agree with the proposed outcome and in response to the assessment she 
provided the adjudicator with copies of her bank statements. 
The adjudicator, then reconsidered the complaint and issued an uphold assessment. She 
concluded, this time that the credit checks MoneyBoat carried out before these loans were 
approved ought to have prompted it to have carried out further checks. 
Had it carried out further checks, it wouldve likely discovered that Miss H was having 
financial difficulties because she wasnt able to service the debts that she already had 
because there were a number of returned direct debits visible in her bank statements. By 
loan 3, Miss H had nine other loans outstanding, so the adjudicator didnt think that loan was 
affordable for her either.
Miss H appears to have accepted the most recent assessment. 
MoneyBoat didnt respond to or acknowledge the adjudicators most assessment. 
As MoneyBoat hasnt responded to the adjudicators second assessment, the adjudicator 
arranged to refer the complaint to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat had to assess the lending to check if Miss H could afford to pay back the 
amounts shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. MoneyBoats checks couldve taken into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, 
and Miss Hs income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MoneyBoat should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss H. These factors include:
Miss H having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss H having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss H coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss H.
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Miss H could sustainably repay the loans  
not just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having 
enough money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss H was able 
to repay her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Hs complaint.Loan 1
For this loan, Miss H declared she had a monthly income of £4,420. MoneyBoat says this 
figure was checked with a credit reference agency.
Miss Hs declared her expenditure to be around £3,070 per month. Overall, MoneyBoat 
calculated that Miss H had about £1,350 each month of disposable income in order to make 
loan repayments of around £211 per month. Based solely, on the income and expenditure 
information MoneyBoat had, it could reasonably concluded Miss H would be able to afford 
her loan repayments. 
However, I would say, that based on the information Miss H provided, MoneyBoat was on 
notice that around 45% of her declared income was already committed to be spent on other 
credit commitments. This is a significant percentage of income, regardless of the monthly 
salary that has been declared. 
MoneyBoat says a credit check was carried out before this loan was granted, and a copy of 
the results have been provided to the Financial Ombudsman. Ive reviewed the results and 
like the adjudicator, I am concerned by the information MoneyBoat was provided. In 
summary it saw:
Total debt excluding a mortgage of just over £47,000.
26 active credit accounts. 
In August 2021, so a month before this loan was approved, Miss H had defaulted on 
another loan of nearly £4,000. 
Three other defaults recorded in 2016 and 2017. 
While this on its own may not be enough to uphold, I do think MoneyBoat was put on notice 
that Miss H may have been having financial difficulties and so it ought to have carried out 
further checks, such as verification of Miss Hs financial position before approving this loan. 
So, taking into account the above, I do agree with the adjudicator that given the adverse 
credit file data MoneyBoat ought to have carried out further in-depth checks. It couldve done 
this a number of ways, it couldve asked for copies of her payslip and/or copies of bills in 
order to gain a complete understanding of Miss Hs financial position. Or, it couldve asked to 
review her bank statements. 
Miss H has provided the Financial Ombudsman Service with copies of her bank statements 
and I dont think its unreasonable to consider these because MoneyBoat in my view didnt 
do a proportionate check. 
Having looked at the bank statements, Im satisfied that had MoneyBoat undertaken further 
checks it wouldnt have lent to Miss H. Miss Hs declared income looks broadly accurate. 
But there were signs of financial difficulties. I say this because her bank statements show 
she already had a significant number of high cost loans  including payday outstanding, at 
least eight at the time this loan was approved. In addition, I can see a number of returned 
direct debits payments, which as the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) (the relevant 
guidance for MoneyBoat) says in section 1.3 is likely a sign that someone is having financial 
difficulties. 
Taking into account above, I dont think this loan ought to be been granted given how over 
indebted Miss H and the fact that there were returned direct debits. This information 
suggested that the loan wasnt sustainable. Im therefore upholding Miss Hs complaint about this loan. 
Loan 2
As Ive said, its likely there was no interest charged for loan 2, because it seems to have 
been either taken out and repaid on the same day or the application was cancelled. Whether 
the loan was repaid or cancelled wont impact the outcome because no interest was 
charged. So, although this loan ought to not have been granted, there is no financial 
compensation due to Miss H. 
Loan 3
Similar sorts of checks were carried out for this loan as loan 1. MoneyBoat asked Miss H 
about her income which she declared had slightly increased to £4,400 per month. In 
addition, her disposable income had increased to £1,520. So, again, solely looking at these 
figures MoneyBoat may have believed her repayments were affordable. 
But I still think MoneyBoat ought to have carried out the same sort of checks as ought to 
have been carried out for loan 1. The credit check results it was provided still ought to have 
given MoneyBoat cause for concern given the amount of outstanding debt and how recently 
a default had been recorded. So, I didnt think the checks for this loan went far enough. 
Ive once again considered Miss Hs bank statements and having done so, this loan ought to 
also not have been granted. I can see a similar pattern for this loan as I can see for loan 1. 
Miss H had a number of outstanding payday and high cost credit loans as well as continuing 
to have retuned direct debits. Finally, in November 2021, Miss H received around half her 
regular income, which wouldve put further strain on her finances given her already 
significant credit commitments. 
MoneyBoat wouldve likely discovered this by carrying out a proportionate check and having 
done so it wouldnt have lent this loan because Miss H wasnt able to afford her loan 
repayments given her credit commitments and her other living costs.  
Therefore, MoneyBoat shouldnt have provided any of the loans to Miss H and Ive outlined 
below what it needs to do in order to put things right. 
Ive thought about what Miss H says about MoneyBoat freezing the interest fees or charges. 
This is one option available to it once it found out about her financial difficulties. However, as 
Ive concluded these loans ought to not have been provided, the redress below will in effect 
make these loans interest free. So, I dont think any further compensation needs to be paid. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress MoneyBoat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it not lent to Miss H at all, as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly 
there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Miss H may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, she may 
have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how she would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Miss H in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Miss H would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce MoneyBoats liability in this case for what 
Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
MoneyBoat shouldnt have given Miss H any of her loans. 
If MoneyBoat has sold the outstanding debts it should buy it back if it is able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If MoneyBoat is not able to buy the debt back, then it should 
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below. 
A. MoneyBoat should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss H towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything already refunded.
B. MoneyBoat should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Miss H which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss H 
originally made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. It should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Miss H as though they had 
been repayments of the principal on the outstanding loan. If this results in Miss H 
having made overpayments then it should refund these overpayments with 8% 
simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments 
would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. MoneyBoat should then 
refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in 
a surplus, then the surplus should be paid to Miss H. However, if there is still an 
outstanding balance then MoneyBoat should try to agree an affordable repayment 
plan with Miss H.
E. MoneyBoat should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Hs credit file 
in relation to all of these loans. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to deduct tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
should give Miss H a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted, if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Miss Hs complaint in full.
Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk should put things right for 
Miss H as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 October 2022.
 
Robert WalkerOmbudsman