DRN-1687560
The complaint
Miss C has complained that Capquest Debt Recovery Limited chased her for a debt that she 
thought was statute barred.
What happened
In 2007, Miss C took out a debt. In 2010, the debt was defaulted. In 2012, it was sold on, 
and in 2016 it was passed to Capquest to manage as debt collectors.
In August 2019, Miss C argued that the debt was statute barred  that it had been more than 
five years since shed paid towards the debt and so it was too old for Capquest to continue 
chasing her for. Capquest said theyd look into this. Then they said they were passing the 
debt back to the debt purchasers, and they closed the file on their end.
In January 2020, Capquest got back in touch with Miss C, letting her know theyd reopened 
things on their end. They said while shed told them the debt was statute barred, after 
looking into it they could see shed last made a payment in May 2015. So it hadnt been 
more than five years since shed paid towards the debt. Capquest paid Miss C £100 
compensation for misinforming her before.
Miss C wasnt happy with this. She disputed making that payment in 2015. And she felt that 
since Capquest had effectively agreed the debt was statute barred before, they should write 
it off in any case.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. He 
explained only a court could decide if the debt was really statute barred, but the records did 
show that Miss C had paid towards it in 2015. He agreed it was unfortunate that Capquest 
had given Miss C the wrong impression, but ultimately she took out the debt and hadnt paid 
it all back, so it was fair for them to chase it. He didnt agree they should write it off just 
because they made a mistake.
Miss C didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator, and for much the 
same reasons.
As our investigator explained, our service cant decide whether this debt is statute barred or 
not  only a court can do that.
With that said, according to the electronic records of the debt from the previous debt 
collector, Miss C did indeed make a payment towards it in May 2015. So at the point she 
complained in August 2019, it would have been less than five years since shed made a 
payment to the debt.
I can understand Miss Cs frustration at being told the wrong thing. But I dont agree that 
Capquest needed to have written off the debt just because they initially made that mistake. 
Indeed, it seems that both sides had been mistaken about the status of the debt at the time.
I do think its right for Capquest to pay Miss C compensation for the trouble and upset their 
mistake caused  and I think the £100 theyve already paid her is fair for that.
I think it was reasonable for Capquest to continue chasing the debt at the time of Miss Cs 
complaint, and I dont find that they did anything wrong there.
Of course, since then, further time has passed. Capquest have explained that as things 
stand now, they would not look to chase payment on the debt anymore due to the time thats 
now passed.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman