DRN-3246409
The complaint
Mr E complains Rogerstan Finance Limited (Rogerstan) provided him with loans that he 
couldnt afford to repay. 
Mr E says these loans have caused long term financial problems for him, including 
contributing to him having significant arrears on his mortgage. 
What happened
Mr E has complained about 22 home collected loans advanced between May 2015 and 
February 2020. A summary of Mr Es borrowing, based on the information provided to us 
from Rogerstan, can be found below;
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm (weeks) weekly 
repayment
1 £400.00 05/05/2015 22/09/2015 31 £20.00
2 £400.00 19/08/2015 15/12/2015 31 £20.00
3 £600.00 22/09/2015 no information no information no information
4 £500.00 15/12/2015 31/05/2016 31 £25.00
5 £800.00 01/03/2016 no information no information no information
6 £600.00 31/05/2016 09/11/2016 31 £30.00
7 £1,000.00 30/08/2016 19/04/2017 31 £50.00
8 £1,000.00 08/11/2016 31/05/2017 31 £50.00
9 £1,000.00 18/04/2017 29/09/0217 31 £50.00
10 £1,000.00 30/05/2017 no information no information no information
11 £1,000.00 26/09/2017 28/02/2018 31 £50.00
12 £1,000.00 05/12/2017 30/05/2018 31 £50.00
13 £1,000.00 27/02/2018 29/08/2018 31 £50.00
14 £1,000.00 29/05/2018 no information no information no information
15 £1,000.00 28/08/2018 09/04/2019 31 £50.00
16 £400.00 11/09/2018 26/02/2019 31 £20.00
17 £1,000.00 23/10/2018 30/07/2019 31 £50.00
18 £1,000.00 09/04/2019 05/11/2019 31 £50.00
19 £1,000.00 30/07/2019 05/02/2020 31 £50.00
20 £1,000.00 29/10/2019 outstanding 31 £50.00
21 £500.00 10/12/2019 01/12/2020 31 £25.00
22 £1,000.00 04/02/2020 outstanding 31 £50.00
The weekly repayment column is the cost per loan per week. Where loans overlapped the 
cost per week will be greater, so for example, Mr E was due to repay Rogerstan £40 per 
week when loans one and two were running concurrently. 
Mr E has had some problems repaying some of his loans, and an outstanding balance 
remains due on loans 20 and 22. 
There are also a number of loans that Rogerstan has told us where lent  this information 
was contained in a list of loans issued within the last six years. But, Rogerstan hasnt 
provided any further information about them such as the term or weekly repayment  these 
loans can be identified as Ive put no information into the table above. 
I would add here that Mr E says he has been borrowing from Rogerstan for at least 20 years. 
This appears to be backed up by what Rogerstan has told the Financial Ombudsman about 
a charge that was previously placed on his property in 2008. But neither party has provided 
any information about this. 
Rogerstan has told us it has only kept information about loans issued within the last six 
years  and these are the ones in the table above. Mr E doesnt have any further information 
about any earlier loans, so it is only the loans in the table above that are being reviewed as 
part of this final decision. 
After Mr E complained to Rogerstan it issued its final response letter (FRL) on 15 March 
2021 which didnt uphold his complaint. In the FRL Rogerstan explained that all the loans 
issued were subject to affordability checks and based on the information Mr E provided to 
Rogerstan these loans were affordable. 
It also confirmed Mr Es outstanding balance had been reduced by £656, which seems to 
have been the outstanding interest that was due to be repaid by Mr E. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr E referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. 
An adjudicator reviewed Mr Es irresponsible lending complaint and she thought the 
complaint should be upheld in full and concluded none of the loans in the table above 
shouldve been provided.  
The adjudicator went on to explain, the credit check results provided to the Financial 
Ombudsman for loan one showed that Mr E was likely having financial difficulties and had 
loans in arrears. This was despite Mr E declaring on the application form that there were no 
arrears. Further checks (which the adjudicator felt Rogerstan ought to have carried out at the 
time) wouldve likely showed it that Mr E was in fact in arrears on his mortgage. 
She thought it wasnt sustainable to have granted the first loan given the information on the 
credit file, and she went on to explain this was reflected in the fact it took 7 weeks for Mr E to 
make his first repayment towards the loan. 
Mr E went on to experience further repayment problems with Rogerstan over the following 
loans and further checks wouldve showed Rogerstan that Mr E was continuing to have 
financial difficulties. 
Finally, by loan 6, the adjudicator concluded that the lending was now clearly harmful to Mr E 
and any further loans were unsustainable for him. 
Mr E appears to have accepted the adjudicators findings. 
However, Rogerstan didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment about any of the loans 
Mr E had been given. Ive read, in full, the comments Rogerstan has provided, and Ive 
provided a summary of them below:
all loans were issued in line with industry guidelines and regulations;there couldve been a number of reasons why the repayments for loan one started 
late, but the loan was brought up to date after a month with a payment of £120;
Rogerstan always acts with forbearance towards a consumer if payments are 
missed;
although the loans were due to run for 31 weeks, some loans had weekly, fortnightly 
or monthly repayments  a consumer had 31 weeks to repay the loan;
the majority of Mr Es loans were repaid within the contractual term or if repaid early 
he received an interest rebate;
when loans did overrun there was a reason for this and Rogerstan didnt apply any 
further default charges, which is different to what a high street bank may do;
it explained it is a very difficult situation to refuse a long-term good customer a 
new loan.;
if Rogerstan didnt continue to lend then it would lose the consumer as a customer;
should Rogerstan refuse a loan the consumer couldve been put into financial 
difficulties;
Rogerstan was able to build a relationship with Mr E and not once did he mention 
mortgage arrears;
Mr E signed the application forms to confirm the information he had provided was 
correct and accurate;
Mr E had excellent repayment history; and
Mr E only raised his complaint due to hardship caused by the COVID-19 pandemic.
       
Later, Rogerstan made an offer to settle the complaint. It offered to write off the balance on 
Mr Es two outstanding loans and return the interest payments to him, along with 8% simple 
interest. The refund payable to Mr E would be £1,283. 
This offer was put to Mr E but he didnt accept it. As no agreement could be reached the 
case has been passed to me to make a decision on the lending. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It may help, and for clarity for all parties concerned, that I outline the legal and regulatory 
environment when the lending was approved. So below Ive outlined what I consider to be 
the key regulatory requirements on the part of Rogerstan before providing the lending. 
The legal and regulatory framework and other publications
Prior to these loans, Rogerstan was regulated by the Office of Fair Trading (up to 31 March 
2014). And from 1 April 2014, it was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA),
In the FCAs guidance there are references made to the OFT guidance which is called the 
Irresponsible lending Guidance (ILG). What this shows, in effect, is a continuity of regulation 
and continuity of requirements for what Rogerstan needed to do before each loan was 
approved. In November 2018 the FCA rules were reworded.  
Regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (from 1 April 2014)
Rogerstan gave Mr E all of the above loans after the regulation of Consumer Credit 
Licensees had transferred from the OFT to the FCA on 1 April 2014. The FCAs Principles for Business set out the overarching requirements which all authorised
Firms are required to comply with. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. 
And the most relevant overarching principle here is PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
The FCAs Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC) is the specialist sourcebook for credit-
related regulated activities. It sets out the rules and guidance specific to consumer credit 
providers, such as Rogerstan. CONC 5 sets out a firms obligations in relation to responsible 
lending. And CONC 6 sets out a firms obligations after a consumer has entered into a 
regulated agreement.
The version of CONC quoted below was what was in place when loans 1  17 were 
approved. From November 2018, the FCA made changes to CONC but this didnt 
significantly alter Rogerstans obligations for responsible lending.  
The starting point for the relevant rules in this case is Section 5.2.1R(2) of CONC which sets 
out what a lender needs to do before agreeing to give a consumer credit of this type. It says 
a firm must consider:
(a) the potential for the commitments under the regulated credit agreement to 
adversely impact the customers financial situation, taking into account the 
information of which the firm is aware at the time the regulated credit agreement is to 
be made; and
(b) the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the
regulated credit agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end
agreement, to make repayments within a reasonable period.
CONC also includes guidance about proportionality of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G(2) says:
A firm should consider what is appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent 
on, for example, the type and amount of credit being sought and the potential risks to 
the customer. The risk of credit not being sustainable directly relates to the amount of 
credit granted and the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial 
situation.
CONC 5.3 contains further guidance on what a lender should bear in mind when thinking
about affordability. And CONC 5.3.1G(1) says:
In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC 
5.2.2R(1), a firm should take into account more than assessing the customers ability 
to repay the credit.
CONC 5.3.1G(2) then says:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) 
should include the firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customers ability to 
meet repayments under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner 
without the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse 
consequences.
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants, CONC 5.3.1G(4) 
states:
(b) it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of thecustomers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters made by the
customer.
And CONC 5.3.7R says that:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under a regulated credit agreement 
where the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect that the customer has not been 
truthful in completing the application in relation to information supplied by the 
customer relevant to the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by 
CONC 5.2.2R (1).
On 6 March 2019, The FCA wrote a Dear CEO letter to the Chief Executive Officer of all
firms allocated to the High Cost Lenders portfolio, which Rogerstan is part of. This letter 
was published after some of Mr Es agreements were entered into, but not all. This letter 
didnt include any new rules but deals with how firms ought to be handling complaints about 
whether their previous lending was unaffordable. I do think that this offers some insight on 
the FCAs perspective on its rules and guidance. So, I consider it to be of some relevance in 
this case.
The letter sets out the FCAs view of the key risks that High Cost Lenders pose to 
consumers and the markets they operate in. On page two of this letter, the FCA sets out its 
view of the key causes of harm. It says:
To assess how firms in the High Cost Lenders portfolio could cause harm, we 
analysed their strategies and business models. We considered a wide range of 
information and data, including firms regulatory histories, the number and nature of 
complaints, and findings from the HCCR. We also carried out diagnostic work on 
guarantor lenders, which involved issuing a data request to firms in October 2018.
Following our analysis, we see two key ways that consumers may be harmed across 
the High Cost Lenders portfolio:
a high volume of relending, which may be symptomatic of unsustainable lending 
patterns
firms affordability checks may be insufficient, leading to loans that customers may 
not be able to afford.
The FCA sets out its areas of focus for all firms in the portfolio on page three of the letter.
The section entitled Relending says:
Relending: We have seen a high volume of relending across all credit products in 
the portfolio. We aim to carry out diagnostic work across the portfolio so that we can 
better understand the motivation for, and impact of, relending on both consumers and 
firms. This work will examine aspects of relending such as customers borrowing 
journeys, firms marketing strategies for offering additional credit and the costs of 
relending for consumers. We want to understand what harm, if any, relending may 
cause consumers. As part of this work, we will proactively engage with home-
collected credit firms to ensure they understand our expectations. We will also 
discuss any changes to their processes as a result of the new rules and guidance on 
relending which we issued in our December 2018 Policy Statement on high-cost 
credit.
The section entitled Affordability says:
Affordability: We recognise that there is an inherent challenge for these firms in assessing affordability for both new loans and repeat borrowing. High-cost credit 
customers finances are often squeezed and they may have poor credit histories and 
low financial resilience. Nevertheless, firms must ensure that they are complying with 
all our affordability requirements. We gave an outline of these requirements in the 
Dear CEO letter we sent to HCSTC firms in October 2018. While this letter was 
aimed at HCSTC firms, the main principles are relevant to all firms in this portfolio.
Finally, under the section entitled Complaints it says:
Complaints: We know that there have been increasing numbers of complaints 
about many of the products in this portfolio. Firms should ensure that they are 
handling complaints appropriately. We expect firms to fulfil all relevant obligations, 
including analysing the root causes of complaints and taking into account the 
Financial Ombudsman Services relevant decisions. We gave further detail about 
what we expect from firms complaint-handling procedures in the Dear CEO letter we 
issued to HCSTC firms in October 2018. This is equally relevant to all firms in the 
portfolio.
Turning to the Dear CEO letter issued by the FCA on 15 October 2018, which was 
mentioned in the Affordability section of the March 2019 FCA letter. 
We note that the Ombudsman has recently published four examples of 
determinations of individual complaints about payday loans to illustrate its approach 
to the issues raised in those complaints (see: https://www.financial-
ombudsman.org.uk/publications/technical.htm). If relevant, firms should take these 
examples of determinations into account as part of establishing their own effective 
procedures for complaints handling (see DISP 1.3.1R).
Paragraph eight of the letter went on to say:
We would highlight in particular the risks in relation to repeat borrowing. These were 
flagged in our price cap proposals in CP14/10, in July 2014, in which we said that we 
were concerned that repeat borrowing could indicate a pattern of dependency on 
HCSTC that is harmful to the borrower. We noted that rigorous affordability 
assessments were key to avoiding harm in this area, and firms should ensure they 
are making responsible assessments of the sustainability of borrowing. 
Questions for me to consider before deciding whether Rogerstan did anything wrong when it 
provided Mr E with his loans. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Bearing in mind everything that Ive set out above and our long-established approach to 
considering these types of complaints (which is also set out on our website), I think the 
overarching questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint are 
Did Rogerstan, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to 
satisfy itself that Mr E would be able to repay in a sustainable way? If not, would 
those checks have shown that Mr E wouldve been able to do so?
Bearing in mind the circumstances, at the time of each application, was there a point 
where Rogerstan ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mr Es 
indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt 
have provided further credit?Did Rogerstan act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
If I determine that Rogerstan did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr E and 
that he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
Did Rogerstan, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy 
itself that Mr E would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
It is important to note the FCA didnt, and doesnt, specify exactly how an assessment of 
affordability is to be carried out but the extent and scope and the types and sources of 
information to use needed to be enough to be able to reasonably assess the sustainability 
of the arrangement for the consumer. Although, the OFTs ILG guidance does provide some 
examples of information a lender may wish to use. 
In other words, the assessment needs to be consumer-focussed. It is not an assessment of 
the risk to the lender of not recovering the credit but of the risk to the consumer of incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequence as a result of the 
decision to lend.
As set out in CONC, the risk to the consumer directly relates to the particulars of the lending 
and the circumstances of the consumer. Therefore, a lenders assessment of 
creditworthiness would likely need to be adaptable to the individual needs and 
circumstances of a consumer. That is to say, what is sufficient for one consumer might not 
be for another, or indeed what might be sufficient for a consumer in one circumstance might 
not be so for the same consumer in other circumstances.
Bearing the above in mind, I would expect an assessment of creditworthiness to vary with 
the circumstance of each request for credit. In general, Id expect a lender to require more 
assurance, the greater the potential risk to the consumer of not being able to repay the credit 
in a sustainable way. 
But, certain factors might point to the fact that Rogerstan should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr E. These factors include, but 
are not limited to:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to repay a 
given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the agreement (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the 
credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and 
the greater the number and frequency of credit agreements, and the longer the 
period of time during which a customer has been given the credit (reflecting the risk 
that ongoing use of these agreements may signal that the borrowing had become, or 
was becoming, unsustainable).
Rogerstan considers its checks were appropriate and complied with the regulations at all 
times when providing this lending.  
It seems for each loan Rogerstan wouldve asked Mr E for details of his income and 
expenditure for its assessment of whether to lend. It also seems for some (but not all) loans 
that a credit search may have been carried out. Rogerstan has provided some examples of the information it took from Mr E and the 
application forms completed. It has also provided the Financial Ombudsman with documents 
showing annual income and expenditure information for Mr E. 
Loan one
Mr E has provided testimony that hes borrowed from Rogerstan for around 20 years, and 
this is further supported by Rogerstan providing some brief details of a charge placed on 
Mr Es property in 2008. So, its likely, while Ive labelled this lending decision as loan one, 
its more likely than not that there were other loans before this one, which may or may not 
have formed part of the same lending chain. 
For this first loan, Rogerstan has provided the Financial Ombudsman with a copy of Mr Es 
credit application as well as page 1 of 3 of the credit search results it received at the time. 
On the face of it, there is an argument to be made that the checks for this loan were 
proportionate. This is, after all, the first loan that Im able to consider and so it probably 
wasnt unreasonable for Rogerstan to have relied on the information that Mr E provided it on 
the application form. It also seems, as Ive mentioned above, that a credit search was carried 
out.  
However, it wasnt enough for Rogerstan to carry out a proportionate check; it also had to 
react to the information it discovered during the course of those checks. 
Looking at the information Mr E gave to Rogerstan, he provided details of his employer and 
explained that his weekly income was £320. However, Mr Es household also received 
additional state benefits, which meant his weekly income increased to £520.47.
Rogerstan asked Mr E about his outgoings at the time. He told them he had rent, utilities, 
telephone, TV licence, housing keeping as well as £20 per week repayments towards 
another loan. In total, including the loan repayment, his weekly outgoings were declared as 
being £339.22. 
Rogerstan therefore believed Mr E had £181.25 a week to afford his loan repayment of £20. 
Therefore, this loan wouldve arguably looked affordable on the face of this basic 
information. However, as part of his application Mr E declared that he didnt have any 
arrears and Rogerstan had information that suggested this wasnt entirely accurate. 
As part of this application Rogerstan has provided the partial results of its credit checks, but 
even the partial results provided enough information to have prompted Rogerstan to make 
further enquires with Mr E. 
The partial report shows that Mr E had three credit searches carried out in the last six 
months, and I dont consider this to be anything for it to have been concerned about. But, 
Rogerstan was aware that Mr E had been having repayment problems because the current 
worse status on accounts reporting to the credit reference agency was an 8 which is likely 
to mean the account was, or about to be, defaulted and / or that Mr E had significant arrears. 
In addition, under the public information section  which is likely to be some form of 
insolvency, so a County Court Judgement, for example   two accounts are listed, with an 
outstanding balance of £1,585. This information was last updated around 11 months before 
loan one was advanced. I dont have any further information about what these records are, 
only they are a further sign that Mr E had previously had some quite significant repayment 
problems. The credit search report, in my view, shows Rogerstan ought to have made further enquiries 
into Mr Es financial situation because it contradicted what he had declared. A later credit 
search provided from Rogerstan shows that at the time, Mr E had significant arrears on a 
mortgage  it is marked as a 6. Meaning that Mr E was at least six repayments in arrears. 
A mortgage is a priority debt for a consumer, so the fact that Mr E was in arrears with his 
mortgage provider, and the arrears looked to have been increasing as well, would to me 
indicate that Mr E was having wider financial problems.  He was unable to service and repay 
his mortgage, and it isnt therefore clear to me why Rogerstan wouldve believed that Mr E 
would be able to service and repay this loan in a sustainable manner. 
I accept that Mr E has signed the application form confirming the information was correct, 
but whilst I understand the point Rogerstan is making in relation to this, it does not negate its 
regulatory responsibilities to Mr E as a lender.
Rogerstan had been put on notice from the information it received from the credit check that 
it ought to investigate Mr Es situation further, and I dont think the fact that Mr E signed the 
application form negates Rogerstans regulatory requirement to carry out proportionate 
check and to react to the information that it was provided.  
Given the results of the credit search that Ive seen, Im upholding Mr Es complaint about 
this loan because it shows that Mr E was already having financial difficulties and it wouldnt 
therefore in the circumstances be reasonable to provide further credit to him  this being 
something Rogerstan ought to have known about had it carried out a proportionate check 
based on the information it had available to it.
Loans 2  5
Rogerstan hasnt provided the Financial Ombudsman with the application data and or the 
credit file data for these loans. So, I cant say for sure exactly what information Mr E 
provided to Rogerstan about his income and expenditure. I also dont know whether a credit 
search was carried out for each of these loans (or not). 
But what I have been provided with is a summary of Mr Es annual income and expenditure. 
For the years 2015 and 2016 (when these loans were approved). The 2015 figures have 
been recorded as being taken in April, so at loan one. And for the 2016 figures, these were 
recorded in August 2016, so just after loans 2  5 were granted. 
Based on these figures alone, I accept that these loans wouldve looked affordable. But I 
have reservations about these figures, given I havent seen anything that was taken at the 
time that each loan was granted, and I cant see a breakdown of the various sections which 
make up Mr Es expenditure figure.  
Its also worth noting that during this period, Mr Es weekly repayments increased 
significantly to Rogerstan. He now had at least two loans running at the same time. He may 
have had more but the Financial Ombudsman doesnt have the repayment date or the 
weekly repayment for some of the loans that were granted that Ive looked at in this section. 
It isnt clear whether Rogerstan carried out a credit search before each or some of these 
loans. But it was aware of the information about the arrears and the insolvency from the first 
loan, and it again couldnt ignore this. 
The credit search results carried out much later and provided by Rogerstan, also show that 
Mr E continued to have problems with his mortgage, and it appears that his mortgage 
balance was increasing rather than decreasing, indicating that he was getting further into arrears. I think this ought to have been an indication that Mr Es financial position hadnt 
significantly changed from loan one. 
And like the adjudicator, I can see from the loan statements that Mr E did frequently miss 
payments. Ive thought about what Rogerstan says the payments have to be made within the 
term of the loan agreement, but its own statement of account has marked payments as 
missed which to me is an indication that it was expecting Mr E to make payments and 
didnt. 
And while, for some of the loans, Mr E would pay double the following week to make up for 
the missed payment the week before, this pattern continued through all the loans, and the 
payments werent always made up. It ought to have been clear therefore to Rogerstan that 
Mr E was struggling.
The adjudicator said that Mr E missed his first seven payments for loan one, and I can see 
that. Rogerstan has provided some testimony as to why that may have happened, for 
example Mr E may have been on holiday. 
While I cant know for sure what happened, it does show that Mr E missed payments and 
didnt always bring them up to date quickly, and this is what I can see in the statements of 
account moving forward. It is more likely than not, in my view, that Mr E didnt make his 
repayments because he couldnt afford to. 
Rogerstan also hasnt provided the Financial Ombudsman with the credit agreements, so 
while Ive been told the term of each loan was 31 weeks, I cant be sure how often payments 
were due to be made. It would look like from the statement of accounts that the loans were 
due to be repaid weekly. And this didnt always happen. 
So Im upholding these loans for similar reasons for loan one; but, in summary:
1. his indebtedness was increasing and he now had more than one loan running at the 
same time;
2. his credit report in relation to his mortgage showed signs that it was getting further 
into debt; and 
3. he was missing payments towards his loans.
Although, it hasnt had a bearing on my outcome for these loans, I it may be helpful to 
explain that by at least loan five I think Rogerstans checks needed to go further. Mr Es 
borrowing was increasing and with the loans overlapping this meant his weekly repayments 
wouldve increased quite significantly. 
By loan five, I no longer think it wouldve been proportionate for Rogerstan to have relied 
solely on the information Mr E was providing it. By this point, given the increased borrowing 
Rogerstan ought to have been verifying the information it was provided. 
Rogerstan couldve done this a number of ways, it couldve asked to see copies of his bank 
statements, copies of wage slips, utility bills as well as looking at his credit report. Overall, 
based on what Ive seen I dont think that the checks form at least loan 5 were proportionate 
or went far enough. But that doesnt change the outcome Im reaching about these loans, 
because I think that there was enough other the information that Rogerstan had available to 
it to indicate that these loans werent sustainable for Mr E. 
Bearing in mind the circumstances, at the time of each application, was there a point where 
Rogerstan ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mr Es indebtedness in a way 
that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt have provided further loans?In addition to assessing the circumstances behind each individual loan provided to Mr E by 
Rogerstan, I also think its fair and reasonable to look at the overall pattern of lending and 
what unfolded during the course of Mr Es lending history with Rogerstan. This is because, 
there may come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself demonstrates 
that the lending was unsustainable.
Referencing the relevant rules and guidance as summarised in the earlier part of my 
decision, Rogerstan was required to establish whether Mr E could sustainably repay his 
loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation.
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because CONC defines sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in particular 
the customer should be able to make repayments on time and while meeting other 
reasonable commitments. 
It follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have realised, that 
a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able 
to make their repayments without borrowing further. I think this point was reached by loan 6.
At this point Rogerstan ought to have realised Mr E was not managing to repay his 
loans sustainably. Mr E had been indebted to Rogerstan for at least 12 months. So 
Rogerstan ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr E was having to 
borrow further to cover the hole making his previous loan repayments was leaving in 
his finances and that Mr Es indebtedness was unsustainable.
Mr Es first loan was for £400 and loan 6 was for £600. Although the amount
Mr E was borrowed had only slightly increased his actual weekly commitments were 
now £10 per a week more (not including the amount Mr E was due to pay for loan 5  
which may have still been outstanding at the time).  At this point Rogerstan ought to 
have known that it was likely Mr E had an ongoing need for this type of credit and 
was dependent on it.  
From loan 6 onwards Mr E was provided with new credit whilst he hadnt repaid other 
loans and he often had more than one loan running at once. And by the end of the 
lending relationship, Mr E had three loans running concurrently. 
Mr E wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Rogerstan. Loan 22 was 
taken out nearly five years after Mr Es first. And it was for a much larger amount 
compared to loan one. In additional, at this time loans 20 and 21 hadnt yet been 
repaid, so his weekly commitment had increased from £20 per week to £125. Mr E 
had in effect paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Rogerstan 
over an extended period.
In additional, Mr E continued to have significant mortgage repayment problems 
through the life of his lending relationship with Rogerstan. 
I think that Mr E lost out because Rogerstan continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Es indebtedness by allowing him 
to take credit over an extended period of time.
the length of time over which Mr E borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mr Es ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the 
market for these loans.Overall, Im upholding Mr Es complaint about all of the loans that he has been granted 
within the last six years (loans 1  22 in the table at the start of the decision). 
Did Rogerstan act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything here that 
leads me to conclude Rogerstan acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr E in some other 
way. Indeed, it does seem to have treated him with forbearance once it became aware of his 
financial difficulties which seem to have been exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Rogerstan should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened if it hadnt lent to Mr E, as Im satisfied it ought to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr E may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr E in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr E would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Rogerstans liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Rogerstan shouldnt have given Mr E loans 1 - 22. If Rogerstan has sold the outstanding 
debts it should buy these back if it is able to do so and then take the following steps. If 
Rogerstan isnt able to buy the debts back then it should liaise with the new debt owner to 
achieve the results outlined below.
A. Rogerstan should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr E towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything Rogerstan has  already refunded.
B. Rogerstan should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mr E which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr E originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Rogerstan should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any 
upheld outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr E as though they 
had been repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr E 
having made overpayments then it should refund these overpayments with 8% 
simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments 
would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Rogerstan should then refund 
the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.D. If there is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in 
a surplus, then the surplus should be paid to Mr E. However, if there is still an 
outstanding balance then it should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with 
Mr E. Rogerstan shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal it has 
already written-off. 
E. Rogerstan should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Es credit file in 
relation to loans 1  5 if those loans still appear on his credit file. The overall pattern 
of Mr Es borrowing for loans 6  22 means any information recorded about them is 
adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Mr Es credit file. Rogerstan 
doesnt have to remove loans 20 and 22 from Mr Es credit file until these have been 
repaid, but it should still remove any adverse information recorded about these loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Rogerstan to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Mr E a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above I uphold Mr Es complaint in full. 
Rogerstan Finance Limited should put things right for Mr E as directed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman