DRN-1891958
The complaint
Mr S complains that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) refused his claim on his contents 
policy following a water leak. He would like the claim to be settled. Mr S is represented by a 
legal firm (Archbold).
What happened
What has happened here is quite confused. Ageas records say Mr S called them about a 
leak from his washing machine on 20 June 2019. These record Mr S saying the door seal 
was worn. He was advised this wouldnt be covered if it was wear and tear. Mr S also said 
there was damage to a living room carpet. Ageas arranged for a specialist contractor 
(Independent) to inspect the carpet and it attended about a week later. Independents report 
said the carpet wasnt wet, didnt smell and there was no sign of damage, but that Mr S was 
insisting the carpet needed to be cleaned. 
Ageas say in July 2019 Mr S advised he didnt want the carpet cleaned but wanted a cash 
settlement instead. Ageas says it told Mr S as there was no damage to the carpet the claim 
wouldnt be paid. Ageas says Mr S maintained the carpet smelt, so it agreed to send 
Independent again at the end of August 2019. It reported there was no smell or damage to 
the living room carpet. It said Mr S mentioned another leak (from his shower) which he said 
had damaged his hall carpet. Independent said there was no damage to the hall carpet 
either. 
Mr Ss broker (Finch) contacted Ageas on 1 October 2019 for an update and was advised 
again that there was no damage and the claim wasnt going to be paid. Finch mentioned the 
hall carpet. Ageas said no claim had been made for this and would need to be if it was to be 
considered. But it advised Independent had said there was no damage to this carpet either. 
Finch then wrote to Mr S on 3 October 2019 confirming the claim had been rejected as 
Ageas said there was no damage to the carpet.
In November 2019 Archbold raised a complaint with Ageas. This referred to a water leak on 
7 August 2019 from the washing machine pipework. It reported significant damage to 
bedroom and bathroom flooring and to the washing machine itself. Including its own fees, 
Archbold said total cost was £1,879.30. It made no reference to the living room or hall 
carpet. It referred to Independents report following its attendance at the end of August 2019 
and the claim being declined on 3 October 2019. It said Mr S hadnt been provided with a 
copy of Independents report or given a proper reason for his claim being declined.
Ageas sent Mr S a final response letter rejecting the complaint. It said he had claimed in 
June 2019 for damage to his living room carpet following a leak from his washing machine. It 
said two inspections had confirmed there was no damage to the carpet. It said on the 
second inspection Mr S mentioned a leak from his shower and said this would be a second 
claim but confirmed the inspection had reported no damage to the hall carpet either. 
Archbold referred Mr Ss complaint to our service and our investigator looked into it. She 
didnt uphold the complaint. She said there were inconsistencies between what Mr S had 
initially told Ageas and what Archbold had since said. She said as there was no evidence of 
damage to the living room carpet Ageas had acted fairly and reasonably in rejecting the 
claim that had been made. She said there was no evidence Mr S had reported any other 
damage or claimed for it so Ageas couldnt be expected to meet these costs. She said if Mr 
S wanted to make a new claim for a further leak, he could do so by contacting Ageas. 
Archbold disagreed and raised many points including that Ageas had never responded to its 
letter of complaint. It also said it had lodged the second claim with Finch on 23 August 2019 
and was provided with a claim reference number. Our investigator said the points made 
didnt change her view. 
As Mr S doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint.
It isnt entirely clear what has happened here. There may have been three separate leaks. 
But Ageas records show it recorded only one claim which was in respect of the living room 
carpet, so Ill consider this first. The purpose of insurance is to put the policyholder back into 
the position they were in before something happens, so if no damage has resulted a claim 
wont be successful. Ageass expert reports say there was no damage to the carpet, so I 
think it acted fairly and reasonably in rejecting the claim it was considering. 
Ive considered whether Ageas should have realised that what Archbold was complaining 
about may have been a separate incident. But there appears to be confusion on all sides. 
Archbold was quoting the claim reference number for the incident notified on 20 June 2019. 
The wording of Archbold s complaint suggests it had seen Finchs letter of 3 October 2019. 
This makes no mention of many of the points raised in Archbolds complaint which might 
have alerted Archbold that matters needed clarifying. 
 
Once it received the complaint Ageas noted that the dates and details in Archbolds letter 
didnt match the claim. But it had already been advised about the hall carpet which it hadnt 
received a claim on either. Independents report made no mention of the leak and damage to 
other rooms referred to by Archbold. And Finch didnt mention anything other than the hall 
carpet when it called Ageas on 1 October 2019, several weeks after Archbold says it notified 
Finch of the further claim. 
So, I dont think it was reasonable to expect Ageas to think this wasnt just an error in the 
details. And I think the final response letter sent to Mr S sent on 27 November 2019 seeks to 
clarify matters by clearly setting out the dates and details of the claim being considered. It 
also confirms the reasons for the claim being rejected. Once that was issued there was a 
further opportunity to clarify matters. 
Archbold says it received no reply to its complaint and suggests Mr S hadnt either (its letter 
27 April 2020) where it said: Our client, Mr S  has not received any of this information 
either in writing or by phone and that this has disadvantaged Mr S. But on the complaint 
form sent to our service, Archbold confirms that Ageas has provided its final response letter. If there have been other leaks it is unfortunate that the situation became so confused, but I 
dont think Ageas are to blame for this. And Mr S can notify Ageas about these if he wishes 
to make a claim in respect of them.   
But from the evidence available Ageas was only notified of one claim in respect of the leak in 
June 2019. As I think Ageas has acted fairly and reasonably in rejecting this claim, I wont be 
asking it to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 September 2020.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman