DRN-4156166
The complaint
Mr V complained about Santander UK PLC. His account showed an £8.15 credit and debit 
on the same day. Mr V wants £8.15 credited to his Santander account.
What happened
On 29 November 2022, Mr V made an £8.15 payment to a supermarket, using his Santander 
card and correct PIN. 
Mr Vs statement show three entries relating to the supermarket on that day.  Theres a 
credit for £8.15, a debit for £8.15, and a debit for £6.15. Mr V hasnt disputed the £6.15 debit. 
Mr V rang Santander. He said that money had come into his account but it had been taken 
out again, so hed lost £8.15. Santanders adviser said there was no loss to the account as 
there was a credit and debit. The adviser suggested he should talk to the supermarket. 
Mr V got back in touch with Santander after hed spoken to the supermarket. He said the 
supermarket had said the debit might have happened first. But Mr V said that money went in 
and had been taken out, and he didnt know how that could happen. He complained. 
Santander said that there had been both a credit and re-debit the same day by the 
supermarket, but it didnt know whether that was the same transaction or two unrelated 
transactions which had coincidentally been for the same amount. Mr V didnt agree. 
Santander sent Mr V its final response to his complaint. It said that the £8.15 debit which Mr 
V had disputed had been carried out using chip and PIN. So the cardholder would have had 
to be present. Santander also pointed out that Mr V had made an undisputed transaction to 
the same supermarket six minutes later, which indicated that Mr V had been in the shop on 
that date at that time. 
Mr V wasnt satisfied and contacted this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Vs complaint. She said that there didnt appear to be any 
financial loss to Mr V, and thought Santander had investigated and provided a fair and 
reasonable response. She said that if Mr V thought the transaction had been fraudulent, 
Santander had said hed need to report it, so his card could be cancelled and reissued.
Mr V didnt agree. He said he wanted to appeal. He said the money went into the account 
and was then taken out, but the investigator had said it was the other way round. He said the 
money had definitely come into his account first. 
Mr Vs case was referred to me for an ombudsmans decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Mr V also mentioned a different complaint hed made to Santander and referred to this 
service. Thats a separate complaint, and this decision only relates to Mr Vs complaint about 
the £8.15 debit and credit on 29 November 2022.
Mr Vs statement for 29 November 2022 shows three entries relating to the supermarket in 
question.  Theres a credit for £8.15, a debit for £8.15, and a debit for £6.15. Mr V hasnt 
disputed the £6.15 debit. 
Mr V is unhappy because the credit appeared first on his statement. So he thinks the debit 
shouldnt have been made. But transactions dont always appear on bank statements in the 
same order in which they were made. The credit appeared on his account first, but that 
doesnt mean it took place first. There are computer reasons for this, and when a payment is 
made using a debit card, it can take some time  even up to a couple of days - for the 
merchant to take the payment. 
This means that if Mr V bought something (which would be a debit on his account), but then 
the item was refunded for some reason (which would be a credit on his account), the two 
wouldnt necessarily appear in that order on his statement. 
This is what I think is most likely to have happened here. Theres also a £6.15 debit just a 
few minutes later, which Mr V hasnt disputed. I think its possible that Mr V bought the £8.15 
item, then exchanged it for one at £6.15 instead.  Or the £8.15 item might have been 
wrongly priced, so the supermarket would have credited Mr V, then debited the correct £6.15 
item.
Mr V hasnt reported his card lost or stolen, and he hasnt disputed the £6.15 debit which 
took place just a few minutes later. So I think its unlikely that any third party carried out the 
£8.15 debit. Its much more likely that Mr V paid for something which was then refunded, and 
he bought something for £6.15 instead.
I do understand that the order in which the transactions were made has caused confusion to 
Mr V.  And its now some time ago, so he may find the detail hard to remember. But I dont 
think hes suffered a financial loss here, because I consider its most likely that the £8.15 
debit was authorised by Mr V, using his genuine card and PIN, and then the supermarket 
refunded him. So I find that Santander hasnt done anything wrong in relation to the disputed 
£8.15, and I dont uphold Mr Vs complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman