DRN-3908997
The complaint
Mr G, Ms M and their son, who Ill refer to as Mr G1, complain that Inter Partner Assistance 
SA declined Mr Gs claim against a travel insurance policy. Reference to IPA includes its 
agents. Mr T is assisting Mr G, Ms M and Mr G1 in bringing the complaint. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr G, Ms M and Mr G1 have travel insurance underwritten by 
IPA as a benefit of a bank account. On 1 August 2022, Mr G was on a trip and suffered 
significant injuries whilst mountain-biking on a trail. He received emergency medical 
assistance and made a claim against the policy. IPA declined the claim. It said that the 
policy only covers Mountain bicycling on tarmac.
Mr G says that IPA didnt answer his question about when the policy term in dispute 
changed and how that change was communicated to him. He says that the policy term 
relating to mountain biking is misleading. Essentially, Mr G says that its not possible to 
mountain bike on tarmac. Mr G wants IPA to deal with his claim. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that IPA had 
treated Mr G unfairly in assessing the claim in line with the policys terms and conditions. 
The investigator said that the policy covers claims arising from certain sports including 
cycling on tarmac and mountain biking on tarmac and doesnt cover sports and activities  
not listed in the policy, including off-road mountain biking. 
Mr T responded on Mr Gs behalf. He didnt agree with the investigator. He said, in 
summary:
The investigator hadnt dealt with the arguments about consistency, meaning, 
ordinary understanding, contractual interpretation, the Consumer Rights Act  
2015, regulatory obligations and this services approach. 
The investigator adopted a literal interpretation of the policy and hasnt 
considered whats fair and reasonable.
Mountain biking on tarmac doesnt exist, which means that the policy is unclear 
and should be interpreted in Mr Gs favour. 
The examples of unlisted activities in the policy are completely different to the 
listed activities and a consumer wouldnt be expected to conclude that off-road 
mountain biking isnt covered, especially when mountain biking is expressly listed 
as covered. 
Its not fair and reasonable for IPA to purport to cover mountain biking but only if 
it takes place on tarmac, as mountain biking isnt undertaken on tarmac and a 
cyclist wouldnt know whether a surfaced road was tarmac or asphalt concrete. 
The policy must either cover mountain biking on its usual terrain or not cover it at 
all, otherwise, theres a significant restriction on cover to the detriment of the 
consumer. 
IPA didnt respond to Mr Gs request for historical information about the terms of  
the policy and how any change in the terms were communicated to him. 
Mr T, on Mr G, Ms M and Mr G1s behalf, asked that an ombudsman consider the 
matter, so it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear and quite understandable that Mr G in particular has very strong feelings about this 
matter. Theres a considerable sum at stake and IPAs action in declining his claim came at 
an already very worrying time. Mr G has provided detailed submissions to support the 
complaint, which I have read and considered. Im conscious that Ive condensed matters into 
a short narrative. That reflects our service that, wherever possible, aims to be informal. Im 
satisfied that Ive captured the essence of what happened. I trust that neither Mr G, Ms M or 
Mr G1 will take as a discourtesy the fact that I focus on what I consider to be the central 
issue, that is whether IPA acted fairly and reasonably in its handling of Mr Gs claim.
the relevant terms and conditions 
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which say  
as follows: 
Significant or unusual exclusions or limitations  
[]
General Exclusions
[]
Claims arising from participation in any sports or other activities are excluded unless 
shown as covered under the Sports and Winter Sports Activities section of the policy. 
Under no circumstances will any claims arising from any unlisted activities (e.g. cliff 
jumping, quad biking, canyoning) be covered regardless of whether undertaken as 
part of an organised excursion or event.
[]Sports and Winter Sports Activities
[]
Under no circumstances will any claims arising from any unlisted activities (e.g. cliff jumping, 
quad biking, canyoning) be covered regardless of whether it is undertaken as part of an 
organised excursion or event. 
Sports Activities
This policy covers you when you are engaging in the following sports and activities on a 
non-competitive and non-professional basis provided your participation is not the sole or 
main reason for your trip.
[]
Cycling on tarmac 
[]
Mountain bicycling on tarmac 
[]
 No Personal Liability or Personal Accident cover.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that IPA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Im not upholding                
this complaint because I dont think that IPA acted unfairly or unreasonably. I say that 
because:   
The policy in this case is an ongoing, rolling policy provided as a benefit of a bank 
account. IPA is the underwriter of the policy.  Mr T has provided a copy of a letter 
the bank sends to Mr G annually in November each year. At the foot of that letter is 
information about where Mr G can access the terms and conditions of the account. 
Im satisfied that IPA, via the bank, made available relevant information about the 
terms and conditions of the policy. I dont think that it needed to do more.  
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that the 
claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. If the event is 
covered in principle but is declined on the basis of an exclusion set out in the policy 
the onus shifts to the insurer to show how that exclusion applies. 
Ive set out above the relevant term. The policy covers a number of listed sports 
activities which includes cycling on tarmac and mountain biking on tarmac. It 
doesnt cover activities not on that list. Mountain biking on a surface other than 
tarmac isnt a listed activity and isnt covered. Its quite usual for insurers to set out 
in the policy the sports activities it covers and to exclude unlisted activities. I dont 
think that the term is unclear. IPA drew attention to the matter under the heading 
Significant or unusual exclusions or limitations.
I dont agree that IPA should cover mountain biking on its usual terrain or not at all. 
It is free to decide that it accepts the risk of mountain biking on tarmac, but not on 
other terrain. 
Its not the case that mountain biking on tarmac doesnt exist. If an insured rides  a 
mountain bike on tarmac, that amounts to Mountain bicycling on tarmac, which is 
covered under the policy. I dont think that its helpful to consider whether an insured could determine 
between tarmac or asphalt concrete as thats not relevant to Mr Gs claim. Its 
common ground that Mr G was mountain biking on a trail that wasnt tarmac. 
I think its clear that the policy doesnt cover claims arising from activities not on 
the list. Mountain biking on a trail isnt a listed activity, so its not covered. I dont 
think that the examples of unlisted activities are misleading. 
Whilst mountain biking on a trail isnt covered by the policy, Ive thought carefully 
about whats fair and reasonable in this case. Having done so, I dont think there 
are any grounds on which I can fairly direct IPA to deal with Mr Gs claim. As Ive 
said, its entitled to decide what risks its willing to cover and mountain biking on 
trails isnt one of them. 
I do appreciate that IPAs decision has significant financial consequences for Mr G 
but, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G, Mr G1 and 
Ms M to accept or reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman