DRN-4240675
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the rate of interest offered by Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as 
Tesco Bank.
What happened
Mr H raised a complaint with Tesco because he was unhappy that they offer a lower rate of 
interest on the instant access savings account that he holds than they offer for their online 
only savings account. Mr H wanted Tesco to give him the same interest rate as the online 
account on his instant access account.
Tesco responded to Mr H and confirmed that Mr H has received the correct rate of interest 
for the type of account he holds. Mr H wasnt satisfied with Tescos response, so he referred 
his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel Tesco had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. Instead, this service is an informal, impartial 
dispute resolution service. And while we do take relevant law and regulation into account 
when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed on determining whether we feel a fair or 
unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial perspective, after taking all the factors and 
circumstances of a complaint into consideration.
Mr H is unhappy with the rate of interest offered on the type of savings account that he 
holds. But Im satisfied that its for Tesco to decide what rate of interest theyre willing to offer 
on any specific product. And I dont feel that Tesco should fairly or reasonably be compelled 
to offer a higher rate of interest to a customer just because that customer would like their 
account to benefit from a rate of interest that isnt offered on the account that they hold but is 
offered by Tesco on one of their different products.
Mr H feels that he is prejudiced against because he doesnt want to hold an online only 
savings account because he wants an account from which he can withdraw money using a 
card. This is, of course, a choice that Mr H is entitled to make. But I feel that its a fair and 
reasonable consequence of Mr Hs choice to not hold an online only savings account that he 
doesnt receive the rate of interest offered by that account, which he has elected not to hold.
Ultimately, it isnt unusual for banks such as Tesco to offer differing rates of interest on 
different accounts. And Im satisfied that its a legitimate commercial decision which Tesco 
are reasonably entitled to make for them to do so. As such, I feel that if Mr H wants a 
specific rate of interest offered by a certain account, then its for him to apply for that 
account. And if Mr H chooses not to apply for such an account, then I dont feel that its 
unfair for him to not receive the rate of interest offered by that account.
All of which means that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Tesco to take any 
further or alternative action. I realise this wont be the outcome Mr H was wanting, but I trust 
that hell understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman