DRN-3430512
The complaint
Ms Y complains that Revolut Ltd reviewed and then closed her account
What happened
Ms Y had an account with Revolut which she opened in 2019. In December 2020, Revolut 
asked Ms Y for information about the source of the funds in the account.
Ms Y contacted Revolut using the chat function in its app. She said that she didnt 
understand why Revolut needed this documentation as the deposits into the account came 
from credit cards with institutions that had already verified her. 
In a chat with another agent, she again explained that the funds came from a bank that had 
already been checked for the source of funds  and while she understood why Revolut was 
asking for the information she didnt feel safe sharing this data.
Another agent asked Ms Y whether she was salaried or self-employed, and if she could 
provide 3 months salary slips and a bank statement confirming her salary income. Ms Y said 
that she was salaried but didnt see why she should share salary information online. She 
said again that she was well aware of the reasons Revolut needed to verify the funds, but 
insisted that the source of funds had been verified by the institution that issued her the credit 
card.
After Revolut asked for the information again, Ms Y said that as far as she was concerned 
they could go ahead and limit her account. She felt Revoluts approach was highly 
unprofessional.
Ms Y then provided some information. Revolut completed its review, and decided to 
permanently close Ms Ys account.
Dissatisfied, Ms Y complained to Revolut and then referred the complaint to us.
Our investigator looked at the complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. Ms Y didnt 
agree with the investigator. The complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Financial businesses like Revolut are subject to a number of legal and regulatory 
requirements. This means they need to monitor their customers accounts and transactions 
and may need to review an account or ask for details of the source of any funds in the 
account at any time.
This was also reflected in the terms and conditions that applied to Ms Ys account. These 
said that to meet its legal and regulatory requirements it might sometimes need to ask for 
more information about its customers. The terms and conditions also said that Revolut might 
need to block an account to meet its legal obligations  and that it might close or suspend an 
account immediately in certain circumstances.
Looking at Ms Ys case, I see Revolut contacted Ms Y to ask for information about the 
source of the funds shed paid into the account. Im satisfied that this was something Revolut 
was entitled to do in line with its legal and regulatory obligations.
But although Ms Y said she understood why Revolut wanted this information, I note she was 
reluctant to provide it. She insisted that Revolut should rely on the checks carried out by the 
banks that provided the payment cards shed used to top up her Revolut account and twice 
told Revoluts agents that they could go ahead and limit her account.
Although I understand Ms Y then provided some information, she didnt provide everything 
Revolut requested. Revolut completed its review and decided to permanently close her 
account.
Looking at everything, Im satisfied that Revolut was entitled to close the account 
immediately. And although Ms Y is unhappy that Revolut didnt tell her the reason it closed 
the account, where Revolut closes accounts in these circumstances it doesnt need to tell 
Ms Y its reasons.
This means I dont think Revolut acted unfairly or unreasonably in closing the account or 
failing to give reasons. I acknowledge this would have caused Ms Y some inconvenience  
she says she used the Revolut account as an online wallet as her other accounts didnt offer 
this functionality  but I cant say this is something Revolut should compensate Ms Y for. 
Revolut has offered Ms Y £20 as a gesture of goodwill  if Ms Y now wishes to accept that, 
she should contact Revolut directly.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold Ms Ys complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman