DRN-4054958
The complaint
Mrs D complains about the charges that HSBC UK Bank Plc applied to her overdraft from 
August 2022. Mrs D is also unhappy about the service she received from HSBC - in 
particular, she complains about its automated systems and that she has difficulty in speaking 
to a person from HSBC. 
What happened
Mrs D has a bank account with an arranged overdraft with a limit of £1,750. Mrs D wished to 
pay the overdraft balance off but didnt want to pay any charges relating to the use of the 
overdraft facility. HSBC wouldnt agree to this.
Mrs D complained to HSBC about its overdraft charges and the service received when she 
contacted it about this. HSBC said all interest was applied in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account. HSBC explained that it did have an automated service in place to 
give information and to help customers complete some tasks without needing to speak with 
an agent. HSBC apologised for the delay experienced by Mrs D when she tried to contact it. 
HSBC said that Mrs D had spoken with it on two occasions in the last year and noted that 
the language Mrs D had used was inappropriate which made it difficult for its staff to 
continue with the conversation. HSBC didnt uphold Mrs Ds complaint as there hadnt been 
any error on its part.
Mrs D was dis-satisfied with this and brought her complaint to this service. One of our 
adjudicators looked into Mrs Ds concerns and reached the conclusion HSBC hadnt done 
anything wrong or treated Mrs D unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mrs D disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I hope that Mrs D wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed her complaint in the way 
that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint. Our rules allow me to do that. 
And I think the crux of Mrs Ds complaint is that she wants HSBC to waive the charges 
applied to her overdraft before she pays off the outstanding balance. Mrs D is also unhappy 
that she has had difficulty in speaking to a person and doesnt like HSBCs automated 
systems.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ds complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail. 
Mrs D doesnt want to pay the charges applied to her account for the use of the overdraft 
facility. But before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered 
whether the various amounts HSBC have charged were fair and reasonable, or 
proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. And the same applies to a banks systems and 
processes  I cant tell a bank when it can or cant use an automated process. That said, 
while Im not looking at HSBCs various charging structures or processes per se, it wont 
have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs D if it applied any interest, fees and charges to 
Mrs Ds account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
have been aware Mrs D was experiencing financial difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where HSBC didnt treat Mrs D fairly and 
reasonably. I dont think that HSBC did treat Mrs D unfairly or unreasonably here though. 
Mrs D says that she wanted to arrange a small repayment plan for her overdraft but was 
unable to reach HSBC. But considering all the evidence Ive seen I dont think this was the 
case. Ive listened to two calls between Mrs D and HSBC agents. One on 8 November 2022 
and the other on 30 December 2022. 
In the first call Mrs D only wanted to confirm a credit to her account. And when this was 
done, the agent checked if there was anything else she needed - Mrs D responded in the 
negative.
In the second call Mrs D makes HSBC aware that she has had difficulty getting hold of a 
person, doesnt like its automated systems or the fact branches are closing and for that 
reason she is not willing to pay the charges for her overdraft facility. She goes on to say - 
what I consider a threat  that she will only pay the outstanding overdraft balance if the 
charges are wiped. Not once does Mrs D say she wants a repayment plan or that she is in 
financial difficulty. Indeed  she makes it clear her husband can pay the overdraft off as soon 
as HSBC wipes its charges. Throughout the whole call I found her manner is aggressive and 
impolite.
HSBC is entitled to charge for its overdraft facility. Mrs D hasnt made it aware she is in 
financial difficulty and HSBC isnt obliged to offer her interest free credit. So, in these 
circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for HSBC to proceed with adding the 
interest, fees and charges it did.  
I understand Mrs D is unhappy with the service she has received from HSBC  in particular 
she doesnt like its automated systems. But as I mentioned above  how HSBC runs its 
processes and systems is a commercial decision and not something for me to get involved 
with. Ultimately if Mrs D is unhappy with how HSBC runs its banking services Mrs D is free 
to move her banking elsewhere.
I accept Mrs D was put on hold while her query about her overdraft was being looked at. But 
this was because the HSBC agent was trying to help her and Im not persuaded any 
compensation is warranted here.
So taking everything into consideration I dont think HSBC treated Mrs D unfairly or 
unreasonably which means that Im not upholding this complaint. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman