DRN-3578369
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, failed to help her 
recover funds that she transferred in error out of her account.
What happened
In September 2021, Mrs S accidentally transferred a sum of money to the wrong recipient. 
She contacted Virgin Money, who raised a missing payment query to notify the recipient 
bank of the mistake, and request return of the funds. It accepts it didnt do this as quickly 
as it should have.
The money was ultimately returned to Mrs S in April 2022.
Mrs S says that Virgin Money didnt really do anything to help her get her money back, and 
indeed that the recipient in question should never have been included in her list of 
beneficiaries when she transferred her account to Virgin Money in July 2021. She raised a 
complaint with Virgin Money in October 2021, and is also unhappy with how it dealt with 
that.
Virgin Money acknowledged that it did not immediately raise the missing payment query 
and paid Mrs S £50 compensation for that service failure.
Mrs S brought her complaint to this service, and the adjudicator looked at everything and 
thought that the £50 Virgin Money had paid was enough. So he didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Mrs S doesnt accept that and has asked an Ombudsman to look at her case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have found no evidence of a substantive mistake by Virgin Money, 
beyond the customer service failings already identified, so am not upholding this complaint. 
Ill explain why.
Its clear that the key initial error was Mrs Ss. She has mentioned not wearing her reading 
glasses when making this payment, and that she simply selected the wrong recipient. 
However, she says that Virgin Money should never have listed this recipient when it set up 
her account, as she hadnt dealt with the company in question for many years.
Virgin Money confirmed to Mrs S the list of beneficiaries and active direct debits that it was 
including when setting up her account, and it doesnt seem that she objected to any of 
them. In any event, even if this particular recipient hadnt been listed in her account, that 
doesnt mean to say she might not have still chosen a different wrong one by accident when 
making the payment concerned. That is a human error that can happen to any of us.
Its also clear that it took a really long time for Mrs S to get her money back, and I can easily 
imagine how worrying and frustrating that must have been for her. But Ive seen no 
evidence to suggest that the length of time it took was as a result of Virgin Moneys actions 
or failures. In reality, there was little it could do beyond raising the initial request for the 
return of the funds. Once that had happened, it was for the receiving bank to investigate the 
situation and determine whether the funds could be returned. I havent got much 
information about the receiving banks actions, as it is not the subject of this complaint. 
However, it would appear that the beneficiary  the receiving banks customer  may have 
been slow to respond to queries raised. I can see that Virgin Money wrote to Mrs S on 12 
December 2021 advising that initial attempts to get the money back hadnt been successful 
as the beneficiary hadnt responded to the receiving bank, and suggesting other courses of 
action Mrs S could try. As I understand it, Mrs S didnt receive this letter, which is of course 
a shame. But Im satisfied Virgin Money sent it.
I agree that the initial delay in Virgin Money raising the necessary missing payment query 
was a failure on its part. Virgin Money accepts that, and has already paid some 
compensation in relation to it. Mrs S says that the overall customer service was really poor 
and that the complaints department failed to respond to her properly. But I can see that 
Virgin Money wrote to Mrs S at the end of November 2021 giving its final response and 
referral rights to this service. As it is required to do under the relevant rules and regulations. 
So I cant identify a mistake there.
As mentioned above, it isnt difficult to imagine how extremely stressful it was for Mrs S not 
knowing whether shed get her money back  but that uncertainty wasnt Virgin Moneys 
fault. So it follows that I wouldnt direct Virgin Money to compensate Mrs S for that. I think 
the £50 it has already paid for the customer service failures are enough, and therefore dont 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint and Virgin Money doesnt need 
to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022. 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman