DRN-4111989
The complaint
Mrs F has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) has refused to refund her money 
she lost as the result of a scam.
What happened
Mrs F was looking to invest money and found an advertisement online for Investpoint.pro. 
They claimed to be specialists in crypto trading and as this was of interest to Mrs F, she 
completed a contact form. Investpoint.pro contacted Mrs F and she was convinced to 
transfer funds into Binance and then once there, the funds were used to buy crypto. The 
crypto was then transferred to Investpoint.pro. The investments that were made appeared 
legitimate. Mrs F was then convinced by Investpoint.pro that investing more would maximise 
her potential profit.
Mrs F made the following debit card payments totalling £34,654.48 to Binance from her 
HSBC account as set out below. These funds were then sent on to Investpoint.pro
Transaction 
NumberDate Merchant Amount Running Total
1 14/06/2022 Binance £600 £600
2 21/06/2022 Binance £2,208.41 £2,808.41
3 21/06/2022 Binance £368.07 £3,176.48
4 21/06/2022 Binance £4,078 £7,254.48
5 21/06/2022 Binance £500 £7,754.48
6 21/06/2022 Binance £400 £8,154.48
7 23/06/2022 Binance £5,000 £13,154.48
8 27/06/2022 Binance £5,000 £18,154.48
9 28/06/2022 Binance £5,000 £23,154.48
10 28/06/2022 Binance £5,000 £28,154.48
11 28/06/2022 Binance £5,000 £33,154.48
12 28/06/2022 Binance £1,500. £34,654.48
Mrs F later attempted to withdraw her funds from Investpoint.pro but she was unable to do 
so. At this point Mrs F realised that she had been scammed.
I issued a provisional decision on 4 August 2023 in which I said the following;
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances of this complaint are not in dispute and the evidence provided by both 
Mrs F and HSBC set out what happened. What is in dispute is whether HSBC should refund 
any of the money Mrs F lost because of the scam.
Mrs F has accepted she authorised the payments she made to Investpoint.pro, so the 
starting point here is that Mrs F is responsible for making the payments. However, banks 
and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect against the risk of 
financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large transactions to guard 
against money laundering.
In relation to the first three payments, I think that these payments were not so unusual for
HSBC to intervene given their size. I say this because Mrs F had in the past made 
transactions of a similar size.
That said, the fourth transaction I believe should have been considered unusual. It was a 
larger amount and prior to the first three payments, Mrs F had not transferred money to 
crypto exchanges before. I therefore think that her making a fourth transaction in a relatively 
short time to a new international payee should really have prompted HSBC to intervene.
At this stage, HSBC should have stepped in and asked Mrs F in depth questions to find out 
what the payments related to. Had HSBC stepped in at this point, I think its likely Mrs F 
would have explained the reason she was suddenly making a number of large payments 
from her card within a relatively short space of time.
HSBC would likely have discovered that Mrs F was allowing third-party access to her 
computer and that the funds sent to Binance were intended to be converted to crypto and 
forwarded to a different trading firm. This has all the hallmarks of a typical investment scam. 
Im satisfied that a warning to Mrs F from her trusted bank would have probably alerted her 
to the common issues arising in relation to cryptocurrency scams, which in turn would have 
revealed the truth behind the Investpoint.pros representations. This would have probably 
stopped Mrs F in her tracks. So, but for HSBCs failure to act on clear triggers of potential 
fraud or financial harm, Mrs F probably wouldnt have continued to make the additional 
payments.
Despite regulatory safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must still take 
responsibility for their actions. In this case, I do not think that Mrs F was to blame for what 
happened and I havent seen anything to suggest that she had foreseen the risk of this sort 
of harm occurring, or indeed any harm. I do not think Mrs F could have foreseen the risk that 
the company she was dealing with were in fact scammers and the trading account she was 
viewing was likely to be a simulation. I also cant see there were any credible warnings in 
place about the Investpoint.pro at the time Mrs F started making the payments. So, in the 
circumstances, I do not think it would be fair to reduce compensation on the basis that Mrs F 
should share blame for what happened.I have considered whether HSBC could have recovered the first three payments. As these 
payments were made using her debit card, the only way to recover the funds would be via 
the chargeback process. However, as these transactions were to purchase crypto for Mrs F 
in the first instance and Mrs F did receive the crypto (before she then transferred it on), I 
dont think a chargeback would have been successful.
In relation to the interest award the investigator has recommended that account interest rate 
be added to the award. The funds in question though were not going to remain in the 
account and instead were to be used for home improvements. Therefore, I think it is 
appropriate to award interest 8% simple, per year to recognise Mrs F being deprived of this 
money.
Mrs F agreed with the provisional decision. HSBC did not and provided a phone call 
between Mrs F and HSBC which took place on 28 June 2022. It also made a number of 
further points which included:
Had HSBC intervened earlier, it believes that Mrs F would likely have carried on with 
the transactions regardless.
During the phone call on 28 June 2022, Mrs F confirmed that she was aware of the 
risks of trading crypto. Mrs F said she was investing on advice from her brother, and 
so likely wouldve continued investing trusting the information her brother had given 
her.
Mrs F was responsible for her loss because she had not completed due diligence 
prior to investing.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC has argued that had an intervention from HSBC occurred earlier than it did, it would 
not have stopped Mrs F from carrying out the transactions in question. It argues that this is 
demonstrated by the way she answered questions during the call of 28 June 2022. I have 
listened to the call in question and I dont think the questions from HSBC went far enough. 
The questions asked were not probing and there were no questions about the end 
destination of the funds - such as were they being forwarded on or whether she had installed 
remote access software. Had such questions been asked I am satisfied that the scam would 
have been uncovered, rather than it appearing as though the transaction was so that Mrs F 
could purchase cryptocurrency without the involvement of any third parties.
Mrs F said in this call that she had received advice from her brother. HSBC have argued that 
it believes that due to this, Mrs F would have carried on with her transactions regardless of 
any intervention from HSBC. But I dont think that this was the case. From my 
understanding, Mrs Fs brother had not advised Mrs F in relation to the investment in 
Investpoint.pro - but only about investing in crypto in general. So Im not persuaded that a 
warning saying that Mrs F was likely being scammed from Mrs Fs trusted bank would have 
been ignored.I should also say that I think a meaningful intervention call from HSBC with probing 
questions being asked early on in the scam would likely have carried more weight than a call 
carried out after a lot of transactions  by which point Mrs F wouldve been reluctant to 
accept that she was in fact being scammed.  
So overall I am satisfied, albeit on balance, that a more probing intervention call would have 
stopped Mrs F from continuing with the transactions, had HSBC done this around 
transaction four.
In relation to a deduction for contributary negligence. Mrs F has provided notes that she took 
at the time of the scam. This to me shows that she did do some research in Bitcoin and was 
given convincing answers to these questions. There were no credible warnings online at the 
time about Investpoint.pro. I do not think Miss F could have realistically have been aware 
that the company she was dealing with was a scam. Nor do I think, with the information that 
Mrs F had at the time, that she ought to have known that the trading account she was being 
presented with was likely to be a simulation. So taking everything into consideration, I do not 
think it would be fair to reduce compensation on the basis that she should share blame for 
what happened.
So I am upholding this complaint in part.
Putting things right
HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as HSBC Bank should do the following:
1) Refund transactions 4 to 12; and
2) Refund any fees associated to those transaction; and
3) Pay 8% simple interest per year on the above amounts, calculated from the date of 
the transactions to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and require 
HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as HSBC Bank, to put matters right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman