DRN-3159692
The complaint
Mr F complains about problems he experienced when trying to transfer funds from his 
account with HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC).
What happened
Mr F has an account with HSBC. In November 2020, he attempted to transfer funds from 
that account to an account he holds with another business which Ill call R. The funds left Mr 
Fs HSBC account but didnt reach R. HSBC raised a trace for the payment a few days later. 
A few days after that, when the funds hadnt been returned, HSBC sent a cancellation 
request to the receiving bank. Mr Fs funds were returned to him on or around 8 December 
2020. But Mr F says that the amount returned to him was less than the amount he had 
originally transferred.
It was later established that the reason the transfer failed was because it was processed 
using outdated routing details. But theres disagreement between R and HSBC as to who 
was responsible for that.
R said that theyd given HSBC updated details for their intermediary bank before the date of 
Mr Fs attempted transfer. But HSBC says that R had only provided these details in relation 
to an individual, unrelated case. 
When Mr F complained to HSBC, it said the problem was that R hadnt updated their 
intermediarys details on the central database which is used by all banks. HSBC didnt think 
it was at fault and said it had tried to resolve the situation as quickly as possible once it 
became aware of the issue. But it apologised for any delay in the funds being returned to Mr 
F and paid him £50. Mr F remained unhappy about the situation and asked this service to 
look into it.
Our Investigator didnt think HSBC needed to do anything here. But Mr F didnt agree and 
asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. He says that he was without his 
funds for around a month. He was worried he wouldnt get the money back, which was 
stressful. Hes unhappy with how long it took for the funds to be returned to him and that the 
amount he got back was less than the amount he had paid out. He also says he didnt know 
the transaction would be routed through a third party or that there was a risk of losing money 
in the process. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr F feels strongly about his complaint. He says hes not responsible for 
what went wrong here and that the fault must lie with either HSBC or R. I understand his 
point of view. But Im only looking at the actions of HSBC here, not R or any other third party. 
So Im only able to make a decision about whether HSBC acted fairly. I think it did and Ill 
explain why below. Im sorry to disappoint Mr F, but Im not going to ask HSBC to do 
anything more here. It may be that there are other avenues which he could pursue, with third 
parties. But Im not able to direct any third parties to take steps here.
Turning to the complaint itself, Im satisfied that the reason the transfer failed here was that 
the intermediary bank details used werent correct. 
Mr F says that he was transferring funds from one account in the UK to another account in 
the UK and he wasnt aware an intermediary would be used. But HSBC says that, as Mr F 
was sending funds in a foreign currency, the transaction had to be done through an 
intermediary bank. Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Fs account and find the use 
of an intermediary bank to be in line with these. In any event, it was the details of Rs 
intermediary bank (not HSBCs) which caused the problem here.
HSBC says that R hadnt updated the details of its intermediary bank on the central 
database before Mr Fs transfer. It says this caused issues with payments for a considerable 
number of customers, not just Mr F. HSBC says that R had previously provided new details 
for their intermediary bank, but this wasnt through the database and was in relation to a 
specific case. From the information Ive seen, Im satisfied thats the case. HSBC says that, 
in order for the updated details to be applied generally  so that theyd be used in all 
transactions - R needed to update the central database. It says that R needed to do this 
themselves and its not something HSBC would do on Rs behalf. I think thats a reasonable 
explanation.
HSBC says that its system automatically uses the details from the central database when 
making payments. It says that, as R hadnt updated the database, the payment didnt go 
through the correct route. Thats why the payment failed. But I dont think it was HSBCs 
fault. I think its reasonable for HSBC to process payments to third party banks using the 
details from the database. And I think its reasonable for it to expect the details on the 
database to be correct and up-to-date. I dont find that it was HSBCs responsibility to 
change details of Rs intermediary on the database. 
As to the time it took for Mr Fs funds to be returned to him, I can understand why hes 
unhappy about this. But I havent seen anything which suggests there was delay on HSBCs 
part. I think it acted within a reasonable timescale when it raised the initial trace on the funds 
and then when it raised the cancellation request. Im satisfied that the funds werent returned 
to HSBC until 8 December 2020. I havent seen anything which confirms where they were 
until that time or why they werent returned any earlier. But, from the information available to 
me, I cant conclude that any delay was caused by HSBC.
Mr F is unhappy that the amount of money which was returned to him was less than hed 
originally paid out. HSBC says that, because the funds had been sent in a foreign currency, 
they had to be converted back into Sterling so that they could be put back into Mr Fs 
account. It says that, by the time the funds were returned, the exchange rate had changed 
and thats why the amount paid back into Mr Fs account was less than the amount originally 
taken. I think thats a reasonable explanation and its in line with the terms and conditions of 
Mr Fs account.
I realise my decision will be disappointing for Mr F and Im sorry for that. But I dont think 
HSBC acted unfairly here, so Im not going to ask it to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman