DRN-3408869
The complaint
Mr H has complained that First Underwriting Limited (First Underwriting) unfairly declined a 
claim under his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H contacted First Underwriting to make a claim for a fire at his home. First Underwriting 
initially accepted the claim. However, after further investigation, it declined the claim as it 
said it didnt think Mr H had taken reasonable care.
When Mr H complained, First Underwriting maintained its decision to decline the claim. It 
said Mr H had initially reported that the fire was caused by hot ashes and no alternative 
plausible explanation had since been provided. The fire service report also said they 
believed hot ashes were the cause. Although Mr H said the fire service report was based on 
a statement made by him, it said the fire service would have considered all possibilities 
before reaching its conclusion.
So, Mr H complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said it 
was reasonable for First Underwriting to rely on the findings of the fire service. There also 
wasnt evidence to suggest the fire started because of a different reason.
As Mr H didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 2 March 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
First Underwriting declined the claim because it didnt think Mr H had taken reasonable care. 
The reasonable care exclusion said:
You must take all reasonable care to prevent bodily injury, loss, damage or accidents to 
your property, and maintain the home and your belongings in a good state of repair.
Ive also read the fire service report. It listed the fire damage and spread as:
Severe damage by fire to wheelie bin and contents.
Severe damage by fire, heat and smoke to whole garage and contents.
The report listed the Supposed cause as:
Accidental  Combustible articles too close to a heat source
Fire involving hot ash in a wheelie bin which spread to the detached garage. The fire entered 
the garage from under the roof and spread inside the garage.
Im aware that Mr H has said hed had a barbecue a couple of days before he then put the 
ashes in the wheelie bin with his bare hands. He said the ashes were cold to the touch. Mr H 
also said that when he spoke to the fire service at the time of the fire that he was shocked by 
what had happened. He said he later spoke to the fire service again, as he didnt think the 
fire was caused by hot ashes. I havent seen anything to suggest that the fire service has 
since revised its view on the cause of the fire.
I think its reasonable for First Underwriting to rely on the fire services findings that hot 
ashes were the cause of the fire. However, given Mr Hs explanation of what he did with the 
ashes, I asked First Underwriting to explain what else it expected him to have done in order 
to show reasonable care. First Underwriting didnt respond to my questions. 
Based on everything Ive currently seen, I havent seen anything to show that Mr Hs 
description of what happened isnt credible or that there is evidence that he didnt show 
reasonable care when disposing of the ashes. Its my understanding that ashes can retain 
heat for some time. Mr H said he left the ashes for more than a day before disposing of them 
and they were cold to the touch when he did so. I dont think this contradicts the fire brigades 
assessment of the likely cause of the fire, as I think a part of the ashes still retaining some 
heat could have caused the fire, but I dont think this in itself shows that Mr H didnt take 
reasonable care before disposing of them.
As a result, I currently intend to require First Underwriting to reconsider the claim for the fire 
and on the basis that Mr H did take reasonable care when disposing of the ashes. If First 
Underwriting pays a cash settlement for the claim, it should pay interest on any amount paid 
as Mr H lost use of the money.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 30 March 2022.
Mr H agreed with my decision. First Underwriting didnt reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. I havent found any reason to change my previous view of this 
complaint or how it should be resolved.
Putting things right
First Underwriting should reconsider the fire claim on the basis that Mr H took reasonable 
care when disposing of the ashes. If the claim is settled with a cash settlement, First 
Underwriting should pay interest on that amount.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is upheld. I require First Underwriting Limited:
To reconsider the fire claim on the basis that Mr H took reasonable care when disposing 
of the ashes.
To pay 8% simple interest on any cash settlement for the claim from the date on which 
the claim was first made to the date on which the payment is made, if the claim is settled 
in that way.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman