The complaint
Miss B and Miss M complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC gave them incorrect information
about porting their mortgage. As a result, they sold their property while an early repayment
charge (ERC) applied. They'd like this refunded. Miss B has handled the complaint
throughout.
What happened
Miss B says she asked Barclays about porting their mortgage product if they sold their
property and bought another property in the future. She says Barclays told her it offers a
porting window of 180 days from selling the property. She says she was told that as this was
longer than the remaining term of her fixed rate product, no ERC would be due. Miss B says, 
on this basis, they decided to sell their property.
Our investigator said it wasn't reasonable to ask Barclays to refund the ERC, but it should 
extend the period for Miss B and Miss M to port their mortgage as it was likely it had told 
Miss B the porting period was 180 days. Miss B and Miss M didn't agree. Miss B said if she'd 
been given correct information they wouldn't have sold the property until after December 
2019. Barclays didn't agree either.
I didn't agree with all of the investigator's recommendations. I sent a provisional decision to 
the parties to explain why I didn't think the complaint should be upheld. Barclays agreed. 
Miss B and Miss M didn't agree. Miss B said if Barclays had recorded her call - as it should 
have done - they wouldn't be out of pocket. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete,
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other
words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and
the wider circumstances.
Unfortunately the call Ms B had with Barclays adviser, where she says she was given
incorrect information, wasn't recorded. Ms B and the adviser have different recollections of
the conversation. What is agreed, or supported by evidence, is the following:
Miss B and Miss M took out a fixed rate product which ended on 31 December 2019.
The product offer said an ERC was payable if the mortgage was repaid before 31
December 2019.
Miss B spoke to Barclays in early April 2019. She was thinking about selling her two
properties and buying one property and how to go about this. The call handler said
DRN-1933209the porting window was 90 days, but Miss B should speak to a mortgage adviser
about her options.
Miss B spoke to a mortgage adviser in early April: the call wasn't recorded.
Miss B says they put the house on the market in June and exchanged contracts on 
16 July 2019. She hasn't provided evidence of this, but I've accepted what she's said.
Barclays sent a redemption statement to Miss B's solicitor on 25 July 2019. This set
out the ERC.
Miss B made a complaint and Barclays sent its final response on 2 August 2019. 
Barclays didn't uphold the complaint, that Miss B was misled about the time period 
toport the mortgage, saying its policy was clear that the porting period is 90 days.
The sale completed on 23 August 2019 and Miss B and Miss M paid the ERC.
 
Did Barclays make an error when it applied the ERC?
I think Barclays was entitled to apply the ERC. The ERC was set out in the product offer and
Miss B and Miss M agreed to it when they took out the product. The mortgage was repaid
while the ERC applied. The redemption statements sent to Miss B's solicitor set out the 
ERC.
Did Barclays mislead Miss B about the porting time period?
Our investigator thought it was likely the mortgage adviser had told Miss B the porting time
period was 180 days, as he couldn't see why she would otherwise have thought this. But 
Barclays notes show Miss B had ported a mortgage with Barclays in 2011 - before it 
changed its porting period from 180 days to 90 days. Other lenders have 180 days porting
periods. I don't think it's necessarily the case that Miss B can only have thought the window
was 180 days if she'd been told this by the adviser.
I'm not persuaded the mortgage adviser did give Miss B incorrect information. And, based on 
what Miss B has said, I don't think it changes matters if she was told the porting period was 
180 days or 90 days. Miss B says they wouldn't have sold the property until after 31
December if they known they'd have to pay an ERC. And the longer period has now passed
without Miss B and Miss M applying to port the mortgage to a new property.
Did Barclays tell Miss B no ERC was payable?
Miss B says she was told, in effect, that no ERC would be payable if, when she sold her
property, the porting window was longer than the remaining term of the mortgage product.
I appreciate Miss B's frustration that the call when she says she was told this wasn't 
recorded. But the call not being recorded isn't enough in itself for me to find that Barclays 
adviser gave her incorrect information.
I still think its unlikely the mortgage adviser would have said this. Barclays says the 
mortgage adviser has 20 years of experience. Of course, this doesn't mean she couldn't 
have made an error. But ERC's are a common feature of mortgage products. If a mortgage 
is repaid while an ERC applies, the ERC is payable. Many lenders offer a refund of the ERC 
if the mortgage product is ported to a new property. But I think it's unlikely the mortgage 
adviser would have said the ERC would be refunded if nothing happened after the mortgage 
was repaid. Or that she'd have said the ERC would be waived, if there was only a short 
amount of time remaining of the product term when the property was sold.
 My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 July 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman