DRN-3331988
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy with the way QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) handled his insurance claim after his 
home was damaged by a flood. 
Mr E is also unhappy with the amount QIC paid for his damaged contents. I wont be 
discussing that here, because any complaint about the contents settlement would need to be 
raised with the business before our service can look into it.
To keep things simple, references to Mr E and QIC include agents and representatives 
working on their behalf. 
What happened
Mr E had buildings and contents insurance with QIC. On 8 November 2019 his village was 
flooded. Water entered his home, rising to around three feet deep for several days. Mr E and 
his wife chose to stay in a caravan whilst the damage was repaired.
On 18 November 2019, after the flood water had receded, QIC visited the property to start 
putting things right. During their initial visit some of the floorboards in the rear bedroom were 
broken. QIC told Mr E there was an issue with dry rot.
The early stages of work involved removing Mr Es contents and installing drying equipment. 
Mr E expected to see all the fixtures and fittings being stripped out, but this didnt happen. In 
early January, worried that the property still appeared to be very wet, he contacted QIC to 
ask how they were planning to dry the cavity wall insulation. QIC drilled holes into the cavity 
walls to assist the drying process.
On 6 February 2020, Mr E met with QIC at the property. QIC say the purpose of this meeting 
was to discuss and prepare the scope of works. They told Mr E that his property had been 
dried to pre-flood condition but that theyd found pre-existing issues, such as damp and dry 
rot. Mr E says QIC verbally offered him a cash settlement of around £16,000. He says he 
requested a copy of their scope of works showing what this figure covered, but he didnt 
receive it.
Mr E knew how much his neighbours properties had cost to repair  he thought QIC were 
only offering him a fraction of what it would cost to put things right. He was concerned about 
the contractor QIC had chosen to do the work, which wasnt the firm theyd originally 
promised him. He didnt think his property had been properly dried - and he didnt agree with 
what QIC were saying about pre-existing damage. He appointed a loss adjuster to help him 
with his claim. 
After the flood, Mr E had given QIC the code to his key-safe so they could access the 
property whenever they needed to. In February 2020 he changed the code, so theyd have 
to make arrangements with him if they wanted to send anyone in. QIC appointed an 
independent surveyor to get specialist reports on whether all the required remedial works 
had been caused by the flood. They say they werent allowed access to the property to 
complete these reports.
Mr E sought expert opinions on the condition of his property. On 11 February 2020 he 
obtained a specialist report saying there were still high levels of moisture and humidity 
throughout the property, as well as poor sanitisation. On 5 March 2020 he obtained a report 
from a building consultant on the flood damage to the property and the remedial works 
needed. On 10 March 2020 he obtained a report from a timber specialist, recommending 
removal of the floorboards to allow proper inspection of the timbers underneath.
On 9 April 2020 QIC sent Mr E a final response, giving him two choices as to how to deal 
with the repairs. They offered to appoint their own contractor to complete the works theyd 
scoped, with a cash allowance for the work required to the rear bedroom. They said this 
would allow for repairs to the flood damage in that room after Mr E had the pre-existing 
damp issues fixed. Alternatively, they offered him a cash settlement of £21,746.41 plus VAT. 
Mr E didnt accept this  he thought it was nowhere near enough to repair the flood damage.
 
On 1 May 2020 QIC emailed Mr E saying theyd instruct a contractor to complete the 
reinstatement works. They said theyd appoint an independent chartered surveyor to review 
the scope of works, carry out any required investigations and manage the repair works. They 
requested unrestricted access to the property so things could progress promptly without 
interruptions. 
Over the next few months, the parties remained locked in dispute about the scope of the 
required works. Mr E raised concerns that QIC hadnt taken appropriate health and safety 
precautions before they started work. He arranged for tests to be carried out. On 11 June 
2020 he received confirmation that his walls contained asbestos. Mr E was concerned that 
harmful asbestos fibres would have been released into his home in January 2020, when QIC 
drilled the walls. He also complained that an independent report on the state of the boiler 
appeared to have been altered by QIC. 
On 4 September 2020, after receiving a report from their chartered surveyor, QIC revised 
their offer to Mr E.  They again offered to employ a contractor to complete the works, 
provided Mr E arranged to have the uninsured works completed before they started on 
repairs to the flood damage. Alternatively, they offered him a cash settlement of £27,098.02 
plus VAT. But they said they hadnt been able to properly cost all the required works without 
specialist reports. 
Mr E made arrangements for his own choice of contractor to start work at his property. 
Negotiations continued with QIC, and on 6 October 2020 they made a final cash settlement 
offer of £37,140.98, including VAT. They said they regarded this as extinguishing their 
liability under the policy. Although Mr E didnt accept their offer, QIC deposited this sum of 
money into his bank account the following week.       
Our investigators assessment of Mr Es complaint
Our investigator thought that:
QIC hadnt acted unfairly by limiting their cash settlement to the price they would 
have paid their own contractor, as this was in line with the terms of the policy. In the 
absence of any evidence of damage that hadnt been included in QICs scope of 
works, it wouldnt be reasonable to expect QIC to further increase their settlement 
offer. But she recommended that they should consider any further evidence of flood 
damage obtained whilst reinstatement works were underway.
QIC couldve handled Mr Es claim more quickly.
Although the evidence didnt show asbestos particles had been released into the air, 
the encapsulation works couldve been completed earlier if tests had been carried out 
before the walls were drilled.The evidence supported Mr Es concerns that he felt pushed to accept QICs initial 
cash settlement offer. This caused him a great deal of upset and contributed to his 
loss of faith in QIC.
Being told the property had been certified as dry, despite the floors being wet and 
water running down the walls, had also contributed to Mr Es loss of faith in QIC.
There was no firm evidence to show QIC had caused the difference to the report on 
the boiler. And in any event, a new boiler was included in the scope of works. 
Alternative accommodation allowance had been provided until 5 December 2020  
and this was fair.
The investigator thought QIC should pay Mr E £750 compensation for the trouble and upset 
hed experienced during the claim process.
Responses to the investigators view  and further information supplied
Mr E disagreed with our investigators view. He arranged for his property to be returned to its 
pre-loss condition by his chosen contractor, who Ill refer to as C. And on 19 May 2021 he 
submitted a final report detailing his concerns about QICs handling of his claim. 
Mr E has made extensive and detailed comments about the way QIC handled things. To 
summarise, he says they:
Hadnt properly stripped out, cleaned and dried his property; 
Withdrew their original building contractor because the required works were more 
extensive than they wanted to complete. Instead they tried to force him to accept a 
low cash settlement of around £16,000;
Unfairly tried to reduce their liability on the basis that there were inherent defects in 
the property before the flood;
Breached health and safety obligations by failing to take appropriate steps to check 
for asbestos and correctly record the results, causing potentially harmful dust to be 
released;
Removed important safety information from a report on the boiler, which would have 
shown them to be liable for its replacement;
Produced a scope of works that didnt cover all the damage caused by the flood  
and as a result their successive settlement offers were unfair;
Offered a cash settlement value that didnt represent the full cost of reinstatement. As 
the insurer had forced him to accept cash settlement, they should indemnify his 
actual loss.
Mr Es final report detailed costs incurred in the reinstatement of his property. He said the 
total claim for building repairs and alternative accommodation allowance should have been 
£89,639.37. And that, after deducting the payments hed already received, this left a balance 
of £44,068.30 owing to him. He said he should also be entitled to compensation for lies, 
false information and hardship hed suffered, which he felt to have ruined his life for more 
than two years. 
QIC also responded to our investigators view. Ill summarise the main points they made:
The initial offer to Mr E of around £16,000 was not in writing because it wasnt a full 
or final offer. Certain items needed exact costings and some areas were still in 
dispute. Theyd informed Mr E that further work would need to be done to convert 
provisional sums into accurate costs;
The actions required to develop the cost assessment were slowed by Mr Es loss 
adjuster blocking access to the property. This prevented them from getting the independent experts reports they needed to resolve the areas of dispute. They feel 
any delays have been caused by the loss adjusters conduct;
Their revolutionary processes enable effective drying with minimal strip-out or 
destruction of the fabric of the building. Their qualified technician carried out a risk 
assessment, which indicated that a full survey wasnt necessary before drying the 
property. Their technician took the precaution of operating as if there was a risk of 
asbestos - drilling holes using an H-vac so that any dust generated wasnt released 
into the property. Swab tests taken in June confirmed that no asbestos fibres were 
released;
Mr Es comment about water running down the walls referred to condensation in his 
property. The report from their drying contractor included photos and drying readings, 
clearly showing there was no water running down the walls. The property was dry 
from the damage caused by the flood, but there were inherent rising damp issues 
that wouldnt be covered by the policy;
Suspected dry rot was first noticed by their drying team in November 2019. This 
became evident whilst they were clearing the contents from the affected area, when 
the floor was found to be weak with extreme amounts of rot;
The value of works at neighbouring properties cant be used as a guide for Mr Es 
claim. In addition to the different drying strategy used by the insurer, comparison with 
neighbours properties takes no account of differences in specification  such as 
quality of fixtures and fittings;
QIC shouldnt be asked to consider any further damage found. Mr Es loss adjuster 
had ample opportunity to assess the flood damage since February 2020; 
QIC had instructed one of the UKs most highly qualified surveyors and loss 
adjusters, as well as obtaining independent specialist reports on the disputed items 
to complete a fair scope of works. Theyd uplifted the scope several times in an 
attempt to resolve things. The cash settlement value exceeded the cost to complete 
the works through their contractors;
Mr E wasnt forced into accepting a cash settlement - at every stage they offered him 
the option of a contractor. Although at the initial meeting this was caveated with the 
requirement for Mr E to meet the cost of uninsured works, theyd ensured hed get 
the benefit of their rates and discounts.
QIC said that, although they believed any delays were caused by the conduct of Mr Es loss 
adjuster, they accepted the investigators suggested award of £750 compensation as they 
were keen to bring the matter to a resolution. 
In response to the further evidence put forward by Mr E, QIC offered to reimburse him for the 
following additional costs:
£500 for additional electricity used during the drying process;
50% of the cost of rebuilding the garden wall.
They asked to see invoices or other supporting evidence confirming the costs of:
Building Control;
Testing for asbestos;
Disposal of hazardous waste (asbestos).
QIC didnt accept that they should pay the other additional costs detailed in Mr Es final 
report. 
My provisional decisionOn 7 January 2022 I issued a provisional decision, saying:
Its clear that theres been extensive negotiation and disagreement between the parties since 
November 2019. It isnt necessary for me to discuss all the points that have been raised. 
Instead Ive focussed on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. 
1. Strip-out and drying works
Mr E has told us that this was a black flood, meaning the water that entered his home 
contained sewage. So, I can understand that hed be very concerned as to whether all the 
contaminated water could be properly dried and sanitised without fully stripping out fixtures 
like the kitchen units, bath, tiles, plasterboard and floorboards. 
QIC say their revolutionary drying strategy means they dont have to carry out the highly 
disruptive approach some insurers take when dealing with flood damage. They say their 
approach uses chambers created by existing structures in the property, such as kitchen 
units, to increase the efficiency of the drying process. Ive noted that the kitchen units were 
to be replaced at a later stage.
Three months after the flood, Mr E was invited to meet with QIC at his property. Ive seen 
differing accounts as to what was said at that meeting, but it isnt disputed that QIC told Mr E 
his property had been dried to pre-flood condition. They say any subsequent dampness can 
be attributed to the reintroduction of moisture due to the ongoing damp issue and/or failure 
to maintain an appropriate ambient temperature. Ive looked in detail to see whether the 
evidence supports this  and Im not persuaded that it does.
QIC have provided records of each visit to the property, which include moisture readings 
taken. Theyve also provided a moisture log, which appears to compile these readings into 
one document. I dont find this moisture log to be reliable, because it doesnt contain the 
same information that I can see on the visit records. 
On 23 December 2019, QICs visit record states that moisture readings had been reduced to 
pre-flood condition. Mr M says he visited the property on 28 December 2019 to find water 
running down the walls and the floors wet through. He says there were no dryers in the 
property. Mr E says he rang QIC at the beginning of January 2020 and queried whether the 
cavity wall insulation was dry. QICs records show that they drilled the walls to install dryers 
on 7 January 2020, and pressure-dried the cavity walls on 15 January 2020. 
QICs log shows moisture levels having significantly reduced across all areas of the house 
by 24 January 2020. But the visit record shows only three moisture readings taken on that 
date. One of these is shown as having been taken from the hall wall. Ive seen no evidence 
as to the location of the other two readings.  
The visit record dated 30 January 2020 states that moisture readings were taken, but Ive 
seen no record of these. The next visit record, dated 5 February 2020, again states that the 
property was dried to pre-flood condition. It records just two moisture readings, taken from 
the walls in the hall and first bedroom. These readings are at, or just above, the stated target 
of 18%. Ive seen no evidence as to the moisture levels in the other areas of the property.
On 11 February 2020, less than a week after QICs last readings were taken, an 
independent specialist for Mr E reported moisture readings of between 24-100% on both the 
walls and floorboards throughout the property. On 21 February 2020 an independent 
building consultant for Mr E also reported high moisture levels in the property. He believed 
more of the building needed to be stripped out to allow it to dry properly.Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im not persuaded that it was reasonable for QIC to 
conclude that the property had been dried to pre-flood condition by 5 February 2020. For this 
reason, I find QICs decision to remove drying equipment to have been premature. I think 
this delayed progress of the reinstatement works and significantly contributed to Mr Es loss 
of faith in QICs handling of his claim. And I can see that this added to the level of distress he 
was experiencing at this very difficult time. 
2. Health and safety obligations
Mr E expressed concerns that QIC switched his boiler back on after the flood, without testing 
that it was safe. He also complains that they drilled his walls without checking whether they 
contained asbestos. Its not my role to comment on whether QIC breached health and safety 
rules  thats a matter for the Health and Safety Executive. 
I can understand Mr Es concerns about the possibility of asbestos being released into his 
home. Fortunately, theres no evidence that this happened - swab tests carried out by an 
independent specialist were negative. But expert reports on damage to the property were 
delayed until the exposed asbestos had been encapsulated. Ive looked into whether QIC 
were responsible for this delay.
The evidence shows QIC drilled Mr Es walls on 7 January 2020. Specialists brought in by 
Mr Es loss assessor raised concerns about asbestos on 10 February 2020. The presence of 
asbestos within the walls was confirmed in a test report dated 5 May 2020. To deal with this, 
QIC completed encapsulation works at the end of July 2020.
Both parties heavily dispute who had control of the property during this period and whether 
QIC were prevented from getting access. It wouldnt be appropriate for me to decide who 
had control of the property at this stage  thats a matter for the Health and Safety Executive. 
But based on the evidence Ive seen, Im unable to say QIC were responsible for the delay in 
carrying out the necessary encapsulation work. 
3. Pre-existing issues
QICs policy booklet sets out their terms and conditions of cover. I can see that no cover is 
provided for loss or damage that happened as a result of wear and tear, gradual 
deterioration, wet or dry rot, fungus or mould. It goes on to say that, if the building isnt in a 
good state of repair, the condition will be taken into account when assessing a claim. It says 
QIC may refuse to pay a claim or reduce the amount they pay. I can see nothing unfair in 
these terms, which I consider to be in line with industry practice. 
Mr E feels strongly that QIC tried to find pre-existing issues with his property to reduce their 
liability for the cost of repairs. I appreciate how upsetting this must have been for Mr E, who 
was clearly very proud of improvements hed made to his home not long before the flood 
happened. But where theres uncertainty as to whether damage was caused by flooding or 
some other pre-existing issue, I dont consider it unreasonable for QIC to leave those 
costings off their scope of works until theyre able to obtain specialist reports.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that some of the required repair work was due 
to pre-existing issues at the property. Ill explain why I say this in more detail.
(i) Damp and timber decayIve seen differing accounts as to what was said in the early stages of the claim. But both 
parties agree that, during their visits on 18 November 2019 and 6 February 2020, QIC 
told Mr E there were issues with damp and timber decay that werent related to the flood. 
Mr E met with QIC again on 21 February 2020 to discuss the scope of works required to 
reinstate the property. Ive listened to the recording of that conversation carefully. There 
was considerable debate and discussion about rot in the floorboards and underfloor 
joists. I heard QIC say they needed a specialist report as to whether the damage to the 
timber in the floors was caused by the flood, or other pre-existing problems. They said 
theyd been unable to gain access to the property and requested that they be allowed to 
do so. I heard that Mr E felt QIC had already had sufficient time to arrange for any 
specialist reports they needed. Unfortunately, no agreement was reached about further 
access. 
Several months later, after the exposed asbestos had been encapsulated, QIC obtained a 
specialist report on rising and penetrating damp and timber decay.  Ive seen a copy of 
that report, dated 17 August 2020. It confirms that there was fungal wet rot in the timber 
flooring and skirting boards of the rear bedroom. It also states that there was low-level 
dampness in the majority of the walls, and that this was believed to be due to the 
breakdown of the damp-proof course. The report confirms both problems to be unrelated 
to the flood.
(ii) Electrical installation
Mr E feels strongly that his property needed to be completely re-wired due to the flood 
damage. The evidence Ive seen suggests he agreed to provide QIC with a report on the 
electrical installation. 
Mr E has shown us a copy of an electricians report that he obtained, dated 26 June 
2020. This report details wiring that needed to be replaced due to having been 
submersed in water for a period of time, such as sockets and wiring for the central 
heating controls. It also details works needed to bring the rest of the electrical installation 
up to current legal standards, such as upgrading the lighting circuit.
Mr E feels strongly that QIC should cover the cost of all this work. Although he accepts 
that some of the wiring wasnt affected by the flood, he says the electrician couldnt 
connect wiring that doesnt meet current regulations to a new consumer unit.
QIC say the flood-damaged parts of the installation could be replaced without fully 
rewiring the property. They say theyd allowed for the replacement ring main and sockets 
to be connected on a separate circuit, using an additional residual-current device (RCD), 
so that the electrician would be able to sign off just this new part of the electrical 
installation. I think thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
(iii) Boiler and plumbing installation
The evidence shows Mr Es boiler was inspected on 31 January 2020 at QICs request. 
Ive seen two versions of the report of that inspection, which Ive examined in detail.
Under the heading Boiler, both versions of the report say:
Supply and install the following parts:
PRV
Expansion vessel
PCBwith a cost for this work. Underneath this, under the heading Heating system, both 
versions go on to say: 
Existing distribution pipework is in severe poor condition and any attempted repair 
cannot be guaranteed to resolve the problem of further leaks and consequent pressure 
drops. Therefore, the existing pipework needs removing and replacing with new.
with a cost for this work. I can see that one version of the report appears to have had the 
prices of the works removed, using correction fluid or something similar. I dont consider 
this to be unusual - Im aware that businesses often regard pricing of works to be 
commercially sensitive. 
The only other difference I can see is the absence of the following wording from the 
amended version of the report:
It has been confirmed that the boiler was working prior to the floods, and as a 
consequence of the flood damage the boiler has stopped working.
Mr E strongly believes QIC amended this report in a deliberate attempt to avoid liability 
for the cost of replacing his boiler. Having reviewed the evidence in detail, Im not 
persuaded that it supports this view. Ill explain why.
Ive listened carefully to the recording of the conversation between QIC and Mr E on 21 
February 2020. Im satisfied that they told him the report on his boiler had identified three 
replacement parts needed to get it working. I heard them explain that theyd authorised 
the cost of that repair to the boiler, but that they wouldnt cover the cost of remedying the 
pre-existing issues with the plumbing that had also been identified. 
I consider the explanation QIC gave at that meeting to fairly and accurately describe the 
content of the boiler report. Ive also seen that QICs revised scope of works, dated 24 
August 2020, included the cost of replacing the boiler instead of simply repairing it. So, 
although Ive seen no information as to why or by whom the report was amended, Im not 
persuaded that it had any impact on the way the claim was settled. 
Mr E says that, on 6 February 2020, QIC talked about pre-existing issues in an attempt to 
force him to accept a low cash settlement offer of around £16,000. QIC say this wasnt a full 
and final offer  and that theyd explained that there was more they needed to do before they 
could arrive at an accurate costing. 
As theres no record of that conversation, Im unable to assess whether QIC explained things 
clearly. Ive seen no evidence that they provided Mr E with a copy of their scope of works, 
which he says he requested. I think it would have been helpful for him to see this, so he 
could understand what that initial figure was based on. Without seeing that document, I can 
understand why Mr E would assume that initial figure was for all of the damage to his 
property. I think this added to Mr Es distress and distrust of QICs handling of his claim. 
Two weeks later, at the meeting on 21 February 2020, Ive heard that QIC explained to Mr E 
that their original contractor detailed all works needed at the property - some of which related 
to pre-existing defects. Im satisfied that they made it clear that they needed to obtain 
specialist reports. For this reason, Im not persuaded that QIC attempted to force Mr E to 
accept an offer of around £16,000 in full and final settlement of his buildings claim. 
QIC say they were unable to obtain the specialist reports they needed because Mr E 
restricted their access to the property in February 2020. But Ive seen no explanation as to why they werent able to obtain the reports they needed before the meeting on 6 February 
2020. I find there to have been an unnecessary delay here  and I think this contributed to 
Mr Es loss of faith in the way QIC were handling things.
4. Basis on which the cash settlement was calculated
Mr E says QIC withdrew their original contractor without his approval and against his wishes. 
And that, having forced him to accept a cash settlement, they have no right quoting their 
preferred contractors rates as the basis on which the settlement amount would be 
calculated. He feels strongly that, due to the unique business relationship between QIC and 
their preferred contractor, no external contractor would be able to provide similar services at 
those rates. Ive given careful thought to the points hes made.
Mr Es policy booklet sets out the terms and conditions of the insurance cover he purchased. 
This says that, when settling a claim, the policyholder will be asked to choose one of the 
following options:
i) We will choose a contractor (our preferred contractor) and instruct them to carry out 
the rebuilding work, repairs or replacements.
ii) We will pay you a cash settlement for the same amount it would have cost us to use 
our preferred contractor.
It goes on to say:
If we cannot offer rebuilding work, repairs or replacements (as defined by us) through 
our preferred contractor, we will pay you fair and reasonable costs to have the work 
carried out by your chosen supplier.
Im unable to comment on the business relationships between insurers and their preferred 
contractors  thats not my role. Based on the evidence Ive seen so far, Im satisfied that 
QIC made repeated offers to instruct their preferred contractor to repair the flood damage to 
Mr Es property. Im satisfied that they were entitled to decide which of their preferred 
contractors they wanted to use. And although I appreciate Mr E wasnt happy with the 
change of contractor, Im unable to say that he was forced to accept a cash settlement. So, I 
dont consider QIC to have acted unfairly by basing the settlement value on the amount 
theyd have had to pay their preferred contractor, in line with the policy terms. 
5. Fairness of the cash settlement
Ive seen evidence that the cash settlement Mr E received was based on QICs most recent 
scope of works, dated 6 October 2020. Mr E says this didnt include all the works needed to 
put the property back to its pre-flood condition  and that hes incurred additional costs 
getting things put right. Ive considered each of the points hes raised. 
(i) Additional electricity used during the drying process
Mr E estimates this to have been in the region of £500. QIC have agreed to reimburse 
this amount, so theres no need for me to discuss this point.
(ii) Damage to walls of rear bedroom 
Mr E has provided photos of holes made in the rear bedroom walls during the drying 
stage. He says QICs scope of works didnt adequately provide for this. QIC disagree - 
they say their scope included enough plastering to cover all the damage to the walls 
throughout the property.Ive seen that QICs scope of works included plastering costs - and I havent seen any 
evidence showing this wasnt adequate to reinstate all the areas damaged as a result of 
the flood. So, Im unable to say QIC have done anything wrong here. 
(iii) Bathroom floor and wall tiles
Ive seen evidence showing QICs scope of works included the cost of re-grouting the 
bathroom floor and wall tiles, whereas Mr E feels strongly that they needed to be 
replaced. He says black flood water would have entered the stud partition walls, causing 
the wall tiles to de-bond. And that it would also have seeped into cavities in the adhesive 
underneath the floor tiles, which he feels to be a contamination issue.
Despite repeated requests, Ive seen no evidence showing de-bonding or other damage 
to the wall tiles. Ive seen that the surveyors report Mr E obtained in March 2020 
recommended removal of the floor and wall tiles to assist the drying process. And that, 
five months later, QICs surveyors said he could just about justify removal of stable wall 
and floor tiles in the very early days following a flood to assist drying  but that there was 
no longer any justification for doing so. 
Ive seen no supporting evidence showing that there were potentially harmful 
contaminants under the tiles on the floor, which I note to be made of concrete. For these 
reasons, Im not persuaded that QIC did anything wrong by including the cost of re-
grouting, rather than replacing, the bathroom tiles. 
(iv) Kitchen floor
Mr E says C had to apply a self-levelling compound to the kitchen floor due to damage 
caused when it was stripped out. And that this cost an additional £200.
QIC say the floor covering they removed was a click-together laminate. They say this 
wasnt glued down, but simply laid on a sheet of underlay foam. Theyve provided a photo 
taken after it had been removed. They say this shows that, underneath the laminate 
covering, thered been a previous attempt to level the floor with patches of screed. They 
consider the new screed laid by C to be betterment.
Mr E says that, regardless of the condition of the floor before the flood, it needed to be 
properly prepared before a long-lasting repair could be carried out. Ive given careful 
thought to the point hes made.
 
Having studied the photos provided by both parties, Im satisfied that the addition of self-
levelling compound improved the kitchen floor beyond its pre-flood condition. As Ive seen 
no evidence to suggest new laminate floor covering couldnt be laid without this being 
done, Im not minded to direct QIC to pay for this.
 
(v) Kitchen units and appliances
Ive seen evidence confirming QICs settlement included £10,000 for the fitted kitchen.  
Mr E says that, barely a year before the flood, the kitchen had been refitted for £9,989.63. 
This is the amount Mr E feels QIC should pay, plus an additional 15% for Cs overhead 
and profit (OHP). 
QIC have told us that they wouldnt pay OHP to their contractor. So, Im satisfied that the 
amount they allowed for the fitted kitchen was fair - and that they didnt make any error by 
not including OHP.(vi) External damage 
Mr E says QIC caused damage when drilling inside the property went through to the 
outside. Ive seen that Cs quote includes costs totalling £1,025 for replacing damaged 
bricks and fascia, plus the provision of scaffolding for this work. 
Despite repeated requests, Ive seen no supporting evidence showing external damage. 
QIC dont accept liability for any damage to the external brickwork, fascia or soffits. In the 
absence of further evidence, Im unable to say they should cover these costs.
(vii) Garden wall
Ive seen that Cs quotation included £900 + VAT for rebuilding the garden wall. QIC 
made no provision for this in their scope of works. Theyve provided a copy of their 
surveyors report on this wall, which noted signs of historic movement as well as clear 
signs of recent disturbance. The surveyor concluded that, although not likely to collapse, 
the wall needed remedial work. He felt it could be repaired rather than needing to be 
rebuilt. 
Mr E says every other wall in the street was either repaired or replaced following the 
flood. And that, whilst he accepts that there may have been some pre-existing damage, 
he believes it was fit for purpose before the flood.  
QIC say the wall was already in need of replacement  and that they wouldnt normally 
expect a wall to be damaged by flooding. But that, to help get this matter resolved, theyre 
prepared to offer 50% towards the cost of rebuilding it. I think thats fair and reasonable.
6. Other additional costs 
(i) Reinstatement by Mr Es chosen contractor
In his final report on QICs handling of the claim, Mr E stated the total cost of repairing the 
flood damage to his property to be £57,037.10 plus VAT. I understand Mr E hasnt yet 
paid Cs invoice - he feels QIC should cover the full cost of this work. 
Since submitting his report, Mr E has told us that some of the items included in Cs final 
invoice were in fact supplied at zero or substantially reduced costs. These are:
Building control fees £585
Disposal of hazardous waste (bulk removal) £970
Additional cost of replacing boiler £1,570
Hes told us that he no longer seeks reimbursement for these.
For the reasons Ive already explained, Im satisfied that QIC were entitled to base their 
cash settlement on the amount theyd have paid their preferred contractor. So, Im not 
persuaded that QIC should pay the full cost of having the property reinstated by C.
 (ii) Professional fees
Mr E says he had to engage a loss adjuster, because otherwise he wouldnt have had 
enough money to reinstate his home. And that his loss adjuster had to appoint a 
surveyor, because QIC wouldnt take his concerns on board. Mr E says that, as the loss adjusters fee is calculated as a percentage of his buildings 
settlement, he had no option but to forego ten percent of the value of his claim. He says 
the loss adjusters fee amounts to £5,703.71 and the surveyors fee is £980. I havent 
seen a copy of the invoices from the loss adjuster or surveyor, but in any event, Im not 
minded to award these costs. Ill explain my reasons for this.
Ive seen confirmation that C was one of the loss adjusters recommended building 
contractors. The loss adjusters website states that, if the customer opts to have 
reinstatement works carried out through their network of contractors, the entire 
representation fee is covered by the contractor. On that basis, Im unable to see how     
Mr E could become liable to pay representation fees. 
I appreciate Mr Es concern that his loss adjuster and contractor should be paid for the 
work theyve carried out on his behalf. But Im only able to consider losses incurred by   
Mr E, as hes the policyholder here. Our service doesnt have jurisdiction to consider 
losses incurred by others as part of this complaint.
Ive seen evidence showing QIC offered to appoint a chartered surveyor to act as an 
independent arbitrator at no cost to Mr E. They say this offer was first made on 6 
February 2020 - before Mr E instructed his own loss adjuster. I accept that this offer was 
made, because Ive seen evidence confirming QIC had instructed a surveyor by 8 
February 2020. For this reason, I dont consider it to have been necessary for Mr E to 
appoint his own surveyor. 
 (iii)  Specialist reports on drying and presence of asbestos
Mr Es final report lists the cost of these reports to have been £687.00 plus VAT. After 
repeated requests for further evidence, only one invoice has been forthcoming about this 
specialist. This simply states:
Agreed works as per our quote sent 16/10/20  approval given 13/5/21 £687.00
Im not persuaded that this invoice relates to the reports about Mr Es property that were 
obtained in February and June 2020. In the absence of supporting evidence detailing 
specific costs Mr E has incurred, Im unable to consider this point.
7. Delays - and additional alternative accommodation allowance sought
Mr Es policy says QIC will pay the costs of alternative accommodation if his home had 
become unfit to live in due to flooding. It says he must agree the costs with QIC before 
paying them - but that they wont cover alternative accommodation costs incurred more than 
12 months after the date the property became unfit to live in. 
Ive seen evidence that Mr E and his wife chose to stay in a caravan - and that QIC agreed 
to cover the cost of £150 per week until 5 December 2020. He received payments totalling 
£8,430 for alternative accommodation during this period, which I find to be in line with the 
policy terms. But Ive also considered whether QIC can be said to have been responsible for 
the delays that prevented Mr E from returning home for 18 months. 
Mr E says QICs estimate of the time it would take to reinstate his home was unrealistic, 
bearing in mind the two national lockdowns due to the COVID pandemic. He feels QIC 
caused delays from the outset  and that settlement could have been achieved much sooner 
if theyd taken his loss adjusters comments on board.He says work was completed at his property by the middle of April 2021, but due to the 
worsening of his wifes medical condition, he finally moved back in the middle of May 2021. 
He feels QIC should pay the agreed rate of £150 per week for the whole of this period, 
bringing the total payment for alternative accommodation allowance to £11,850. 
QIC say they continually progressed and monitored Mr Es claim. They feel the main point of 
tension to have been the disputed elements which they considered to be pre-existing, rather 
than flood-related. They say the process was constantly frustrated by Mr E and his loss 
adjusters repeated allegations against them, whilst not engaging with the independent 
surveyor theyd appointed or allowing the necessary investigations to be completed. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I do think QIC failed to progress things promptly in the 
early stages. Most notably, Im not persuaded that they made appropriate progress in getting 
the property dried and obtaining specialist reports on pre-existing damage, before meeting 
with Mr E in February 2020 to agree the scope of works. 
But Im not persuaded that QIC were responsible for all the delays in getting things resolved. 
On the evidence Ive seen, I find there to have been delays on both sides. And for that 
reason, I dont think it would be fair to direct QIC to pay further alternative accommodation 
expenses beyond 5 December 2020.
Putting things right
Based on the evidence Ive seen so far, I do think QICs scope of works omitted some works 
that were needed to reinstate Mr Es property after it was damaged by the flood. It follows 
that I consider the cash settlement paid for his buildings to have been too low. 
That said, QIC have now offered to pay Mr E a further £500 for the additional electricity used 
during the drying stage and £540 towards the cost of rebuilding the garden wall. I think thats 
fair and reasonable.
Im grateful to Mr E for taking the time to provide a personal impact statement explaining 
how these events have affected him. He describes the pride he felt in the work hed done on 
his home over the years. Hes told us that his wife had been through an incredibly difficult 
time due to illness  and that some of the improvements hed made for her in the garden had 
only just been completed before the flood. I can appreciate how heart-breaking that must 
have been. 
Mr E says that, when they left, QIC promised that the house was safe in their hands and that 
everything would be put right. But as time passed and things didnt seem to be progressing, 
he found himself increasingly anxious. After three months, he felt his property had 
deteriorated to a worse state and nothing had been done. 
Mr E says that, over the 18 months since his first encounter with QIC, his life has been 
ruined. He describes how the stress he felt induced emotional changes such as depression, 
anxiety and anger. Hes seen his wifes health deteriorate during this period, spending 
several weeks in hospital. He says he feels QIC should pay him compensation for lies, false 
information and hardship hes suffered. 
Ive given careful thought to what Mr E has told us. I think anyone whos had their home 
flooded would agree that it is an incredibly stressful experience. I cant say QIC are 
responsible for the full impact the flood has had on Mr E. I can only consider the effect of any 
errors they made in the handling of his claim.I do think that, in the first three months after the flood, QIC didnt progress things as 
efficiently as they should have done. I say this because Im not satisfied that appropriate 
progress was made to get the property dried and the necessary specialist reports obtained. 
Im not satisfied that there was reliable evidence on which QIC could state that the property 
was dry by the time of the meeting on 6 February 2020. Nor have I seen any evidence that 
they provided a copy of the draft scope of works discussed at that meeting. I think that the 
combined effect of these errors caused Mr E a great deal of distress and led him to lose faith 
in his insurer.  
I do think QICs errors in those early stages caused Mr E considerable distress and anxiety. 
But Im unable to say they were responsible for all the delays in this case. I consider £750 
compensation to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
In my provisional decision, I said I was minded to uphold Mr Es complaint and direct QIC to 
pay Mr E:
a further £1,040 in full and final settlement of his buildings claim, taking the total cash 
settlement for buildings to £38,180.98, including VAT;
8% simple interest on the additional sum payable to Mr E, calculated from the date of 
payment of the original settlement to the date of payment of the outstanding amount;
£750 compensation for the distress hes been caused.
I invited both parties to send me any further information or comments theyd like me to 
consider. 
Responses to my provisional decision
QIC said they didnt entirely agree that there were errors in the early stages that warranted 
the additional £1,040. But that, due to the length of time this matter had been ongoing and 
the stress this must be placing on Mr E, they were willing to accept my provisional decision if 
all parties were in agreement.
Mr E disagreed, providing a lengthy document in response. I dont intend to discuss all his 
comments here, because some of his points repeat arguments already put forward in 
response to our investigators view. But I want to reassure Mr E that Ive read and 
considered all of the information hes provided to us. 
Ill summarise the new points Mr E made:
Hed provided a copy of information obtained from QICs original contractor, including file 
notes and discussions that proved hed been forced to accept a cash settlement. Mr E 
considers this to be fundamental to the decision-making process, but hed seen no 
mention of it in my provisional decision.
It isnt fair or appropriate that he should be forced to start repairs until a reasonable sum 
had been agreed. And it wasnt appropriate for QIC to stop paying for alternative 
accommodation less than two months after their final offer on 6 October 2020. Mr E feels 
he should have been given at least four months after that offer to complete the repairs. 
If hed taken QICs initial offer of £16,000 and started repairs, he would very quickly have 
found that this wasnt enough. Hed have been left with a half-stripped property with the 
alternative accommodation payments running out fast. He feels QIC disputed every 
argument that was put forward, so questions how he would have got on without the help 
of his own loss adjuster.Mr Es contractor arranged for the disposal of hazardous ACM materials in accordance 
with the applicable laws and regulations. He failed to see why the supporting 
documentation provided by the contractor hadnt been accepted as evidence of this cost.
The flood water had come up under the bathroom floor, in the cavity walls, above the 
bathroom tiles and below them. Although the bathroom tiles may not be porous, the grout 
and flooring are susceptible to water damage, regardless of whether the floor is concrete 
or wood. Water will migrate into the gaps between the tiles and start to cause de-bonding. 
Mr E provided a photo showing an area behind the toilet and bath, where pipes had been 
boxed in. He said theres no doubt whatsoever that water had entered these areas  and 
that removing moisture would leave particles which will eventually cause dry rot. 
He provided a copy of handwritten notes made by QICs original contractor, dated 6 
January 2020, which clearly state that the boxing-in to the head of the bath needed to be 
removed. It goes on to suggest removal and replacement of the tiled floor, clearing and 
sanitising of the void and joists, and removal and replacement of the wall tiles. 
Screeding the whole kitchen floor would amount to betterment. But the insurance 
company must carry out a long-lasting repair, and its pretty much impossible to do this 
without some form of betterment.
QICs statement that they dont pay OHP is false. 
He thought hed already provided evidence of the external damage to the walls of the 
property. He hadnt been able to find this evidence but would continue to look for it.
Mr E didnt accept that QIC should pay only 50% of the cost of replacing the garden wall. 
This was a new for old policy - and theres no way of completing a 50% repair. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful to both parties for taking the time to respond to my provisional decision. Ive 
given careful thought to the additional points Mr E has raised. But although I realise this will 
be disappointing for Mr E, Im not persuaded by the further submissions that I should depart 
from my provisional decision, and so I adopt that reasoning here. Ill expand on some issues 
for clarity: 
Forced cash settlement
Mr E feels very strongly that notes obtained from QICs first contractor conclusively prove 
QIC attempted to force him to accept a low cash settlement. I can confirm that my original 
review of this case included careful consideration of those notes. They include a record of a 
phone call from QIC, in which the contractor was told they wouldnt be awarded the contract 
to carry out the repairs to Mr Es property. This said QICs representative:
ended up forcing cash settlement as they found all sorts of pre-existing complicating 
issues, mainly with dry rot in the floor and such. He advised he forced cash settlement with 
the PH at somewhere around £#k and the PH became irateAs this record consists of just two sentences, I take it to be a very brief summary of a longer 
conversation. The contractors notes also record a phone call from Mr E a few hours earlier. 
Im satisfied that this earlier note clearly records QIC having offered him the option of using 
one of their contractors, as an alternative to cash settlement. It says:
Mr E phoned advising that the ins co are using another contractor or cash settling.
In my provisional decision, in my discussion about pre-existing issues at the property, I 
explained why I wasnt persuaded that QIC had attempted to force Mr E to accept an offer of 
around £16,000 in full and final settlement. Ive seen no new evidence on this point, so my 
decision remains unchanged. But I hope that the additional explanation Ive now provided 
clarifies my reasoning. 
Alternative accommodation allowance
Its very clear that there were delays in the progress of Mr Es claim, which meant QIC 
werent in a position to make a final settlement offer before 6 October 2020. And that 
ultimately the delays increased the amount of time Mr E had to stay away from his home. 
But, as I explained in my provisional decision, Im not persuaded that QIC were solely 
responsible for this. I find there to have been delays on both sides. Ive seen no new 
evidence on this point, so I see no reason to direct QIC to pay any further expenses for 
alternative accommodation.
Professional fees
I appreciate Mr E feels he wouldnt have been able to handle the dispute about the repairs to 
his home without the help of his loss adjuster. But, as I explained in my provisional decision, 
Ive seen no evidence that Mr E will be liable to pay a fee for this service. So Im unable to 
consider this. 
Disposal of hazardous waste
The final report Mr E provided on 19 May 2021 included a reference to the following cost:
£970.00 - disposal of hazardous waste (bulk removal). Isolated working to cut out the 
channels for the rewire. Sealing in of asbestos to encapsulate.
QIC questioned this cost, which they considered to be much higher than theyd expect for 
one property. Our investigator made repeated requests for a copy of the invoice for the 
removal of this waste. On 18 October 2021, Mr Es loss adjuster emailed a response, saying:
This was done in bulk with other properties on the street to save costs. Im happy to say 
zero cost if it helps to speed up and put this one to bed as we can allocate the cost to the 
other job.
I still havent seen a copy of the contractors invoice confirming the cost of the bulk removal 
of hazardous waste. Nor have I seen any indication as to how much of it was likely to have 
come from Mr Es property. So Ive been unable to reconsider this point.
Bathroom floor and wall tiles
Mr E has provided a photo showing an area behind the toilet and bath where pipes were 
boxed in. He says flood water would have entered these areas - and that removing the 
moisture would leave particles which will eventually cause dry rot. Ive thoroughly reviewed the scope of works QIC used to calculate their final cash settlement offer. Ive seen that it 
included the cost of removal and replacement of the boxing-in behind the toilet and bath. So 
Im satisfied that there was no dispute over this aspect of the work.
Despite repeated requests since 8 June 2021, Ive seen no evidence showing the bathroom 
tiles had de-bonded, or that there were potentially harmful contaminants underneath them, 
which would justify their removal and replacement. 
Mr E has provided a copy of handwritten notes made by QICs first contractor during the 
initial survey of the property on 6 January 2020. Mr E says this shows the first contractor 
said it was necessary to remove the tiles. But Im not persuaded that these notes change 
things. I find them less persuasive than the reports provided more recently by the two 
surveyors in March and August 2020. I set out my view of those reports in my provisional 
decision, so I wont repeat it here. 
Kitchen floor
The evidence Ive seen shows that, before the flood, there was a click-together laminate 
floor covering in the kitchen. Mr E feels a new concrete screed needed to be applied to the 
whole area to make sure the replacement laminate floor covering would provide a lasting 
repair. 
Ive seen no supporting evidence showing the existing floor was unsuitable as a base for a 
laminate covering. So, my view on this remains unchanged.
Kitchen units and appliances
In my provisional decision, I said I was satisfied that QIC didnt make an error by not adding 
OHP to the cost of the fitted kitchen because they wouldnt pay this to their contractor. Mr E 
says this isnt true. But as I havent seen any supporting evidence showing why he feels this 
to be incorrect, Ive been unable to consider this point any further. 
External damage
Despite repeated requests since 8 June 2021, no supporting evidence has been provided 
showing external damage to the property. So Im unable to consider this. 
Garden wall
In my provisional decision, in the section on pre-existing issues, I discussed the terms and 
conditions on which QIC provided cover to Mr E. Theyre set out in the policy booklet. I noted 
that no cover is provided for loss or damage that happened as a result of wear and tear or 
gradual deterioration. And that, if QIC decide damage was caused or made worse because 
the building wasnt in a good state of repair, they may refuse to pay for it, or reduce the 
amount they pay. 
QIC say the garden wall was already in need of replacement  and that they wouldnt 
normally expect a wall to be damaged by flooding. They provided a copy of their surveyors 
report, dated 15 May 2020, which noted signs of historic movement as well as clear signs of 
recent disturbance. The surveyor concluded that, although not likely to collapse, the wall 
needed remedial work. He felt it could be repaired rather than needing to be rebuilt. The 
report included a number of photos of the wall.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr E said the garden wall was standing prior to the 
incident and was therefore fit for purpose. And that there was no way of completing a partial repair because the incident had caused the wall to collapse. I dont find these comments to 
be consistent with the surveyors report and photos Ive seen. And I havent seen any new 
evidence to suggest the wall had in fact suffered greater damage than was shown in that 
report.
QIC offered 50% towards the cost of rebuilding the garden wall. In the absence of any new 
evidence of more serious damage to it, I remain of the view that their offer is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct QIC to pay Mr E:
a further £1,040 in full and final settlement of his buildings claim, taking the total cash 
settlement for buildings to £38,180.98, including VAT;
8% simple interest on the additional sum payable to Mr E, calculated from the date of 
payment of the original settlement to the date of payment of the outstanding amount;
£750 compensation for the distress hes been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman