DRN-3717357
The complaint
The estate of Mr T is unhappy with the way that Aviva Insurance Limited handled a claim on 
his travel insurance policy. 
What happened
In 2019 Mr T very sadly died whilst he was on holiday. His estate made a claim on the policy 
for repatriation and funeral costs. They also claimed under the personal accident section of 
the policy.
Initially, Aviva declined to settle the claim because they thought that some of the exclusions 
in the policy may apply. However, in February 2021, once theyd received further evidence, 
they agreed to pay the repatriation costs and the personal accident claim. However, they 
said the funeral costs in the UK werent covered by the policy and declined to pay for the 
translation of two documents. The estate was also asked to provide Aviva with letters of 
administration in order to settle the claim. The claim wasnt settled until October 2021. 
Mr Ts estate made a complaint about how the claim had been handled and delays in settling 
it. Aviva acknowledged that there had been a delay in reviewing the further evidence and 
offered a total of £175 compensation in two separate final response letters. The estate made 
a complaint to our service as they remained unhappy with the service from Aviva. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. He 
explained our service doesnt have the power to make an award to the estate of Mr T for the 
distress and inconvenience theyd experienced. He thought Avivas decision to pay the claim 
after the coroners report had been received was reasonable. But he thought Aviva should 
pay for the cost of translating the reports. He also clarified whether the total of £175 
compensation was still open to the estate to accept. 
Aviva responded to say it would still agree to pay the estate £175 compensation and the 
translation costs as a gesture of goodwill. The estate asked for the complaint to be referred 
to an ombudsman to review the complaint. In summary, they said theyd never been told 
about the administration letters and had found the whole experience of dealing with Aviva 
very distressing. So, I need to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The overall circumstances of this case are very sad. Id like to express my deepest sympathy 
to Mr Ts family. Its clear that they have been through a very difficult and traumatic time 
following Mr Ts tragic and unexpected death. Im very sorry to hear what an incredibly 
difficult and upsetting time its been for them. 
My role is to decide whether the insurer has acted fairly and reasonably when it handled the 
claim. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken into account the relevant rules and industry 
guidelines. They say that Aviva has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Aviva has now offered to pay the translation costs and has confirmed that its offer of a total 
of £175 compensation remains available. So, the key issues for me to decide are whether 
Aviva has fairly declined to pay the costs of the funeral in the UK and whether there were 
unreasonable delays in settling the claim. 
I dont think Aviva needs to do anything further to put things right because: 
Although it took over 18 months to make a decision about whether the claim was 
payable I think that was reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I think the 
main reason for the delay in settling the claim was because Aviva was awaiting more 
information about the circumstances surrounding Mr Ts death. 
When Aviva reviewed the claim, they thought that the general exclusions in the policy 
may apply  this meant that the estate may not have been entitled to claim anything 
under the policy at all. The relevant exclusions included, but were not limited to, 
alcohol consumption. 
Ive looked at what information Aviva had when it first reviewed the claim. They had 
limited independent evidence about the circumstances of Mr Ts death and there 
were some inconsistencies in the information which was available. I think they 
reasonably concluded they needed much more detailed information before they could 
pay and settle a claim.  
In December 2020 Aviva received the transcript from the Coroners Inquest. The 
transcript from the Coroner explored a number of factors which were relevant to 
whether the policy exclusions applied. Having looked at this evidence Aviva 
concluded that that policy exclusions didnt apply and settled the claim. I think this 
was reasonable because, for example, it ruled out that intoxication was in any way 
connected to Mr Ts death. And it explored the factual details of what happened 
clearly and concisely, including reference to video footage which had been obtained. 
So, the transcript clarified the circumstances of Mr Ts death considerably. 
It did take Aviva too long to review this transcript. A claims decision wasnt made for 
around ten weeks after it was received. Aviva has agreed this should have been 
done sooner and offered to pay compensation for the delay. 
In any event I cant direct Aviva to pay the estate any more than the total of £175 its 
offered in recognition of the delays in this case. Thats because the estate of Mr T 
has made the complaint on his behalf as they are authorised in law to do so. 
Therefore, I cannot compensate an executor for any impact on them personally when 
representing Mr T after his death. 
Even if I accept that Aviva could have told the estate about the need for the letters of 
administration, I dont think this changes my thoughts about the overall outcome of 
this complaint. Thats because, as Ive outlined above, I have no power to award 
compensation to Mr Ts estate for the distress and inconvenience they experienced. 
So, I have no power to make an award for any further delay.  
Putting things right
Aviva needs to put things right by paying the estate of Mr T: The £175 compensation for distress and inconvenience its already agreed to pay 
The cost of the two translation reports its already agreed to pay.
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint against Aviva Insurance Limited and direct it to put things right 
in the way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr T 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 November 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman