DRN-3566502
The complaint
Miss S complains about how Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) dealt with a transaction 
dispute she raised with it and how it then subsequently dealt with her compliant about the 
same.
What happened
On 27 October 2021 Miss S purchased an item from a company that I will call A based in 
Asia. The cost of the item was £142.05, and this sum was debited to Miss S account on 
29 October 2021.
The purchased item wasnt as described, a fact not in dispute. A offered Miss S a full refund 
of £142.05 plus a voucher if she returned the item at her own cost, or a partial refund of 60% 
(£85.23) if, on reflection, she decided to keep the item rather than return it.
Miss S wasnt happy with As offer, so disputed the transaction with Barclays.
On 17 November 2021 Barclays wrote to Miss S to say it had contacted the retailer (about 
her dispute) and in the meantime it would temporarily credit her account with £142.05. 
£142.05 was temporarily credited to Miss S account on 18 November 2021.
On 24 November 2021 A refunded Miss S £85.23 and this sum was credited to her account 
on 25 November 2021.
On 26 November 2021 Barclays issued Miss S with a final response letter (FRL). Under 
cover of this FRL Barclays reiterated a dispute had been raised with the retailer on her 
behalf and for the poor service provided to date it had credited her with £75 compensation. 
On 9 and 16 December 2021 Barclays sent Miss S two letters regarding the disputed 
transaction.
On 20 January 2022 Barclays wrote to Miss S to say it had been unable to recover the sum 
of £142.05 from A on her behalf.
On 26 January 2022 Barclays issued Miss S with a further FRL. Under cover of this FRL 
Barclays said it had treated her complaint as resolved and had closed it.
On 3 February 2022 Barclays reversed the temporary credit of £142.05 credited to Miss S 
account on 18 November 2021.
Miss S complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it 
shouldnt be upheld. Miss S didnt agree and so her complaint has been passed to me for 
review and decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Miss S has very strong feelings about this complaint. She has provided 
detailed submissions in support of her view which I can confirm Ive read and considered in 
their entirety. However, I trust that Miss S will not take the fact that my findings focus on 
what I consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less 
detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every point raised. The 
purpose of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
I would also point out that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or 
contradictory, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Miss S hasnt provided our service with As contract terms. But given that A is based in Asia I 
think its reasonable to conclude, on the balance of probabilities, that the contract terms she 
agreed to arent/werent subject to UK law. What this means is that protection Miss S might 
have had (had she contracted with a UK based company) such as (but not restricted to) the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015, dont apply.
Because of this Im not persuaded the chargeback had any reasonable prospect of success 
regardless of what reason code might have been used in submitting the first presentment 
and regardless of As defence of it. So, in my view, Im not persuaded that Barclays did 
anything wrong when it took the decision to not pursue matters further, by way of a second 
presentment and then arbitration, after its first presentment was defended by A.
Miss S also complains about how her claim, and then her complaint about the same, was 
handled by Barclays. But having reviewed everything the parties have said and submitted in 
this respect and that Barclays paid Miss S £75 in late 2021 (partly in this respect), Im not 
persuaded it need do anything further on this point.
I also think its worth pointing out that despite the distress and inconvenience this matter 
might have caused Miss S she has in essence, by way of a refund and compensation, 
received £160.23 - £18.18 more than the sum in dispute of £142.05. 
Finally, I note that Miss S has complained to our service that Barclays paid the £75 (in late 
2021) to a different account to the one she made the original disputed purchase from and 
this constitutes a breach of General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). Now 
notwithstanding I cant see that Miss S ever raised this particular point with Barclays its not 
the role of this service to decide whether a business has breached GDPR. That is for the 
regulator, the Information Commissioner Office to decide. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 August 2022.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman