DRN-3863229
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that Society of Lloyd's declined their claim on their building warranty 
following damage to their tiled floor. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs O bought a new build property that came with a ten year structural warranty. In 
November 2021 they made a claim after a number of tiles on the ground floor of the property 
started to crack. Lloyds sent out an expert to review the damage, who confirmed it was due 
to a levelling issue with the floor and the installation of the tiles on top of this. However this 
was reviewed by a loss adjuster and the claim was later declined. Lloyds said that the 
reason for the damage was the technique that had been used to apply the floor tiles and the 
warranty only covered damage to the structure of the building, so the tiles wouldnt be 
covered.
Mr and Mrs O didnt think this was fair. They said that the loss adjuster had gone against the 
conclusions of the original technician without justification. And it hadnt confirmed that it was 
declining the claim until March 2022, four months after the claim had been made, which had 
left them with unsafe flooring throughout this time.
They made a complaint, but Lloyds maintained its position that the tiles didnt form part of 
the structure of the building so warranty cover didnt apply. However it offered £500 
compensation to make up for the distress is had caused by delaying the claim decision.  
Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs O brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld.  She 
said the initial report from Lloyds expert commented that the under flooring and screed was 
uneven and this was the cause of the cracking to the tiles. And this would form part of the 
structure of the building as defined in the warranty. And she didnt think Lloyds had provided 
any evidence that this initial report was incorrect. So she thought it should cover the damage 
to the tiles and pay an additional £300 compensation for the distress it had caused. 
Mr and Mrs O accepted our investigators outcome, however Lloyds didnt. It said that while 
the expert that compiled the original report no longer worked for them, another expert 
provided comment that the damage to the floor was solely due to the method of applying 
adhesive to the tiles and this wouldnt be covered under the warranty. It asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Os claim has been made under section 4.3 of the warranty, The Structural 
Insurance Period. This states that cover applies as follows:
The Insurer will indemnify the Policyholder against all claims discovered and notified to the 
Insurer during the Structural Insurance Period in respect of: -
1. The cost of complete or partial rebuilding or rectifying Work to the Housing Unit which has 
been affected by Major Damage provided always that the liability of the Insurer does not 
exceed the cost of rebuilding each Housing Unit to its original specification
Major damage is defined as:
Any fault, failure or defect in the design, workmanship, materials or components of the:
Structure..
And the definition of structure includes:
floor decking and screeds, only where these fail to support normal loads
Therefore in order for cover to be provided under this section there needs to be major 
damage to the structure of the building, as defined in the warranty. 
In November 2021 Lloyds sent an expert to inspect the damage to the floors. In their report 
following the visit, they concluded:
At the time of inspection, it was discovered that the tiled subfloor surface was installed using
the dot and dab method instead of screed and levelling solution. There was a pre-existing
levelling issue with the floor slab. To remediate the problem the late Developer [Developer 
Name] has decided to use the dot and dab method.
This identifies an issue with the levelling of the sub floor, and that screed levelling has not 
been installed, which suggests that this underlying problem is the reason the why the 
developer opted to use a dot and dab method for laying the tiles. So while I can see that the 
adhesive used for the tiles has added to the issues that have developed it seems the cause 
of the issue is the underlying problem with the sub floor. And this would reasonably fit the 
definition of the structure of the building  as the issue is with the screed and sub floor. 
Further, Mr and Mrs O have shown that it has caused major damage  the cracking to the 
tiles. Based on this I dont think Lloyds has acted fairly by declining the claim due to the 
damage not being to the structure of the building. 
Lloyds has said that it thinks its original experts comments about the screed were 
misleading. And it has provided comment from another expert who concludes that the 
adhesive used when laying the tiles was the sole cause of the cracking. Ive considered this 
but it doesnt change my position. The first expert attended the property and inspected the 
damage in person. And the report they compiled concluded that the underflooring and lack of 
screed is the main cause. And as this was following a full inspection I find these conclusions 
more persuasive.
Further Mr and Mrs O have provided photos of the damaged parts of the floor. From these I 
can see that the sub floor is clearly uneven.
So based on the evidence, I dont think Lloyds has acted fairly by declining Mr and Mrs Os 
claim. And I agree with our investigator that it should cover the claim and repair the damage 
to their floor. Further, the declinature of the claim has caused Mr and Mrs O a considerable amount of 
distress and inconvenience. They had to wait four months for Lloyds to confirm that it was 
declining the claim, which it has accepted was an unnecessary amount of time. And theyve 
now waited over a year without being able to repair the damage. This has caused safety 
issues for them and their young child which would have been distressing. Due to this I agree 
with our investigator that Lloyds should pay an additional £300 compensation to apologise 
for the distress and inconvenience it has caused. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint and require Society of Lloyd's 
to:
Accept their claim for the damage to the floor and repair it in line with the warranty 
terms.
Pay an additional £300 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman