DRN-2662308
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy about the way in which Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance (BPF) handled the end of his personal contract purchase 
agreement.  
What happened
In May 2015 Mr M was supplied with a car and entered into a PCP agreement with BPF.
In May 2019 BPF wrote to Mr M and advised him that his agreement was due to end. The 
letter explained to Mr M that he had the option to keep the car or hand it back. Mr M says he 
never received this letter.
Later, Mr M contacted BPF to discuss the agreement. Following this, BPF issue da voluntary 
termination form to Mr M, which he completed and sent back. It was then discovered that 
BPF had sent the wrong form to Mr M because it shouldve sent an end of term form. BPF 
says it never received the end of term form back from Mr M but despite this it told him that it 
had received it. Mr M raised a complaint about the service hed received. BPF upheld the 
complaint and paid Mr M compensation of £40.
In August 2019 BPF wrote to Mr M and asked him to take the car for an inspection. 
Following this, BPF asked Mr M to pay excess mileage charges of £2097 because hed 
exceeded his mileage allowance by around 16,300 miles. BPF acknowledged that there had 
been a  delay in processing the end of term request and increased the mileage allowance 
pro rata, which reduced the excess mileage charges to £1857.
Due to the confusion in handling the end of Mr Ms agreement, BPF asked him to pay a 
balloon payment in error. When he didnt pay it a negative marker was registered on his 
credit file. BPF acknowledged that it had made an error and removed the adverse marker.
Mr M remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. He says he wasnt made 
aware that his annual mileage allowance was 8000 and says that during his discussions with 
the dealership he had agreed 10,000 miles. Hes also unhappy about the overall service he 
received from BPF.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said there wasnt enough evidence to show that 
the agreement had been mis-sold and that the excess mileage charges were correct. The 
investigator said that BPF had failed to provide Mr M with the level of service he expected 
and recommended that further compensation of £210 was paid. 
Mr M didnt agree. He said he was left with the car for around 4 months when it shouldve 
been taken back by BPF. He said during this time he had to MOT the car and buy a new 
tyre. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Excess mileage
In order to find that the agreement as mis-sold, I would need to be  persuaded that the 
dealership had made an untrue statement of aft which induced Mr m to enter into the 
agreement.
Mr M says he agreed annual mileage of 10,000 with the dealership. Because I wasnt 
present when these discussions took place, I cant be certain of what was said. In 
circumstances like these, I need to look at the documents which came into existence at the 
time to see whats most likely to have happened.  
Ive looked at the PCP agreement. This has been signed by Mr M to say that he agrees with 
the terms and conditions. The agreement clearly says that the annual mileage allowance is 
8000. I would have expected Mr M to have read the agreement before he signed it, so I think 
he would have been aware of the mileage allowance. And if he wasnt happy about the 
mileage allowance on the agreement I would have expected him to query this at the time. I 
cant see that he did this.
Based on what Ive seen, Im unable to say that the agreement was mis-sold or 
misrepresented. I think the mileage allowance was clearly stated and that Mr M would have 
been aware of it from the agreement. Because of this, Im of the view that the excess 
mileage charges have been charged correctly. 
Customer service
Its clear that BPF didnt provide the level of customer service that it shouldve done. There 
was confusion in the documents which were sent to Mr M at the end of the agreement, 
confusion about what documents Mr M had returned, unnecessary delays and a negative 
marker registered on Mr Ms credit file in error.
The adverse information has been removed from Mr Ms credit file and BPF has paid 
compensation for the poor level of customer service. But I dont think BPF has done enough 
here. Mr M was caused a significant level of inconvenience. Hes explained that there were 
delays in BPF taking the car back, and that he had to deliver the car himself for an 
inspection, leaving him to arrange his own transport back home. Mr M has also said that due 
to further delays in collecting the car, he incurred the costs of a MOT and a new tyre.
Putting things right
 Im of the view that BPF should increase the compensation payable to Mr M to take account 
of the distress and inconvenience hes been caused. I havent been provided with evidence 
of the extra costs Mr M says he incurred on the MOT but Ive taken this into account 
generally in awarding further compensation.  
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Clydesdale Financial Services Limited 
trading as Barclays Partner Finance must pay further compensation of £210 to Mr M for 
distress and inconvenience.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman