DRN-1971070
The complaint
Ms C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct wont refund payments she 
says she didnt make from her account.
What happened
Ms C says she didnt make payments with her card totalling just under £6,500 on 10 May 
2019. She was contacted by HSBC and realised that she didnt have her card and wallet. 
But she says she hadnt written her PIN down or disclosed it to anyone. A card from a 
different financial business was also used at the same time and those payments were 
refunded to her. Ms C says she reported the matter to police and doesnt see why HSBC 
wont refund the payments too.
HSBC says that all the disputed payments were verified with the card and the correct PIN.  
There was no way identified in which a fraudster could have obtained the PIN. And Ms C 
hadnt used her card since the previous evening. So, it says that it is holding Ms C 
responsible for the payments.  
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She set out the details of 
the payments including those with Ms Cs card with the other financial business. These 
started at 2:54pm that day and continued to 4:49pm. The first use of the HSBC card was for 
a balance enquiry and £500 in cash was taken out from a cash machine. And then the card 
was used in a number of retailers. 
Ms C had explained her movements that day and shown that she had a medical 
appointment at 4pm. The purchases at the retailers had been shown to be in large part for 
mens clothes. And although there had been no CCTV one of the retailers had made 
reference to a man acting suspiciously at around the time of a purchases. Our investigator 
considered it most likely Ms C didnt consent to the payments and so authorise them. But 
there was no explanation of how her PIN was discovered other than that it was written down. 
Ms C said that it wasnt the same as the other cards and hadnt changed since it was issued 
in 2015.
Our investigator said that she considered Ms C had been grossly negligent with her PIN and 
that as a result she was responsible for the payments. HSBC had alerted Ms C to the 
payments from her account and had declined a payment. And this prompted Ms C to call 
and report this issue. She also reported her other cards missing.
Ms C didnt agree and wanted an ombudsman to review her complaint. She cant understand 
why a different business has refunded her, but HSBC hasnt. She thought she had her card 
and only realised it was missing during her call with HSBC. She said that HSBC should have 
detected what was happening sooner given the large transactions over the period.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if the payments werent 
authorised Ms C wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
There are exceptions to that and the relevant one here is whether Ms C acted with gross 
negligence in not keeping her details safe. 
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of what happened to her card and PIN used for 
these payments?
- If Ms C didnt authorise the payments was she negligent in how she stored her security 
information? And ought HSBC to have done more to alert her to what was happening?
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Ill be thinking about what is most likely. 
Im satisfied that these payments were authenticated when the chip on the genuine card was 
read and the correct PIN entered. Ms Cs testimony is entirely consistent with someone 
being able to take her wallet from her rucksack as she says when travelling to a meeting 
from home that afternoon. And in the main she used her phone to make payments including 
then for tube travel. The use of this card and her card at another business to first take out 
the maximum amount of cash possible and then to make high value purchases in a number 
of stores is also consistent with usage that Ms C didnt consent to. Ms C shows she had a 
medical appointment at the time of some of the card activity. So, on balance I agree that she 
didnt consent to and so authorise these payments.
I am only looking at the actions of HSBC here and not of a different financial business that it 
seems on the basis of the same facts decided to refund her. I am making my own decision 
about what is reasonable, and the key issue is how an unknown third party discovered her 
PIN. Ms C says that her PIN wasnt the same as that on her other cards and she hadnt 
changed it, didnt use it often and nor had she told it to anyone. The last record of her using 
her card for a genuine payment was the evening before. And it would in any event be 
unlikely that someone seeing her PIN sometime earlier say over her shoulder could have 
later obtained her card. And if her card had been obtained at the time of that payment then 
Id have expected it to have been used straight away. So, Im afraid that the most likely 
explanation is that Ms C had recorded her HSBC PIN in her wallet in a way that was easily 
accessible especially given that there were no incorrect PIN attempts.
Ms C was required under the terms and conditions of her account with HSBC to keep her 
personal security information safe. I think a reasonable person would consider that it was 
careless of Ms C to leave her PIN details in a way so easily accessible. Negligence is often 
referred to as a failure to exercise reasonable care. So, I think it fair and reasonable to 
conclude, the use of gross negligence, rather than mere negligence, suggests a lack of 
care, that goes significantly beyond ordinary negligence. And I consider that recording her 
PIN in this way was an action that amounted to gross negligence on her part.
I dont have a reasonable basis to find that HSBC ought to have identified these payments 
as unauthorised any earlier. It did alert Ms C to what was happening after a number of 
payments had been made and declined a payment. I think here Ms C fairly remains 
responsible for those payments. given my findings about how they were possible.
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman