DRN-2560515
The complaint
Mrs L is unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) declined a claim under her 
caravan insurance policy for storm damage and with the way it handled the claim.
What happened
In November 2019 Mrs L made a claim to RSA for storm damage to her caravan.
RSA asked her to provide photos of the damage and estimates for repairs. Mrs L asked the 
site owner to obtain these on her behalf. RSA said it received the estimates on 
20 February 2020 and spoke to one of the repairers a few days later about the cause of the 
damage. It declined the claim. It thought the roof seals had failed and said that wasnt 
covered by the policy. It said there was no visible storm damage to the caravan.
Following a complaint by Mrs L, RSA appointed its caravan specialist to inspect the 
damage. The inspection was carried out in early March. That specialist said the seals were 
failing due to a design fault. RSA continued to decline the claim.
Mrs L brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. She didnt think 
RSA had treated Mrs L unfairly. As Mrs L didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering a storm complaint, I generally take into consideration the following 
questions:
were there storm conditions on or around the date the problem occurred?
is the nature of the damage claimed for consistent with the storm damage?
were the prevailing storm conditions the main cause of the problem?
If the answer to any of these is no, the complaint is likely to fail.
RSA hasnt disputed that there were storm conditions around the time that the damage 
occurred. I understand that there were high winds in the local area around the relevant time.
Regarding the second question, there was no evidence of damage such as roof panels 
having been lifted or broken which might be typical of storm damage.
In deciding whether the storm was the main cause of the damage, I usually rely on expert 
evidence. In this case three repairers assessed the damage. They all quoted for similar 
work to includer the removal of the roof ridge, resealing the bolt holes and in two of the 
three quotes replacing the bolts. One of the first two repairers told RSA the seals had failed 
due to general weathering. RSAs third repairer initially suggested the damage could have 
been caused by a storm or a design fault. But it later changed its view and said since there 
was no visible storm damage to the roof, they thought water was getting in because of a 
design fault.
Mrs L told RSA that if the damage had been due to a failed seal or design fault, shed expect 
to see more water getting in but this hadnt been the case. However, I note that according to 
RSAs file the site owner dealing with the quotes on Mrs Ls behalf told RSA in December 
2019 and the following March that the water damage was getting worse.
RSA was entitled to rely on the cause of damage referred to in the three quotes to decline 
Mrs Ls claim and I dont think that it was unreasonable for it to do so. I dont think she has 
thrown sufficient doubt on these conclusions to make me think that RSA should change its 
position. In my opinion RSA has shown its more likely than not that a storm wasnt the main 
cause of the damage. My conclusion is that RSAs decision not to settle Mrs Ls claim for 
storm damage was fair and reasonable.
Ive also looked at how RSA handled Mrs Ls claim. I can see it took the site owner about 
three months to provide repair estimates. But RSA did say to let it know if there was a 
problem with getting the quotes as it might be able to get an alternative quote. So I dont 
think it was at fault for the delays with the claim. I also havent seen any evidence that RSA 
pressured its contractor into changing its decision as to the cause of the damage. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman