DRN-2110484
The complaint
Mr H complains that TSB Bank plc told him hed applied for a savings account when he 
wanted a current account. He says he doesnt want the account any more, he wants TSB to 
take the credit search off his record and to pay him compensation.
What happened
Mr H said he applied online for a current account with TSB. He went into a branch to show 
ID, as part of opening the account. He said he was told that hed applied for a savings 
account, not a current account. He said that wasnt what he wanted, and he complained. 
TSB said it hadnt been able to speak to Mr H to find out which branch hed been to, and why 
things had gone wrong. But it decided to accept what he said, and it paid him £25 to say 
sorry for any inconvenience. It said his application was still open, and if he went back to a 
branch with his ID in the next couple of days, he could go ahead. 
Mr H said he didnt want anything more to do with TSB, and he wanted £1,000 in 
compensation for the distress that TSB had caused him, by denying him a current account 
when he really needed it. And he said that the credit check that TSB had run affected his 
credit score, which would take months to rebuild.
TSB said Mr H already has a current account with it, and a savings account. It said that the 
application process was very clear, so Mr H wouldve known he was applying for another of 
its current accounts. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that by offering £25 
and allowing Mr H to continue with his application, TSB had put Mr H back in the position he 
wouldve been in, if he hadnt been given the wrong information in branch. And our 
investigator didnt think TSB had done anything wrong by carrying out a credit search. Mr H 
had shown us evidence that his credit score had dropped, but not that TSBs search had 
caused this. So unless Mr H could provide more evidence of this, our investigator didnt think 
TSB had to remove that search. Our investigator didnt think TSB had to do more than it had 
done already.
Mr H wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
I know that Mr H has said he was very upset at being told he was only opening a savings 
account, when hed applied for a current account. He told us he really needed that account, 
but its not clear why this was important, when he already had the same sort of account with 
TSB. He says hes now decided to open an account elsewhere. 
I think that Mr H has had a wasted journey to TSB, but taking into account how far his 
nearest branch is, I think that the £25 in compensation that TSB paid for that does provide a 
fair and reasonable outcome to this part of his complaint. 
Mr H has shown that his credit score dropped. But TSB also checked, and it said it didnt. 
So, although I can see that there has been a change in Mr Hs credit score, I dont know why 
this happened. I cant assume that this change has been caused by TSBs hard search. 
Our investigator suggested Mr H could send proof of this, but we havent received any more 
evidence on this point. So, on the evidence Ive seen, I cant conclude that TSBs hard credit 
search has adversely affected MR Hs credit file, so I dont think TSB has to take it off. I dont 
think TSB has to do any more about this part of Mr Hs complaint. 
I know Mr H will be disappointed, but I dont think his complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman