DRN-2442387
The complaint
Ms B complains that Santander UK plc wrongly told her she would be able to port her 
mortgage. She wants it to refund the early repayment charge (ERC) she incurred.
What happened
Ms B had a mortgage with Santander with a fixed rate that expired in November 2020.  
Ms B telephoned Santander in October 2019. She explained that she was planning to sell 
her house and buy another property. And she says that she was given the impression that 
she could port her mortgage to the new property.
Ms B bought a new house in December 2019. But she didnt sell her old house until 
February 2020.  
Ms B telephoned Santander again in January 2020. And she was told that she couldnt port 
her mortgage as the sale and purchase werent simultaneous.
Ms B complained to Santander. But Santander didnt uphold her complaint. It said that it had 
listened to the call Ms B made to Santander in October 2019. The adviser had correctly 
explained that she couldnt start the porting application until she had offers accepted on both 
the property she was selling and the property she was buying. Ms B hadnt mentioned at any 
point that she was thinking of buying the new property outright with cash. And she had also 
been advised of the ERC payable if she was to sell her existing property while in a fixed term 
mortgage.
Our investigator didnt think Santander had made an error. He said, in summary:
He was satisfied that the terms and conditions of the mortgage explained that in 
order to port the product on her mortgage she would have to complete the sale and 
purchase of a property at the same time;
He had listened to the call Ms B had with Santander in October 2019 and didnt think 
it had acted unreasonably. He agreed it would have been useful for it to tell her she 
couldnt port the mortgage to a property she already owned. But he didnt hear 
anything in that conversation that led him to think that Santander should reasonably 
have anticipated that Ms B was planning to buy the new property before selling the 
old one;
He felt it was fair for Santander to have charged the ERC in the circumstances.
Ms B doesnt agree with our investigators conclusions and has asked for her complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman. She says in particular that when she called Santander in 
January 2020 the agent she spoke to said that she had a good case to appeal Santanders 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen a copy of the mortgage offer sent to Ms B in September 2018. Clause 10 of the 
offer letter sets out the early repayment charges that would be payable. And it goes on to 
say:
What happens if you move house?
If you move house you may be able to transfer this mortgage to a new property you are 
buying. You must meet the conditions set out in the mortgage conditions booklet under 
Transferring your loan to a new mortgage. You must also meet our lending criteria and 
pass our affordability assessment at that time.
Clause 19 of the mortgage terms and conditions says:
19. Transferring your loan to a new mortgage
19.1     This condition applies if you notify us that you wish:
(a) to pay off the money you owe us on completing a sale of the property, and
(b) at the same time, to complete a mortgage with us under which we will lend   
you money on the security of another property that you wish to buy.
Im satisfied from this that Santander made Ms B aware at the time she took out the 
mortgage that in order to port she would need to buy and sell at the same time.  
I appreciate that Ms B says that, when she called Santander in October 2019, she was given 
the impression that she would be able to port her mortgage. And Ive listened to the call 
recording. But, having done so, Im not persuaded that Santanders adviser gave Ms B 
incorrect information. And Ms B didnt explain to the adviser that she was planning to buy the 
new property first and then sell the old property at a later date. This is an unusual situation 
with a residential mortgage, and I agree with Santander that it is not one that the adviser 
could reasonably have anticipated.
When Ms B called Santander again in January 2020 she had already bought the new 
property. And Santander correctly explained to her that she therefore wouldnt be able to 
port the mortgage to that property. So, again, I dont find that it made an error.
Ms B says that when she spoke to Santander in January 2020 one of the advisers told her 
she had a good case and should make a complaint. I havent been supplied with a copy of 
that call, but have heard two other calls on that date, which appear to have been later. Im 
satisfied that in the two subsequent calls Ms B was told that she couldnt port the mortgage 
as shed already purchased her new property. And even if Ms B was told by the initial 
adviser that she had a good case for complaint it doesnt change my view on the crux of her 
complaint, which relates to the information she was given on the October 2019 telephone 
call. 
As I dont find that Santander made an error I dont require it to do anything further.
My final decisionMy decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Alison Cribbs
Ombudsman