DRN-2536144
The complaint
Ms B is unhappy she wasnt told that the broker (BL) she used to arrange her property 
insurance policy was a trading name of Abbey Insurance Brokers Ltd (AIB). Nor was she told 
the business providing the insurance policy (P) was part of the same financial group as AIB 
and BL. Mrs B is also unhappy that she wasnt told which insurer underwrote the policy 
recommended to her. Ms B believes this means the policy was mis-sold as she wasnt 
placed in a position to make an informed decision about whether to accept the policy 
recommendation.
In addition, Ms B has raised concerns that she wasnt recommended to add legal cover to 
the insurance policy, which she would have been able to use to move her claim under the 
policy forward.
What happened
In June 2018 Ms B spoke to BL about insurance for her home. She had an existing policy 
protecting the property and it was due end on 5 July 2018. The adviser checked details 
about Ms Bs home and its use; this was to ensure the right policy was selected for her. The 
adviser made her aware that the fact her home was in a subsidence risk area meant it was 
harder to arrange cover. The policy with P was recommended and there was some 
discussion about the premium and a comparison made between the previous policy and the 
renewal quote. Ms B was asked during this conversation if she wanted to add any additional 
cover to the policy, including legal cover, but she declined. 
It was agreed that the adviser would send the policy information to Ms B to consider and she 
would call back if she decided to accept the recommendation.
Ms B accepted the recommendation for a policy and paid the policy premium. AIB 
acknowledged payment on the same day and sent Ms B a letter enclosing its terms of 
business and the schedule for the policy. The first thing on the terms of business is the 
following statement:
Abbey Insurance Brokers Limited trading as [BL] is a company registered in Northern 
Ireland under company registration number NI053754. Our registered office is 10 Governors 
Place, Carrickfergus, County Antrim, BT38 7BN. We are a wholly owned subsidiary of 
Prestige Insurance Holding Limited and are authorised and regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority.
It went on to confirm:
All our products are selected from a panel of insurers using a fair analysis of the market 
except for our Travel, Legal Expenses, Motor, Breakdown, Home Emergency, XS Protect, 
Replacement Car Benefit and KeyCare products which are provided by single insurers. A list 
of the insurers used for these products is available upon request.
The policy schedule was a five-page document. On the second page under the 
endorsements applicable to the policy, it stated the underlying insurer for the policy was an 
insurer I will refer to as L. 
In 2019 Ms B complained to AIB about the sale of the policy and the circumstances 
surrounding it. 
AIB responded to Ms Bs complaint. It said that she had been issued with details of the 
policy it had recommended she consider, before she decided to go ahead with the policy. It 
confirmed that P was managed separately from AIB and BL and there was no incentive for 
staff to recommend policies with P. It didnt uphold the complaint. In addition, AIB confirmed 
that Ms B hadnt had legal cover under her previous insurance policy either; implying that it 
wasnt something that was important to her at the time of the sale or earlier.
Ms B wasnt happy with AIBs response and asked us to consider the complaint. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend it be upheld. 
Ms B didnt accept the investigators conclusions. She said she thought the investigator was 
saying she had been misled about the relationship between the parties and Ms B suggested 
this was done in order to benefit the broker and P.  She highlighted that commission had 
been paid to AIB for the sale of the policy.  Ms B said she had spoken to the regulator and it 
had told her she should have been told about the link between the businesses and if this 
was not done, AIB was in breach of its principles and rules. Mrs B didnt say which rules and 
principles the regulator had told her had been breached and, despite making appropriate 
requests, we were unable to obtain any information from the regulator about the discussions 
with Ms B. 
Ms B said there was no time for her to take anything other than the policy she was 
recommended. This was because she hadnt taken up the renewal invitation with her 
previous insurer and AIB didnt provide its service until it was too late to evaluate the 
proposals. 
Ms B went on to say that, whilst she wouldnt share the details of what had happened, the 
reason she didnt want to be insured by L was because it had previously denied her 
insurance. She said not using it was a matter of probity. She also said the broker had been 
acting on her behalf for a number of years, therefore, a degree of trust had been built. Ms B 
requested an ombudsmans review of the complaint, as is her right.
I issued a provisional decision on 9 November 2020, in which I set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt of that document.
Before I consider the merits of Ms Bs complaint, I believe it would be appropriate to explain 
the roles of the various businesses in this matter. AIB is an insurance broker and it is 
responsible for the advice it provides and any administration of the application it completes. 
AIB also has some other trading names, including BL. 
P is a form of broker too, however, it would also commonly be referred to as a retail insurer. 
What it does is design insurance products that its experience as a broker has told it would be 
successful. Those products are branded with its name and, once designed, it will arrange an 
insurer to underwrite the policy. The underwriter for such policies can change over time. 
Sometimes a retail insurer will only sell its products itself, but sometimes they will be made 
available to other brokers to sell.  
The insurance company that acts as the underwriter is not responsible for the sale of the 
policy or usually its design. However, it is responsible for dealing with claims. Sometimes the 
retail insurer will do some of the claims handling function, but when it does so, it is doing it on behalf of the underwriter. The underwriter in that situation would remain responsible for 
any claim decisions made.
For clarity, AIB and P are separate legal and regulatory entities, despite being part of the 
same business group.
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. When doing so I have taken into account 
relevant law, the regulators rules and guidance and good industry practice. However, our 
remit is a fair and reasonable one. So even if there may have been technical breaches of 
rules or guidance, that does not mean a complaint will be upheld. What I will determine is if 
AIB made a mistake or error, and if it did, whether Ms B had been disadvantaged by it. 
Ms B has confirmed that she had been a customer of the broker for many years. Each year 
she was, she would have been given a copy of the terms of business, which sets out the 
brokers status among other things. Whilst I would expect the broker to explain the terms of 
business when Ms B first became its customer, I wouldnt expect it to go through the same 
details orally to refresh her understanding each and every time it spoke to her. 
What I would expect is what happened; Ms B was given a further copy of the terms of 
business detailing that information.  I note that Ms B has said she doesnt remember being 
given this information orally the first time she spoke to the brokerage. However, that is some 
time ago and it may not have seemed important at the time. I dont think the adviser did 
anything wrong in not reiterating that the brokerage was a trading name of AIB or that AIB 
was a member of the same business group as P in [2018] when it recommended a policy 
with P.
I am satisfied that Ms B should reasonably have been aware of the relationship between AIB 
and BL. As such, I dont consider the policy was mis-sold or that there was a fraud, as Ms B 
has latterly suggested. Indeed, if AIB had planned to behave inappropriately, it seems 
unlikely that it would have previously recommended a policy from a completely unrelated 
insurer from its panel of insurers.
That said, even if I had found that AIB should have orally explained to Ms B that AIB was 
part of the same business group as P during the discussions about the policy, I would need 
to establish if she had been prejudiced by it not happening. So I need to consider whether 
she would likely have made a different decision if shed been reminded. Given Ms Bs 
primary concern during the discussions was the cost of the policy, I dont think she would 
have declined the opportunity to save over £75 on the alternative of renewing her existing 
policy because of a remote link with P.
Ms B has commented that the policy didnt include legal cover that would have assisted her 
in her present situation. AIB has said the previous insurance policy didnt include this cover. 
I am satisfied Ms B was offered the option of adding legal cover to her policy during the 
discussions with the adviser in June [2018]. She declined and I cant find AIB did anything 
wrong in this respect.
When recommending an insurance policy, I wouldnt usually expect a broker to highlight 
which insurer was acting as underwriter. At the point of sale, it is the policy benefits and 
premium that is usually important to a consumer and which business it is that is offering the 
policy. Those are not things the underwriter is generally involved in and it is not the 
underwriter that is offering the policy. Indeed, the underwriter can change without any effect 
on the policy and the cover it offers. Ms B has said that she wouldnt have taken the policy out if she had known the underwriter 
was L. During the conversation with the adviser he made it clear that he was looking at 
alternative insurers for Ms B. I would have expected her to have raised the issue if she had 
any strong preferences for insurers or similarly any objections. She didnt do so. 
It isnt possible for me to determine with any certainty what Ms B would have done had she 
been told L was the underwriter, but I dont think AIB did anything wrong in not telling her 
when it recommended the policy. As such, I cant uphold this part of the complaint.
Ms B didnt accept my provisional decisions. She questioned whether we had followed the 
appropriate procedure to obtain information from the regulator. It was confirmed that we did, 
and that the regulator had declined to provide the information about Ms Bs discussions with 
it we had requested. Ms B subsequently approached the regulator and asked that we do so 
again too. Following this, the regulator provided two call notes relating to Ms Bs concerns 
about her policy and claim. The one relating to her concern about there being a conflict of 
interest in relation to the sale of the policy by AIB, referred Ms B to Principle 7, which is 
about the need for clear communication. It doesnt record that any opinions about the 
situation were voiced by the regulator during the discussion. 
Further comment was made by Ms B about the roles of the different parties detailed in 
documentation and during the sale and claim handling. She remained of the view that AIB 
should have highlighted that P was part of the same group of companies. Ms B also alleged 
P paid AIB more commission than it does other brokers, but when asked for evidence to 
support her statement, she wasnt able to provide any. She maintained that AIB should have 
told her it and P were part of the same group of companies and shared two board members.
Ms B said she was not concerned about having legal cover on the policy as she considered 
there was little to litigate given her property had been underpinned. She was also of the view 
that the legal cover available under the policy was of little use anyway and was akin to PPI.  
It was asked by Ms B why, rather than being objective and taking facts, regulations and 
guidance into account I had chosen to instead to become subjective and assume I knew 
what Mrs B would or would not have done. Ms B expressed disappointment that I hadnt 
attempted to ask questions of her to establish what she likely would have done, had she 
known about the link between AIB and P. 
Ms B pointed out that I had referred to the events happening in 2019 throughout my 
provisional decision, rather than 2018. As such, she didnt believe I had reached my 
conclusions based on the correct information  documentation and telephone calls  so they 
were wrong. She provided a copy of the 2018 policy schedule and two copies of the terms of 
business document. 
AIB confirmed it had no further comment to make in response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms B has highlighted that I used the wrong year in my provisional decision. I have already 
apologised for this error and reassured Ms B that my conclusions were based on the events 
of 2018, including the telephone call during which the renewal of the existing policy and the 
recommendation of that with P happened.  In relation to the documentation, Ms B has said the terms and conditions I quoted from is not 
the one she was sent. She provided two copies of the terms of business document with her 
response to the provisional decision. Both documents are detailed as being version 23 of the 
document, dated May 2018. They both record exactly the wording I have quoted above, so I 
am satisfied I was reviewing the correct documentation. The same applies to the information 
contained in the second page of the policy schedule.
As for the matter of the relationship between AIB and P, I would firstly like to clarify that AIB 
is not responsible for any information either P or L provided to Ms B. I also note Ms Bs 
comments about what the regulator said to her about the relationship. However, this is not 
supported by the information we were provided with by the regulator about those 
discussions. 
For clarity, AIB and P are both owned by the same holding company. Whilst there is some 
overlap between the directors of the two companies, I dont consider that alters my 
conclusions about the relationship  I am not persuaded AIB needed to highlight the 
relationship when it recommended the policy with P in 2018. I know Ms B doesnt agree with 
me on this point, but that remains my conclusion. I am also satisfied that AIB didnt need to 
highlight which insurer was underwriting the policy at that time. 
Ms B has said I shouldnt have made assumptions about what she would have done, had 
she had all the information she believes she should have had at the time of the sale. When 
determining what action a consumer would have taken, we have to make some 
assumptions. While it is sometimes possible to question a consumer about what they would 
do in certain situations, it is very difficult to obtain answers that are not coloured by hindsight 
and affected by the events that have since happened. In this case, I listened to Ms Bs call 
with the broker where renewal of the old policy and the possible new policy with P were 
discussed. It was very clear from this conversation what Ms Bs priority was  the cost of the 
policy.  In the situation where Ms B wasnt aware that her claim under the new policy would 
be declined, I remain satisfied that the notable reduction in premium would have meant she 
would have taken the policy with P, even if it had been highlighted that it was part of the 
same business group.
Ms B has said she believes her previous insurer would have helped her in the situation in 
which she now finds herself.  It would be very unusual for an insurer to assist in a situation 
where damage claimed for was not covered under any of the policy perils and legal cover 
wasnt included.
Ms B has said she believes the insurance industry operates like a racket with policies being 
created that are not worth the paper they are written on. She went on to say information is 
withheld that would contribute toward policyholders making informed choices and no 
purchaser will ever become aware of the bogus nature of the insurance industry until they 
make a valid claim and the industry endeavours to wriggle out of meeting the claim. Im sorry 
Ms B feels this way about her experience of the insurance industry. I can understand that 
having her claim declined will have been more than disappointing, but I wont comment on 
that issue here, as AIB is not responsible for that decision. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Ms B to accept or reject my decision before 
20 April 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman