DRN-3591226
The complaint
Mrs M has complained, via a representative, that Bank of Scotland Plc mis-sold her a fee-
paying Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA) in January 2009 and March 2011.
Mrs M has given a number of reasons why she says that they were mis-sold. These include 
that she felt pressured into agreeing to the upgrades. Mrs M says that she was led to believe 
that agreeing to the account would help her obtain the other product. Mrs M was aware of 
the monthly fee, but she thought it was for an overdraft and not for the benefits provided by 
the account. Mrs M says that the accounts were recommended to her, but she wasnt made 
aware of the limitations of the benefits. 
Mrs M says that she was in financial difficulty at the time and has also said she was led to 
believe that agreeing to the upgrades would help improve her credit score. 
Mrs M also says that she suffers from a number of conditions and says that she was 
vulnerable when the accounts were sold to her.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt think that the URCAs had 
been mis-sold. Mrs M disagreed, so the matter was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having weighed everything up, I 
dont think that the URCAs were mis-sold.
Ive started by considering whether Mrs M was given a fair choice. Firstly, I note that prior to 
the first URCA that was sold to Mrs M, she held a fee-free account. And I can see that Mrs M 
chose to change her account back to a fee-free account in January 2009 and again in 
August 2014. Therefore, Mrs Ms actions indicate that she was aware the URCA was 
optional, and that she was aware that she didnt have to have an URCA, if she didnt want 
one. 
Mrs M says that she felt pressured into agreeing to the accounts. However, I can see that 
Mrs M changed her mind and cancelled the first URCA in January 2009  which was within 
the 14 day cooling off period and she wasnt charged for the account in the short time she 
held it. So even if I were to conclude that shed been pressured to upgrade in 2009, Mrs M 
didnt actually incur any loss as a result of this. 
In terms of the second time Mrs M agreed to the account, in March 2011, Ive not seen 
enough evidence to be able to say that Mrs M was pressured into agreeing to the account. 
On the contrary, it seems that Mrs M was told about the account features and she agreed to 
upgrade her account to an URCA so that she was able to make use of the account features. 
And she clearly agreed to upgrade her account in the full knowledge that fee-free 
alternatives existed, as she already had a fee-free account and had previously been able to 
successfully remove the URCA package from her account.
As such, taking everything into account, I think Mrs M was most likely given a fair choice in 
agreeing to upgrade her account to an URCA in March 2011.
Mrs M says that the URCAs were recommended to her, but Ive not seen any evidence to 
suggest that they were. For example, Ive not seen anything to suggest that Bank of 
Scotland assessed Mrs Ms specific circumstances, or recommended the accounts to her 
because they met a particular insurance need. Therefore, I think they were most likely sold 
on a non-advised basis.
This meant that Bank of Scotland didnt have to check if the accounts were right for Mrs M, 
but it did have to provide her with the important information about the account, so that she 
could decide for herself whether it was worth upgrading to. 
Mrs M says that she was given documents about the URCA, although admits that she didnt 
read them  which of course, is something I cant hold Bank of Scotland responsible for. And 
although Mrs M says that she already had some of the insurance products provided by the 
account, I can see that she went on to register two handsets a few months after she 
upgraded her account in 2011. 
Mrs M has also said that she was aware of the monthly fee, but thought it was for an 
overdraft and thought the benefits on the account were free. However, from what I have 
seen, I think Mrs M was made aware of the costs and key features of the URCA, when it was 
sold to her. And whilst I cant say for sure she was given all of the information about the 
account and associated benefits, Ive not seen anything to suggest that Mrs M wouldve 
been put off from agreeing to the upgrade, had she been given even more information about 
the account.
Mrs M has said that she was given misleading information about the accounts. She says that 
she was led to believe that having the URCAs would improve her ability to obtain loans. 
Apart from Mrs Ms recollections, Ive not seen any other evidence to support this. On the 
contrary, I can see that Mrs M had taken out loans and amended her overdraft limit before 
she agreed to the URCA for a second time, so I find it unlikely that she wouldve believed 
she needed an URCA to obtain products she had been able to get in the past. As such, 
when deciding what I think was most likely the case, Im unable to say that Bank of Scotland 
did provide mis-leading information about the URCA regarding loans. 
I note that Mrs M says that she was in financial difficulty when the accounts were sold to her. 
As mentioned above, Mrs M cancelled the URCA in 2009 before she was charged for it. And 
looking at her bank statements around March 2011, there is nothing to suggest that she was 
experiencing financial difficulties at that time. I can see however, that Mrs M did call Bank of 
Scotland in 2014 to explain that she was struggling with everything due to her suffering from 
a health condition. And I can see that, amongst other things, Bank of Scotland did arrange 
for the URCA to be downgraded back to a fee-free account so that Mrs M could reduce her 
outgoings. So from what I have seen, I think that Bank of Scotland did act positively towards 
Mrs M in regards to her URCA, when she informed Bank of Scotland of her difficulties.
Finally, I note that Mrs M says that she suffers from a number of conditions, although says 
she only recently received a diagnosis for those conditions. I understand that Mrs M is 
essentially saying that the accounts were mis-sold, because those conditions made her 
vulnerable and resulted in her making poor financial decisions. However, I cant reasonably 
say that Bank of Scotland did anything wrong by selling her the accounts when it did or 
shouldve treated her any differently during the sale of the URCAs, as Mrs M herself, let 
alone Bank of Scotland, was unaware that she was suffering from those conditions.
So taking everything into account, Im unable to say that the URCAs were mis-sold. I 
appreciate that, perhaps with the benefit of hindsight, Mrs M now regrets agreeing to 
upgrade her account to an URCA. But that in itself doesnt mean that Bank of Scotland was 
wrong to have sold the URCAs when it did.  My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, Im unable to say that the URCAs that were sold to 
Mrs M in 2009 and 2011 were mis-sold. I therefore dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman