DRN-2974828
The complaint
Mr B says HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC), didnt do enough to help when he fell victim to a 
scam. He says HSBC should reimburse him for the money he lost.
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our investigator. As such, the facts are 
well-known to both parties.
In summary, in 2019 Mr B had around £90,000 following on from the sale of a property due 
to separation from his partner. Around this time Mr B had also recently been made 
unemployed. 
Mr B after speaking with friends decided to look into investments and began researching 
online. Mr B came across Coin-bits  which promoted itself as a cryptocurrency investment 
company. Mr B filled out an online form and made an initial card payment of around £300. 
Mr B was soon contacted by advisers / account managers from Coin-bits. 
Unfortunately Coin-bits was a fraudulent company. The scammers liaised with Mr B about 
investing and trading in cryptocurrency. On 31 October 2019, Mr B made two Visa card 
payments from his HSBC account totalling around £10,000 to a cryptocurrency exchange 
platform which then went to the scammers. The scammers used a fake trading platform to 
show Mr B that it had made successful trades on his behalf generating a profit. 
Mr B explained that he allowed the scammers access to his computer through some 
software that was downloaded, and the scammers helped complete transfers and 
cryptocurrency purchases and show the performance of the supposed trades.
The scammers then persuaded Mr B to invest further amounts. The scammers helped Mr B 
set up two accounts in his name with two cryptocurrency exchange providers whom Ill call 
Provider L and Provider K. Mr B, under the spell of the scammers and believing that Coin-
bits had successfully generated a profit from trades, transferred a further £15,000 to 
Provider L on 1 November 2019. 
The transfer was stopped by HSBC but after speaking with Mr B about the transfer it was 
released.
The scammers continued to liaise with Mr B showing him how well his investments / trades 
were doing and providing Mr B with a dividend payment of £242.87 on 6 November 2019.
Given the success and the profits seemingly generated, Mr B on 11 November 2019, went 
on to make two further transfers to the cryptocurrency exchange accounts held in his name. 
One transfer was to Provider K for £50,000 and the other was a further transfer to Provider L 
for £15,000.
In total Mr B had made payments totalling around £90,300  which Mr B says was 
everything he had.
Once Mr B informed Coin-bits account managers that he had nothing left to invest and 
wasnt prepared to take out any borrowing to invest further, the relationship changed. After 
Mr B wasnt able to withdraw his funds, he realised something wasnt right and that he had 
fallen victim to a scam.
Mr B reported the matter to HSBC. Ultimately HSBC wasnt able to recover any of the funds 
and didnt consider it was liable for the losses incurred.
Unhappy, Mr B brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. They explained that banks are 
expected to process payments and withdrawals that its customer authorises it to make. But 
they also explained that there are some situations where banks, taking into account
relevant rules, codes and best practice standards, shouldnt have taken their customers
authorisation instruction at face value  or it should have looked at the wider circumstances
surrounding the transaction before making the payment.
They agreed the first £15,000 payment made on 1 November 2019 was unusual and out of 
character for Mr B  and acknowledged that HSBC were right to step in and question the 
payment. The investigator considered that HSBC asked some sensible questions during this 
call regarding the purpose, whether Mr B was satisfied the company was legitimate and how 
had Mr B received the account details. The investigator considered that Mr B, at the time, 
seemed happy to go ahead. 
The investigator thought that HSBCs line of questioning could have gone further than it did, 
but overall, they didnt consider that any further questions would have stopped Mr B from 
making the transfer. They thought that HSBC could have obtained information about who the 
investment firm was and highlighted the risks of dealing with any unregulated firms but were 
mindful that Mr B had been fed a narrative by the scammers that banks disapprove of 
cryptocurrency. So they thought even if HSBC had highlighted the risks of dealing with an 
unregulated product it was likely it wouldnt have stopped Mr B from going ahead. 
The investigator also considered that had HSBC probed further (if it had established that it 
was investment and purchasing cryptocurrency) then as Mr B was making the transfer to a 
cryptocurrency exchange provider whereby the account was in his name, it would have been 
reasonable for HSBC to allow the payment to go through  given the funds were going to an 
account in Mr Bs name.
The investigator thought HSBC should have intervened when Mr B made the £50,000 
transfer to Provider K. But, and for the same reasons as the call made on the £15,000 
transfer, they thought any intervention wouldnt have uncovered the scam and the transfers 
were being made to accounts in Mr Bs name and that Mr B was also under the spell of the 
scammers by this point.  
They also explained why the Contingent Reimbursement Model (often referred to as the 
CRM code) wasnt relevant in Mr Bs case as the CRM Code doesnt cover card payments 
or international payments / transfers. And the CRM Code also requires consumers to pay 
another person  which meant the transfers Mr B made to the accounts in his own name at 
the cryptocurrency exchange providers werent covered also.
With regards to the recovery of any funds, as the cryptocurrency had been moved on from 
the cryptocurrency exchange providers there wasnt any funds that HSBC could recover 
from those providers.In relation to the card payments Mr B made, our investigator explained there wasnt a 
chargeback reason applicable to the circumstances of the fraud Mr B was a victim of. They 
acknowledged that a chargeback can be raised for fraud, but it was limited to any payments 
made to a merchant that werent authorised by the cardholder. And as Mr B authorised the 
card payments, they concluded HSBC couldnt raise a successful chargeback for Mr B. 
Mr B disagreed with the investigators opinion. In summary, Mr B within his response 
strongly considered HSBC didnt go far enough and missed an opportunity to discuss the 
payments with him. Mr B advised that he would have provided any information and had 
HSBC conducted a search about Coin-bits on the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) 
website it would have exposed the scam.
Mr B also considered that had HSBC challenged him more about the transactions it would 
have sown a seed of doubt and raised alarm bells and he would have carried out further 
research.
Mr B explained that had HSBC asked for any agreement between him and the scammer 
then it would have realised that he had not been given any investment brochures and as the 
payments were out of character and HSBC have greater knowledge of fraud, then it should 
have asked further probing questions.
In his response Mr B also set out the relevant codes and best practices guides that are 
applicable in preventing fraud.
Mr B in his response also provided two redacted opinions issued by our service which were 
upheld in the consumers favour. One was in relation to card payments made as a result of a 
scam, and the other was in relation to faster payments made as a result of a scam. Mr B 
considered both were similar in nature to his complaint.
Our investigator reviewed Mr Bs response, but it didnt change their opinion essentially for 
the same reasons they had provided initially. The investigator did note that the warning in 
relation to Coin-bits on the FCA website was first published on 15 April 2020 which was after 
Mr B had made the transfers / payments. The investigator acknowledged the other opinions 
that Mr B had seen but explained he had taken into account the specifics of Mr Bs case 
when forming his view.
As Mr B disagreed with the investigators opinion, and as the matter hasnt been resolved, 
its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint and the responses briefly, in less detail 
than has been provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, 
Ive focussed on what I think is the heart of the matter here  which is to determine whether 
HSBC should have done more to prevent Mr Bs losses. If theres something Ive not 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on 
every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our 
rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as an 
alternative to the courts. 
I would also like to point out at this juncture that while Mr B has referenced two other 
complaints that our service has looked at for other consumers, each complaint is 
investigated on its own merits. Within this decision I have considered the facts of the scam 
that Mr B fell victim to, alongside HSBCs actions. This is in order to determine whether I 
think HSBC should have intervened and importantly whether its intervention would have 
identified that Mr B may be at risk of financial harm and revealed the scam.  
Having thought very carefully about HSBCs actions, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint. I do 
appreciate how disappointing this will be for him. Mr B was a victim of a sophisticated scam 
and has lost a significant sum which is now clearly having a massive impact on his life. But 
in weighing everything up, so HSBCs actions and the testimony Mr B has provided about 
what happened, I dont think I can fairly say HSBC should reimburse him. Ill explain why.
Before I go on to explain my findings, I want to clarify for Mr Bs benefit why the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (often referred to as the CRM Code) isnt relevant in his case and 
what the relevant regulations were at the time.
Why the CRM Code isnt applicable
The CRM Code was implemented to further combat and prevent the increase of fraud. But 
the CRM Code is explicit in that it only covers a transfer of funds executed across Faster 
Payments, CHAPS or an internal book transfer between GBP-denominated, UK-domiciled 
accounts. 
And the CRM Code also sets out under DS1(2) (a) the scope of what the CRM Code covers 
in relation to authorised push payment (APP) fraud. And that is instances where: 
(i)The Customer intended to transfer funds to another person, but was instead 
deceived into transferring the funds to a different person; or
 
(ii) The Customer transferred funds to another person for what they believed were 
legitimate purposes but which were in fact fraudulent.
So, the card payments Mr B made, and the international payment Mr B made to Provider K, 
arent covered by the CRM Code. And, the payments Mr B made to the other cryptocurrency 
exchange provider  Provider L, as they were to an account ultimately in his own name, 
means they also arent covered by the CRM Code as Mr B wasnt paying another person. 
Unfortunately this means the payments / transfers Mr B made, having fallen victim to this 
scam, arent covered by the CRM Code.The relevant regulations in place at the time 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. 
It is the case that Mr B authorised all of the payments and transfers that are in dispute  and 
thats accepted by all parties. And under the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (which are 
the relevant regulations in place here) that means Mr B is responsible for them. 
That remains the case even though Mr B was the unfortunate victim of a scam.
But that isnt the end of the story, and taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
What does this mean for Mr B?
Given the above, Ive looked to see first, whether Mr Bs transactions were unusual and out 
character. And second, whether HSBC should have stepped in and intervened  so taking 
some additional steps or checks with Mr B about a payment. But importantly, I have to 
determine whether these additional checks or steps would have put HSBC on notice that 
something might not be right, and that Mr B may be at risk of financial harm or revealed the 
scam.
Having looked at the transactions Mr B made, so the two card payments totalling nearly 
£10,000, and then the £15,000 transfer to Provider L and ultimately the further £15,000 to 
Provider L and £50,000 to Provider K  Im satisfied that the activity was out of character for 
Mr B. 
I note HSBC did intervene  but this was only on the first £15,000 transfer to Provider L with 
Mr B having already made two card payments previously.
To my mind, I think it is reasonable to suggest that HSBC could have potentially stepped in 
earlier than it did  so when Mr B made the two card payments on the same day totalling 
nearly £10,000.
However, and as mentioned above, with any intervention, I need to determine whether that 
intervention should have given HSBC cause for concern that Mr B may have been at risk of 
financial harm.Having carefully considered Mr Bs testimony about what happened in relation to the scam 
he fell victim to, the relationship the scammers built with Mr B and the narrative Mr B was fed 
around cryptocurrency  Im not persuaded HSBC would have been on notice that Mr B was 
at risk of financial harm or that the scam would have been revealed.
I say this having listened to the call Mr B had with HSBC on 1 November 2019 when it did 
stop the first £15,000 transfer. I also consider it is reasonable to take into account how Mr B 
interacted within this call to be indicative or representative of how Mr B would likely have 
interacted if contacted by HSBC in regard to any of the payments. 
Mr B, in the call of 1 November 2019, is asked about whether he had authorised the 
payment and is also asked for the purpose of the payment. Mr B is confident in his answers. 
Mr B explains that he did make the payment and that it was for a financial investment. Mr B, 
when the adviser asks if Mr B is satisfied that it is a genuine company that he is investing in, 
explains that it was something he had been working on for around six months and he was 
very confident as to where the investment was at. And Mr B, when asked how he had 
received the account details for the payment (with HSBC seeking to ensure Mr B wasnt a 
victim of an email intercept scam), confirmed that he had received a paper contract. 
So having listened to the call, while I appreciate that HSBC didnt probe further in relation to 
what exactly the investment was for, such as cryptocurrency, or the details of the investment 
firm, Mr B had provided enough detail in his answers that reassured HSBC. Mr B confirmed 
that he had authorised the payment, was satisfied he was dealing with a genuine company, 
had been working on the investment for around six months, was confident of where the 
investment was at and had received a paper contract. I dont think HSBC, based on the call 
it had with Mr B, would have been on alert that Mr B was potentially at risk of financial harm 
or revealed that he was falling victim to a cryptocurrency scam.
Im also mindful having reviewed Mr Bs testimony that he was well under the spell of the 
scammers by this point. He had seen what he considered to be some reasonable profits 
coming from his early trades, had been duped by the fake trading platform and the supposed 
account managers, and had been fed a carefully engineered narrative that banks dont like 
cryptocurrency  as it is an unregulated product. And I think it is this underlying narrative that 
Mr B had been given by the scammers about cryptocurrency that explains why Mr B 
interacted with HSBC in the way that he did and advised the purpose was for a financial 
investment and he didnt reveal or explain to the adviser that the £15,000 was for the 
purchase of cryptocurrency from a cryptocurrency exchange provider which was then going 
to be used for investing. 
All things considered I dont think the conversation Mr B had with HSBC would have 
revealed to HSBC the scam Mr B was falling victim to, or that he was at risk of financial harm 
from fraud  which may have prompted HSBC to have been concerned to such an extent 
that it would have asked further questions. And I cant be as satisfied as I would need to be 
that Mr B would have acted any differently had HSBC contacted Mr B on the other 
subsequent payments he made. Overall, I dont think HSBC would have been on notice that 
Mr B was at risk or that the scam would have been revealed. 
I also have to consider that had HSBC probed further, given the narrative Mr B had been fed 
around cryptocurrency by the scammers, it is unlikely that Mr B would have been 
forthcoming around what the investment was for (cryptocurrency)  based on his interaction 
with HSBC; and it is unlikely that he would have heeded any warnings or risks that HSBC 
might have put forward in this regard, for the reasons Ive already explained.Recovery of the funds
Given Mr B sent the funds to cryptocurrency exchange providers with his money being 
converted into cryptocurrency which the scammers then helped Mr B move on under the 
guise of trading, there wasnt any funds that could be recovered from the cryptocurrency 
exchange providers by HSBC. 
The card payments Mr B made
Under the Visa chargeback rules there isnt a chargeback reason applicable to Mr B 
circumstances. Mr B authorised the card payments and the services were provided by the 
cryptocurrency exchange provider. There are instances where a chargeback can be raised 
for fraud  but that is in relation to a payment made that wasnt authorised by the cardholder. 
In summary, while I appreciate Mr Bs been the unfortunate victim of a very sophisticated 
and cruel scam, I think HSBCs decision not to refund him in this instance was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
I say this because HSBC followed Mr Bs instructions to make the payments, and the 
conversation it had with Mr B, wouldnt have alerted it that Mr B was at potential risk of 
financial harm or revealed the scam. Unfortunately, given the funds Mr Bs transferred were 
exchanged into cryptocurrency and moved on, no funds remained at the cryptocurrency 
exchange providers that could be recovered.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman