DRN-4346471
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain because Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) hasnt paid a 
cancellation claim under their travel insurance policy.
All references to Great Lakes include the agents appointed to handle claims on its behalf. 
What happened
In May 2021, Mr and Mrs J booked a holiday abroad. They were due to travel in June 2022.
The holiday had originally been due to take place in 2020 but was cancelled a number of
times due to the circumstances surrounding Covid-19.
In April 2022, Mr and Mrs J bought a single trip travel insurance policy, provided by Great
Lakes.
Unfortunately, one of Mrs Js family members died unexpectedly in June 2022, shortly before
Mr and Mrs Js holiday was scheduled to start. Mr and Mrs J cancelled their trip and made a
claim for their unused costs under their policy with Great Lakes.
In December 2022, Great Lakes wrote to Mr J and said the claim wasnt covered because he
and Mrs J hadnt declared Mrs Js family members illness to it when they bought the policy.
Great Lakes also wrote to Mrs J in December 2022, saying the claim wasnt covered for the
same reason.
Mrs J complained and Great Lakes sent a final response letter in March 2023. In it, Great
Lakes acknowledged that the reason given for the claim decline in its correspondence of
December 2022 was inaccurate and poorly expressed. However, Great Lakes said that its
decision to decline Mr and Mrs Js claim was correct because Mrs Js family members death
wasnt unforeseen as required under the policy terms and conditions.
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs J brought the matter to the attention of our service. One of our
investigators looked into what had happened and said she thought Mr and Mrs Js policy
wasnt clear about when a claim for the death of a close relative would be covered. So, she
recommended that Great Lakes should pay Mr and Mrs Js claim.
Mrs and Mrs J accepted our investigators opinion. Great Lakes didnt agree and raised
further policy exclusions upon which it said it was entitled to rely in declining Mr and Mrs Js
claim. As no resolution was reached, the complaint was referred to me as the final
stage in our process.
I made my provisional decision about Mr and Mrs Js complaint earlier this month. In it, I 
said:
Im very sorry to hear about the sad passing of Mrs Js family member and Id like to offer 
her my sincere condolences for her loss.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must
handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these
rules into account when making my decision about Mr and Mrs Js complaint.
Is Mr and Mrs Js claim covered under their policy?
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs J but, based on the evidence available to me, I dont think
it would be fair or reasonable in the circumstances to direct Great Lakes to pay their claim.
Ill explain why.
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) for Mr and Mrs Js policy with Great
Lakes sets out a summary of the main cover provided and the exclusions which apply. The
IPID says:
What is not insured?

X The policy includes restrictions regarding the health of close relatives and friends
upon whom your trip may depend, even if they are not being insured by this policy.
Mr and Mrs Js policy schedule says:
Please note the following
You may have a close relative with a medical condition who is not travelling with you.
In some cases, if their state of health deteriorates greatly, you may want to cancel or
curtail your journey. Subject to all the other terms and conditions, such claims are
covered if the relatives doctor is prepared to state that at the date you booked your
trip [emphasis added], he/she would have seen no substantial likelihood of his/her
patients condition deteriorating to such a degree that this would become necessary.
If the doctor will not confirm this, your claim is not covered. In the event of a claim the
doctor must complete the medical certificate on the claim form.
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Js policy, which outline the contract between
themselves and Great Lakes, at page 13 say:
Important Information
Anyone your trip depends on  Cancellation & Cutting Short Your Trip
Cover is extended to claims relating to pre-existing medical conditions if the persons
medical practitioner is able to confirm that at the time you bought the policy or
booked the trip (whichever is later) [emphasis added], there would not have been
any substantial likelihood of the condition deteriorating so that cancellation or cutting
short your trip would become necessary. If the medical practitioner cannot confirm
this in writing, your claim will not be covered.
Im satisfied this clause is clear, and I dont think its unusual. Restrictions on cover for
claims relating to the health of non-travelling relatives are commonly found in most, if not all,
travel insurance policies on the market.
As our investigator correctly pointed out, Mr and Mrs Js policy schedule refers only to the
substantial likelihood of the close relatives medical condition deteriorating at the date of
booking the trip. In this case, this was in May 2021. Our investigator concluded that Mrs Js
family member was in remission at that time.However, I must also have regard to the wording of the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs
Js policy, which Great Lake is reasonably entitled to apply when assessing their claim. This
wording refers to both the time of booking the trip and buying the policy  whichever is later.
In this case, the later of these two dates is April 2022.
So, in order for Mr and Mrs Js claim to be covered under the terms and conditions of their
policy, theyd need to provide evidence from Mrs Js family members GP that, as of April
2022, there would not have been any substantial likelihood of his condition deteriorating
such that cancellation of this trip in June 2022 would become necessary.
When Great Lakes wrote to Mrs Js family members GP, it specifically asked for 
confirmation of if or when his death could have been anticipated. Ive carefully considered
the letter which Mrs J has provided from her family members GP dated 5 December 2022.
This letter doesnt answer Great Lakes question or refer to the likelihood of Mr and Mrs J
needing to cancel their trip when they bought the policy in April 2022.
In addition, the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Js policy, at page 32 say:
General Exclusions  applying to all sections
No section of this policy shall apply in respect of:
1. Claims arising as a result of the following:

e) You, a close relative, a travelling companion, or any person with whom you had
arranged to stay with:

iii. have been given a terminal diagnosis at the time of purchasing your policy 
I also think this exclusion is clear, and I dont think its unusual.
The evidence currently available to me suggests (but, and I wish to make this clear  doesnt
explicitly state) its likely that Mrs Js family member had already been given a terminal
diagnosis at the time the policy was purchased in April 2022.
I understand, and dont dispute, that from Mrs Js perspective, the passing of her family
member in June 2022 was unexpected and sudden. But this doesnt automatically mean that
Great Lakes must pay Mr and Mrs Js claim. The claim needs to comply with the policy
requirements in order to be covered.
So, I dont think Mr and Mrs J have demonstrated that their claim is covered under their
policy.
If Mr and Mrs J wish for their claim to be reconsidered by Great Lakes then I think theyd
need to provide Great Lakes with evidence from Mrs Js family members GP confirming that
there was neither a terminal diagnosis in April 2022 nor a substantial likelihood of the holiday
being cancelled in April 2022.
Great Lakes handling of Mr and Mrs Js claim
I understand that Mrs J experienced considerable difficulties in obtaining information fromher family members GP. But Great Lakes is reasonably entitled to request medical
information when assessing a claim like this and its up to the policyholder to provide it.
Great Lakes cant fairly be held responsible for any confusion on the part of or delays by
GPs in providing such information. Ive considered the time Great Lakes took to make a
decision about Mr and Mrs Js claim after it received the information it needed, as well as the
time it took for it to issue a final response and, overall, I dont think Great Lakes caused any
excessive or unreasonable delay here.
However, I dont think Great Lakes handled Mr and Mrs Js claim fairly when it declined the
claim for what I think were incorrect reasons in both its initial claim declines and in its final
response.
Theres no travel insurance policy on the market, as far as Im aware, that requires or allows
a policyholder to declare the pre-existing medical conditions of a non-travelling relative. Yet,
Great Lakes incorrectly gave Mr and Mrs J this as a reason for their claim being declined
twice.
Great Lakes has acknowledged that both its letters in December 2022 were incorrect and
poorly written and, in addition, I dont think Great Lakes final response letter provided an
accurate, reasonable or fair reason for the decline of Mr and Mrs Js claim either.
I understand Mrs J was distressed because Great Lakes initial claim decline was addressed
to Mr J, and not to her, when Mrs J was the lead named policyholder, the person who had
submitted the claim form and also the person whose family member had died. While I
appreciate that both Mr and Mrs J are insured under this policy, I can appreciate why Mrs J
was unhappy with this, and I dont think Great Lakes fairly responded to Mrs Js concerns
about this in its second letter of December 2022.
Overall, Im satisfied that compensation is due to Mr and Mrs J for the confusion,
inconvenience and upset they experienced as a result of how Great Lakes handled their
claim.
While Im aware that Mr and Mrs J have lost out financially because Great Lakes declined
their claim, our awards for compensation for distress and inconvenience are separate to
those for financial loss.
Having taken into account our published guidance on the payment of compensation for
distress and inconvenience, I currently think it would be fair and reasonable in the
circumstances for Great Lakes to pay Mr and Mrs J £250 compensation for the distress and
inconvenience they experienced.
Great Lakes accepted my provisional findings. Mr and Mrs J said they also, reluctantly, 
agreed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr and Mrs J had great difficulty in getting information from Mrs Js family 
members GP and, so, will not request more. Its open to Mr and Mrs J to attempt to do so if 
they wish. 
Based on the evidence available to me, I see no reason to change my provisional decision. Putting things right
Great Lakes Insurance SE must put things right and do the following:
pay Mr and Mrs J £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience they 
experienced. 
Great Lakes Insurance SE must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell it Mr and Mrs J accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr and Mrs Js complaint against Great Lakes Insurance SE in part and I 
direct it to put things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman