DRN-3032543
The complaint
Mr H complains about the quality of a kitchen he financed through an agreement with
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner Finance (BPF).  
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in August 2021. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im expecting to uphold this complaint in part but the reasons for that differ from the
investigators view. Please let me explain.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a fixed sum
loan, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances,
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the
supplier. 
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr H made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
Here Mr H says the kitchen design was wrong, the kitchen took too long to fit and there were
faults with it. Ill consider each of the issues hes raised.
the delays
The kitchen was scheduled to be fitted in 5 days but took about 14 (from 6 to 20 October
2020). So, there was a breach of contract. Mr H has explained that that meant he had to
take shifts off work; waste wasnt collected for some time which led to complaints from his
landlord; he had to arrange access more frequently and had to stay elsewhere and organise
extended storage. Hes also explained that the designer got measurements wrong and this
needed to be resolved on site with the fitter. Although I do note that the fitter was able to
provide a wine rack, that wasnt previously in the design, to resolve some of the problems.
I can imagine the disruption and inconvenience these issues would have had on Mr H and I
dont think the investigators suggestion of £100 compensation is sufficient. In the
circumstances Im expecting to tell BPF to pay Mr H £300 for the distress and inconvenience
caused.
the microwave cupboard
The investigator suggested that BPF needed to supply a cupboard door, but Im not
persuaded thats correct.
The microwave is freestanding and fits at the bottom of the carcass which also includes an
upper section. That upper section does have a door; hence the description of one door
microwave wall.
I think what was ordered has been provided and fitted and BPF dont need to take any action
here.
the default
Whilst many businesses are willing to suspend collection activities whilst a complaint is in
process, we cant insist they do so. Mr H says BPF have raised a default against him. But as
Ive found there was a breach of contract here, and as Im persuaded its likely the delayed
payments were a result of Mr Hs valid complaint about that breach of contract, I dont think it
would be fair for BPF to register a default. Im therefore expecting to ask them to remove the
default and any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Hs credit file.
other issues
Im not persuaded that sufficient evidence has been provided to suggest there was a leak
that has caused damage. The fitter who attended could not find evidence of that. Im also not
persuaded there is sufficient evidence of problems with the fridge and dishwasher doors. So,
I dont think BPF need to take any action with regard to those issues. 
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint in part and to tell
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited to:
pay Mr H £300 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced;
remove the default and any other adverse reports theyve made to his credit file in
relation to these issues. 
Mr H asked me to consider if any further compensation should be due as hed been delayed 
by BPF and had explained the urgency with which he needed a decision. BPF didnt provide 
any further comments within the timescale I had advised.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not persuaded to ask BPF to provide any further compensation as, whilst I understand 
this was a matter of some urgency for Mr H, BPF did have until 5 September 2021 to 
respond and today is only a day later.
Putting things right
Ive not been provided with any additional information that has led me to change my 
provisional decision and that decision now becomes my final decision on this complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and to tell Clydesdale 
Financial Services Limited to:
pay Mr H £300 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced;
remove the default and any other adverse reports theyve made to his credit file in
relation to these issues.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman