DRN-1598687
 
The complaint
Mrs Y complains that having reached her assumed pension date (age 60) Phoenix Life 
Assurance Limited (Phoenix)  intends to apply a Market Value Reduction (MVR) if she takes 
her benefits before the age of 65. She also complains that she was told on the phone that 
the MVR would not apply on her assumed pension date. 
Further, she complains that she was sent correspondence relating to another policyholder, 
causing her to be concerned about her own personal data being compromised.
What happened
In January 2019, Mrs Y spoke to Phoenix on the phone. She was going to be 60 in May 
2019, and wanted to take her pension benefits then. Phoenix accepts that she was 
erroneously told, by the call handler, that if she took her benefits at her assumed pension 
date (her 60th birthday) no MVR would be applied. 
Mrs Y complained to Phoenix about a MVR being applied. It apologised for the call handlers 
error, but, in summary, said she had not lost out because it had been made clear to her in all 
other correspondence sent to her over the years that a MVR would be applied, except on her 
first MVR free date, which was her 65th birthday in 2024. Phoenix paid Mrs Y £100 to 
acknowledge the frustration she had been caused by being given incorrect information 
during the phone call.
Whilst corresponding with Mrs Y about this issue, Mrs Y was sent correspondence relating to 
another policy holder. This caused Mrs Y to be concerned about the security of her own 
personal data. Phoenix apologised to Mrs Y for the mistake. It paid her £50 in recognition of 
this. 
Mrs Y didnt accept Phoenixs combined offer of settlement, so her complaint was referred to 
our service. Our adjudicator didnt uphold it. He concluded that although Phoenix had given 
Mrs Y incorrect information once on the phone, the paperwork she was sent explained that a 
MVR may be applied. Also, Phoenix was acting within the terms and conditions of the policy 
by applying the MVR if she took her benefits at 60. Overall, the adjudicator said that 
Phoenixs offer of settlement of £150 (including for sending her correspondence relating to 
another policyholder) was a fair outcome.
Mrs Y didnt accept our adjudicators view and asked for her complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman. She said, in summary:
the company she originally took her pension out with set the retirement age as 
60. Phoenix had amended the contract;
if she had bought the contract with another company, it wouldve honoured that 
contract. She said she appreciated that if she had bought it through Phoenix it would 
be more difficult;Phoenix shouldnt be allowed to breach the agreement where one company buys out 
another;
she has been disadvantaged as Phoenix still has hold of her money, and she was 
expecting to receive this when she was 60.
 
Mrs Ys complaint comes to me to consider.
What Ive decided and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I am not upholding          
  Mrs Ys complaint. Ill explain why.
Firstly, Ive looked at the policy documents relating to Mrs Ys pension scheme to see if 
Phoenix was complying with the terms and conditions of the policy by applying a MVR 
at  Mrs Ys assumed pension date, aged 60. They say this:
At the pension date the allocation of units will be cancelled and their value will be calculated 
at the bid price applicable on the pension date, with the following adjustments:
i.if the member has not attained the age of sixty five at the date of cancellation the 
value of any cancelled units in the with-profits fund will be determined by the Actuary
 
Looking at the policy terms and conditions these appear to be dated 1989, so I think it likely 
that they were the same ones that applied when Mrs Y joined the scheme. Her original 
company pension scheme was wound up. When Mrs Y joined this scheme, these terms and 
conditions applied.
Mrs Ys assumed pension date for her policy was her 60th birthday, in May 2019. But as set 
out in the policys terms and conditions, a MVR can still be applied at any time up until her 
65th birthday. This was the same for everyone in the With- Profits fund. The rationale behind 
that being that if someone takes their pension benefits before the age of 65, Phoenix needs 
to ensure that other people in the fund arent disadvantaged. The reason that was necessary 
was because the With-Profits fund had a guaranteed rate of bonus for accumulation units of 
not less than 4%. 
Ive looked at the paperwork that Mrs Y was sent over the years by Phoenix. These included 
her annual pension statements, a letter sent in November 2014, the pre-retirement 'wake up' 
pack sent in November 2018, prior to her assumed pension date, and another pre-retirement 
letter sent in March 2019. All of these letters discuss the fact that her pension benefit may be 
adjusted because of a MVR. I've summarised relevant extracts from this correspondence.
On 11 November 2014, Phoenix sent Mrs Y details of her retirement benefits, following a 
request she made. The correspondence said this:
The effects of any MVR being applied to the plan on the pension date 30 November 2014 is 
shown in the pension fund table in the Benefit Options Statement. The pension plan has at 
least one date when we guarantee that no MVR will be applied, known as an MVR free date. 
The table also shows the next MVR free date following the pension date.
Mrs Ys MVR free date was her 65th birthday.Phoenix Life also sent a retirement pack on 12 November 2018, shortly before Mrs Ys 
assumed pension date. This explained that a MVR may apply and the next MVR free date 
was the date of Mrs Ys 65th birthday.
In Mrs Ys annual statements it said this about the MVR applying: 
Total pension fund value  This is the sum of the investments in each of your investment 
funds. Neither this value, nor the bid value, make allowances for any withdrawal or transfer 
charge which may apply if benefits are taken before the assumed pension date.
The value shown does not include any allowance in respect of final bonus (where 
applicable), or the effect of any Market Value Reduction (MVR) that may now apply in the 
event of a claim. In the event of a claim at a future date, the value will include any final 
bonus (where applicable) or MVR applicable at that time.
An MVR may be used to reduce the claim value of a plan where the current value of a plan 
is greater than the plans fair share of underlying investments.
An MVR generally applied on transfers and switches out of the with-profits fund and/or 
Capital Account. They do not normally apply on death. For retirements, an MVR does not 
apply in some circumstances and you should ensure you check your policy 
documents for details.
I accept that Mrs Y was given wrong information about the MVR during one phone call on   7 
January 2019. And I appreciate it must be disappointing to find that a MVR will most likely be 
applied if she takes her benefits before shes 65. I know Mrs Y planned to use the money 
from this policy for her 60th birthday. However, what this service seeks to do is put a person 
back into the same situation they wouldve been in, but for the incorrect information. In    Mrs 
Ys case, the terms say when an MVR can apply and I can't see that Phoenix are applying 
these unfairly. So I cant fairly ask Phoenix to disapply the terms, and put Mrs Y in a more 
favourable position than she wouldve otherwise have been in, because on one occasion she 
was given incorrect information on the phone. I note that on numerous occasions she was 
given the correct information in writing.
Phoenix  has acknowledged its error here during the phone call. It's paid Mrs Y £100 in 
recognition of this. In my view, this was a fair and reasonable response in the circumstances. 
I therefore don't think Phoenix needs to do anything more to resolve this aspect of her 
complaint.
Mrs Y also complained about being sent correspondence intended for another policyholder. I 
can see why this would cause Mrs Y to be concerned about the security of her own personal 
data. Phoenix has acknowledged its shortcoming and paid Mrs Y £50 by way of 
compensation for this. In the circumstances, I also consider that to be a fair response. I 
therefore make no further award.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I do not uphold Mrs Ys complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman