DRN-3224764
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) declined their 
claim on their home insurance.
Throughout this complaint Mr and Mrs F have been represented by a third party. However 
for ease of reading, all references to Mr and Mrs F include the actions of their representative. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs F had home insurance with RSA up until 2018. In April 2019 they made a claim 
on the policy for damage to an extension that had occurred while they were on cover with it. 
The floor of the extension had dropped due to the timber becoming damp and developing 
rot.
Mr and Mrs F had instructed their own experts to inspect the damage and determine the 
cause. They provided reports from these experts to RSA as part of the claim. After reviewing 
the reports, RSA declined the claim. It said the damage was due to a leaking pipe beneath 
the structure which had been installed incorrectly. And it said the policy has an exclusion for 
damage caused due to faulty workmanship so cover wouldnt be provided.
Mr and Mrs F didnt think this was fair, they provided RSA with a further letter from their 
expert that they said confirmed the damage had been caused by a hairline crack in a pipe 
that had been installed when the property was built and had therefore been present for a 
long time. They made a complaint.
RSA didnt uphold the complaint so they brought it to this service.
Our investigator considered all the evidence but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
She said she thought the evidence provided suggested the cause of the damage was due to 
incorrectly installed pipes and therefore thought RSA had acted fairly by declining the claim. 
Mr and Mrs F didnt agree. They provided a further letter from their expert that said the 
damage had been caused by the hairline crack in the long standing pipe. They asked for the 
matter to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When an insurance claim is made its for the insured to prove that there has been an insured 
peril  an event covered under the policy. Its then for the insurer to either accept the claim 
or prove that an exclusion applies.
Here, RSA has said that the exclusion for faulty workmanship applies. So I need to decide if 
theyve done enough to show this and that theyve applied it fairly. 
Mr and Mrs F instructed their own experts to inspect the damage and determine causation. 
And they had the repair work largely completed before the claim was notified to RSA. So the 
only evidence here are the reports from their experts, as RSA were unable to carry out 
investigations as repairs had commenced. 
The most relevant of these are the reports from the specialist drainage company. They 
provided an initial report in October 2019 to summarise the investigations they had done and 
their findings. The report concludes:
In my opinion the damp under the new utility floor which ended up causing the dry rot
In the utility and pantry was caused by water leaking from the new drains through into
the extension. The most likely was the open joint on the new run. Also the pipes had
not been laid properly.
This makes it clear that in the opinion of the expert, the damage being claimed for was 
caused by the new pipes under the extension that had been installed incorrectly.
Mr and Mrs F subsequently provided a report from the same expert dated January 2020, 
which stated:
I can confirm that in my opinion in addition to the defects found in the new underground 
Drain pipes the drains had leaked for many years before the building work from a hairline 
crack in the existing gully 
Ive considered this but I dont think it is enough to say RSA acted unfairly by applying the 
exclusion. The first report provided by the expert draws a conclusion about the causation of 
the damage  saying it is due to a leak from the new drains. The subsequent report is very 
brief  consisting of just the text above  and while it says there was a hairline crack 
identified, it doesnt conclude that this was the main cause of the damage. And it says that it 
is in addition to the original opinion, which suggests this remained unchanged.
For these reasons I think RSA has acted fairly by relying on the exclusion for faulty 
workmanship to decline the claim, based on the evidence. 
I note that Mr and Mrs F have since provided a new letter from their expert. This is dated 
October 2021 and states that the cause of the damage was the hairline crack in the older, 
established pipe. While this appears to reverse the opinion expressed in the original report, it 
is written two years after the original report and longer than that since the expert inspected 
the pipes. And it provides no explanation for why the opinion has changed. So I find this to 
be a less reliable, and therefore persuasive, account of the damage. For this reason, it 
hasnt changed my opinion that the claim has been fairly declined.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman