DRN-2790397
The complaint
Mr F complains Close Brothers Limited has unfairly applied a missed payment marker to his 
credit file. He asks for it to be removed and redress for the trouble and upset this matter has 
caused.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and were set out in detail in the 
investigators opinion of 29 April 2021, so I wont repeat them again here. Instead Ill focus 
on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im in agreement with 
the investigators opinion. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr F, Ill explain 
why. 
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive 
done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think 
are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. 
Firstly, I looked closely at the Conditional Sale Agreement Mr F entered into in April 2018. 
There is clear information within the contract regarding missed payments and the impact 
missing payments can have on an individual credit file. Further clause 3.7 goes on to say 
any loss or damage to the goods does not affect Mr Fs liability to make the contractual 
payments under the agreement.
On 29 December 2020, Mr F contacted Close Brothers to explain he had unfortunately been 
in an accident in the car and he expected it would be written off under the insurance. But 
later the insurance company repaired the car. The contact notes clearly show he was 
advised during that call that he should ensure he made all the payments due. When Mr F 
told the adviser, he intended to cancel the direct debit the adviser clearly told him if this 
resulted in a missed payment this could impact his credit file.
Close Brothers are also required to update the credit reference agencies with accurate 
information.
In my view, Close Brothers made Mr F aware of the potential impact missing any payments 
could have on his credit file and have accurately informed the credit reference agencies 
when the payment was missed. I cant fairly say that Close Brothers have done anything 
wrong here and so I wont be asking them to do anything further.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman