DRN-3317519
The complaint
Ms Ds complaint concerns accounts she held with Trading 212 UK Limited (T121). She 
says that its app failed to work correctly and T212 then unfairly closed her accounts when 
she complained about this. She says T212 also failed to respond properly to a subject 
access request made by her in relation to the matter. Ms D also feels that T121s actions in 
respect of the opening of her accounts and the later use of a third-party payment card were 
discriminatory.  
What happened
Miss D opened a Contracts for Difference (CFD) account and an Investment account with 
T212 in November 2019. After trading for several months, she began to have concerns with 
the operation of T212s app and how information was presented on it. There then followed a 
number of changes to T212s legal documentation that Ms D also had concerns about. 
Communication with T212 on these issues led to the raising of a formal complaint, which it 
responded to on 21 September 2020. 
T212 noted Ms Ds various concerns with the operation of the app and her accounts but it 
didnt think it had acted incorrectly. It acknowledged it had experienced an issue with latency 
in April 2020, but couldnt see that this had led to any loss for Ms D. It also stressed that its 
client agreement explained that the service wasnt guaranteed to work all the time. 
T212 also highlighted a change to its service in May 2020, when it transferred all spot index 
positions to their futures equivalents to improve trading conditions, which it felt may have led 
to Ms D questioning her positions and the information the app was providing. T212 also 
highlighted this change in operation as the reason why Ms D had no longer received 
dividends after May 2020. 
In summary, T212 said it could see no evidence of the functionality of its app or other 
systems creating a loss for Ms D, so didnt uphold the complaint.  
Then, on the day after its response to the complaint had been issued, T212 wrote to Ms D to 
explain that it was closing her accounts, saying we do not believe we are able to provide 
you with the level of service that you expect from us, and believe your needs would be best 
served by a firm that is able to provide you with a more bespoke service. It gave her 
deadlines for closure, in accordance with the account terms. 
Ms D then raised a further complaint about this, saying she felt victimised by T212, 
suggesting that the account closures were linked to a negative review of it shed placed on-
line. She said she also felt T212 had discriminated against her during the account opening 
process and following the third-party card payment being made to her account. 
T212 issued a further response, saying that the accounts had been closed in accordance 
with its terms and that it couldnt see anything to suggest that Ms D had been discriminated 
against, particularly as shed been offered additional time and options for the closures. 
Ms D then referred her complaint to this service, but our investigator didnt feel T212 had 
acted incorrectly. He noted Ms Ds additional comments that T121 had failed to provide 
information to her in line with a subject access request (SAR) shed made, and he referred 
her to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). 
Ms D didnt accept the investigators view. She said she hadnt been presented with or 
accepted the terms upon which T121 had relied in closing her accounts and she felt the 
closures had been timed deliberately to benefit T121. She also reiterated her concerns about 
the SAR and T121s failure to provide her with information.   
As the investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion the matter was referred to me to 
review. I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ms D has set out four main areas of concern: 
The operation of T212s app
The closure of her accounts 
The failure to provide information to her following her SAR
Discrimination during the account opening process and after third-party card use on 
her account
Ill deal with each of these points under separate headers, for ease of reading. 
The operation of T212s app 
Ms D has made a number of observations relating to the operation of the app and her 
account over the first months of her trading in 2020. Shes raised issues concerning the 
presentation of data, positions being rolled over, the payment of dividends and stocks not 
appearing on the account. 
T212 has explained that over the period in question there were some general issues with its 
service - the latency problems of April and the transition in May when spot indices positions 
were transferred to their futures equivalent. 
From the way Ms D has described her experience of using the app I think it does seem likely 
that these issues impacted upon her  for instance the latency effecting the accuracy of data 
and the transition leading to the dividends no longer being paid. But Ive not seen, as yet, 
sufficient evidence that they led to her incurring losses. And in any event, as had been 
noted, the account terms do provide for circumstances where the service is interrupted, or 
orders cant be placed because of unusual market conditions. 
However, Id highlight this is a provisional decision and if there are any further specifics Ms D 
can provide on this point, I will consider these prior to issuing a final decision.  
The closure of her accounts 
I understand it will have been very disappointing for Ms D to have received T212s email 
explaining that her accounts were to be closed. This was the day following its first final 
response letter and, given that timing, I dont think it was unreasonable for her to have drawn 
the conclusion that the closures were a response to her complaint  or perhaps to the review 
shed left on-line the previous month. 
T212 said to Ms D that it didnt feel it was able to offer her the service she expected from it. 
Ive seen nothing that suggests that Ms D had any specific requirements from her accounts 
that T212 was unable to offer. But ultimately, while clearly frustrating, the terms of the 
accounts do allow either party to terminate the agreements giving written notice, of 14 days for the CFD account and 30 days for the investment account, which is what T212 did. 
I note Ms D has disputed having been made aware of the terms of the agreements with 
T212. I asked it about this, and its confirmed that acceptance of the terms is an integral part 
of the account opening process, which would be in line with normal industry practice. T212 
also extended the deadlines for closing positions and the accounts, and also offered 
Ms D the opportunity to make a transfer of shares from her investment account to a new 
provider, so as to avoid the possibility of any losses.  
In all the circumstances, although the account closures will, as Ive said, have been 
disappointing, it difficult for me to conclude that T212 acted incorrectly.
The failure to provide information following her SAR
The investigator pointed Ms D toward the ICO in respect of this part of her complaint. Its 
correct that the ICO is the authority tasked with upholding information rights and which looks 
into failures to respond properly to information requests. But we too are able to consider a 
business actions in respect of a SAR when its linked to the provision of a financial service, 
such as T212 providing Ms D with her accounts and trading facility. 
That said, T212 has told us that the requests Ms D made to it were for information over a 
period that pre-dated her account being operative. And that much of the information 
requested wasnt that which would fall into the category of personal data to be provided 
under a SAR. 
From what Ive seen this does look to be the case, although particularly in relation to the 
dates, it may be that Ms D made an error. In the circumstances, I think it wouldve been 
reasonable for T212 to have sought some clarification of what information Ms D required, or 
even to have proceeded with a SAR in any event, providing what data it felt it could. 
As it stands, Ive not seen enough to persuade me that T212 acted incorrectly in respect of 
the SAR. But, as before, Ill consider carefully any further comments Ms D wishes to make 
on this point before reaching a final decision on this issue.
Discrimination during the account opening process and after third-party card use on her 
account.
This is clearly an area of great concern to Ms D. She feels that T212 treated her differently at 
the point of opening her accounts, and later, because of her race. Specifically, shes said 
that she was asked for additional documentation when the account was opened, 
documentation that was not asked of her partner. 
I should stress that its not our role to say whether a financial business has breached 
equality law by discriminating against a customer on the basis of a protected characteristic, 
but we can consider whether a customer has been treated fairly. Ive taken the Equality Act 
2010 into account when considering this part of the complaint  given that its relevant law  
but Ill ultimately make my determination on the basis of whats fair and reasonable. If Ms D 
wants a legal finding to be made about whether T212 breached the Equality Act 2010, then 
shed need to go to court.
Ive asked T212 about the account opening and its said that Ms D was required to provide 
proof of identity and address, which she did by way of her driving licence and a copy of a 
utility bill. This is its usual process and does appear to be in line with the industry norm. The 
process may, however, have differed slightly for her because of her name matching that of a 
politically exposed person. This is quite a common issue, as businesses have specific responsibilities around engaging 
with people in high-profile, public positions. It didnt impact on Ms D being able to open her 
accounts with T212, but it does illustrate how account opening processes can differ between 
individuals for many reasons, some of which will not be immediately obvious. Hence, why 
some people may be asked for more or different information, although that doesnt seem to 
have been the case here. 
In respect of the later incident, when T212 contacted Ms D because a payment card to which 
she was a joint party had been used on another T212 account, again, this appears to have 
been the carrying out of normal security checks. Ive not seen that Ms D was singled out to 
be alerted to the activity. Im satisfied it was T212s normal process in such circumstances 
and mirrored standard industry practice. 
Of course, its not for me to tell Ms D what she should or shouldnt feel. Ive no doubt shes 
been genuine in telling me how things felt. But as things stand, I dont think I can safely 
conclude from the evidence that she was treated unfairly or differently to other customers in 
the same circumstances.
Ms D responded to say that she didnt accept my provisional decision and was unhappy with 
the investigation. She said she didnt think I would have changed my view irrespective of 
what she submitted.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I recognise Ms D feels very strongly and will be disappointed, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. Ive not been 
persuaded that T212 acted unfairly or incorrectly in its dealings with her.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman