DRN-3987024
The complaint
Mr M complains that Nationwide Building Society would not allow him to withdraw cash in 
branch without identification. 
What happened
Mr M attempted to withdraw cash in branch and was asked for identification. When he would 
not provide any, his request was declined. He felt the staff were rude and unhelpful, and he 
is unhappy one member of staff would not provide his name and was not wearing a name 
badge. Mr M then went to a different branch the following day and was able to withdraw cash 
without providing any identification. So, he thinks the initial branch made an error. 
Nationwide issued a final response letter in which it explained that their staff had not made 
an error when they asked Mr M for identification. They pointed to their terms and conditions 
which state that they may ask customers to provide information to help meet regulatory 
requirements from time to time. The letter also explained that having spoken to the members 
of staff that were in the branch, they did not agree the service was poor. And that while 
members of staff are encouraged to give their names to customers, it is not mandatory. 
Mr M was unhappy with the response and thought the complaint handler had not fully 
considered his complaint. He referred the complaint to our service and requested 
compensation and for Nationwide to admit poor customer service. 
Our Investigator looked into the complaint and felt that Nationwide had followed their internal 
policy for identification, so did not agree that they had made an error. Mr M disagreed with 
this and reiterated that he had not been asked for identification when he went to a different 
branch the following day. 
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think it was reasonable that Nationwide asked Mr M for identification and 
that it declined his request when he did not provide any. And I dont think Nationwide needs 
to give Mr M any compensation to remedy his complaint. Ill explain why in more detail. 
Ive firstly considered what I think is the crux of Mr Ms complaint. When Mr M visited a 
Nationwide branch to withdraw £2,000 in cash, he was asked to provide identification. Mr M 
feels this was unnecessary and has pointed to a visit in a different branch the following day 
where he was able to withdraw the same amount without providing identification. Nationwide 
has pointed to their internal identification policies and their terms and conditions which they 
say allows them to ask for identification, so they do not feel they have made an error. 
Ive looked at the terms and condition of the account, they say:
43. From time to time, we may ask you to provide us with information to help us meet our 
anti-money laundering, financial crime, sanctions and other legal and regulatory 
requirements If you fail to provide this information when asked to, this may result in us 
delaying or refusing to process your payments or preventing all access to your account 
Looking at this, I do agree that they allow Nationwide to ask customers for information when 
they need to meet certain regulatory requirements. And I agree that this information could 
include identification where they need to satisfy themselves that they are dealing with the 
correct consumer prior to a transaction. 
Nationwide has also mentioned its internal customer authentication tool which will determine 
the level of authentication needed depending on what information is input into it. The cashier 
who served Mr M has confirmed that when they input the relevant security information for  
Mr M, the system required identification to complete the transaction. And I have no reason to 
doubt what the cashier has said. In this case, it isnt within my remit to comment on the 
customer authentication tool and its processes, as this is an internal process that Nationwide 
uses and I have no reason to doubt its fairness. Based on this, I dont think it is 
unreasonable that Mr M was asked for identification prior to making a relatively large cash 
withdrawal. 
I take Mr Ms comments on board that he then went to a different branch the following day 
and was able to withdraw cash without providing identification. I accept that it is therefore 
possible one of the cashiers at either branch did not input all of the security questions 
correctly which led to a different level of identification requirement for each visit. Ive 
therefore considered the consequences of this and having done so, I dont agree Mr M has 
been disadvantaged, though I appreciate he may not agree. 
Ultimately, the branch asking Mr M for identification prior to a cash withdrawal is adding a 
layer of security onto his account, to help prevent from any possible fraudulent activity that 
may occur. While I understand this has caused inconvenience for Mr M, I cannot agree that 
it is therefore unreasonable in the circumstances. Because of this, I dont agree that 
Nationwide needs to provide Mr M with any compensation as a result of him being asked for 
identification.  
Ive also considered Mr Ms comments about the branch staff being rude and refusing to give 
him their full name. Part of what Mr M has described can be subjective, and I note Mr M was 
unhappy about being asked for identification, which could have made the situation more 
tense. Nationwide has confirmed that it is not mandatory for its staff to provide their names 
so I cannot agree they have made an error when the member of staff did not provide his. 
Ultimately, Im not persuaded that the actions of Nationwide merit compensation in the 
circumstances, and I dont think it needs to take any action to remedy this complaint. 
 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint against Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Rebecca NorrisOmbudsman