DRN-2626457
The complaint
 Mr K complains about TSB Bank plcs decision to withdraw his Credit Card account, and 
block access to his Current account without giving him a reason. Mr K is also unhappy with 
the service he received from TSB.
What happened
 In early April 2020, TSB wrote to Mr K to advise theyd be withdrawing his Credit Card 
account. They gave Mr K two months notice. Mr K says he didnt receive this letter straight 
away because he has a communal post box and there is sometimes a delay in him receiving 
post.
Later in April 2020, Mr K contacted TSB by telephone to ask for a repayment holiday on his 
Credit Card. TSB agreed to the repayment holiday and didnt explain the upcoming 
withdrawal to Mr K. Mr K told our service the TSB advisor told him the Credit Card account 
wouldnt be closed. And as the phone call took place after the letter was sent, Mr K believed 
the Credit Card account was fully operational.
In June 2020, when Mr Ks existing TSB Credit Card expired, he received a new card. Mr K 
added the card to his Apple Pay device and received an error message.
In August 2020, Mr K learned his Current Account was blocked when he tried to make an 
online payment. TSB told him this was due to a delay but also asked him to go into a local 
branch with his identification. The block was removed from Mr Ks account around two 
weeks later.
Mr K complained to TSB. They upheld his complaint due to the incorrect information given to 
him during the phone calls  but they didnt give him a reason for the block or withdrawal, 
and they didnt pay any compensation. Mr K brought the complaint to our service.
The investigator upheld Mr Ks complaint. She recognised TSB were entitled to withdraw the 
Credit Card and didnt think theyd caused any delays when blocking Mr Ks Current account. 
But she thought the incorrect information Mr K had received on the phone calls should be 
recognised with £50 compensation. TSB disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me 
for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I think TSB should pay Mr K compensation to put things right. Ive 
explained the reasons for my decision below.
Since our involvement in Mr Ks complaint, Im aware TSB have since closed Mr Ks Current 
account. However, my decision only focuses on the withdrawal of the Credit Card account, 
and the initial block on Mr Ks Current account.
Mr Ks Credit Card account
TSB wrote to Mr K on 1 April 2020 giving him two months notice that theyd be withdrawing 
his Credit Card facilities. I appreciate Mr K says there was a delay in him receiving this letter. 
But whats important here is if it was sent  not if Mr K received it. Ive seen a copy of the 
letter sent to Mr K and therefore Im satisfied it was sent. I cant fairly hold TSB responsible if 
Mr K didnt receive it on time because of the setup of his post-box.
TSB are entitled to withdraw Credit Card facilities at any time  and having reviewed the 
circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied they were entitled to do this. Im pleased to see 
they gave Mr K two months notice  and this is outlined in the Terms and Conditions of the 
account. I appreciate Mr K wants to know the reasons for the withdrawal  but TSB arent 
obliged to tell him that. However, based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied their 
decision was fair.
Ive thought carefully about the customer service Mr K received during the Credit Card 
withdrawal. Im satisfied the letter was sent so Mr K ought to have been aware that his Credit 
Card account would be withdrawn in June 2020 sometime. However, Mr K got in touch with 
TSB later in April 2020 and requested a payment holiday which was approved. TSB have 
confirmed that this was an error  but as Mr K had benefited from the error by receiving a 
payment holiday, they didnt offer any compensation. But I think TSB should do more to put 
things right.
Ive no doubt it would be distressing for any customer to find out some of their banking 
facilities are to be withdrawn  especially without being told the reasons why. In Mr Ks case, 
he then had a payment holiday approved, extending after the time the card should have 
been withdrawn. And he received a new card when his old Credit Card expired. Therefore, I 
dont think its unreasonable that Mr K believed the decision to withdraw his Credit Card had 
changed. TSB admitted theyd made an error  and the error itself doesnt mean they 
werent entitled to withdraw the Credit Card. They were. But I do consider the errors caused 
some distress and inconvenience to Mr K and therefore, I think TSB should pay £50 
compensation to recognise this.
Mr Ks Current Account
In August 2020, Mr K tried to make a payment from his Current account and realised his 
account had been blocked. TSB told Mr K the block was due to a process in delay but 
asked him to go into branch with his identification. Ive considered the time Mr Ks account 
was blocked  a total of 13 calendar days. Im satisfied based on this that TSB completed 
their review without any undue delays.
I recognise how frustrating it must have been for Mr K to realise he couldnt use his account. 
And I appreciate this put him in a financially challenging position because he didnt have 
access to his funds. But a bank cant always guarantee that funds in an account are readily 
available. Ive considered TSBs actions when reviewing Mr Ks account. And, based on 
what Ive seen, like the investigator, Im satisfied they acted in line with their obligations. 
TSB, like all UK banks, are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet 
their legal and regulatory obligations and Im satisfied their actions were necessary in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K has said he doesnt understand why he was asked to go into branch if the block was 
due to delays. I agree with him that the terminology TSB have used is confusing. But TSB 
dont have to tell Mr K the reasons for their review, or why they need certain information. 
TSB were entitled to review Mr Ks account, and they did so in a timely manner. So, I wont 
be upholding Mr Ks complaint on this part.  Putting things right
 Overall, Im satisfied TSB acted fairly when withdrawing Mr Ks Credit Card account, and 
when reviewing his Current account. However, I do think their customer service fell short 
with the incorrect information Mr K was told on the telephone about his Credit Card account.  
I think, in the circumstances of this complaint and whats happened, £50 compensation is a 
fair amount to put things right. 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. TSB Bank plc should pay Mr K £50 
compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman