DRN-2407912
The complaint
Ms As complaint is about her mortgage account with Barclays Bank UK PLC. Ms A says 
that Barclays has been unhelpful and unsympathetic in relation to her financial difficulties 
and that the bank failed to give fair consideration to her payment proposal made in 2017, nor 
any reason for declining it.
What happened
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. I have also read in its entirety the file from a complaint made in 
2019 to provide context for this current complaint. There are also a lot of duplicated 
documents and repetition of arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised 
events in rather less detail than has been presented. 
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
I am also conscious that I need to ensure this decision, which will be published on our 
website, doesnt contain any information that might identify Ms A. Given this, I am not setting 
out in detail all the circumstances of her case, and I have rounded up the figures where 
necessary. 
Ms A has a capital repayment  mortgage account with Barclays, which has a connected 
Mortgage Current Account (MCA). The MCA is an overdraft facility allowing Ms A to draw 
down additional funds against an agreed reserve limit. The total outstanding across the 
mortgage and MCA is around £300,000, with under ten years remaining on the mortgage 
term. The property was recently listed for sale (September 2020) for offers over £1,000,000.
Unfortunately, from 2011 onwards Ms A has been in financial difficulties and her mortgage 
fell into arrears. This complaint follows on from a previous complaint made to us by Ms A in 
2019. That complaint was that in 2017 she made payment proposals to Barclays in relation 
to arrears on her mortgage account, but Barclays failed to consider them. 
The proposals were that Ms A said she could pay a lump sum to clear the arrears by 
accessing her pension (although at the time she was under the minimum age of 55). Ms A 
also asked Barclays to switch the mortgage to interest-only.
Barclays didnt uphold the complaint and Ms A complained to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service in 2018.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. He thought Barclays should have looked at 
Ms As proposals in 2017. He asked Barclays to reconsider these retrospectively, as if it had 
done so in 2017. At the time the mortgage arrears were approximately £21,000 and the MCA 
was at £51,500, just under its limit of £51,820.
Barclays rejected Ms As payment proposals. Ms A then brought another complaint, because 
Barclays hadnt given her any reasons for rejecting the proposals. Ms A thought Barclays 
had summarily declined them without considering any of her supporting documentation.
In the banks undated final response letter, Barclays explained that the arrears - £38,000 by 
the time the complaint was made in early 2020  were increasing at £700 per month, 
because Ms A was only paying £1,240 per month, which was less than the monthly 
instalment of £1,900. Barclays said it would need to look at affordability in detail before it 
could consider any proposals, but due to the level of arrears, court proceedings had been 
started. 
But because of the length of time it had taken Barclays to resolve Ms As complaint, the bank 
offered her £200 for its poor customer service. Ms A didnt accept this and the complaint was 
referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
The same investigator looked at this fresh complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. 
He asked Barclays to give its reasons for declining Ms As payment proposals. Barclays said 
that short-term arrangements would not assist Ms A, given her financial circumstances, and 
that there was no long-term solution which would be affordable.
The investigator noted that Ms As 2017 proposals had involved her accessing her pension 
to draw a lump sum, but because she was under 55 in 2017, this would have cost her 
£5,000 in fees. The investigator looked at what Ms A had said about this but noted there was 
no evidence from Ms A to confirm how much she could access from her pensions. He also 
looked at the rules in relation to early pension access, and after doing so didnt think Ms A 
would have qualified to access her pension in 2017.
The investigator also looked at Ms As request to switch the mortgage to interest-only. 
Although he noted Barclays had offered various payment concessions since 2011, he also 
noted that Ms A had told Barclays repeatedly since 2012 that she was selling the property. 
Given this, the investigator didnt think that a permanent change to the mortgage was 
something Barclays should have offered. 
Overall, after taking note of Ms As circumstances, the investigator didnt think Barclays 
decision to decline Ms As proposals was unfair or unreasonable. He thought the £200 
offered by Barclays for trouble and upset was fair. But, given all the concessions Barclays 
had offered over the years, the investigator didnt think the bank was required to do anything 
further.
Ms A disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. Ms A has explained that since July 2020 shes been paying the full instalment of 
£2,100 per month (which includes about £225 towards the MCA), as well as an amount 
towards the arrears. 
Ms A says that if this matter goes to court and she tells the judge that Barclays has refused 
to help her or meet with her, it doesnt look good for any of us. Ms A also says that, 
although shes had six interest-only concessions of six months at a time, Barclays has never explained that the capital element that has been deferred would need to be paid back. Ms A 
says it makes no sense that a customer on a concession would then have a debt to repay.
Because the matter remains unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision on it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, for largely the same 
reasons.
Im not going to comment on what happened in relation to the earlier complaint, which was 
resolved in 2019. This complaint is about Ms As dissatisfaction with Barclays rejection of 
her proposal to raise a lump sum through early access to her pension, and her request for 
her mortgage to be transferred onto interest-only.
I agree that Barclays should have given detailed reasons for declining Ms As proposals. But 
Ive noted what the bank has said when it considered them after the 2019 complaint. Ms A 
had provided no confirmation that she could have raised a lump sum from her pension in 
2017, when she was under the age of 55. Ive looked at the rules, and these only allow a 
pension to be accessed before the minimum age in the event of poor health or a serious 
medical condition. 
I note Ms A has now turned 55, and has accessed a portion of her pension lump sum, but 
this has been used towards purchasing a vehicle, rather than paying off the mortgage 
arrears.
With regard to a transfer to interest-only, the starting point is that lenders have a duty to treat 
all customers, but particularly those facing financial hardship, fairly. Balanced against that, 
one of the fundamental principles underpinning the mortgage contract is that a lender has 
the right to receive payment of the money owed to it. 
The Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (known as MCOB) 
sets out at MCOB 13 what lenders are required to do to help borrowers in arrears. UK 
Finance (formerly The Council of Mortgage Lenders) also has its own guidelines about what 
it expects lenders to do to comply with MCOB, which mirror closely the requirements of 
MCOB.
A lender is required to explore ways to resolve an arrears situation, especially if the problem 
that created the arrears to begin with is one that looks to be short-term and capable of being 
resolved.
For long-term difficulties, a lender must also look at other ways to help, such transferring a 
mortgage from capital and interest repayment to interest-only, deferring interest for a period 
of time or capitalisation of arrears. Balanced against that is the lenders obligation to ensure 
that any arrangement is affordable and sustainable. 
Since 2011 Barclays has granted numerous short-term interest-only concessions and shown 
forbearance, and Im satisfied that this is largely due to Ms A explaining that shes in the 
process of marketing the property.
I appreciate Ms A has had financial difficulties for a number of years, initially due to the long-
term effect of the recession in the mid-2000s, and lately as a result of Brexit affecting her business. But as her difficulties were long-term, I dont think Barclays was wrong to decline a 
change to switch the mortgage to interest-only on a permanent basis. I also dont think there 
was any realistic prospect of Ms A being able to clear some or all of her arrears from a 
pension lump sum in 2017.
Ive looked at Barclays records, and Im satisfied that the bank made Ms A aware that, 
where there a payment arrangement is put in place allowing Ms A to pay less than the 
current instalment, the arrears continue to increase due to the bank not receiving the full 
payment. Im also satisfied Barclays notified Ms A of the implications of this on her credit file.
In all the circumstances, Im satisfied that the forbearance measures put in place by Barclays 
are fair and reasonable. The options available to Barclays are limited, given that the bank is 
under a regulatory obligation to ensure any arrangements are sustainable and affordable 
over the long term. From the information provided by Ms A to Barclays, I dont think she was 
able to demonstrate long-term affordability and so the banks decision to decline her 
proposals was reasonable.
I agree Barclays customer service could have been better, but I think the £200 
compensation offered for this is fair.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Ms A was hoping for. I fully understand all the reasons 
why Ms A wants to remain in the property  both personal and professional. But the 
mortgage has been unaffordable for some time  and I acknowledge that this is largely for 
reasons outside Ms As control. Nonetheless, Barclays is entitled to payment of the 
mortgage and MCA overdraft, and in the event that a sustainable payment arrangement 
cant be reached, Barclays has the option to pursue payment through the courts. 
Ms A is not without options, however. There is probably around £600,000 equity in the 
property, and so although Ms A might be reluctant to move, there is the option of selling and 
buying another property free of mortgage, even in the same area in which she is now living. 
But if Ms A wants to stay in the property, this can only be on the basis of her being able to 
show that the mortgage is affordable over the remaining term, and that she is able to repay 
the arrears.
Ms A has explained that if Barclays does takes this matter to court, she will be raising all 
these issues with the judge. I will clarify that Ms A can raise in court anything she wishes, but 
if Ms A accepts my decision, it is legally binding on her and on Barclays.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I simply leave it to Ms A to decide if 
she wants to accept the £200 compensation offered by Barclays in full and final settlement of 
this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman