DRN-4275536
The complaint
Ms P complains that she is no longer able to use her store card issued by Home Retail 
Group Card Services Limited trading as Argos Card Services (Argos).
What happened
Ms P opened an account with Argos in 2004 and was given a store card to use. In October 
2022, Ms P tried to use her card but couldnt. She subsequently learnt the account was 
closed in September 2020. 
Ms P complained to Argos. They said that Ms Ps account had been closed due to inactivity 
and that she could reapply for a new Argos account and card. They offered Ms P a £20 
Argos voucher as they couldnt find any record of correspondence being sent to her to 
confirm the account would be closed. But they said they had decided not to issue a new 
card, in line with their business policy and process.
Before our investigator considered the case, Argos got in touch to say they had incorrectly 
told Ms P they hadnt sent her notification of their intention to close the account. Argos 
offered £50 to be paid to Ms P for the distress and inconvenience caused by this which was 
in addition to the £20 Argos voucher they had offered.
Our investigator felt Argos offer was fair. She said she was satisfied Argos had sent Ms P 
an e-mail giving her notice that they would close her account if it wasnt used within two 
months. And, as the last activity on the account was in April 2017, their decision to close it 
wasnt unreasonable. 
Ms P didnt agree and mentioned that her preferred method of contact was by post. She said 
she had no record of Argos sending her an e-mail about closing her account. Ms P also said 
she wasnt aware that the card had to be used within a six-month period as Argos had 
claimed and that it was strange that her card had a three-year usage period but a six-month 
dormancy period. 
Our investigator didnt change her view, so Ms P asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Ms P is disappointed that Argos closed her account due to inactivity. 
However, this isnt uncommon where cards havent been used for long periods of time. I 
gather theres no dispute that Ms P didnt use her card since December 2016 and that her 
account had been inactive since April 2017 when she repaid the account in full. 
Argos has sent us a copy of the terms and conditions for the account which says under 
section 10 that if you do not use your account we may end this agreement and close your 
account (by providing two months written notice), cancel or suspend your right to use your 
account and/or reduce your credit limit if it has been dormant, meaning there have been no 
purchases or there has been no balance owed to us for at least 6 months.
Ive looked on Argos website and it directs people to a link for three sets of terms and 
conditions relative to when the card was taken out. Each version of this has the term Ive 
quoted above contained within them. Im satisfied the term was applicable to Ms Ps account 
and that it was applied fairly. 
I realise Ms P says she didnt receive the e-mail notifying her that Argos would close the 
account. However, Ive seen persuasive evidence from Argos system that this was sent to 
Ms P (which weve shared with her). I also note that Ms P had told Argos that her preferred 
method of communication was by post. However, I think Argos was entitled to send the 
notification by e-mail, as it had her e-mail address in their records, and I think it was 
reasonable to assume that Ms P would receive this.
Overall, I dont think it was unreasonable for Argos to have closed the account or that they 
acted incorrectly in doing so. Argos has said that Ms P can reapply for an account if she 
wishes which seems reasonable.
Argos has offered Ms P £50 for incorrectly telling her that they didnt notify her of their 
intention to do close the account, and a £20 Argos voucher in their final response letter. I 
think this is a fair offer in view of the circumstances and the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Ms P by Argos conflicting information. 
Putting things right
Argos should pay Ms P a total of £70 as they have offered to do. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Home Retail Group Card Services Limited trading as 
Argos Card Services to:
pay Ms P £50 for the distress and inconvenience caused by incorrectly saying that 
they didnt notify her of their intention to close her account; and 
send Ms P the £20 Argos voucher as offered in their final response letter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2023. 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman