DRN-3249660
The complaint
Mr M complained that Loans2Go Limited lent to him irresponsibly. He also complained about 
the amount of interest charged on his loan and the length of the loan term.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in September 2021 that I summarise below. 
Mr M was given a loan of £300 by Loans2Go in February 2020. This was due to be repaid in 
18 monthly instalments of around £68. The total amount payable, including interest, was just 
over £1,234.
I explained the basis on which I would decide the complaint, in particular the checks that 
Loans2Go needed to do such as the amount being lent, and the consumers income and 
expenditure. 
I considered some overarching questions in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this particular complaint:
Did Loans2Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr 
M would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way? If so, did it make a fair 
lending decision? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have 
shown at the time?
Did Loans2Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I said that Loans2Go needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr M 
irresponsibly. This means that it had to carry out proportionate checks to satisfy itself that he 
could repay the loan in a sustainable way. These checks could take into account a number 
of different things, such as the loan amount, the repayment amounts and Mr Ms income and 
expenditure. But there was no set list of checks Loans2Go had to do.
I carefully considered all the evidence, arguments, and information Id seen about this matter 
and what it means for Mr M.
Loans2Go told us that Mr M applied for his loan online. Loans2Go asked for details of Mr 
Ms income and regular expenditure, and it acquired a credit check. The lender says it 
reduced its assessment of Mr Ms average monthly income using an online verification tool.
It also increased its assessment of Mr Ms regular expenditure and credit commitments, 
adding a 10% buffer for unexpected emergencies.
Id seen a summary of the information gathered by Loans2Go, including the loan application 
and credit report acquired by Loans2Go at the time.
From what Id seen, I thought the checks that Loans2Go carried out before lending to Mr M 
were reasonable and proportionate, in the circumstances.
There was very little adverse information on Mr Ms credit report. There were no CCJs or 
IVA; no defaults in the previous six months and accounts showing generally had a positive 
repayments record. I thought it would have been reasonable for Loans2Go to have 
considered the one defaulted account to be historic. Overall, I didnt think the credit report 
acquired by Loans2Go would have caused any additional concerns.
Mr M had provided his own credit report to us. I explained that generally, the information a 
consumer might see, when they request a copy of their credit file, might be very different to 
that seen by a lender. A lender might only see a portion of the credit file, or some data might 
be missing or anonymised, or the data might not be up to date. But new credit commitments 
can take some time to appear on a credit report and so dont always appear in any 
reasonable and proportionate checks that are carried out at the time. So, this may explain 
any differences between the information provided by Loans2Gos credit check and the 
information Mr M says it should have seen.
Mr M provided us with his bank statements and from what Id seen, he had taken out some 
additional short-term lending in the period before his application to Loans2Go. But I didnt 
think, on balance, it would have been reasonable or proportionate, in the circumstances of 
this particular case, for the lender to have requested bank statements from Mr M. 
I said that I recognised that Mr M had to maintain his repayments over an extended period of 
time. But taking things as a whole, I didnt think more in-depth checks were required in order 
for Loans2Gos checks to be reasonable and proportionate.
I considered whether the information that Loans2Go did gather should reasonably have led it 
to decline Mr Ms application. Overall, I didnt think there was anything which should have 
caused Loans2Go any additional concerns about Mr Ms financial position when he applied 
for his loan. Or that should have led the lender to reasonably conclude that lending to him 
would be unfair or irresponsible in some way.
Did Loans2Go treat Mr M unfairly in some other way?
Mr M thought the rate of interest was too high and that it was unfair for Loans2Go to charge 
more over an 18-month loan term than a 12-month term offered by payday lenders. But I 
explained that I thought the amount and rate of interest charged for his loan was in line with 
industry practice in relation to high cost lending at the time. And it seems that Loans2Go did 
provide him with information during the application process about the interest it was charging 
on his loan. I thought its likely that Mr M was aware he was taking a high cost loan. Taking 
everything into account, I could not fairly say that Loans2Go treated Mr M unfairly in relation 
to the term or the rate and amount of interest it charged on his loan.
I couldnt fairly say that I thought Loans2Go had acted irresponsibly when it provided Mr M 
with the loan. I invited both parties to send me any further comments or evidence. 
Mr M has sent us some further comments. In summary, he says that he had other loans from 
different lenders when he took the loan from Loans2Go and that he borrowed to maintain his 
repayments and pay for essentials. He has also told us he was financially vulnerable and 
refused credit by other lenders. Mr M says he took the loan because he was struggling 
financially and if he was in a good financial good position he wouldnt have done so. Mr M 
also thinks Loans2Go took advantage of him and tricked him into taking the loan. He says he 
doesnt want compensation he just wants Loans2Go to remove the interest associated with 
the loan so he can repay the loan with an affordable repayment plan.I have not seen any further comment from Loans2Go.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered Mr Ms additional comments, but they havent changed my view of 
his complaint.
I have explained in my provisional decision that I didnt think the credit report that Loans2Go 
acquired at the time would have caused the lender any additional concerns about Mr Ms 
financial position. I also explained that whilst I could see from Mr Ms bank statements that 
hed taken additional short term lending, I didnt think in the particular circumstances that it 
would have been reasonable or proportionate for Loans2Go to require more in depth 
information from Mr M such as bank statements from him. I think it was reasonable for 
Loans2Go to rely on the information Mr M provided and on its proportionate checks. 
I dont think the information that Loans2Go gathered should reasonably have led it to decline 
Mr Ms application. Or that it ought to have led Loans2Go to reasonably conclude that 
lending to him would be unfair or irresponsible.
I am sorry that Mr M thinks he was financially vulnerable at the time, but Ive not seen 
anything to make think that he made Loans2Go aware that he might be vulnerable when he 
applied for his loan. Mr M says he wouldnt have applied for the loan if he was in a good 
position financially and that he was tricked into taking the loan. But he has not explained how 
he thinks Loans2Go tricked him or took advantage of him and I have not seen anything to 
suggest that this was the case. 
I have thought carefully about all the evidence provided. Mr Ms further comments have not 
changed my view of this matter, so I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional 
decision. 
I cannot fairly say that Loans2Go acted irresponsibly when it provided Mr M with the loan 
and I havent seen anything which makes me think that Loans2Go treated him unfairly in 
some other way. Having taken everything into account, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
As I explained in my provisional decision, If Mr Ms loan is still outstanding, I would expect 
Loans2Go to be mindful of its obligation to treat him positively and sympathetically and to try 
to arrange a repayment plan that is affordable for Mr M.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Loans2Go Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2022.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman