DRN-1655007
 
The complaint
Mr B complains Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (trading as AA Loans) declined his loan application 
after indicating it was highly likely his application would be accepted.
What happened
In September 2019, Mr B applied for a personal loan with AA loans. He said its website 
indicated he had a nine out of ten chance of bring approved. However, when he submitted 
an application it was declined. He complained to AA Loans about this and asked that the 
credit search be removed from his credit file.
AA Loans explained its website does confirm that its eligibility checker is only for use as a 
guide and doesn't involve a full credit check. When his application was submitted, and a 
credit check was completed, it didn't meet the criteria set by its underwriters which is why it 
was declined. It didn't agree to remove the credit check from Mr B's record.
Mr B wasn't happy with this and referred the complaint to us where one of our investigators 
looked into things. Our investigator didn't think AA Loans had acted unfairly and didn't think 
the complaint should be upheld.
Mr B didn't agree. He didn't think it was fair that he'd been encouraged to apply for the loan 
by the website telling him he had a nine out of ten chance of being accepted and then his 
application being declined. He wanted this investigated further and asked for an ombudsman 
to review his complaint. So it's been passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B is clearly not happy with the way in which the loan was marketed to him. It isn't our role 
to tell a business how it should or shouldn't operate. That's a matter for the industry regulator 
- the FCA. Our role is to look into whether AA loans has made a mistake in this individual 
situation, and whether Mr B has lost out because of this.
I accept that Mr B applied for the loan when he was told that his chances of being successful 
were high - nine out of ten. However, I think this alone makes it clear that the application isn't 
guaranteed. And the website does explain in further detail that the loan is still subject to a 
credit check and underwriting. So I'm satisfied AA Loans did make it clear that Mr B's 
application wasn't guaranteed, despite the website indicating he had a high chance of 
success. And it was entitled to decline his application. 
Mr B would like to know why his application was declined when he was given such a high 
chance of being successful in his application initially. It will be frustrating for him, but this is 
commercially sensitive information for AA loans. And it isn't required to explained why it 
declined his application any further.I do understand why Mr B remains unhappy, but I don't think AA Loans has done anything 
wrong in this situation, so I'm not going to ask it to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2020.
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman