DRN-3571184
The complaint
Mr F complains about a fixed sum loan agreement (agreement) brokered on his behalf by 
Decidebloom Limited trading as Stoneacre (Stoneacre) with a company that I will call X.
What happened
On 11 September 2020 Mr F signed (electronically) an agreement for a used car costing 
£9,673. The car was approximately four years old and had travelled approximately 
24,000 miles. The full cash price of £9,673, plus a £3,300 shortfall from a previous 
agreement, was financed by Mr F with X.
Under the terms of the agreement, everything else being equal, Mr F undertook to make 48 
monthly payments of £300.86 followed by a final payment of £3,781  making a total 
repayable of £18,222.28 at an APR of 15.6%.
In August 2021 Mr F complained to our service. In summary he said Stoneacre had failed to 
explain to him the type and nature of the agreement he had entered into in September 2020.
In September 2021, and whilst Mr Fs complaint was with our service waiting allocation to an 
investigator, Stoneacre issued Mr F with a final response letter (FRL). Under cover of this 
FRL Stoneacre said it was satisfied that it had done nothing wrong in brokering the type of 
agreement it had, or in how it had done so.
In June 2022 Mr Fs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the 
view that Stoneacre had done nothing wrong in its brokering of Mr Fs agreement.
Mr F didnt agree and so his complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Mr F has very strong feelings about this complaint. He has provided detailed 
submissions in support of his view which I can confirm Ive read and considered in their 
entirety. However, I trust that Mr F will not take the fact that my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as 
a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every point raised. The purpose 
of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them. 
I would also like to point out that Im only considering in this decision Mr Fs complaint that 
Stoneacre failed to explain to him the type and nature of the agreement he had entered into, 
nothing else. And that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, 
Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities - that is, what I consider is most likely 
to have happened given the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
Now I accept I cant say for certain that Mr F is wrong in his submission that the agreement 
wasnt adequately explained to him (and he was pressured into signing it). But on the 
balance of probabilities Im not persuaded that this is what happened. I say this for the 
following reasons:
The agreement Mr F electronically signed is clearly headed Fixed Sum Loan 
Agreement. And in my view this could and should have been apparent to Mr F by 
just a cursory glance on his part. In other words, this could and should have been 
apparent to Mr F even if he hadnt read the agreement in its entirety.
Mr F signed the agreement below/adjacent to a section headed PLEASE READ 
BEFORE YOU SIGN which (amongst other things) stated:
o[I] have received and have had an opportunity to consider and take away the 
pre-contract credit information (Standard European Consumer Credit 
Information) form before signing the agreement
As well as signing the agreement, Mr F also signed (electronically) a Compliance 
Document. Under cover of this document Mr F confirmed  amongst other things:
ohe had been given copies of a number of documents including a copy of the 
signed agreement and a copy of the disclosure document
ohe was aware of the type of agreement he was entering into or had entered 
into and that he was aware that alternative funding sources were available
ohe had been given an adequate explanation of the agreement he was 
entering into or had entered into
ohe understood how the agreement worked
othe agreement was affordable
Mr F signed (electronically) a Finance Proposal Form to allow one or more financial 
providers to consider lending to him.
A number of documents (including but not restricted to the disclosure document, the 
finance proposal and the compliance document) were emailed to Mr F and received 
by him.
Mr F confirmed, by return email, that the documents sent to him by email (including 
but not restricted to the disclosure document, the finance proposal and the 
compliance document) had been explained to him in full.
Other than Mr Fs testimony, Ive seen no evidence that he was pressured into 
signing anything. This includes seeing no evidence that Mr F was given no, or 
insufficient, time to consider his position before committing to the agreement that he 
did. Or that Stoneacre refused to return to him his existing car which meant he had 
no choice but to enter the agreement he did because had he not done so he would 
have been car less.I appreciate Mr F will be disappointed by my decision but given what I say above Im not 
persuaded that Stoneacre did anything wrong in the particular circumstances of this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman