DRN-2830303
The complaint
Ms C is unhappy with how Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead), formerly known as 
Legal & General Insurance Limited, handled a claim made on her Holiday Home Insurance 
policy.
  
What happened
 On 21 November 2019 Ms C suffered a fire at her home. Thankfully, Ms C escaped with 
only minor injuries, but her home was left uninhabitable and most of her contents were 
damaged or destroyed. Ms C made a claim on her home insurance the following day and 
asked Fairmead if shed be eligible for alternative accommodation. Fairmead told her shed 
need to pay for any accommodation herself and keep the receipts. Fairmead said Ms C told 
it shed stay with family.
Fairmead produced a preliminary report on 2 December 2019 saying Ms C had found 
alternative accommodation available from 17 December 2019. The report noted that Ms Cs 
representative had asked Fairmead to agree Ms Cs accommodation costs and to appoint an 
accommodation bureau to undertake the logistics to secure the property for Ms C.
Ms Cs representative contacted Fairmead on 10 December 2019 asking for the 
authorisation of her alternative accommodation as a matter of urgency. Ms Cs 
representative contacted Fairmead again a few days later because Ms C hadnt received an 
accommodation payment and the property could be available on the 21 December 2019. 
Fairmead issued the payment the same day and Ms C moved herself into the 
accommodation before Christmas.
Shortly after moving, Ms C says her representative contacted Fairmead because there were 
issues with the property making it unsuitable. Ms C found another property with a rental 
agreement starting around the middle of January 2020.
On 15 January 2020, Fairmeads loss adjuster produced an interim payment report. The 
report said Ms C should receive a second accommodation payment. But Ms C hadnt 
received this payment by 23 January 2020 and complained. Ms C said she also asked 
Fairmead for a copy of its complaints procedure and a copy of the report about the fire and 
its cause from the previous month. Fairmead issued the second accommodation payment on 
24 January 2020 and paid for Ms Cs rent up until the 14 April 2020. Ms C said the landlord 
allowed her to move into the property despite Fairmead releasing the funds late.
Fairmead issued its Final Response Letter (FRL). It said its loss adjuster provided its report 
on 15 January 2020 and the payment was processed on 23 January 2020. Fairmead said 
that because it had met its internal timeframe for processing reports, there hadnt been a 
delay.
Fairmead issued another interim report on 13 May 2020, recommending an accommodation 
payment for around £6,000 to cover Ms Cs rent from 15 April 2020 until 14 July 2020. Ms 
Cs representative contacted Fairmead on 21 May 2020 because shed not received the third 
payment and said she was being threatened with eviction. Ms C received the 
accommodation payment at the beginning of June 2020 along with a £5,000 contents 
payment she says she requested in February 2020.
At the end of June 2020, Ms C contacted this service. She said Fairmeads FRL hadnt 
addressed everything shed complained about in January 2020 and itd sent its response to 
her fire-damaged and uninhabited house. Ms C said the delays in releasing funds in 
December 2019 meant thered not been enough time to book a removal company before 
Christmas, so Ms C had to enter her fire-damaged house to carry out the move herself. She 
said Fairmead shouldve provided her with more help and financial assistance with her 
relocations and hadnt appointed an accommodation bureau as promised. 
Ms C told us rent payments were consistently late, as was the £5,000 contents payment 
requested in February 2020. She said Fairmead still hadnt given her a copy of the report 
about the fire and its cause or its complaints procedure. She said thered been unacceptable 
delays to the refurbishment of her house because Fairmead failed to progress matters in a 
reasonable manner and that during these delays the condition of her property had 
deteriorated.
Ms C made a second complaint to Fairmead reiterating many of the points shed raised with 
us. Fairmead agreed that - rather than carrying out its own investigation and providing a 
response to Ms Cs second complaint - we should investigate it alongside Ms Cs first 
complaint. 
On 21 July 2020, Fairmead issued another interim payment report recommending an 
accommodation payment for Ms Cs rent from 15 July 2020 until 14 November 2020. The 
payment was approved by Fairmead on 24 July 2020.
Our investigator upheld both complaints. He said Ms Cs accommodation payments were 
late on a number of occasions. He said Fairmead delayed the progress of Ms Cs claim by 
about two months when it failed to review the scope of work sent to it on 17 March 2020 until 
7 May 2020. But our investigator didnt think it unreasonable for Fairmead to have wanted to 
investigate Ms Cs claim before paying any accommodation costs. And that by paying Ms 
Cs accommodation costs on 19 December 2019, Fairmead hadnt prevented Ms C from 
securing a property. Our investigator felt £250 compensation was fair and reasonable. 
Ms C asked for an ombudsmans decision. She said £250 wasnt enough compensation and 
Fairmeads review of the scope of work caused a delay of 20 weeks, not two months. 
I asked Fairmead for a recording of the complaint call to establish the points Ms C had 
raised in January 2020. Fairmead said there wasnt a recording because Ms C had 
complained to its loss adjuster who doesnt record calls. So I asked Ms C about the points 
she felt Fairmead hadnt addressed. She said Fairmead hadnt considered its failure to 
appoint an accommodation bureau, the delays caused by its loss adjuster failing to submit 
costs for approval in a timely way or Ms Cs distress at potentially being left homeless 
because of the late accommodation payments.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision was that I was minded to uphold Ms Cs complaint and require 
Fairmead to pay Ms C more compensation for her distress and inconvenience than our 
investigator awarded in his view. 
I explained my provisional findings to both parties as follows:
 Im sorry that Ms C experienced a fire at her home  it must have been a horrific experience 
for her. Im pleased she has recovered from her physical injuries.
Fairmead was unable to provide a recording of Ms Cs complaint call, so it hasnt given me 
any reason to doubt Ms Cs testimony about what she says shed complained about in 
January 2020. So my decision will cover these points and those Ms C raised in her second 
complaint.
Ms C has raised other issues with this service about Fairmeads handling of her claim which 
have occurred after she made her second complaint. Ms C would need to first raise these 
with Fairmead, if shes not already done so, and give Fairmead the chance to respond to 
them before this service can consider them.
Ms C has mentioned lost rental income. Its not clear if Fairmead has considered this as part 
of Ms Cs claim. If not, Ms C is free to raise this with Fairmead for its consideration.
Alternative accommodation payments
A number of Ms Cs accommodation payments were paid to her after she needed them. For
example:
Fairmead knew the day after the fire that Ms C needed alternative accommodation. 
But it didnt make her first accommodation payment until the 19 December 2019. Ms 
C wasnt then able to move into alternative accommodation until almost a month after 
the fire. I think its reasonable for Ms C to have expected to be settled into alternative 
accommodation much sooner than this.
Fairmead knew Ms Cs next accommodation payment would be due around 19 
January 2020. But didnt pay it until 24 January 2020 and after Ms C chased 
Fairmead for the payment.
Fairmead issued an accommodation payment to Ms C in February 2020 to cover her 
rent up to the 14 April 2020. But Ms C had to wait until 5 June 2020 to receive the 
next payment - almost two months after she needed it.
Fairmead issued Ms C with an accommodation payment to cover her rent until 14 
July 2020. Its report, recommending release of the next payment, was issued on 21 
July and payment approved on 24 July 2020  two weeks after Ms C needed it.
Fortunately, the late accommodation payments didnt cause Ms C to become homeless. But 
they would have caused Ms C trouble and upset, which I think she should be awarded 
compensation for.
Arranging alternative accommodation
I asked Ms C to provide me with details of any help or support shed requested or been 
offered by Fairmead with her relocations. Ms C provided copies of emails from her 
representative telling her itd discussed the appointment of an accommodation bureau with 
Fairmeads loss adjuster. I havent seen any evidence that Ms C ever told Fairmead she was
minded to make her own arrangements. And Fairmeads preliminary report noted that Ms
Cs representative had asked it to appoint an accommodation bureau.
Fairmead told me it decided it didnt need to be involved in Ms Cs relocation because shed 
appointed a loss adjuster, had been staying with friends and had sourced accommodation herself. It also told me it mayve been wary about arranging alternative accommodation for 
Ms C before liability had been accepted.
But I dont think its reasonable for Fairmead to have failed to offer Ms C help for these 
reasons, especially when Ms C had asked Fairmead for help. Also, Fairmead paid Ms Cs 
December 2019 accommodation payment before it accepted liability, so Im not sure why it 
couldnt also have helped Ms C with her relocation. I dont think its reasonable for Fairmead 
to have delayed Ms Cs move into alternative accommodation by almost a month whilst it 
decided whether to accept liability. So I think Fairmead should compensate Ms C for the 
trouble and upset its caused here.
Contents payment requested in February 2020
I asked Fairmead why it took until June 2020 to pay Ms C the £5,000 she requested in
February 2020 for her contents claim.
Fairmead said that during February and March 2020, it told Ms Cs representative that 
before it could issue the payment, it needed to see invoices for items purchased and 
evidence that previous amounts paid had been expended. Fairmead said Ms Cs 
representative didnt think it necessary to provide this information because of other 
information it had already sent Fairmead. Fairmead said Ms Cs representative provided an 
invoice for £1,880 on 17 March 2020 and that it paid the £5,000 to Ms C in early June 2020. 
It appears the payment was made without all the information Fairmead initially said it 
needed.
Its reasonable for Fairmead to want to take time to consider Ms Cs request. But I dont think
its reasonable for it to have taken four months to do so - especially when it appears it
eventually made the payment without the information it requested. I think the delay would
have caused Ms C trouble and upset and she should be awarded compensation for this.
Schedule of works
Ms Cs representative said it sent the schedule to Fairmead on 17 March 2020. Fairmead 
said it had begun to action it on 7 May 2020. So the delay was about seven weeks, rather 
than 20 weeks. Fairmead said there was no justifiable explanation for the delay, which I think 
would have delayed the progress of Ms Cs claim and caused her trouble and upset that she 
should be compensated for.
Delays causing further deterioration
It wouldnt be fair for me to comment here on the deterioration of Ms Cs property because I 
havent seen any expert evidence from either Ms C or Fairmead concerning any 
deterioration or its cause. If Ms C wishes to pursue this matter through this service, she 
should consider commissioning an experts report setting out the nature and extent of any 
deterioration and its cause. An experts report will take time to commission and for Fairmead 
- and subsequently this service - to review. So I think it would be fairer to Ms C if she were to 
raise this matter as a separate complaint to Fairmead if necessary - and subsequently with 
this service if she wishes  allowing the remedy of her other complaint points in the 
meantime.Other matters
I understand that Fairmead has now provided Ms C with a copy of the report she requested. 
But I can see Ms C has suffered other incidences of poor communication, poor service and 
delays concerning the handling of her claim that have caused her trouble and upset and 
which I think she should be compensated for.
Fairmead and Ms C have both accepted my provisional decision. And neither party has 
provided any additional information or comments.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered the responses of both parties to my provisional decision. 
Because both parties have accepted my provisional decision and havent provided any 
further comment or information, Ive decided uphold Ms Cs complaint in line with my 
provisional decision. So Fairmead should pay Ms C £500 compensation for her distress and 
inconvenience.
My final decision
I uphold Ms Cs complaint. I instruct Fairmead Insurance Limited to pay Ms C a total of £500 
compensation for her distress and inconvenience.
Fairmead Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell it Ms C accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Ruth Peek
Ombudsman