DRN-4371924
The complaint
P, a limited company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc has unfairly declined its application 
for a business bank account.
Ps complaint is brought by Mrs B, a director of P.
What happened
P held a business bank account with HSBC which it closed in late 2022 due to an anticipated 
change in the way P ran its business. After the change didnt happen, P applied for a new 
business account in 2023 but HSBC declined its application.
Mrs B pointed out that despite HSBC saying her application was declined due a low credit 
score, she has a high credit score.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Ps complaint be upheld. In summary he said that 
HSBC used a credit scoring system to assess applications and that P didnt meet the criteria. 
Our investigator said he was satisfied that HSBC had declined Ps application fairly but 
couldnt share some of the information that hed seen as it is commercially sensitive.
Mrs B was unhappy with the investigation outcome. She said shed never been refused 
credit and that any outstanding debt she had was low and would be settled within a few 
days. Mrs B felt let down by HSBC after being a customer for many years.
As Mrs B remains unhappy with the outcome, the complaint has come to me to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mrs B frustration with HSBCs decision to decline Ps business bank account 
application, particularly as she has been a long standing customer but this was a commercial 
decision that HSBC was entitled to make. This service wont usually interfere in a 
businesses commercial discretion. However, I can still consider whether HSBC made the 
decision fairly.
Although Mrs B has provided evidence of her personal credit worthiness, it was P which 
applied for the business account with HSBC. So, when HSBC refers to having a low credit 
score, it means the credit score associated with P, rather than Mrs B.
As our investigator told Mrs B, businesses sometimes share information with us on a 
confidential basis. The evidence that HSBC has provided  some of which I cant share 
because of its commercial sensitivity  shows that Ps bank account application was rejected 
in line with HSBCs internal processes.
Im satisfied that HSBC treated P fairly when it provided the primary reason why it decided 
not to lend and gave the name of the credit reference agency it used to check Ps credit 
score. As I dont think HSBC acted unreasonably, I am not asking it to take any further action 
in response to Ps complaint. I am sorry if this comes as a disappointment to Mrs B.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman