DRN-3652889
The complaint
Mr B complains that Embark Services Limited (Embark) has continued to charge him annual 
management fees even though the only investment he now holds in his Self-invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP), the Premier Diversified Property Fund (Premier), is in 
administration and has no realisable value. 
What happened
Mr B transferred his existing pensions to a SIPP with Embark. He invested some of those 
funds in the Premier investment on the advice of his then financial adviser (a financial 
advisory firm based abroad, where he was living at the time). 
Unfortunately, the Premier investment went into administration in around 2018. 
Mr B transferred the liquid funds in his SIPP away from his Embark SIPP to a pension with 
another provider. A small cash balance was retained in the SIPP to cover future fees. 
Background to the complaint
Mr B complained to Embark about the charges it was applying. Embark didnt uphold his 
complaint, it said that by signing the SIPP application form in 2007, Mr B agreed to pay fees 
as set out in the schedule of fees. And, whilst the Premier investment was undergoing 
liquidation, until it has been wound up, the SIPP remains active and Embark continues to 
administer it. Unhappy with Embarks response, Mr B referred his complaint to us. Embark 
provided us with a breakdown of the then current position with the SIPP, it also offered to: 
Cease applying any further fees to the SIPP. 
No longer require Mr B to retain a cash balance within his SIPP  meaning that a 
cash balance of just under £800 would be available to Mr B to withdraw as an 
uncrystallised flexible pension lump sum or to transfer to another provider (subject to 
the relevant fees being met for the transaction). 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Bs complaint. He didnt think that Embark needed to 
take any further action, he considered Embarks offer to be fair. Mr B disagreed, he said: 
The view didnt take into account the loss his SIPP suffered when the Premier 
investment went into administration. 
Prior to this, Embark were managing his SIPP with a value of around £55,000, so the 
management fees were reasonable. 
When he decided to move the balance of his SIPP to a different provider, Embark 
told him that he couldnt close the SIPP, due to the Premier investment being in 
administration, but Embark didnt tell him that it would continue to deduct the same 
level of management fees. 
The position, in relation to the SIPP, fundamentally changed when Premier went into 
administration, and he transferred the rest of his SIPP away from Embark. 
Since then, Embark has been charging him annual management fees for an asset 
that is in administration and has no realisable value, which isnt fair under the 
circumstances. 
Because agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Bs complaint was escalated for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
More recently Mr B sent us evidence of a recent fee deducted by Embark. We sent Mr Bs 
comments to Embark along with what he said in response to the investigators view about 
his investment losses. 
Embark told us that the fee had been deducted in error and that it would arrange for a refund 
to be processed. It has also confirmed it would investigate these issues as a new complaint, 
seeing as these hadnt previously been investigated. 
I sent my provisional decision to Mr B and Embark explaining why I didnt think this 
complaint should be upheld. I said that I would consider anything either party wanted to add. 
Embark didnt have anything further to add. Mr B disagreed with my provisional decision. 
Briefly, he said:
The basis of our findings is the contract he signed in March 2007, but that contract 
was fundamentally changed in March 2019, when he transferred all of his realisable 
assets to another pension provider. 
At that stage Embark should have issued him with another contract that accurately 
reflected the new position. 
It is incorrect for Embark and our service to reference a contract which doesnt 
accurately reflect the current situation. 
Since then, Embark has separately issued a final response in relation to the fee recently 
charged in error. Embark upheld Mr Bs complaint, it confirmed again that the £288 would be 
refunded and the account updated to ensure no further fees are charged. Additionally, 
Embark confirmed that the fees it deducted in 2019, 2020 and 2021 would be refunded and 
that it would not apply a charge if Mr B decides to move the remaining cash away from his 
Embark SIPP. Embark confirmed that a total of £828 will be returned to Mr Bs SIPP 
account. It also offered Mr B £50 for any distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr B has confirmed that he has accepted this offer and that the matter has now been 
brought to a satisfactory conclusion.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My findings remain as set out in my provisional decision; Ive largely reiterated these below. 
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Ive taken into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and codes of practice; and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time.
Its my role to fairly and reasonably decide if the business has done anything wrong in 
respect of the individual circumstances of the complaint made and  if I find that the 
business has done something wrong  award compensation for any material loss or distress 
and inconvenience suffered by the complainant as a result of this. Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable in this complaint I consider the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) Principles for Business to be of particular relevance.
The Principles for Businesses (PRIN) which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a 
general statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system 
(PRIN 1.1.2G  at the relevant date). 
In addition, in British Bankers Association, R (on the application of) v The Financial Services 
Authority & Anon (2011) EWHC 999 (20 April 2011) Ousely J said: 
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman 
to reach a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what 
would be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even if no Principles had 
been produced by the FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory 
duty without having regard to the sort of high level principles which find expression in 
the Principles, whoever formulated them. They are the essence of what is fair and 
reasonable, subject to the argument about their relationship to specific rules (para 
77). 
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the 
specific rules are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The 
specific rules do not supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They are 
but specific applications of them to the particular requirements they cover. The 
general notion that the specific rules can exhaust the application of the Principles is 
inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the Principles to augment specific rules 
(para 162).
I consider Principle 6 to be of particular relevance: 
Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers 
and treat them fairly 
In September 2009 the FSA published a thematic review report on SIPPs which stated: 
We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, 
are bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due 
regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly) insofar as they are 
obliged to ensure the fair treatment of their customers. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a 
member of a pension scheme is a client for COBS purposes, and Customer in 
terms of Principle 6 includes clients 
The context that these comments were made in was in relation to the quality of the business 
that a SIPP operator accepts. Mr Bs complaint relates instead to the fees Embark has 
charged under the circumstances, but I think these comments are still relevant in this 
instance because its clear from the regulators comments that SIPP operators were obliged 
to ensure fair treatment of their customers.
Ive carefully considered Embarks obligation to treat its customers (and specifically Mr B) 
fairly when deciding what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Overall, I think that Embarks offer is fair and reasonable under the circumstances. 
As confirmed in the background to this complaint Embark has told us that: It will allow Mr B to transfer or withdraw the remaining cash held in his SIPP and will 
not require him to keep a cash buffer in his SIPP to cover fees. 
The SIPP will need to remain open but Embark will not charge Mr B ongoing 
administration fees.
In light of Mr Bs complaint, I think the above is fair. This, in summary, is because: 
It wasnt unreasonable that Embark charged Mr B some fees for the administration of 
his SIPP. 
Allowing Mr B to transfer all of the cash remaining in his SIPP and waiving any 
further ongoing fees should allow Mr B to retain as much of the remaining value of 
the pension as possible. 
The transfer or withdrawal of funds from a pension does involve administrative work, so I 
dont think it would be unreasonable for Embark to charge a fee for this. I note however that 
Embark has since confirmed that it would not charge a fee if Mr B elects to move the 
remaining cash balance from his SIPP. 
As I mentioned previously, Mr B has separately accepted the aforementioned recent offer 
from Embark and has confirmed that this has resolved his concerns about the fees levied.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Nicola Curnow
Ombudsman