DRN-1189279
 
The complaint
Mrs H has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a loan payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs H took out the PPI in 2010 at the same time as arranging the loan in a branch of Lloyds. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mrs H says she took the loan and PPI out over the phone. However Lloyds has provided 
evidence that it was a branch sale. So it seems clear that Mrs H has little recollection of the 
sale, which isnt surprising given how much time has elapsed.
Lloyds doesnt have a copy of the actual application form that was filled in for Mrs Hs sale. 
However it has provided a copy of the type of form that was in use at the time. And Lloyds 
has been able to provide a system note recording the answers that Mrs H gave to questions 
she was asked during the meeting.
The application form had a separate section for PPI. An applicant needed to tick and sign in 
that section to request the PPI. The system record shows that PPI has been added to the 
loan. It has also recorded Mrs Hs response to a number of questions about her 
circumstances to ensure that the policy was suitable for her.
Based on the available evidence, I think its likely that the PPI was presented as optional. I 
consider that Mrs H probably decided to take it out, knowing she didnt have to, even if she 
no longer remembers doing so.
Lloyds advised Mrs H to buy the policy. Therefore, in recommending it to her, it needed to 
ensure that it met her needs. And based on what I know of Mrs Hs circumstances at the 
time, the PPI was suitable for her.
Lloyds records show that Mrs H was borrowing £5,000 to pay off her credit cards and 
overdraft. Shes said that, as she was refinancing, a single premium policy wasnt suitable 
for her. But to be clear, the PPI was a regular premium policy that Mrs H was paying for on a monthly basis. As such it could have been cancelled at any time without financial penalty. 
Therefore it wasnt unsuitable for her on the basis that she was paying off debt and 
potentially likely to refinance again.
Mrs H says she would have received around six months sick pay from her employer. But the 
policy would have paid out in addition to this and potentially for longer than she would have 
received full pay for.
Mrs H says she had £3,000 in savings. But Lloyds sale record shows that she answered 
No when asked if she had any savings. I also doubt that shed have been borrowing £5,000 
to pay off debt if she the level of savings she recalls. Regardless, having the policy would 
have allowed her to retain any savings or use them to cover other outgoings at what would 
have been a difficult time. Overall, I consider that Mrs H had a need for the policy and could 
have benefitted from it if shed been unable to work due to accident, sickness or 
unemployment.
Its possible that Lloyds didnt provide as much information about the policy is it could have, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mrs H wasnt affected by any of those 
things. As I consider that Mrs H had an interest in the PPI and decided to buy it, I dont think 
that further information would have caused her to change her mind. 
This means that Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H. But 
Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H because: 
When the policy was sold, Lloyds expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs H about 
that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mrs H, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mrs H.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mrs H any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman