DRN-3408491
The complaint
Miss S complains that a car that was supplied to her under a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality. She also complains that she was told 
that she could return the car and the agreement would be ended. 
What happened
A used car was supplied to Miss S under a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn that 
she signed in November 2020. She complained to Moneybarn about some issues with the 
car in January 2021 and it arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent expert. 
Moneybarn then said that no faults had been found with the car, cancelation of the 
agreement hadnt been agreed and that the car was available for collection from the dealer. 
Miss S wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service and hasnt collected 
the car.
Our investigator didnt recommend that her complaint should be upheld. She said that 
Moneybarn had demonstrated that there was nothing wrong with the car so there hadnt 
been a breach of contract which would make it liable for repairs or rejection of the car. She 
didnt think that it was unreasonable that it wouldnt unwind the agreement. 
Miss S has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She says that she 
has neither the financial means nor the intention to pay the amounts due under the 
agreement. She says that the car was faulty when it was supplied to her and that it must 
have been repaired before the inspection took place. She also says that shes received 
threatening phone calls from the dealer and has contacted the police.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
Moneybarn, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss S - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;
the car that was supplied to Miss S was about five years old, had been driven for 
103,000 miles and had a price of £8,387;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
Miss S phoned Moneybarn in January 2021 about some issues with the car, 
including that the gear knob had fallen off, the passenger seatbelt warning was 
beeping when the seat wasnt being used, the rubber door sills were broken and a 
pipe had burst  and she said that the car was being collected by the dealer;
Moneybarns notes of that phone call say that Miss S thought that the dealer would 
unwind the agreement but that it advised her that it would need confirmation of that 
from the dealer and the finance broker;
Moneybarn arranged for the car to be inspected later that month and the inspection 
report, which recorded the cars mileage as 105,657 miles, said: In our opinion 
based on the visible evidence we would conclude that we found no issues with the 
vehicle at the time of our inspection. The outer seals on the nearside rear and offside 
rear doors showed commensurate aging and splitting. However, this did not detract 
from the vehicles overall condition. The split seals would not cause water ingress and 
are fitted for reduction of wind noise only. We were unable to replicate any of the 
reported issues at the time of our inspection. We do consider the vehicle is safe to 
return to normal service use and the selling agent is not responsible for any costs of 
repairs;
the car had passed an MOT test, with no advisories, in October 2020  before it was 
supplied to Miss S  and its mileage at that time was 103,442;
Miss S had agreed to make 59 monthly payments of £278.87 for the car to be 
supplied to her but shes stopped making those payments to Moneybarn and hasnt 
collected the car from the dealer;
I sympathise with Miss S for the concerns that she has about the car and which she 
says were identified by a friend who is a mechanic  but the car has been inspected 
by an independent expert and no fault has been found;
Miss S says that the car must have been repaired before the inspection took place  
but, if it has been repaired and the repairs have dealt with the issues, I would 
consider that to be a reasonable response to those issues;
Ive seen no other evidence to show that there are faults with the car and Im not 
persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied to Miss S or that it would be fair and reasonable in these 
circumstances for Miss S to be allowed to reject the car;
nor have I seen enough evidence to persuade me that the dealer had agreed that the 
agreement would be unwound and its clear that Moneybarn, which supplied the car 
to Miss S and was the other party to the agreement, hadnt agreed to unwind the 
agreement;
Moneybarn has confirmed that the car is in its possession and that it now intends to 
sell it which is likely to result in a default termination of the agreement;
Miss S has described her financial and other difficulties  and I also sympathise with 
her for those difficulties - our investigator has provided her with details of 
organisations that might be able to help her with her financial difficulties and 
Moneybarn is required to respond to those difficulties positively and sympathetically;
Miss S says that shes received threatening phone calls from the dealer and has 
contacted the police  I again sympathise with her for any issues that shes been 
caused by the dealers calls but that isnt something for which Moneybarn is 
responsible and Im unable to require it to take any action about those calls  Miss S 
says that shes contacted the police and our investigator has provided her with the 
details of Trading Standards and the Motor Ombudsman who might be able to help 
her with her issues with the dealer; andI find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require 
Moneybarn to allow Miss S to reject the car, to end the conditional sale agreement, to 
pay her any compensation or to take any other action in response to her complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 May 2022. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman