DRN-3422657
The complaint
Mr B complains that Zurich Insurance PLC unfairly declined the claim he made on his marine 
insurance policy, after his yacht was damaged. He also complains his premium wasnt 
refunded, despite asking for his policy to be cancelled.
What happened
Mr Bs policy provides cover for accidental damage to his yacht. In February 2021, he wrote 
to Zurich to make a claim. His letter set out the following:
- In March 2020, Mr B asked an engineer to remove his yacht from the water and to 
repair a small leak at the propeller shaft. However, due to the pandemic, the yacht 
wasnt removed until October 2020. During the time the yacht was in the water, its 
batteries were attached to mains power and no water damage occurred.
- After the yacht was removed from the water, further pandemic restrictions meant no 
works could be undertaken. Mr B understood his yacht had been properly secured 
and closed by the engineer and the marina staff. However, in February 2021, he 
found his yacht had suffered significant damage due to it not being secured or 
covered properly.
Zurich appointed a surveyor to inspect the yacht, and he attended in May 2021 The surveyor 
noted he had previously inspected the yacht in 2014 for a previous claim. He said he had 
reviewed his previous report and photos, and it was obvious the yacht had deteriorated 
since 2014. His latest report explained the following:
- The external hull topside paint was found in a poor condition. This wasnt related to 
the claim. The marina has provided a photo from February 2020, which shows the 
hull was dirty. The deck and superstructure were also in a dirty condition. Photos 
from February 2020 indicate the working deck was already in a poor condition.
- The cockpit side decks had been partially stripped prior to the surveyors inspection, 
and some of the remaining plywood was rotten. The surveyor noted it was unclear 
how much of the rot was historic.
- The saloon had standing water, and an electric pump was being used at the time of 
the inspection. The cabin linings were water damaged from long-term condensation 
and moisture. Most water damage was considered to have occurred during the last 
12 months, but there had been no mitigation since February 2021.
- It was clear that standing water had been around the engine block casting, and the 
starter motor and batteries had been under water, for some time.
- The cockpit spray hood and covers were quite old. It was noted they were the same 
ones from 2014. The surveyor concluded their failing was age related and the items 
were at the end of their serviceable life.
- The surveyor accepted the engineer hadnt fitted covers onto the cockpit area in an 
appropriate way. However, he concluded most of the damage was age-related and 
this had likely been accelerated in the last 12 months due to not being better 
protected.
- The surveyor also identified an issue with water not being discharged overboard, and 
he considered that to be the main cause of the water damage. He explained that, on 
the rear deck theres a recessed gas locker where water collects and discharges 
overboard through a deck drain. However, the drains pipework had become 
detached, allowing most of the water to run inboard.
In view of the surveyors findings, Zurich declined the claim. Zurich said the issues, whilst 
accelerated over the last 12 months, were due to a lack of maintenance before the first 
lockdown in March 2020. Zurich relied on the following policy exclusion:
-Loss or damage caused by wear, tear, depreciation or gradual damage if the vessel 
is over 3 years old, unless you are able to provide evidence that the insured property 
has been maintained appropriately.
Zurich noted it would be prepared to revisit the claim if Mr B provided clear evidence of 
regular maintenance and previous survey reports.
Mr B explained he wasnt claiming for the maintenance that was required. He said he was 
claiming for the damage that was caused as a result of not being able to carry out repairs 
during the pandemic; and the damage that was caused by the engineer leaving the yacht 
open to the elements, the canopies unsecured, and the yacht not attached to mains 
electricity. 
Mr B agreed that water not being discharged overboard was a maintenance problem. But he 
made the point that he had identified there was a water ingress issue and he was having it 
investigated by a registered marine engineer.
Mr B said it was assumed the yacht would be safe once out of the water, but the issue was 
magnified by winter downpours and detritus blocking the drainage. He said the yacht filled 
with water and damage was done; and the canopies and the rigging were free to blow 
around, causing damage. He said had the yacht been left in the water, attached to 
electricity and the canopies secured, damage wouldnt have occurred.
Zurich maintained its claim decision. It said the policy doesnt cover a lack of maintenance or 
damage caused by it, and the decision would only be reconsidered if Mr B proved the yacht 
had been maintained by way of survey reports.
During Mr Bs complaint he asked for his policy to be cancelled and his premium returned, 
given the policy had just renewed and the damage wouldnt be covered. However, Zurich 
didnt respond to his cancellation request or his complaint about that point.
Mr B brought his complaint to our service. One of investigators didnt think the claim had 
been unfairly declined. Like Zurich, she also didnt consider Mr Bs complaint about the 
policy cancellation request. Mr B asked for a final decision from an ombudsman, so his 
complaint has been passed to me.
Ive already issued a provisional decision, explaining that I intend to uphold this complaint in 
part, in respect of the premium refund. In my provisional decision, I said:Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Where evidence is inconclusive, incomplete, or contradictory, Ive reached my decision on 
the balance of probabilities. This means Ive determined what I consider is more likely to 
have happened, based on all the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
Was the claim declined in-line with the policy terms?
Mr Bs policy covers accidental damage. Whilst the policy doesnt define accidental damage, 
the applicable section explains loss or damage is covered, subject to the exclusions. Zurich 
has relied on the following exclusion listed within the accidental damage coverage:
-Loss or damage caused by wear, tear, depreciation or gradual damage if the vessel 
is over 3 years old, unless you are able to provide evidence that the insured property 
has been maintained appropriately.
Theres also the following general exclusion in the policy, that also applies to the accidental 
damage cover:
-damage caused by wear, tear, depreciation or gradual deterioration where you are 
unable to evidence that the vessel has been maintained appropriately including 
checks on the affected part at least annually.
As I understand it, Zurich accepts the cockpit covers werent fitted appropriately and that this 
contributed to the failure of the cockpits plywood coverings. However, Zurich also considers 
the plywood damage to be largely age related; and the cockpit spray and hood covers had 
likely failed because of their age, with material easily being torn.
Zurich concluded that the main cause of the water damage to the cockpit, saloon and cabin 
areas, and the engine, starter motor and batteries, was the failure of the deck drain due to 
pipework being detached.
Mr B acknowledged the yachts superstructure was already in a poor aesthetic state and the 
cockpit plywood needed to be replaced. I understand he isnt claiming for those issues. But 
rather, Mr B is claiming for the damage to the unsecured canopy and/or covers, the water 
damage caused by the failure of the deck drain, and for the impact damage to the cabin 
caused by the unsecured rigging.
Mr B says had there not been a wrong diagnosis, the yacht would have been left in the water 
and connected to electricity, and the water wouldnt have accumulated as the bilges were 
working. Mr B also says that the only reason the correct diagnosis wasnt made after the 
yacht was taken out of the water, was because the pandemic restrictions prevented the 
work. However, even if what Mr B says here is correct, the policy exclusions still apply.
Understandably, Mr B hasnt identified an accident that caused the pipework to detach. But 
given thats the case, the problem can only reasonably be considered to have been caused 
by wear or gradual deterioration. I find the policy terms to be clear, that damage caused by 
such issues will only be covered if the policyholder can evidence the part in question has 
been appropriately maintained and checked annually. Mr B says the hose in question was in a good condition, relatively new, and held in place by 
quality and uncorroded stainless steel jubilee clips. I havent seen any evidence that shows 
the hose was relatively new, and despite what Mr B says about the condition of the hose 
and clips, the fact the pipework disconnected shows there was an issue.
Mr B also says theres a design flaw, which allowed the pipework to disconnect despite the 
jubilee clip being intact and functional. But even if thats the case, it doesnt change my 
conclusions about the disconnection likely being due to gradual wear or deterioration.
Mr B has explained the pipework is in a location he cant access, investigate, or personally 
maintain due to his disability. However, whilst I accept what he says here, it was for him to 
have his yacht regularly serviced or checked, to prevent issues occurring and causing 
damage.
I acknowledge that Mr B was acting responsibly by having the yacht taken out of the water to 
address what was thought to be the issue. Ive also seen text and email exchanges with an 
engineer dating back to 2016, which show Mr B did address mechanical issues when they 
arose. However, reacting to issues when they arise, isnt the same as having the yacht 
checked annually. Had the pipework in question been checked, I consider it likely the 
damage would have been prevented.
Furthermore, all the damage claimed likely occurred gradually over a period of months, and 
gradual damage is excluded by the policy unless theres evidence the yacht has been 
appropriately maintained. Given the yacht was left uncovered and unsecured, Im not 
persuaded the yacht was being appropriately maintained at the time of the damage. 
Therefore, based on the arguments and evidence presented, I dont consider the claim was 
incorrectly declined. But rather, Im persuaded the claim was declined in-line with the policy 
terms.
Was the claim declined fairly?
Ive also considered whether applying the policy terms strictly, given the challenges of the 
pandemic, was fair and reasonable. 
Ive seen text messages that show Mr B notified his engineer of the water ingress issue in 
September 2019. The messages show the engineer inspected the yacht soon afterwards. 
He concluded there was an issue with the shaft seal and the yacht would need to be 
removed from the water for the repair. 
The text messages show the yacht wasnt removed from the water until 1 September 2020. 
Mr B, the marina, and the boatyard are all located in Wales. Ive seen that Wales had a 
national lockdown between March 2020 and July 2020, but that doesnt explain why no 
action was taken for six months, between September 2019 and March 2020.
There was a second national lockdown from 23 October 2020 to 9 November 2020. 
However, that doesnt explain why no action was taken for over seven weeks, from 
1 September 2020 (after the yacht was lifted from the water) to 23 October 2020. 
The text messages show Mr B and his wife visited the yacht on 24 October 2020. They also 
show the engineer had agreed to meet them at the yacht on 10 November 2020, the day 
after the second lockdown had ended. No further text messages have been provided to 
show what happened afterwards.There was a third national lockdown from 20 December 2020 to March 2021, with some 
restrictions continuing until May 2021. However, that doesnt explain why no action was 
taken for nearly six weeks, from 10 November 2020 to 20 December 2020. 
Mr B says he discovered the damage in February 2021. Its unclear why the issue with the 
canopies and/or covers, the rigging, and the accumulation of water, wasnt identified on 
either 24 October 2020 or 10 November 2020, during those visits.
Mr B says the texts only confirm his intention to visit, they dont prove the visits took place. 
However, I dont accept what he says here. The text message on 24 October 2020 states 
Mr B and his wife had visited the yacht that day and theres no indication in the message 
they couldnt access the yacht. Also, on 8 November 2020, Mr Bs wife arranged for both 
of them to meet the engineer at the yacht two days later, at a specific time, after the third 
lockdown had ended. I find it unusual that such plans were made, if the parties werent 
confident the yard would be open.
Mr B also says he or his son regularly visited the yacht, as they were able to, through the 
various lockdowns. But if so, theres a further question as to why the issues and damage 
werent identified sooner, bearing in mind its alleged the yacht was left unsecured and 
uncovered after it was lifted out the water (which happened on 1 September 2020).
I note Mr B also says he couldnt visit the yacht at the location where it had been taken out of 
the water, as that boatyard was closed to the public until February 2021. However, given the 
text messages show the yacht was removed on 1 September 2020, and a visit took place in 
October 2020, and a visit was planned for November 2020, Im not persuaded by what Mr B 
says. The third lockdown was also still in place during February 2021. Given Mr B attended 
in February 2021, on balance, Im not persuaded the yard had been closed to the public 
during the lockdowns. 
So, in conclusion, Im not persuaded the national lockdowns reasonably explain why Mr B, or 
those helping him, didnt identify the yacht was accumulating water for some five months 
after it had been taken out of the water.
Mr B says had the work been carried out, the correct diagnosis would have been made and 
the damage prevented. Hes argued that the work couldnt be done due to the pandemic 
restrictions. However, Im not persuaded that the national lockdowns are a reasonable 
argument, given over nine months of delay is unaccounted for from September 2019. 
I acknowledge there were also localised restrictions in Wales during the pandemic, between 
the national lockdowns. However, Ive not seen those localised restrictions applied to Mr B, 
the marina, or the boatyard.
I dont doubt the pandemic and Mr Bs disability made matters challenging for him. However, 
I cant reasonably decide Zurich must cover the claim given a) the delay to carrying out the 
work after the issue was first identified, and b) the relatively significant period of time over 
which the damage allegedly occurred after the yacht had been taken out of the water. 
In conclusion, having carefully considered the arguments presented, Im not persuaded the 
policy terms were applied unfairly when declining Mr Bs claim, or that I can reasonably 
direct Zurich to cover the claim.Premium refund
Mr Bs policy renewed on 1 May 2021. Mr B has provided the content of his email exchanges 
with Zurich. Ive seen he asked for his policy to be cancelled during his complaint. I havent 
seen the original email, but based on the timeline provided, I understand he first requested 
his policy to be cancelled between 20 and 27 May, before his complaint was escalated to 
Zurichs complaints team. Ive also seen that Mr B reiterated his cancellation request on 
14 June 2021, in a complaint letter to Zurichs complaint team. However, Zurich didnt 
address his cancellation request when responding to his complaint.
Im mindful that Mr B made the claim in February 2021, but Zurichs surveyor didnt visit until 
May 2021. Had the visit and declinature happened sooner, I consider it likely the policy 
wouldnt have been renewed by Mr B.
In the circumstances, I intend to decide Zurich should refund Mr Bs 2021/22 premium in full.
Zurich should also add 8% simple interest per annum, from the date the premium was paid, 
until the date of settlement. As per our approach, the 8% interest is to reflect the fact Mr B 
has been unfairly deprived of his money.
Zurich accepted my provisional decision. 
Mr B was pleased about my intended outcome for the premium refund, but he was 
disappointed by what I said in relation to his claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr B reiterated some of the points he had previously 
made. Its not my intention to be discourteous; but having already considered those 
arguments in my provisional decision, I wont repeat everything I said.
Mr B noted he doesnt consider Zurichs request for a pre-incident survey to be reasonable. 
Whilst I didnt comment on that point in my provisional decision, I agree with him. I say this 
because, Ive not seen the policy terms required him to have his yacht surveyed. However, 
I still find the overall claim decision to be in-line with the policy terms.
As explained in my provisional decision, the pipework disconnection can only reasonably be 
considered to have been caused by wear or gradual deterioration. So, survey aside, its still 
for Mr B to show the failed part had been checked annually, and if necessary, maintained. 
I assure Mr B, I had considered his family and friends testimony, but whilst I found the 
testimony credible in respect of the yachts general upkeep, it doesnt say the part in 
question had been checked annually.
In any event, as I explained in my provisional decision, given the yacht was left uncovered 
and unsecured, Im not persuaded it was being appropriately maintained at the time of the 
gradual damage. As such, I find Zurichs decision to decline the claim to be in-line with the 
policy terms.
Mr B has reiterated he had no access to his yacht due to the pandemic. However, I find his 
testimony inconsistent, given he said he or his son had visited when they could during that 
time. As explained in my provisional decision, I also dont find his assertions to be 
persuasive given the text messages. I wont repeat my reasons why. In conclusion, having considered Mr Bs further submissions, and the previous submissions 
provided by both parties, I remain of the view that Zurich fairly declined the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint in 
part. My final decision is Zurich Insurance PLC should:
- reimburse Mr B his 2021/22 premium; and
- pay 8% simple interest per annum, from the date the premium was paid, to the date 
of settlement.
If Zurich considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
any interest paid, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. If requested, it should also 
provide him with a certificate showing the amount deducted, so he can reclaim it from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman