DRN-2825594
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the way that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited dealt with his 
home insurance claim for water damage to his property.
What happened
In November 2019 Mr P reported a claim to Lloyds following his discovery of a leak in his 
kitchen. Lloyds arranged a site visit in early December, and the water had to be turned off. 
Contractors were appointed to trace and access the leak, with some kitchen units removed 
on 16 December, and the leak traced. After this Mr P was advised to get the leak repaired 
under his home emergency cover, and this was arranged a few days later. So Mr P was 
without hot water during this period.
During the strip out of the units it was noticed that there was rat damage to the electrics. 
Mr P was advised that rodent damage wasnt covered under the policy. Mr P told Lloyds that 
hed been advised by the contractors that his kitchen needed removal and replacement. 
Lloyds said this wasnt necessary and wasnt what the contractors had reported to it. Lloyds 
agreed to draw up a schedule of work and it was arranged for the pest control contractors to 
attend. Thereafter further kitchen units were removed and placed into storage, and the area 
was cleaned and sanitised. It was agreed, following a site meeting, that a kitchen pod would 
be installed so Mr P would have access to cooking facilities. This was duly installed.
On 17 February 2020 the drying contractors electrician advised that because of the 
condition of the electrics in the kitchen, a temporary board would need to be installed. Mr P 
argued that this wasnt necessary. After review of the case by a new personal claims 
consultant (PCC) it was agreed the driers could be run from other circuits in the house. 
On 24 March 2020 because of the national lockdown, works had to be suspended. Mr P 
subsequently complained to Lloyds that the work wasnt restarting. 
Lloyds issued three final response letters as follows:
28 January 2020  Lloyds apologised particularly for the delays in dealing with the trace and 
access when Mr P was left without hot water for a few weeks. It paid him £250.
29 February 2020  Mr P had complained about having to chase matters up with the PCC. 
Lloyds paid Mr P £75 in recognition of the problems he had had, though generally said the 
PCC had been dealing adequately with the claim
27 May 2020 Lloyds did not uphold complaints of further delays.
On referral to this service our investigator said that Lloyds had acted reasonably and had 
paid reasonable compensation. He advised that we could only look at matters up until the 
date of the May 2020 final response letter. I understand that Mr P has made further 
complaints in respect of matters after that date, which we are currently investigating under a 
separate complaint.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
scope of this decision
I understand that Mr P would like all his issues dealt with, including those that arose after the 
May 2020 final response letter. Whilst I understand his point, those issues arose after Mr P 
made his complaint to this office and are being dealt with separately. I think, given that there 
was a break in March 2020 because of the lockdown, its reasonable to deal with the 
complaints up until May 2020 separately.
alternative accommodation (AA) 
Mr P believes he should have been offered AA by Lloyds as his home wasnt habitable. The 
terms of the cover for AA are that its available if the home is made uninhabitable by any 
insured cause. Uninhabitable generally means that the home is without cooking and/or 
washing facilities. Here Mr P was without hot water for several weeks whilst the trace and 
access contractors were dealing with finding the leak. I appreciate that this was not ideal but 
Im not persuaded this alone made the home uninhabitable. However, I do think Mr P should 
be awarded compensation for this inconvenience. He was given £250 compensation for this 
which I think was reasonable.
At the point of the kitchen being removed, Mr P wasnt offered AA but instead was given the 
use of a temporary kitchen pod. This can be a direct alternative to AA. Mr P was unhappy 
with this as he said it was too inconvenient for him, particularly as he says he couldnt really 
make  use of the pod  as when cooking meals, making drinks etc hed then have to take 
them out of the back door and through the front door to access somewhere to consume 
them.  Its not immediately clear to me from the photos supplied why Mr P couldnt get 
through the house but Ill accept what he says. However he accepted the pod and I cant see 
that he raised this point of concern until some time after the pod was installed, by which 
time, due to lockdown, there wouldnt have been much Lloyds could have done about it. 
I see from its notes that it extended the hire of the pod several times.
Whilst I understand the inconvenience to Mr P, I think that, with the pod, the house was 
habitable as it had the basic facilities. Regrettably when an insurance claim is made 
particularly one that affects the whole ground floor, there is going to be a lot of 
inconvenience. But I cant hold Lloyds responsible for that. And in this case that was 
aggravated by the lockdown, which again wasnt Lloyds responsibility. I think it acted 
appropriately here.
kitchen
Mr P believes that Lloyds should have taken out his kitchen and installed a new one. Hes 
been advised that its not possible to take out and reinstall a kitchen without damaging it. All I 
can say is that this problem arises frequently in escape of water claims. An insurer wont 
usually install a new kitchen unless its directly damaged by the water, and we do see 
situation where kitchens are removed and re-fitted without damage being caused. So we 
often say its reasonable for an insurer to plan this type of reinstatement. Here Lloyds 
assessed that the kitchen itself wasnt damaged by the water and that it was possible to 
remove it and reinstall. As this is generally the case in claims like this, I cant say that Lloyds 
did anything wrong here. If there were any issues that occurred on removal or reinstallation (e.g. units or appliances damaged) then Lloyds would deal with them at the time under the 
terms of the policy. Again I think thats reasonable.
electrics/temporary board/relationship with PCC
The PCC insisted that a temporary board would have to be installed to run the drying 
equipment. This was because the electrics in the kitchen had been damaged by rats. Mr P 
said this wasnt necessary, He was also unhappy with the way the PCC had dealt with his 
claim, particularly that she wouldnt come out to visit the property, also that he had to chase 
her for replies to his emails.
Lloyds agreed to appoint a new PCC, although said that the first PCC had dealt adequately 
with the case. It paid him £75 for the delays in responding to his emails. In respect of the 
electrics the newly appointed PCC said that the electrics could be run off other sockets in the 
house which were on a different circuit.
I appreciate that Mr P wasnt happy with the PCC, but it was up to her if she wanted to visit 
the property  I understand that the second PCC had visited the property with the surveyor 
so I think Lloyds acted reasonably here. As for the electrics I understand Mr Ps objections, 
but the PCC was relying on information given to her by an electrician, so I cant fault her in 
that respect. The second PCC clearly took on board Ps objections and advised a different 
solution. This doesnt mean either of them were wrong.
rodent damage
Lloyds said the electrical cabling in the kitchen was damaged by rats. And the pest control 
contractors appeared to agree with this. Under the terms of the policy, damage caused by 
vermin isnt covered. And the policy clearly sets out that vermin includes rodents. I 
understand that the rodent damage wasnt connected to the escape of water claim. So, 
although I realise this was upsetting to Mr P, I think it was reasonable for Lloyds not to cover 
this part of the damage.
overall
Up until 27 May 2020 I think that Lloyds dealt with Mr Ps claim reasonably and, in those 
areas where it was at fault, it has, in my view, responded reasonably including paying 
reasonable compensation.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021. 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman