DRN-1824010
The complaint
Mr A complains that a car he acquired through a Hire Purchase Agreement with BMW 
Financial Services GB Limited (BMWFS) was not sold as described. He would like to reject 
it.
What happened
Mr A says he took out a finance agreement with BMWFS in May 2019 for a used BMW car. 
He says he fell in love with a car and bought it there and then with finance being arranged on 
the same day. But Mr A says he later discovered corrosion on one of the alloy wheels. And 
at that time realised the wheels were not  genuine BMW ones.
Mr A  says although the dealership offered to refurbish the wheels, he wasnt happy and 
wanted BMW wheels  as that is what he believed he had agreed to buy. He  also realised 
that the Sport body performance kit was also not a BMW part. And he was concerned that 
non-BMW parts on the car might void his warranty.
He said although BMWFS has offered to contribute to the cost of replacing the wheels he 
thinks this will cost around £2,000.But he doesnt know how much BMWFS would contribute. 
He doesnt want to be out of pocket, is concerned that his credit rating might be affected and 
would like to reject the car. He doesnt feel its fair that to sell a car not making it clear that 
some parts were not genuine BMW parts.
BMWFS said as Mr A didnt buy his car through an approved dealership, it couldnt 
guarantee all parts would be genuine BMW ones. And said the car hadnt been advertised 
with having genuine BMW parts. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She noted the dealership had offered to swap 
the wheels for BMW wheels, but Mr A didnt agree to this as they werent the design for his 
car. Also, the dealership offered to take the car backs subject to fair usage and an agreed 
value, but Mr A didnt want this.
She also found no evidence of mis representation. She looked at the advertisement for the 
car which didnt claim to have all genuine BMW parts. She accepted Mr A said he hadnt 
seen this advertisement. She found he bought the car on the spot the same day he saw it. 
She felt it was unreasonable to expect every aspect of a car to be discussed in a pre-sale 
conversation and found the wheels and performance kit hadnt been discussed. She didnt 
feel this omission amounted to mis representation. She felt Mr A could have asked about the 
authenticity of parts if he had wanted to do so.
BMWFS accepted this view but Mr A didnt. He provided a photo of the wheels when he got 
the car with a BMW stamp on them .And said he had no reason to question the authenticity 
of the wheels given the stamp.
Our investigator considered this further information but didnt change her view. She 
explained for there to be a case of misrepresentation there would have go be evidence of 
false information given to Mr A to induce him to buy the car when he wouldnt otherwise 
have done so. 
She found the fact the wheels and performance kit were not manufactured
by BMW wouldnt, in her view, have made  a difference to Mr Ankers decision to purchase 
the car as Mr A had had the option to either fit BMW wheels albeit in a different style or to 
take the car back subject to it being in good condition but Mr A declined both options.
Mr A didnt accept this second view. He said he had no reason to question the authenticity of 
the wheels  the car was only two years old and had a BMW stamp on the wheels. He said 
he had confirmed during the investigation that he wouldnt have bought the car had he 
known some parts werent genuine  he didnt want a modified car or to pay what he felt was 
the full market value for  a car that wasnt worth it. 
He said the offer to replace the wheels was retracted within hours of being made. And 
wouldnt have included using tyres he had already purchased. And the offer to return the car 
would have incurred costs for him.
He said he wasnt given clear information . And had he known the car had been modified he 
wouldnt have bought it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A feels strongly about this and I do understand why. He bought a car then found out it 
wasnt quite what he expected to get. The car doesnt have genuine BMW wheels which Mr 
A assumed it would have.
I dont think there is any dispute that Mr As car doesnt have genuine BMW wheels. The 
issue is whether Mr A was led to believe it did. Or could reasonably have expected the car to 
have genuine BMW wheels.
I am conscious Mr A bought a used car. So, he might have expected some repairs or 
modifications to the car. The advertisement for the car doesnt state the car has all genuine 
BMW parts. I appreciate Mr A says he didnt see the advertisement. But I still think the 
information from the advertisement is relevant.
I accept Mr As point that he didnt think to check if all the parts were genuine. But from what 
he has told us he made a quick on the spot purchase as he really liked the car.  He has told 
us he didnt query the genuiness of any of the parts when he bought the car.
So, whilst I am sympathetic to Mr As point that he assumed all parts would be genuine. I 
cant see any evidence that he was told this. And given the car is a used one I dont think Mr 
A could assume that it would be as new. So, on that basis I dont feel I have any evidence 
to show the car was mis represented to Mr A when he bought it.
As I understand it Mr A has been given various options one of which was to return the car 
subject to certain conditions . Mr A hasnt chosen to return the car. So, I am not convinced 
had he known the wheels werent genuine BMW that he wouldnt have gone ahead with the 
purchase.I appreciate Mr A didnt want the wheels replaced with BMW ones of a different design. I 
dont think thats unreasonable if he feels the wheels offered werent suitable for the car. But 
I think it was a fair offer to make
Finally, BMW offered a contribution to the cost of replacing the wheels, But Mr A told us 
BMW had not actually offered any specific amount, so we have contacted  BMW about this. 
As a gesture of goodwill, it has offered £500.  I understand Mr A  now wishes to keep the car 
not reject it. But whilst he is appreciative of BMWs offer, he thinks it should cover the full 
cost of replacing the four wheels 
I have considered Mr As comments carefully. I dont feel I have any evidence the car was 
mis represented to Mr A.  And with a used car he might reasonably expect to have some 
prior repairs and or modifications. And he did have the option to return the car , subject to 
certain conditions as he originally wanted. But he chose not to do so. 
I dont think its reasonable for BMW to cover the replacement cost of four wheels as I have 
no evidence to show the car was sold based on having genuine BMW wheels. So, if Mr A 
choses to go ahead and replace the wheels I think its reasonable for BMW , subject to proof 
of cost, to contribute £500  on the basis that it did offer to contribute towards the cost of 
replacing the alloy wheels.
Your text here
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement BMW Financial 
Services GB  Limited should pay Mr A £500 on proof of purchase of BMW wheels for his car 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2020.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman