The complaint
Mr M has complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) reduced his No Claims Bonus (NCB) 
to three years after he made a claim under his car insurance policy. 
What happened
In May 2018 Mr M bought a car insurance policy with UKI. He provided proof of 11 years 
NCB. He didnt protect his NCB under the policy.
In January 2019 Mr M made a claim under the policy and as a result, UKI reduced his NCB 
to three years. UKI said it correctly applied its step back process as set out under the policy 
for a customer with 9 or more years NCB. It said as an insurer it only captures nine years. 
Mr M complained. He thought as the policy was silent on 11 years NCB; UKI should only 
deduct two years from the 11 hed earned. This was the number of years reduction it applied 
to customers with a NCB of three, four and five years following a claim. He felt the reduction 
was disproportionately unfair for his circumstances. Mr M said UKI tried to sell him NCB 
protection but as he had 11 years, he didnt think he needed it. He believes its a scandal in 
mis-selling NCB protection.  
Our investigator thought UKI had acted reasonably.  Mr M didnt agree. He believes the 
terms and conditions of the policy is misleading and UKIs policy discriminates against 
customers with a higher number of NCB years. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Most insurers have a maximum amount of NCD years that they take account of. So even 
though a customer may have been driving without making a claim for longer than nine years, 
the maximum allowed isnt necessarily the same figure. 
Mr M says that because the step back table in UKIs policy doesnt specify or more beyond 
nine years, its misleading. So he believes a fairer outcome is for UKI to reduce his NCD by 
two years in line with the reduction it applies for customers with lower than nine years NCB.
I dont necessarily think its unfair for an insurer to reduce the number of years NCD to three 
or four after a fault claim where the NCB wasnt protected as this is industry practice. 
DRN-1191224But I can look at whether an insurer made it clear in the sales process and in the policy 
documents. 
UKI didnt advise Mr M on the sale of this policy. He bought it online. So it was for Mr M to 
ensure the policy was suitable for his needs. UKI has provided screenshots of the key 
question Mr M was asked as to how many years NCD he had. The options didnt go beyond 
nine years  but read: nine years or more. As the question didnt require a specific number 
of more than nine years, I think this reasonably suggests that UKI treated nine years - or 
more - as the same. 
The step back table in Mr Ms policy doesnt provide information for NCD beyond nine years. 
At nine years, it says the NCD will reduce to three in the event of a claim. 
It might have been helpful for UKI to include or more in the step back table to be consistent 
with the question it asks online. Having said that, if we think an insurer hasnt been clear 
enough, we look at whether a customer would have made a different decision otherwise.  As 
nine years is the most common maximum number of years an insurer applies (some 
insurers limits are lower) then I dont think on balance that Mr M would have made a 
different decision. And I think that Mr M had 14 days to check his policy after he bought it. If 
he had any concerns, he had the opportunity to raise them with UKI - and to cancel his 
policy within the cooling off period if he wished. 
I understand Mr Ms strength of feeling about his complaint. Mr M has given his view on what 
he considers to be exploitative practices in the insurance industry. As the investigator 
explained, our role is to look at each case on its own merits and whether an insurer acted 
reasonably in resolving a customers complaint. 
In this case, I think UKI was clear enough that Mr Ms NCD was set at nine years  and any 
more than nine years would be treated the same as nine. And I think it clearly explained its 
step back process on the basis of up to nine years NCB.  So I think UKI has treated Mr M 
fairly and as it would any other customer in the same circumstances. I appreciate Mr M will 
be disappointed. But this means Im not upholding his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman