DRN-4193754
The complaint
Miss G complains that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd unfairly turned 
down her pet insurance claim.
My references to Casualty include its claim and complaint handling agent.
What happened
In June 2021 Miss Gs dog was unfortunately injured in a traffic accident and was treated by 
more than one vet practice. Miss G made a claim for the treatment costs.
Casualty turned down the claim. It said that under the policy conditions Miss G must pay 
proper care and attention to her dog at all times and take all reasonable precautions to 
prevent accidental injury. Miss G had told it that whilst her partner was looking after the dog 
her toddler had been able to obtain the key and unlock the front door allowing her dog to 
escape and be injured. It said that had her partner been paying full attention to the dog, he 
would have been able to intercept their child opening the door and stop the dog from 
escaping.
Unhappy with the outcome, Miss G came to us. She said Casualtys response to her claim 
had caused her huge financial detriment and a great deal of upset and emotional distress at 
a traumatic time.
Our Investigator initially upheld the complaint. She thought Miss G had taken reasonable 
precautions to prevent an unforeseen accident and that Casualty should pay the claim.
Casualty didnt agree. It said Miss Gs partner cannot have been paying proper attention 
both to the dog and their child for the door to have been unlocked and opened. The accident 
had not taken place at a specific time and place as required under the policys terms.
Miss Gs version of events on her claim form and a further statement was contradicted by 
the information in the dogs medical records. The medical records suggested that the dog 
had fallen from a moving vehicle, contrary to Rule 57 of the Highway Code.
Our Investigator said this information had changed her view of the complaint and she 
thought Casualty had, in fact, fairly assessed the claim.
Miss G did not agree. She explained that her vet had made an error in recording the 
accidents circumstances, which had been amended in the medical records. She said that 
this error was copied across to the other vets notes and there were, in fact, multiple 
inconsistencies between the vets medical records. So she thought the notes should not be 
relied on. Miss G provided CCTV evidence to support her evidence of the way the accident 
had occurred.
Our Investigator noted that Miss Gs front door was already open and asked Miss G for video 
evidence from before the door was opened. Miss G explained that other clips had been 
automatically deleted. Her partner had downloaded the shared clip by chance without 
thinking it would be needed for insurance purposes. She provided the CCTV settings to 
show that the video was set to record only when the camera detected the upper half of a 
human body, and also that footage is automatically deleted to preserve memory space. She 
said the CCTV confirmed the notes made by the vets about the dog falling from a moving 
vehicle were incorrect.
Our Investigator said the evidence didnt change her view that Casualty had made a fair 
decision on the basis the accident was not a sudden event.
Miss G did not agree and asked for an Ombudsman review. In summary, she said:
Our Investigator had previously agreed she had taken reasonable steps to keep her 
dog safe.
She had shown that Casualtys suggestion that her dog had jumped from a moving 
vehicle was incorrect, with supporting CCTV evidence. That evidence showed her 
partner had acted immediately he realised their child had opened the door but by 
then she had moved away in her van unaware her dog had escaped. She could not 
have seen the dog from her driving position in the van. Her evidence has been 
consistent but Casualty keeps moving the goal posts. The policy has failed to provide 
the peace of mind that she had paid for.
She had taken reasonable steps to ensure her childs safety and her dogs safety. It 
was not clear what more she could have done.
Casualty also provided a summary of its reasons for turning down the claim.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision saying that I intended to uphold the complaint. I said:
The claim
When it turned down Miss Gs claim, Casualty relied on several of its General conditions 
which apply to all sections of its policy:
You must provide proper care and attention to Your pet at all times and take all 
reasonable precautions to prevent Accidental Injury or damage...
You must ensure that Your dog is under control at all times, and due care should be 
maintained to prevent Your dog from escaping and causing itself Accidental Injury or 
any other person or animals.
You must ensure Your pet cannot escape or stray from Your property.
You must ensure that any area in which Your pet is kept is secure and appropriately 
fenced or otherwise secured and all reasonable steps must be taken to prevent 
escape.
You is defined in the policy as the person named as the Policy Holder in the Schedule. 
The policy holder is Miss G.
Accidental Injury is defined as a sudden, unforeseen, unintended action or event, with a 
specific time and place which results in damage to one or more parts of Your pets body.
Casualtys original reason for turning down the claim was that Miss Gs partner (rather than 
Miss G) had failed to take reasonable care. He had not paid proper care and attention or 
taken all reasonable steps to prevent the dog from escaping the house.
After our Investigator upheld the complaint, Casualty gave a different reason for rejecting the claim. It said that Miss G had been inconsistent in her version of events about what 
happened when her dog was injured. It said the evidence suggested her dog had jumped 
from a moving vehicle.
I think it was unfair for Casualty to provide additional reasons for rejecting the claim that 
were not included in its original claim rejection. But in any event, I am not persuaded by any 
of its reasons. Ill explain:
Casualty has not defined in the policy what it means by proper care and attention or all 
reasonable steps. The test we use is set out in the leading legal case on reasonable care  
Sofi v Prudential Assurance (1993) 2 Lloyds rep. 559. For Casualty reasonably to be able to 
turn down the claim on the basis that Miss G failed to take reasonable care, it needs to show 
she acted in a way which amounted to recklessness. That means that Casualty needs to 
show that Miss G recognised a risk but took it anyway by taking measures she knew to be 
inadequate or no measures at all.
I dont consider that Casualty has shown that Miss G acted in a way that amounted to 
recklessness.
Miss G says, and I accept, that she closed and locked the front door behind her when 
leaving the house. She has a young child and I have not seen any evidence to suggest she 
did not, and would not, have closed her front door before leaving her house.
Miss Gs work van was parked on the driveway outside her house. She has provided a video 
from her homes CCTV evidence of what happened. I have viewed the video, which shows 
her child standing in the houses open front doorway and her dog running out to and under 
the van as it began to move away. The video shows Miss Gs partner promptly running out of 
the door to warn Miss G and then, distressingly, Miss G picking up her dog who was lying 
injured on the driveway.
Miss G says the CCTV records only human movement, which is why it showed both her 
child standing at the front door and her partner running out of the door. What she says is 
supported by the evidence she has provided from screenshots of the CCTV settings. Her 
partner had saved that entry, but others were automatically deleted so dont show her 
locking the door.
Miss G says, and I accept, that she could not have seen the dog running out suddenly while 
moving away because of her high position in the drivers seat of her panel van. I dont think 
that Casualty has provided any plausible evidence to show that she acted recklessly.
I think the CCTV evidence shows a very unfortunate sudden and unforeseen accident, which 
happened at a specific time and place and caused damage to one or more parts of Miss Gs 
dogs body.
Casualty has suggested that Miss Gs version of events has been inconsistent. It has 
referred to various entries from the dogs medical records to support this. Miss G says that 
the vet used the wrong information which was then read across to the two vet practices to 
which her dog was referred. She asked her vet to correct its records, which it did.
I think Miss Gs explanation is correct for the following reasons:
Miss Gs usual vets first entry about the accident on 2 June 2021 says Jumped out of a 
moving van and got caught under wheel. O [owner] bought straight down. But Miss G has 
sent the medical records that show that immediately after that entry it says: History 
AMENDMENTS TO CLINICAL NOTES: [dog] ran under a moving van and was knocked. Unsure what knocked her. It was thought to be a wheel.
The hospital notes say the following day 3 June 2021: Last night seen OOH [out of hours] 
fell out of van landed under wheel. This is followed by a note that says run over by van at 
roughly 10mph and a later entry that says Run over by car yesterday, has been stabilised 
at [the stated vet practice]. On 4 June 2021 the notes say the dog was referred following a 
Road traffic accident.
The medical records history from the second vet to which the dog was referred says for 
2 June 2021 at 20:24: History  Transfer from [Miss Gs usual vet] post RTA. Os own van, 
child opened the door while rolling out of driveway, [dog] jumped out and went under the 
[vehicle]  O unsure if went fully under wheels or not.
The note immediately above does not clarify which door the dog came out of, which might 
explain the confusion. But Miss Gs usual vet amended the notes to show the correct 
information. And we know from the clear CCTV evidence that the dog did run out of Miss Gs 
front door under the van. So I dont consider Casualty can fairly reject the claim because the 
dog was not secured in a moving vehicle, as required under the Highway Code.
The first claim form signed by Miss G describes the dogs symptoms following the Road 
traffic Accident. The second claim form which appears to have been completed by the 
second vet practice said pet ran out under van pulling off. Pet immediately injured and could 
not walk. I dont think there is any inconsistency in Miss Gs evidence.
In my view, this was a very unfortunate accident, and exactly the type of event that the 
insurance policy provided for. I intend to uphold this complaint and require Casualty to pay 
the claim, subject to the applicable policy excess and limit.
The claim handling
Miss G has described the impact on her of Casualtys handling of her claim: 
Having to pull up that video and re-live the events is extremely traumatizing for me and is 
having a huge emotional impact on my wellbeing. [My dog] has been hugely impacted by 
this accident and as a result we are still dealing with her health issue to this day. We are 
really wanting this claim now to be settled so that we can try to move past what happened 
and be able to focus on improving [my dogs] quality of life, without the ongoing financial 
concerns that have been caused by our insurance policy decline to cover us for what was 
clearly an unforeseen accident.
I consider that Casualty has handled this claim poorly and insensitively, given the 
circumstances. It is required by its regulator to deal with claims fairly and I dont consider it 
has done so. If it considered that Miss G had been inconsistent in her evidence and had 
failed to secure the dog in a moving vehicle then it should have referred to those issues in its 
response to the claim. Its not reasonable for it to raise new issues when its original reason 
for rejecting the claim is deemed to be unfair.
In response to this provisional decision, I invite Miss G to let me know whether she has been 
able to pay any of the vets bills and, if so, when she paid them  with evidence of amounts 
and dates paid. If she has incurred interest charges either on a credit card or to the vets 
practices, she should let me know, again with evidence. I will share this information with 
Casualty before reaching my final decision.
In line with our usual approach, I intend to award interest on the claim payment at the simple 
rate of 8% per year, but this will depend on whether the vets bills have been paid and, if so, whether Miss G has incurred interest at a higher rate than 8%.
I intend to award compensation for the distress and inconvenience that Casualtys handling 
of the claim caused Miss G at an already difficult and upsetting time for her. Based on the 
evidence that I have seen to date, I assess fair compensation to be £300.
Responses to my provisional decision
In summary, Miss G responded to say that:
She was grateful for my thorough review of her claim. She had paid the vets bills for 
her dogs treatment using child benefit money and a family loan. 
When she explained the circumstances, both vets waived the charges but they now 
require her to pay for further vet treatment up front. 
She paid the referral vet the following amounts: £986.17 on 8 February 2022 and 
£1,646.30 on 5 December 2022. She paid the vet hospital £3,683.18 on 8 July 2022. 
She has provided her bank statements as evidence, which we have sent to Casualty. 
She had switched insurers due to loss of trust in Casualty and the new policy did not 
cover treatments to manage her dogs injury.
The whole ordeal has had a financial impact on her, meaning the family has gone 
without a holiday and she has also taken a loan. She has had to continue to fund her 
dogs injury treatment including pain relief, physiotherapy, and hydrotherapy. Her dog 
had since been diagnosed with other medical conditions, including a terminal illness. 
The new policy funded the treatment but she had to contribute 20% due to her dogs 
age. Recently, and very sadly, the difficult decision was taken to put her dog to sleep. 
In summary, Casualty responded to say that:
It was fair for it to provide additional reasons for rejecting the claim that were not 
included in its original claim rejection. It has been able to do this in other cases. In 
this case, it did so due to inconsistencies in Miss Gs evidence and in response to 
additional information not provided to it at the time of its claims decision. 
Miss G has repeatedly not disclosed key evidence to it. When she did disclose 
evidence, this service has not referred evidence to Casualty at the earliest 
opportunity. Miss Gs behaviour has impacted on its ability to assess her claim fairly. 
It accepts the claim and complaint has caused Miss G distress and inconvenience, 
but disputes that this was caused solely by Casualty. Therefore, it does not feel that 
£300 is a fair award of compensation.
It explains why it maintains that Miss Gs partner failed to take due care and attention 
and questions how Miss Gs young child could have obtained a key and unlocked the 
door.
It points out that the vet hospital claim for treatment in June 2021 was not submitted 
until March 2022. This was well outside the 90 days period within which claims must 
be submitted under the policy terms. It says its position was prejudiced by this 
because Miss G failed to respond promptly to its request for information and a 
continuation claim form for a different insurer was sent to it in error. This meant it 
could not properly assess the claim as required by its regulator and, because the vet 
had to chase it for an outcome the delay jeopardised its relationship with the 
veterinary practices. Had Miss G renewed her policy it would not have been able to 
take the full claim into account when setting the new years policy premium. 
It asked me to pass on its condolences to Miss G on the sad loss of her dog.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I too send my condolences to Miss G for her loss. I am sorry to have to repeat some 
distressing details about the accident given how recently she has lost her dog. But I also 
realise that she and Casualty both want this matter drawn to a close. 
Having considered everything again I uphold this complaint for the reasons given below and 
in my provisional decision. I will focus on the points raised in response to my provisional 
decision. 
The video evidence shows Miss Gs dog escaping the house and running under her van. 
I have read Casualtys comments about why it considers her partner did not take reasonable 
care to prevent the dog from escaping. But I dont agree that it has shown that Miss G was 
reckless as it must do to show a lack of reasonable care or that her evidence about what 
happened has been inconsistent such that it is not reliable.
I dont require any additional evidence to decide this complaint, such as further detail about 
how Miss Gs child was able to open the door. I dont think the evidence suggests that 
Miss Gs partner failed to pay due care and attention to her dog or failed to supervise their 
child such as to allow the dog to escape. Rather, I am satisfied that this was an unfortunate 
and sudden accident at a specific time and place, and is one the policy is intended to cover. 
Casualty should pay the claim, in line with the policy limit and excess as set out below. 
I have noted Casualtys point about it not raising the concern about inconsistencies in 
evidence and the Highway Act at the point of claim. It says it did not have the vets notes 
with Miss Gs amendment at that point. But it did have the other notes which it said 
supported that there were inconsistencies and I think could have raised these issues earlier 
than it did. 
To be clear, I am not saying that Casualty could not respond to our assessment of the 
complaint. Rather, I was saying that it should fairly have explained its various reasons for 
rejecting the claim at the time it was submitted. 
Ive read Casualtys point about other cases we have decided. We consider each complaint 
on its own facts and merits, which is what I have done here. I do agree that we should have 
shared the new material evidence provided by Miss G earlier in our process. That is why 
I gave Casualty the opportunity to comment on all the evidence by both sharing it and 
issuing a provisional decision on this complaint. And I have thought about its comments in 
response to my provisional decision before reaching my final decision.
This service is an inquisitorial one, which means that we look into a complaint and decide 
the evidence we need to assess and decide a complaint. So there is not a requirement for 
the parties to disclose all evidence as might be the case at the discovery stage of a court 
process. I dont consider that Miss G failed to disclose evidence. She brought her complaint 
to us because she thought Casualtys decision to reject her claim was unfair. When our 
Investigator explained why she wasnt upholding the complaint, Miss G provided evidence to 
support her position. 
Casualty has drawn my attention to the time taken by Miss G to provide details of the 
sequence of events. Casualty also says that the continuation claim was on the wrong claim 
form and was submitted more than 90 days after the dogs treatment. This is outside the 
time in which a claim must be submitted under the policys terms. I have explained to Casualty that where an insurer is refusing to pay a claim because of a 
breach in a policy condition (here, the condition is that a claim must be submitted to it within 
90 days of the vet treatment) then it must also show that it has been prejudiced by that 
breach. This approach is underlined by the regulators (Financial Conduct Authority) 
Insurance Conduct of Business rules (ICOBS).
I explained to Casualty that it was not clear to me that it has been prejudiced by the delay in 
the claim being submitted. I said this because Casualty had been provided with all the 
medical records and vets bills. In any event, Casualty would still not have paid the claim 
even if submitted earlier.
In response Casualty says that it is concerned about its reputation with the vet practices. But 
it was able to explain the reasons for the delay had it needed to and also that it had decided 
not to pay the claim. I think any vet practice would be familiar with these types of insurance 
issues and I dont think Casualty has provided persuasive evidence that its relationship with 
the vet practices had been jeopardised.
Casualty mentioned that it would have taken into account the claim when setting the next 
years policy premium. But it accepts that as Miss G did not renew her policy this is not 
relevant to the issue of prejudice.
Casualty says it was not able to assess the claim quickly as required by its regulator. But if 
required by its regulator to explain the time taken to review this individual claim then it could 
simply have pointed out that it had taken Miss G some time to return to it with the information 
it had requested and that there had been a delay in the submission of the continuation claim. 
I dont consider Casualty has provided persuasive evidence of its position being prejudiced 
such that it should not now fairly pay the claim.
I have shared with Casualty Miss Gs evidence of the payments that she has made to the 
vets. These payments were made after she had submitted the claim and the requested 
information. So it is fair that Casualty pay interest at the simple rate of 8% per year on the 
amounts she paid, from the date she made each payment to the date it settles the claim 
subject to the applicable excess and policy limit. 
I have considered the comments of both Miss G and Casualty about my proposed award of 
£300. I remain of the view that this is a fair and reasonable amount of compensation. I have 
explained to Miss G that I cannot compensate her for her decision to move to a new vet. She 
has accepted this. 
I have not sought to compensate Miss G for issues that were outside Casualtys control. 
Rather I have reflected in my compensation award that Casualtys decision not to pay the 
claim caused Miss G material distress and inconvenience not least as it happened at an 
already difficult time following the dogs injuries. I have also reflected in my award the 
financial impact on Miss G when she could not afford immediately to pay the claim. 
Putting things right
Within 28 days of the date on which we send it Miss Gs acceptance of my final decision 
I require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to:
Pay Miss Gs claim for the vets fees following her dogs accident, subject to any 
applicable excess and policy limit; and
Pay interest on the resulting claim payment at the simple rate of 8% per year from 
the date Miss G paid each amount to the vets to the date of settlement (subject to the 
applicable excess and policy limit); andPay Miss G £300 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
If Casualty considers it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
the interest payment, it should let Miss G know how much its taken off. If requested, it 
should also provide her with a certificate showing the amount deducted, so that she can 
reclaim it from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Casualty & General Insurance 
Company (Europe) Ltd to take the steps set out in the Putting things right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Amanda Maycock
Ombudsman