DRN-3480995
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
In May 2020, Mr M took out a loan for £5,000 with Bank of Ireland. The loan was to be 
repaid over 24 months with repayments set at £246.20 a month. 
In July 2020, Mr M took out a second loan with Bank of Ireland. This was for £4,000 to be 
paid back over 24 months with repayments set at £196.96 a month.
Mr M later complained that Bank of Ireland had lent to him irresponsibly. He said hed had a 
gambling problem when hed applied for the loans.
Bank of Ireland said it had approved Mr Ms loan applications based on the information hed 
submitted and a credit check. It said the information matched Bank of Irelands lending 
criteria which was in place to ensure it only approved loan applications it believed to be 
affordable. It didnt agree it had lent to Mr M irresponsibly.
Mr M remained unhappy and asked our service to consider his complaint. Our investigator 
looked into Mr Ms concerns but didnt think his complaint should be upheld. The investigator 
was satisfied that Bank of Ireland had carried out proportionate checks which suggested the 
lending was affordable. He didnt think Bank of Ireland would have been aware of Mr Ms 
gambling problem.
Mr M disagreed with our investigators view. He said he didnt think it was fair for Bank of 
Ireland to profit from his gambling problem. Hed spent all of the money he was given on 
gambling. His credit file was severely impacted, and hed had to take out a high interest loan 
to cover the arrears. He said the earnings our investigator had referred to was his gross pay, 
not his net pay, which meant his pay was £1,000 less than Bank of Ireland had used in its 
affordability calculation. So, his complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant rules, regulations and guidance required Bank of Ireland to carry out 
reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure Mr M could afford to repay the loans in a 
sustainable manner. 
 
The checks needed to be borrower-focused. It wasnt enough for Bank of Ireland to think 
only about the likelihood of getting its money back. It also had to ensure that making the 
repayments wouldnt cause Mr M undue difficulty or have adverse consequences for him.
  
There isnt a set list of checks that lenders need to carry out, but they should be 
proportionate, taking a number of factors into consideration. These factors include the 
amount, type and cost of the credit as well as the personal circumstances of the consumer.
Loan 1
Before granting the first loan of £5,000 in May 2020, Bank of Ireland gathered information 
from Mr M and it also checked his credit file. According to Bank of Irelands records, Mr M 
said he was taking out the loan for home improvements and he gave his monthly income as 
£2,700. He told Bank of Ireland that his mortgage was £533 a month. Bank of Ireland 
estimated his cost of living expenditure to be £626 a month. Information from Mr Ms credit 
file showed that his existing credit commitments were around £232 a month. After taking into 
account the repayments for the new loan, Mr M would be left with disposable income of 
around £1,063 a month. 
Mr M says £2,700 was his gross income and his net monthly income was much lower than 
this. However, Bank of Ireland didnt only rely on the information Mr M had provided on his 
application, it used data from a credit reference agency to validate it. 
Mr M has questioned why this check didnt flag why his income was around £1,000 a month 
lower than the amount hed declared on the application. But this type of check is based on 
the turnover of a current account. The data includes a sum of income received into an 
account but doesnt breakdown the information. So, it wouldnt always flag if someone had 
overstated their salary. 
I appreciate Mr M feels that Bank of Ireland should have carried out further checks to 
validate his income and expenditure. But I think Bank of Irelands checks were reasonable 
and proportionate under the circumstances. There was also nothing on Mr Ms credit file that 
I think should have given Bank of Ireland cause for concern or prompted it to carry out 
further checks. There were no recent defaults or County Court judgments, for example. So, I 
think it was reasonable for Bank of Ireland to have concluded that the lending was 
affordable.
Loan 2
Before granting the second loan of £4,000 in July 2020, Bank of Ireland gathered information 
from Mr M and it also checked his credit file. According to Bank of Irelands records, Mr M 
said he was taking out the loan for debt consolidation and he gave his monthly income as 
£2,258. He told Bank of Ireland that his mortgage was £260 a month. Bank of Ireland 
estimated his cost of living expenditure to be £580 a month. Information from Mr Ms credit 
file showed that his existing credit commitments were around £477 a month. After taking into 
account the repayments for the new loan, Mr M would be left with disposable income of 
around £744 a month. 
Mr Ms credit file shows that his mortgage repayments were double what hed stated on his 
application. But I can see it was a joint mortgage. The lending would still have appeared 
affordable even if Bank of Ireland had used the full mortgage figure in its calculation.
I think Bank of Irelands checks for the second loan were reasonable and proportionate. I 
dont think there was anything showing on Mr Ms credit file that ought to have given Bank of 
Ireland cause for concern or prompted it to carry out further checks. So, I think Bank of 
Irelands decision to grant the second loan was also reasonable. 
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr M, who has told us he developed a severe 
gambling problem shortly before taking out the first loan with Bank of Ireland. He says he didnt receive any benefit from the loans because they were used for gambling. Hes 
commented that he doesnt think Bank of Ireland should profit from his gambling problem.
  
However, I dont think reasonable and proportionate checks would have extended to Bank of 
Ireland reviewing Mr Ms bank statements. And theres nothing else to suggest that Bank of 
Ireland was or ought to have been aware that Mr M was likely to use the money it lent to him 
for gambling. 
I empathise with Mr M, but I could only uphold his complaint if I thought Bank of Ireland had 
done something wrong. And Im not persuaded that it has. 
Although Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint, Id like to remind Bank of Ireland of its duty to 
treat him positively and sympathetically if he is still having difficulty repaying the loans. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman