DRN-1653903
The complaint
Mr L and Mrs S are unhappy with Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd.s handling of the insurance 
renewal for their buildings and contents insurance policy.
What happened
Mr L and Mrs S received a renewal quote from Triton to renew their buildings and contents 
insurance policy in June 2019. The policy was due for renewal the following day, so to 
ensure their policy remained in force, Mr L and Mrs S paid the full premium before the 
renewal date by bank transfer. The amount paid was £536.77.
In September 2019 Mr L and Mrs S received a letter from the insurers. The letter explained 
to them that the insurers had stopped doing business with Triton from the renewal date in 
June 2019 and their policy wasnt in force. The letter told Mr L and Mrs S to get in touch with 
Triton. Mr L did this and was told it was an administrative error. Mr L and Mrs S were 
concerned their money had been taken fraudulently and they wanted it refunded. Mr L and 
Mrs S also told Triton they would take out alternative insurance elsewhere.
They didnt hear anything from Triton, and they never received their money back. So, they 
brought a complaint about Triton through our service. 
Our investigator asked Triton to provide their response. They didnt so the investigator 
upheld the complaint for Mr L and Mrs S. She asked Triton to refund the premium of 
£536.77, pay interest on that amount and pay Mr L and Mrs S £100 compensation for the 
upset the matter had caused them.
As Triton didnt respond to our investigators opinion, the case has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Where the information is incomplete, Ive based my decision on the balance of probabilities, 
or whats most likely to have happened. In this case, Triton havent provided our service with 
any information, so my decision is based solely on what Mr L and Mrs S have provided. I find 
their information plausible and persuasive.
Mr L and Mrs S paid Triton before their policy renewed to ensure their policy remained 
active. And, once they were aware they didnt have any insurance cover in force, they made 
sure they sought cover immediately elsewhere. They were fortunate that the underwriting 
agency placed them on temporary cover while they did this, but due to the specialist nature 
of the insurance required, it took Mr L and Mrs S until November 2019 to find a suitable 
alternative.Mr L and Mrs Ss original insurers cancelled their agreement with Triton in January 2019. 
Unfortunately, Triton havent responded to our request for information so I cant provide
Mr L and Mrs S with an explanation as to why the error occurred. But Im satisfied Triton 
shouldnt have offered Mr L and Mrs S any insurance cover with the original insurer. And 
they should have refunded the money Mr L and Mrs S paid to them.
Given this, its reasonable for Triton to refund the premium paid by Mr L and Mrs S. Mr L has 
also confirmed that he tried to speak to Triton several times to get their money back, and he 
wasnt able to get through to anyone. None of his emails were returned. Because of this 
upset and the length of time it took Mr L and Mrs S to find suitable alternative insurance, its 
also reasonable for Triton to pay Mr L and Mrs S £100 compensation. I think this amount 
fairly recognises the inconvenience and upset caused in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd must:
Pay Mr L and Mrs S their premium of £536.77;
Pay interest at eight per cent simple on the amount due from the date Mr L and
Mrs S paid for their insurance policy to the date this amount is paid; *
Pay Mr L and Mrs S £100 compensation for the upset theyve been caused.
 
*Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd deducts 
income tax from the interest it should tell Mr L and Mrs S how much has been taken off. 
Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd should give Mr L and Mrs S a tax deduction certificate if they 
ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 April 2020.
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman