The complaint
Mr S complains about an insurance policy sold to him by Barbon Insurance Group Limited. 
He says the policy was mis-sold as it failed to send him the terms and conditions which 
meant he wasnt aware a claim wouldnt be accepted if the property he was living in wasnt 
occupied for more than 30 days. 
What happened
Our investigator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. He said Barbon sent Mr S a link to 
access an online portal so he could see his terms and conditions. So, our investigator was 
satisfied Barbon had done enough to make Mr S aware of the policy terms. He accepted 
Barbon didnt send the terms and conditions to Mr S by post as he requested, but he didnt 
think this made any difference. And he couldve contacted Barbon when the terms and 
conditions didnt arrive by post. 
Mr S disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint. He feels Barbon 
hasn't treated him fairly and breached the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook 
specifically the Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion at the investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. 
I know this will be very disappointing for Mr S, but Id like to explain how Ive reached my 
decision. Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I 
think is relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I 
think is the right outcome. 
Barbon sold the policy to Mr S on a non-advised basis. Having listened to the sales call, Im 
satisfied it communicated with him clearly and didnt mislead him in any way as to persuade 
him to take out the policy. Also, most policies on the market have the exclusion that led to
Mr Ss claim being declined. So, I dont believe the exclusion was significant, onerous or 
unusual enough to warrant Barbon bringing this to Mr Ss attention during the sales call. 
Mr S says that Barbon has mis-sold this policy as it failed to send the terms and conditions in 
the post as he requested. Im satisfied from the evidence on the file an e-mail was sent by 
Barbon asking him to log onto its portal so he could view the terms and conditions. Mr S 
says he never accessed the portal and was entitled to the documents he asked for. He is 
DRN-1642118correct when he says the terms and conditions shouldve been sent in the post. But I dont 
believe this means the policy was mis-sold. 
When Mr S didnt receive the terms and conditions in the post, Id have expected him to 
have followed this up at the time. And if he had received the policy documents by post, Im 
not satisfied he wouldnt have taken this policy. 
I note Barbon has apologised, offered £10 as a gesture of goodwill and said that feedback 
and training would be given for failing to send the terms and conditions in the post. Im 
satisfied this is fair in the circumstances. 
So, Im not going to ask Barbon to do anything more here. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2020.
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman