DRN-1850559
The complaint
Mrs C complains about how HDI Global Specialty SE (HDI) handled two claims made on 
her home insurance policy.
There were several parties involved in this case on behalf of HDI but for ease I will refer 
only to HDI in this decision.
What happened
Mrs C made two claims on her home insurance. The first was for damage to her 
conservatory roof which was leaking and the second was in relation to an escape of water 
into the conservatory, which led to the tiled floor being damaged.
Mrs C initially appointed her own tradesman to investigate why the conservatory roof was 
leaking. The tradesman was also able to identify that there was a pipe leaking under the 
conservatory. Mrs C made HDI aware of the potential claims. Initially Mrs C was given some 
incorrect information about whether the claims would be covered, which HDI has 
acknowledged.
Once HDI agreed to consider the claims, a loss adjuster was appointed and visited the 
property. However Mrs C had already begun work on her property before this. Mrs C was 
unhappy with the loss adjusters comments and general attitude when he visited the property 
and raised a complaint about this. 
Following that visit, HDI declined the first claim for the damaged conservatory roof. It didnt 
believe the roof had been damaged by a storm and said that the issue was caused by a leak 
in the guttering, which hadnt been maintained properly. Guttering wasnt covered under 
Mrs Cs policy. Mrs C didnt agree with this decision and thought HDI should pay for the 
works to the conservatory roof, however she does acknowledge that she has had additional 
works to the conservatory done at the same time which she isnt claiming for.
HDI did accept the second claim for the flooring and offered Mrs C a cash settlement of just 
over £1,000 less the policy excess of £550. Mrs C didnt think the offer made was fair and 
didnt think the excess on the policy was correct.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld in part. He didnt think HDI had 
acted unfairly in declining the first claim for storm damage to the conservatory roof. But he 
said the second claim should have been accepted initially and thought the business should 
pay that claim, consider any further costs Mrs C was able to prove as a result of that claim 
and increase the compensation from £200 to £300.
Our investigator initially thought that HDI should also pay 8% simple interest on the 
settlement. But HDI responded to say that it had offered to repair the damage and had 
previously offered Mrs C the cash settlement, which she had declined so it didnt think it was 
fair for it to pay the 8% on the whole amount. Instead it offered to pay 8% interest on any 
additional items that it hadnt previously agreed to settle. Our investigator agreed that was 
fair.
However Mrs C doesnt accept the cash settlement, so the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and for the same 
reasons.
This insurance policy, like all policies, isnt designed to cover every eventuality. Instead, it 
specifies which perils it will insure Mrs C for. I have considered whether the claims Mrs C 
raised are covered under the terms of her policy and whether HDI acted fairly in declining 
her first claim.
the first claim  storm damage to the conservatory roof
This claim was initially considered under the insured peril of a storm. But having considered 
this, HDI could find no evidence of any storm conditions from when Mrs C reported the 
leaking conservatory. And on inspection, the loss adjuster couldnt find any evidence of 
damage that would likely be the result of storm damage. Mrs C doesnt appear to have 
disputed this and having considered the evidence, I dont think HDI acted unreasonably in 
declining the claim on the basis of storm damage as Mrs C hasnt been able to evidence 
either the damage or that there was a storm.
As the roof was leaking, HDI then considered whether the claim could be covered under the 
escape of water section of the policy. However, the loss adjuster noted that there was 
significant moss growth on the roof of the conservatory and in the gutter. So he believed the 
cause of the leak was due to the guttering becoming blocked over time. And he didnt find 
any other signs of damage to the conservatory that would have caused the leak. Mrs Cs 
policy specifically states that it doesnt cover damage caused by the escape of water from 
guttering.
So having considered the report from the loss adjuster and the terms of Mrs Cs policy, I 
dont think HDI acted unfairly in declining this claim. I can understand why Mrs C chose to 
have the roof replaced given the leak, but I dont think this work is covered under the terms 
of her policy.
the second claim  escape of water causing damage to the floor
This claim was initially declined but later HDI accepted it and offered around £1,000 + VAT 
less the policy excess of £550. HDI says this was based on what it would cost one of their 
contractors to do the works to the tile floor. However Mrs C didnt agree with this and said it 
would cost her significantly more to have the works carried out by her contractor.
HDI offered to send its own contractors to complete the works but Mrs C declined this offer 
and has since had the works completed by her own contractor. Based on the estimated cost 
the loss adjuster provided, I think the settlement offer is a fair amount. HDI was willing to 
complete the works on Mrs Cs behalf and she declined this and chose to use her own 
contractor at a higher price. So, as this was Mrs Cs choice, I dont think HDI needs to 
increase its offer.But it isnt clear whether there are additional items under this claim that havent been 
considered. This service has asked Mrs C to provide further invoices regarding this work so 
HDI can consider whether there are any additional costs that have been left out of the 
settlement offer but I have only seen rough estimates of the costs. The only invoices Mrs C 
has provided are for the first claim, which has been declined. It is for Mrs C to now show if 
she has incurred additional costs. Should Mrs C be able to provide any additional invoices 
within a reasonable timeframe then I would expect HDI to consider these. However HDI cant 
keep the claim open indefinitely so will need Mrs C to provide the invoices as soon as 
possible.
Mrs C has raised concerns in relation to the amount of excess being applied to her policy but 
having reviewed the policy schedule, this appears to have been applied in line with the terms 
of her policy.
customer service
It is clear that Mrs C initially received some incorrect information and that she hasnt always 
received the best customer service, which has caused her some upset. Mrs C has also 
raised concerns about the loss adjuster that visited her property. And HDI has acknowledged 
that it hasnt always provided the level of service it should have. Having considered this, I 
agree with the investigator that HDI should pay Mrs C a total of £300 compensation to 
recognise any distress and inconvenience it has caused her through its actions.
the new claim
Mrs C has raised some new issues which HDI hasnt had the opportunity to consider  she 
says there is new damage to floor. As HDI hasnt looked into that claim, I havent addressed 
it in this decision.
Putting things right
HDI should put things right by:
paying Mrs C the cash settlement it has already offered less the applicable 
excess
considering any further invoices Mrs C is able to provide in relation to the escape 
of water claim. These should be submitted to HDI within a reasonable timeframe 
to allow it to finalise the claim
If HDI identifies any further items it needs to reimburse Mrs C for, it should pay 
8% simple interest on those from the date the initial offer was made to the date 
the settlement is paid
Paying Mrs C a total of £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it 
has caused her during the course of these claims.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. HDI Global Specialty SE should put 
things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or reject my decision before 6 October 2020.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman