DRN-3259071
The complaint
Mr A complains that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited trading as Argos unfairly 
closed his credit card account without notice.
What happened
Mr A says he tried to use his Argos account card in October 2021 but was unable to do so. 
He contacted Argos and was told his account had been closed due to inactivity. Mr A says 
Argos didnt provide him with the required notice that it was closing his account and would 
like it re-opened. He says he had used the account in the past.
Argos says Mr A last used the account in October 2019 and says its entitled to close an 
account not being used, in line with account terms and conditions. It says it sent Mr A an e-
mail in July 2021 giving him the required two months notice that it would close the account 
and says that he can re-apply for a new account.
Mr A brought his complaint to us and says Argos actions have caused worry and says he 
could not buy Christmas presents for his children. Our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint and thought Argos was entitled to close an account and having looked at its 
records, thought an e-mail was sent to Mr A on 20 July 2021 about the account closing.
Mr A doesnt accept that view and says without the actual e-mail then his account has been 
closed in error.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
I have looked carefully at Mr As account terms and conditions which Im satisfied he would 
have agreed to when the account was first opened. Those terms and conditions make clear 
that Argos may close an account not being used and by providing two months notice. I have 
looked at Argos records and dont think there can be any dispute that Mr A hadnt used the 
account since October 2019. So, I dont think Argos made a mistake or acted unfairly by 
making the decision to close Mr As account. I also dont think it clear why Mr A says there 
was such a significant impact on him by that decision, as it was some two years later that he 
decided to use the account again.
The key issue is the two-month notice e-mail which Mr A says he didnt receive. I appreciate 
Argos cant provide the exact e-mail as it sent a number of its customers similar e-mails. But 
I have looked carefully at Argos records and I am satisfied that there is a record of an e-mail 
being sent to Mr A on 20 July 2021 which didnt bounce back and providing account closure 
notice. So, Im satisfied that Argos did e-mail Mr A the required two-month notice and that Mr 
A didnt use his account in the required time period.
Overall, Im satisfied Argos was entitled in line with agreed account terms and conditions to 
close Mr As account and that it did provide him with the required notice period. It follows that 
I cant fairly order Argos re-open Mr As account and has fairly told Mr A that he can re-apply 
for a new account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman