DRN-2645074
The complaint
Miss C complains about Coventry Building Society (CBS) and their failure to reverse a 
payment she made into her sons Junior Cash ISA (JISA) in error.
 
What happened
Miss C opened a JISA for her son with CBS in October 2020. When opening the account, 
Miss C agreed to be bound by the associated terms and conditions.
In January 2021, Miss C attempted to transfer £3,700 from her current account into her own 
CBS ISA. But she mistakenly transferred it into her sons JISA instead. Miss F contacted 
CBS the next working day to explain the mistake he made and asked for the payment to be 
reversed.
But CBS explained they were unable to do so. They explained the JISA was a no access 
account, meaning funds were unable to be withdrawn unless there were very specific 
circumstances such as a critical illness or death of her son. But they advised Miss C to 
contact HMRC to see if theyd grant a waiver which would allow them to return the funds to 
her on this occasion.
Miss C contacted HMRC but the advisor said the account was tax-free so had nothing to do 
with them. Miss C took this information to mean CBS were the ones deciding not to return 
the funds to her, and she was unhappy with this. So, she raised a complaint.
She thought CBS had acted unfairly by not returning the funds to her. She explained shed 
made a mistake when transferring the funds. She explained it was the middle of the night 
and she was looking after her son at the time she made the mistake. She thought CBS 
should recognise her error and return the funds to her because of this.
CBS didnt agree. They thought theyd acted fairly, in line with terms and conditions of the 
JISA. They explained theyd followed the regulations set by HMRC, which explained funds 
were unable to be withdrawn from the account unless very specific circumstances were met. 
And as these circumstances hadnt been met, there was nothing more they could do. But 
they did offer to allow Miss C to transfer funds from her own ISA without a penalty if she 
wished. Miss remained unhappy, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She recognised Miss C had 
made a genuine error when transferring the funds into the JISA. But she explained CBS 
were obliged to comply with the regulations of the account that were set by HMRC. So, while 
she recognised the advisor Miss C spoke to gave conflicting information, she referred to the 
terms of the account which explained funds couldnt be withdrawn. So, she didnt think CBS 
had acted unfairly when not returning the funds to Miss. And because of this, she didnt think 
CBS needed to do anything more. Miss C didnt agree with this view, so the complaint has 
been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Miss C. I dont doubt Miss C 
transferred the funds into her sons JISA by mistake and this was largely due to the situation 
she found herself in at the time of making the transfer. And I can appreciate it was for a 
significant amount which Miss C may have earmarked for other purposes. So, I can 
understand why Miss C is frustrated and upset that shes lost access to these funds and the 
financial implications this may have. But for me to say CBS have done something wrong, Id 
need to be satisfied that by not returning the funds to Miss C, theyve failed to comply with 
the terms and conditions of the account. Or, that theyve treated Miss C unfairly by doing so. 
And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive seen the terms of the JISA account Miss C opened for her son. I think they explain 
clearly its a no access account and that withdrawals were only possible if her son 
developed a life-limiting illness or passed away. 
These terms were included to fall in line with the regulations of the account, that were put in 
place by HMRC. Ive seen the government website which explains payments made into 
JISAs such as the one Miss C opened cannot be repaid or reversed under any 
circumstances because the subscription is a gift to the child.
They also explained specifically that When a Junior ISA provider receives a request to 
reverse a Junior ISA subscription that was paid into a Junior ISA in error by a parent of a 
child or any other person, they should inform the person making the request that their 
subscription is a gift to a child and it cannot be repaid.
I can see CBS acknowledged the transfer was a genuine error on Miss Cs part and advised 
her to contact HMRC to see whether theyd grant her an exception on this occasion. Miss C 
has explained she attempted this but was told the JISA account was nothing to do with 
HMRC. I dont think the information HMRC provided Miss C was correct. Im unable to 
speculate why that was but after reading the government website, Im satisfied thats the 
case. So, crucially, HMRC didnt grant Miss C an exception that would authorise CBS to 
release the funds back to her.
Ive also seen CBS contacted HMRC themselves to see whether an exception would be 
granted. And Ive seen HMRC confirmed CBS had acted fairly and correctly when explaining 
to Miss C that the funds couldnt be withdrawn or refunded.
Because of this, I think CBS have acted fairly, within the terms and regulations of the JISA 
account Miss C opened. So, I cant say theyve done anything wrong and because of this, 
Im unable to ask them to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Miss C was hoping for. And I recognise this doesnt help 
the financial situation she now finds herself in having lost access to the funds she wanted to 
transfer into her own personal ISA which she may have earmarked for other purposes. But I 
hope this decision provides some form of closure to Miss C, and confirmation CBS havent 
treated her unfairly on this occasion. Ive seen CBS have offered Miss C the opportunity to 
withdraw funds from her own ISA without the penalty they would usually charge in an 
attempt to ease the impact of the situation Miss C currently finds herself in. I think she shows CBS being sympathetic to the situation Miss C is in and its Miss Cs own decision as to 
whether she wishes to take up this offer with CBS.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint about Coventry Building 
Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman