DRN-2864633
The complaint
Mrs V is unhappy about the security details Santander UK Plc requested when she 
attempted to make a payment to her son using telephone banking. She also feels shes been 
provided with poor customer service in relation to this.
What happened
On 10 November 2020, Mrs V and her son asked Santander to help her make a 
payment to him using telephone banking. However, they said she wouldnt be able to 
do this, until she had received telephone banking security details from them, or 
unless she had voice recognition in place. They also explained what this involved, 
and what she would need to do to get this quickly set up. 
Mrs Vs son complained on her behalf, as he said he didnt think the above security  
requirements were necessary. He also said he wasnt warned about them, when he 
called Santander the week before to ask about the process. 
On 12 November 2020, Santander responded to the complaint and said they didnt 
think theyd done anything wrong, as they couldnt waive their security requirements. 
They also repeated what Mrs V would need to do, so she could start using telephone 
banking in the way she intended.
On 14 November 2020, Mrs V called Santander again. Unfortunately, the adviser 
provided poor customer service, as they incorrectly believed Mrs V had provided 
wrong information and declined to help her pass security using voice recognition. 
Santander apologised for the above call on 17 November 2020 and credited £50 
compensation to Mrs Vs account to say sorry for the trouble and upset they had 
caused her. They also assured Mrs V that she should be able to pass security in the 
future and repeated what she would need to do to arrange this.
After investigating, our investigator concluded the complaint shouldnt be upheld as 
she said Santander were required to follow their security procedures. She also said  
the compensation Santander had already paid Mrs V for their customer service failing 
on 14 November 2020 was fair.
Mrs Vs son replied on her behalf and didnt accept the investigators findings. He 
said Santander should increase the compensation, as the £50 didnt fairly reflect the 
amount of time hed spent supporting his mum with this issue.
Our investigators position remained the same. So, Ive considered the complaint afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs V and her son, feel very strongly about this complaint. Although Ive only 
summarised the background and arguments above, Id like to reassure them, and Santander 
Ive read and considered everything in its entirety. The fact Ive concentrated on the crux of 
the issue in my decision isnt meant as a discourtesy but a reflection of the informal service 
we provide.
I would also like to pass on my sincere condolences to Mrs V and her family, for the loss of 
her husband. I appreciate this must be a very difficult year for Mrs V, but I dont think 
Santander should do anything more to resolve this complaint for the following reasons:
Banks and building societies have an obligation to try and keep their customers 
accounts safe and prevent fraudulent transactions. As Mrs V is aware, they have 
developed sophisticated systems to help them do so. Sometimes the security 
procedures can prevent a customer from making a legitimate payment they want to 
take place. This can cause distress and inconvenience to a customer  but it doesnt 
necessarily mean they have acted incorrectly or treated their customer unfairly.
I appreciate Mrs V was disappointed Santander required her to have telephone 
banking security details or alternatively voice recognition in place, before they would 
allow her to make a transfer to her son using telephone banking. As Santanders 
intention was to protect Mrs Vs account, Im satisfied they acted fairly by relying on 
their terms and conditions, to insist she had the required security details in place.
Im also satisfied Santander clearly explained how to set up voice recognition and 
offered to send Mrs V telephone banking security details in the post, in case she 
would find that option easier. This explanation was provided to her son, during the 
telephone conversation on 10 November 2020, which Ive listened to before reaching 
this decision. Mrs Vs options were also detailed in the two complaint responses Ive 
mentioned above. As such, Im satisfied Santander have provided Mrs V with enough 
information and support to get the security details she needs. 
I appreciate a concern was raised about the fact Santander, didnt warn Mrs Vs son 
about the security requirements when he first contacted them. However, as there is 
no record of any telephone adviser accessing Mrs Vs account until                          
10 November 2020, I think any advice he received the week before this, is likely to 
have been generic in nature, and the adviser wouldnt have been able to say what 
security details Mrs V had in place.
Im also satisfied Santander acted fairly by crediting Mrs Vs account with £50 
compensation, and apologising for the poor customer service, they unfortunately 
provided on 14 November 2020. As Mrs V should reasonably have been able to pass 
security and get voice recognition set up on that day. The compensation amount is 
also in keeping with what Ive awarded in other similar cases. 
Ive also considered if Mrs V experienced a financial loss because of Santanders 
actions. However, based on everything Ive seen, I dont think this was likely to have 
been the case. Mrs V has said the payment was intended to be used to help her son 
make some home improvements, so in my opinion it doesnt appear to have been 
particularly urgent. It also isnt clear if shes since made the payment, but Im satisfied 
there shouldnt be anything preventing her from doing so, provided she has the 
required security details in place.
I can only direct Santander to pay compensation for trouble and upset experienced by their customer  not by a third party. So, Im unable to ask Santander to pay     
Mrs Vs son any compensation for the time he spent assisting his mum in relation to 
this issue, despite his strength of feeling. I can direct Santander to pay Mrs V 
compensation for any direct or indirect trouble and upset she may have experienced 
because of Santanders actions. However, as theyve already paid her £50 
compensation to say sorry for what happened on 14 November 2020, I dont think 
they need to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman