DRN-3443102
The complaint
Miss W complains about a hire purchase agreement taken out in her name with MotoNovo 
Finance Limited.
Throughout Miss Ws complaint with us, she has been represented by a family member. But 
for ease, Ill just refer to Miss W.
What happened
In June 2015, Miss W says her former partner, who Ill call A, collected her from her home on 
the understanding that they were going for car ride. However, she says they instead went to 
a car dealership, where she was given a document to sign. The document Miss W signed 
was a hire purchase agreement in her name to get a used car.
Miss W says she wanted to read the agreement in full, but A became aggressive towards 
her. And in light of As behaviour, she says she added her signature which then allowed her 
to get the car.
A few months later, MotoNovo called Miss W, on two separate occasions, to talk about the 
agreement. They say she confirmed she had possession of the car and was aware of the 
repayments due. Miss W says the telephone calls happened while A was watching her and 
telling her what to say. Miss W also says the car was registered to A at this time and she 
didnt use it.
By November 2015, MotoNovo had taken the car back from Miss W, as neither she nor A 
had made any repayments. Although the car was subsequently sold by MotoNovo, the 
proceeds didnt cover the balance of the hire purchase agreement. So, MotoNovo held 
Miss W responsible for the repayment of the remaining balance.
In June 2019, Miss W complained to MotoNovo and said the salary details used in the 
application for the hire purchase agreement were incorrect. So, they shouldnt hold her 
responsible for balance of the account. MotoNovo responded to say that Miss W had signed 
the agreement, so she was required to make the payments. But they also told Miss W they 
would look into things again, if she could show what her salary was at the time. 
Miss W says she didnt receive MotoNovos response, so she didnt send them any further 
details about her income. But, in May 2021 she complained again, to say that not only were 
the salary details incorrect, but A had used aggression to get her to sign the agreement. 
MotoNovo told Miss W they had already looked at the income part of her complaint. They 
also said the telephone calls with Miss W at the start of the agreement show that she 
consented to it. So, MotoNovo maintained that Miss W was still responsible for the balance 
owed under the agreement. Miss W didnt accept this and brought her complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into Miss Ws case and concluded that MotoNovo had 
treated her fairly. He said he couldnt consider Miss Ws concerns about her income details, 
as it had been brought to us too late. The investigator also found that MotoNovo were 
unaware of any pressure placed on Miss W at the time the agreement was signed and that it 
was likely she authorised it to get the car.
Miss W didnt agree. She said MotoNovo sent their response in 2019 to an incorrect 
address. Miss W also reiterated that A had coerced her into signing the hire purchase 
agreement. 
The investigator didnt change his conclusions, so Miss Ws case has now been passed to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This case is about a hire purchase agreement in Miss Ws name with MotoNovo, which is a 
regulated financial product. As such, we are able to consider complaints about it.
Throughout her complaint with MotoNovo, Miss W has described the very difficult and 
distressing circumstances she has experienced. Id like Miss W to know that Ive thought 
about those circumstances very carefully and I hope things have improved for her since 
then.
Im also very aware Ive summarised this complaint very briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and largely in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think is at the heart of the matter here. Namely, have MotoNovo treated 
Miss W fairly by asking her to repay the outstanding balance owed under the hire purchase 
agreement? 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, I havent ignored it. Ive not commented on every 
individual detail. Ive focussed on those that are central to me reaching what I think is the 
right outcome. This reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
The concerns raised in 2019
I can only consider a complaint if it falls within certain criteria laid down in our case-handling 
rules, which are found in the DISP section of the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook. 
Dispute Resolution (DISP) rule 2.8.2R says that where a business doesnt agree, I cant 
consider a complaint which is referred to this service more than six months after the 
business sends the complainant its final response letter.
Miss W first raised her concerns with MotoNovo about the details used in the application for 
the hire purchase agreement in June 2019. I can see that the final response letter from 
MotoNovo is dated 19 July 2019 and gave Miss W six months to refer those concerns to our 
service. Miss W says she didnt receive the final response letter, as it went to an address 
she previously held.
Ive looked at the internal records kept by MotoNovo that show the contact they had with 
Miss W since the start of the agreement. I can see that MotoNovo dont have a record of a 
change of address for Miss W from June 2015, until she made her second complaint in May 
2021. And Miss W has told us that she didnt see a reason to update her address with 
MotoNovo.I acknowledge where Miss W says that as she didnt hear from MotoNovo, she thought they 
had ended their pursuit of the outstanding balance. Having looked at everything, I dont think 
MotoNovo told Miss W that they had removed her details from the hire purchase agreement, 
when they responded to her complaint in July 2019. So, I think the onus was on Miss W to 
follow up her complaint and get confirmation.
Subsequently, Miss W contacted our service in November 2021, which is more than six 
months after MotoNovos final response. With this in mind I dont think I can consider the 
part of Miss Ws complaint about the salary details used on the application form.
Im allowed to investigate complaints made out of time where Im satisfied the failure to 
comply with the time limits was due to exceptional circumstances. This means 
circumstances which would have prevented Miss W from referring her complaint in time had 
she chosen to do so. While I accept Miss W has experienced very challenging 
circumstances, overall, I dont consider then to be exceptional.
Ive also thought about the letter sent to Miss Ws current address in September 2018. 
Miss W says this shows MotoNovo had her new address and should have sent the final 
response there. MotoNovo say this was an address they held on their file, because Miss W 
had lived there previously. And that the September 2018 letter was sent there in error.
I think its reasonable that MotoNovo had details of Miss Ws address history, since it would 
have been relevant during the application for the hire purchase agreement. On balance, Im 
persuaded MotoNovo sent the September 2018 letter in error. So, I dont think it means they 
knew that Miss W had changed her address when she complained in June 2019.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that Miss W could have referred her complaint 
to us in time. Therefore I find that this service cannot look into the part Miss Ws complaint 
about the salary details used in the application.
The authorisation of the hire purchase agreement
Miss W says that A coerced her into signing the hire purchase agreement in June 2015. So, 
Ive thought about the evidence Miss W has provided to show where A had used threatening 
behaviour, to an extent where she felt she was in danger if she didnt do what A had asked.
Throughout her complaint, Miss W has told us A placed her under pressure to sign the 
agreement and that he kept the only copy of the contract. She also says he made sure she 
couldnt object to the finance during telephone calls with MotoNovo, by monitoring what she 
said. However, other than what Miss W says, we dont have other evidence to show what 
Miss W experienced during her relationship with A. 
Miss W says she was aware A struggled to get credit and that the car financed by the 
agreement was for As use. She also says she had her own car at the time. On balance, I 
think the car was for taken out for A and I accept its likely Miss W didnt use it fully for 
herself. 
But, I also recognise though, that it isnt uncommon for an arrangement to exist whereby one 
party may use a car, but the finance to be in the name of someone else, like a partner or a 
family member. So, to support what Miss W says, I must be able to say that she didnt give 
her authority, or apparent authority for the agreement to have been taken out in her name.
Ive thought carefully about what Miss W says happened on the day the agreement was 
signed at the dealership. Miss W says A was aggressive to her in front on the dealer and 
stopped her from fully reading what she was being told to sign. MotoNovo say that the dealer doesnt have any recollection of the signing of the agreement. 
Based on everything Ive seen, on balance I think any pressure Miss W felt she was under 
wasnt obvious to the dealer. So, Ive considered what happened after the agreement was 
signed to decide if Miss W gave her authorisation for the loan to go ahead.
I can see from MotoNovos records that Miss W spoke to them about the agreement in 
August and October 2015. Within those telephone calls MotoNovos notes show that Miss W 
told them she took out the hire purchase agreement because A was unable to get credit. 
And that she now wanted to transfer the finance into his name. Additionally the notes say 
that Miss W told MotoNovo that she had some use of the car.
While I acknowledge that Miss W says A monitored what she was saying, I think the 
telephone calls support MotoNovos view that she had authorised the hire purchase 
agreement. I say this because of the nature of what was discussed and Miss Ws awareness 
of the arrears owed to MotoNovo.
Having considered everything, I dont think it was clear to MotoNovo or the dealer, that 
Miss W was coerced into signing the hire purchase agreement. On balance, I think Miss W 
gave her authority for the agreement to start. So, I dont think MotoNovo have treated Miss 
W unfairly by holding her responsible for the outstanding balance of the loan account.
Im aware that my conclusions mean there will still be an outstanding balance owed by 
Miss W to MotoNovo. So, I remind MotoNovo of their responsibility to treat Miss Ws financial 
circumstances with due consideration and forbearance. This will mean looking at Miss Ws 
income and expenditure details to talk about the options they are able to offer to her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ws complaint about MotoNovo Finance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman