DRN-2544708
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Capital One (Europe) Plc wont tell him why they didnt grant a 
credit limit increase.
What happened
In 2020, Mr L applied for a credit limit increase on his credit card, but Capital One turned it 
down.
Mr L asked them for the reason. But Capital One only gave him a list of broad factors that 
could potentially help his chances in future, and wouldnt tell him the specific reasons why 
his limit increase had not been granted. Mr L explained that none of the things theyd listed 
applied to him anyway as his credit score was already excellent.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
explained that Capital One werent obliged to increase the limit, and their internal lending 
criteria was indeed confidential. They assured Mr L that Capital One had not recorded any 
negative information against him.
Mr L felt it was unreasonable for Capital One to hide behind the fact that their lending criteria 
was confidential. He asked for an ombudsman to look at things afresh, so the complaints 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator, and for much the 
same reasons.
I can completely understand why Mr L would like to know the specific reasons why his limit 
increase was declined. And I can appreciate why it would be frustrating not to know.
However, Im afraid I would not expect companies to give out that level of detail about their 
lending decisions. Thats because while Mr L wants to know these details for benign 
purposes, there are others who would gather this information to try to manipulate or cheat 
the system. So it makes sense for companies not to give anyone too much information about 
how their lending calculations work. Thats why that kind of information is confidential. Here, 
Capital One have given some general information about the types of things they take into 
account, and I cant fairly require them to do more than that.
If its any consolation, the decline does not necessarily mean that there was anything wrong 
with Mr Ls credit at all. For example, sometimes businesses may want to lend more or less 
on different types of products, depending on their business focus or attitude to risk at 
different times.
I appreciate this may well feel galling for Mr L, and I accept this is probably not the answer 
he wouldve been hoping for. But ultimately, it was up to Capital One to decide whether to 
grant the limit increase or not. They were not required to increase the limit, nor to give away 
their lending criteria. So while I empathise with Mr L, I have not found that Capital One did 
anything significantly wrong here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman