DRN-3003844
The complaint
Mr H complained that American Express Services Europe Limited trading as American 
Express (AmEx) hadnt properly dealt with his chargeback; hadnt phoned to tell him how 
much to pay on his card as it agreed; and had recorded a late payment on his credit file.
What happened
Mr H said he asked AmEx to do a chargeback for him, but it had wrongly agreed with a 
merchant that the item had been delivered. Mr H said it hadnt been delivered to him, and he 
wanted AmEx to deal with this. 
Mr H said he then reached an agreement with AmEx that he would pay for the rest of the 
outstanding balance, but not this item. He said AmEx had agreed to cancel his direct debit, 
and to call him to take payments over the phone each month, minus the amount for the item 
Mr H said wasnt received. Mr H said AmEx did this for about two months, but then stopped. 
Mr H said that AmEx had breached his agreement with it, and it should remove the marker it 
had put on his credit file as a result of this.
Mr H also said that his loss shouldve been covered by an insurance which AmEx offers as a 
benefit to its cardholders, but AmEx just hadnt told him about that.
AmEx said that when Mr H told it he hadnt received something he ordered, it had taken this 
item off his statement, and asked the merchant about this. But then it received evidence 
from the merchant that the item Mr H queried had been delivered. AmEx said that it had 
done as much as it could to help Mr H with this, and he would have to take this up 
elsewhere. So it billed Mr H for this on 9 October 2020. AmEx said Mr H asked it to reopen 
the dispute on 28 October, but it wrote to him on 3 November to say it wouldnt do so.
AmEx said that it sent Mr H a statement on 13 November 2020. That asked for payment of 
£25 by 8 December 2020. Mr H didnt pay until 15 December 2020. So AmEx said it had 
recorded this late payment on Mr Hs credit file.
AmEx said the credit team may have rung Mr H in the past to remind him and collect an 
overdue payment, but it hadnt reached any agreement to ring Mr H every month, and tell 
him how much to pay. It said it wasnt going to do that.
AmEx said all the information on its purchase protection policy was available to Mr H online. 
AmEx didnt think it had done anything wrong, and it wouldnt amend his credit file. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said AmEx had tried to 
pursue Mr Hs chargeback for him, and it acted fairly when it then declined this, because of 
the evidence the merchant provided. 
Our investigator said she hadnt been able to see that any agreement had been put in place 
for AmEx to ring Mr H and tell him how much to pay. She said he had been sent a 
statement, and he hadnt paid in response to that. So she thought that AmEx acted fairly 
when it applied a late payment fee, and put a marker on Mr Hs credit file. 
Our investigator said Mr H could complain separately about AmEx not telling him that he 
could claim under its purchase protection policy, if he wanted to. But she didnt think he 
wouldve been covered by the policy. 
Mr H wanted our service to listen to the calls he had with AmEx. But AmEx said it couldnt 
get these for us. 
A different investigator then took over this case, and he didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld either. He said he couldnt find any evidence of an agreement that AmEx would ring 
Mr H to tell him how much to pay each month. He said that it would be very unusual, and 
against industry standard practice, for it to do this. Our investigator didnt think this 
agreement had been reached.
Our investigator said AmEx did send Mr H statements, and he hadnt suggested he didnt get 
them. Our investigator didnt think AmEx wouldve asked Mr H to do anything different to 
what was set out on the statements. So our investigator said that AmEx didnt do anything 
wrong when it reported the late payment to credit reference agencies. 
Our investigator also said that he felt AmEx had acted fairly in dealing with Mr Hs 
chargeback request. And he repeated that Mr H could complaint about the purchase 
protection on his card separately, if he wanted to do so.
Mr H didnt agree, so this case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
Mr H wanted AmEx to challenge a card payment he made for £457.96, because he said the 
item wasnt received. So AmEx did ask the seller about this. And the seller has provided 
evidence that the item was delivered, although Mr H said that it wasnt delivered to him. At 
this point, AmEx said it couldnt help further, and asked Mr H to raise this either with the 
seller, the courier, or the police. I think that was a reasonable response for AmEx to make in 
these circumstances. 
I can see that Mr H raised this dispute again with AmEx in November and December 2020, 
then again in January 2021. And I can see that AmEx repeatedly reopened this complaint for 
him. Each time it did so, it appears to have taken this transaction off his account, then not 
long after, put it back on. So I do think that Mr Hs statements have been confusing, during 
the time that he has disputed this payment. 
But theres still no evidence that Mr H reached an agreement with AmEx that it would call 
him each month to tell him how much to pay. Although I know that the call recordings Mr H 
wanted us to listen to are unfortunately not available, I would still have expected to see some 
evidence of this agreement. And neither side has been able to show us this.So I havent been able to establish that Mr H had reached such an agreement with AmEx. 
And I have to take account of the fact that Mr H didnt pay anything at all towards his monthly 
minimum payment during the statement period running up to 13 December. The only credit 
applied during that time was a merchant refund for £6.93, which was not enough to cover his 
£25 minimum payment that month. Because of that, I dont think that AmEx made a mistake 
when it recorded a late payment on Mr Hs credit file.
I know that Mr H will be disappointed, but I dont think that our service should uphold his 
complaints about how AmEx handled his chargeback request, whether it ought to have 
called him about his December payment, or what it did when that payment was late. 
Our investigators have invited Mr H to complain to AmEx directly if he wanted to pursue a 
complaint about whether he shouldve been informed of its purchase protection policy, when 
his chargeback was turned down. But it appears to me from the final response letter Mr H 
shared with our service, that he has already raised this with AmEx. I understand that Mr H is 
most concerned about the issues Ive dealt with here, so Ive not delayed a decision on 
these points. But our service can consider Mr Hs complaint about whether AmEx shouldve 
told Mr H about its purchase protection policy for him now, if he would like. Mr H should 
contact us, if hed like us to do that. 
Otherwise, Im sorry to have to tell Mr H that the complaint points we have considered to 
date, wont be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman