DRN-3388715
The complaint
Miss B complained that Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, didnt refund her for a 
cash withdrawal, where she said the machine didnt dispense the money.
What happened
On 15 December 2021, Miss B tried to withdraw £120 at a cash machine. She said the 
money wasnt dispensed, and the machine had a message saying she wouldnt be charged. 
Shortly afterwards, Miss B withdrew £120 successfully elsewhere.
Miss B said that she then checked her mobile banking app, and it showed two debits for 
£120. One of these debits then disappeared. Miss B complained to Virgin.
Virgin contacted the owner of the cash machine, and obtained machine records. Based on 
this, Virgin didnt uphold Miss Bs complaint. In its final response letter, it explained that there 
had been no balance discrepancies with the machine, and the money had been dispensed. 
So it didnt refund her.
Miss B wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. She said that the same thing had 
happened before, when cash hadnt been dispensed from a machine, but it had been 
corrected.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Bs complaint. She said that the machine log showed the 
machine had been working correctly, and there were no reported errors. Nor were there any 
reports of devices fitted to the machine. 
The investigator explained to Miss B that only one £120 debit had been made to Miss Bs 
account. She said that the mobile banking app shows live transactions as they happen  
which was why two attempted pending £120 debits showed on Miss Bs mobile banking app 
for a short time. But it was likely that the first cash machine had auto-corrected itself, leaving 
only one debit.
Miss B wasnt satisfied. She said that the first machine had had a message saying she 
hadnt been charged. But after shed successfully withdrawn £120 from the second cash 
machine, the balance was lower than it should have been. She said it didnt add up. Miss B 
said she hadnt used that cash machine since, and she asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Miss B isnt happy about what happened. But having checked carefully, I dont 
think Miss B has lost any money here. 
Miss B has told us that the first machine didnt pay out the £120,  and it said that her account 
wouldnt be debited. And shes said that the second machine, soon afterwards, did pay out 
her £120. Her bank statement only shows one £120 debit. So she received £120 cash, and 
her Virgin account was debited with £120.
I recognise that Miss B said that for a short time, her banking app showed two £120 debits, 
and one then disappeared. I know this would have been worrying, but they would have been 
pending transactions, which can change  as they did here.  What  matters is that in the end 
only one debit was made to Miss Bs account. 
For completeness, I have looked at the machine records, which Virgin obtained from the 
cash machine owner. These show Miss Bs successful transaction, and also show the 
certificate that the machine balanced. 
So I find that Miss Bs account was only debited with the one successful £120 debit. This 
means I dont uphold her complaint for a refund, as the other debit never reached her 
account and she wasnt out of pocket.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman