DRN-3189278
The complaint
Mr M says Tesco Personal Finance Plc, has treated him unfairly in relation to a transaction 
on his credit card which went towards the purchase of a car.
What happened
In May 2020 Mr M used his Tesco credit card to partially finance the purchase of a second-
hand car. He paid off the rest of the purchase cost by making a bank transfer. Soon after 
taking delivery of the car he had it serviced, and a MOT carried out. The garage who did this 
noted that there was an issue with the mileage and felt the mileage shown was unreliable 
and was actually a higher mileage than shown. So Mr M complained to the company who he 
bought the car from, which I shall call Firm A. But Mr M didnt get anywhere with his 
complaint to Firm A. So he took his dispute to Tesco to see if it could help.
Tesco said it considered raising a chargeback through the card scheme but felt it couldnt do 
this in these circumstances. It said it also considered a claim under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 but felt that the required relationship between the parties as set 
out in the Act hadnt been made out, so it didnt refund Mr M. So Mr M brought his complaint 
to this service.
Our Investigator felt Tesco had treated Mr M fairly. And Mr M remains unhappy and so this 
complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M used his Tesco credit card in part payment for the car. This means Tesco has certain 
responsibilities to Mr M which arise from the relevant law, specifically, Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act). There is no need for me to go into great detail about 
how this operates, but in summary Section 75 has the effect of allowing Mr M to hold Tesco 
liable for breaches of contract by Firm A, or misrepresentations made by it in relation to the 
agreement made. Again without going into a large amount of detail a breach of contract 
occurs when one party to a contract fails to provide what it has agreed to under that contract. 
Misrepresentation is when something is said which is relied upon and transpires to be untrue 
leading to detriment.
Tesco are also a member of a network which provides card services. And this network has 
rules (the card scheme) which include giving Tesco a different avenue for card transactions 
to be disputed, namely through the Chargeback process.
could Tesco challenge the transaction through a chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mr M 
does here, Tesco (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through the chargeback process.
Mr M doesnt dispute that he used his Tesco credit card here. Nor does he dispute the 
amount, date or any other details about the transaction itself. So I dont think Tesco couldve 
challenged the payment on the basis Mr M didnt properly authorise the transaction, given 
what Ive just set out.
Tesco is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. The supplier (Firm A) would then receive that 
chargeback request and may agree to refund the payment or may contest the chargeback. If 
it contests, then Tesco should consider this and then if it still feels the chargeback is 
warranted then it can take the chargeback further and ultimately to the scheme provider (not 
Tesco) who will then make an independent determination on the matter. So Tesco isnt 
solely responsible for the decision whether to refund or not when going through the 
chargeback process. And it can fairly decide to not proceed at any stage if it doesnt think 
there is a reasonable prospect of success.
Tesco has said it didnt raise a chargeback when Mr M started to raise concerns about the 
transaction as there was nothing persuasive to suggest that the chargeback would be 
successful. Based on what Mr M has said about Firm A it would seem likely it would have 
rejected any such chargeback request
And having considered the chargeback reasons available (which are defined and limited) Im 
not persuaded Mr M has lost out because Tesco didnt raise a chargeback in this case. I say 
this because I dont think there was a reasonable prospect of success considering the 
situation and particularly the chargeback rules in place here and the dearth of 
contemporaneous physical evidence from the sale. So whether or not Tesco should have 
raised a chargeback doesnt make a difference because I dont think it would have been 
successful, so I dont think Mr M has lost out here because of what Tesco did.
Section 75
Before deciding on whether there is breach or misrepresentation here there are some 
requirements set out in the CCA which also have to be met before these issues can be 
considered. One of these tests is around financial limits and having considered these I think 
on balance that Mr Ms claim meets the financial limits criteria.
Another test in the CCA for a valid claim is that there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier 
arrangement in place. This is often referred to as the DCS relationship or simply DCS. This 
means that there needs to be the necessary three-party relationship. This often looks like:
A debtor (who makes repayments to the creditor for the borrowing for the purchase)
A creditor (who has to send the borrowed amount direct to the supplier)
A supplier (who has to provide what was purchased to the debtor)
This means the person who paid for the goods (the Debtor) should have a contractual 
relationship with whoever supplied the goods (the Supplier) as well as with the credit 
provider (the Creditor). And this is the crux of the complaint here. Mr M says that the DCS 
relationship is in place so Tesco can be held liable for any breach of contract by Firm A.
But Tesco has raised the issue of whether DCS can be made out here. It notes that although 
Firm A provided the car to Mr M, it wasnt who he paid with his credit card. He paid a 
different car company which I shall call Firm B. Mr M says he wasnt aware of this issue 
until sometime after the purchase. Tesco points out that Mr M hasnt been able to provide 
details of the contract entered into or any great detail around who the parties involved 
actually were. In essence, Tescos position is that it knows so little about what happened in 
this transaction for the car that it cant establish whether the requirements for S75 are met or not. So it cant decide whether there has been a breach of contract or misrepresentation it 
should be responsible for. And hence it hasnt made any award to Mr M around the issues 
he says hes had with the car.
The Investigator looked into Firm A and Firm B. One isnt owned by the other. And it is clear 
that they have different directors. So it appears there are four parties involved here rather 
than the required three. This is not necessarily fatal to DCS being made out if the parties are 
Associates as defined in the Act. I should add that the Act specifically defines Associates 
and this definition is a lot tighter and more defined than that of the common broader 
understanding of the word Associate. Ive considered what we know about Firm A and Firm 
B and Im not persuaded that the definition under the Act of Associates is met here.
In essence there is no real evidence with regard to what happened here between Firm A and 
Firm B. There is no evidence of a link between the directors that this service has found 
which satisfies the Associates test. And as Tesco point out there isnt any persuasive 
evidence around the details within the contract Mr M entered into were. So there was no 
persuasive evidence that the contract had been breached.
Mr M says that there must have been an arrangement between Firm A and Firm B 
considering the situation and that this inter-relationship issue is, in essence, a moot point. I 
disagree. The problems with the car is an issue for Firm A as it provided the car, but it is 
Firm B who Mr M paid with his credit card. And the bank transfer Mr M did isnt covered by 
S75 directly. It can only be covered if the DCS arrangement is made out in relation to the 
card transaction. The bank transfer doesnt have any such protections in itself.
It is not clear who the contracting parties are as weve no persuasive documentation or 
evidence on this point or indeed what the contract terms were. I appreciate Mr Ms thinking 
which is in essence that Firm A wouldnt have given him a free car but rather there must be 
some sort of arrangement considering who he paid. However there needs to be clear 
evidence to decide a DCS relationship is in place. When I consider the case law on this point 
the evidence relied upon to establish DCS in the Courts was accepted by all parties and 
evidenced. Here we are essentially blind as to the relationship between Firm A and Firm B. It 
could have been simply the use of the card machine, it could have been repaying a debt, it 
could have been a one off or part of a formal agency agreement or even some sort of joint 
venture. And without knowing what the relationship is here neither Tesco or I can establish 
whether the relationship meets the Acts requirements or not.
It should also be remembered that the only reason Tesco is potentially liable is due to this 
legislation Ive described. If the legislation wasnt in place then Tesco wouldnt have any 
potential liability for the car at all (it would have obligations around Chargeback but that isnt 
nearly as extensive in terms of protection to the consumer). So it is key that if I am to hold 
Tesco liable the tests required under the Act must be met including DCS. And Im satisfied it 
isnt made out here.
And it should be remembered that were Mr M to take any action against either Firm A or 
Firm B or both through legal processes the relationship between the two would have to be 
established also (as is the case here). So it isnt the case that Tesco are treating him unfairly 
in this regard.
So all in all having considered the matter Im not persuaded Tesco has treated Mr M unfairly. 
Im not persuaded that the required relationship was made out. I think there are four parties 
involved in this transaction and I dont think the DCS relationship has been shown to be in 
place. So I dont think Tesco hasnt done anything wrong here which needs remedy.I appreciate Mr M will be disappointed with this decision. And not only has Mr M paid a 
significant sum of money but his options with regard to resolving the matter are less now Ive 
decided that Tesco hasnt treated him unfairly. And Id imagine hes possibly incurred other 
costs as well. So I can well appreciate his disappointment at what has happened. However 
Tesco has treated him fairly here as it cannot be held responsible for what happened here 
as DCS has not been shown to be in place.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Tesco Personal 
Finance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman