DRN-3213125
The complaint
Mr G doesnt agree HSBC UK Bank Plc has awarded him fair compensation following errors 
with a transaction.  
What happened
On 19 May 2021, Mr G tried to make a payment of £1,800 towards a credit card in his wifes 
name. HSBC blocked this transaction and that evening Mr G was contacted by the fraud 
team. Mr G understood from the call the transaction would now be processed, but due to an 
error in the information sought from Mr G it was instead returned to his account.
Mr G contacted HSBC the next day to process the payment again, but he wasnt able to 
complete the call due to a work meeting, following the time it had taken to speak to someone 
and then answer the questions asked. HSBC couldnt call him back, so the payment wasnt 
processed. He then called them three days later to try and make the payment again and was 
assured it would be processed if he resent it. Mr G put the payment through, but it was again 
blocked by HSBC and he was referred to the fraud team. The next day Mr G spoke to them 
and passed the checks, so the payment was processed. But the team didnt add the card 
reference number. On 26 May 2021, he spoke to the credit card provider. It was able to 
locate the payment and apply it to his wifes card, so the payment was made.
Mr G complained to HSBC about the experience. He wanted compensation as well as the 
interest charged to the card over the eight-day period. HSBC awarded Mr G £50 and then 
later £90 to cover the interest.
Mr G brought his complaint to our service as he considered the compensation award too 
low. On providing its file HSBC increased the compensation to £100. Mr G rejected this and 
asked for £300. Our investigator didnt agree £300 was warranted and said £100 was fair for 
the impact on Mr G. He asked for an ombudsman to review the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its accepted that HSBC made errors in this case and that it couldve handled the processing 
of Mr Gs payment better. Both parties agree that there were errors with the timing of 
HSBCs first call to Mr G; the security checks in this call; the rejection of the next payment; 
the card reference number being missing; and HSBCs contact with Mr G around the 
complaint, including how long he spent on calls. So I dont need to make a finding on these 
points. What I do need to decide is what compensation is appropriate. Mr G has explained 
that he doesnt consider £100 compensation is enough and instead believes hes due in the 
region of £300. He has also mentioned a financial loss.
I have considered what happened and the impact it had on Mr G. But Im satisfied £100 
compensation is fair. Mr G did spend a number of hours on the phone to both HSBC and the 
credit card company to sort this out. But part of this time is due to him needing to go through 
HSBCs fraud checks  which I consider reasonable and important. And while I accept there 
were long waits at times to speak to people, this isnt itself a mistake by HSBC. Mr G has 
explained that he didnt get a bonus from work due to this payment distracting him. But he 
has also told us he didnt call HSBC over the weekend as hed gone away with family on 
holiday. So I dont consider he is due compensation for the bonus and ultimately it was his 
choice when to call HSBC back.
HSBC has compensated Mr G for the interest charged on the credit card for the time he 
wasnt able to repay it when the payment wasnt processed. And its apologised to Mr G and 
explained what went wrong. Considering things were put right within 5 working days of Mr G 
first interacting with HSBC and its covered the interest for this whole period, despite HSBC 
being open over the weekend when Mr G didnt call, I dont think it needs to increase the 
compensation. HSBC did make repeated errors in a small period of time, but this was 
rectified fairly quickly, and I consider £100 is fair for its mistakes.
If HSBC hasnt already, it should pay Mr G the further £50 it awarded him when the 
complaint came to our service. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I think HSBC UK Bank Plcs offer of £100 compensation and 
£90 interest is fair.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman