DRN-3408792
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has turned down a cancellation
claim they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C hold travel insurance as a benefit of a packaged account with their building
society.
Mr and Mrs C were due to take a multi-centre holiday. They planned to fly out to a country Ill
call H in February 2020, before flying onto an island Ill call R in March 2020. However, due
to the rising number of Covid-19 cases in one of the countries Mr and Mrs C were due to
travel to, Mr C sought medical advice from his GP. Thats because Mr C suffered from
asthma and it seems he also had a chest infection. The GP advised Mr C not to travel
abroad because of the risk Covid-19 presented to him given his underlying condition of
asthma. So Mr and Mrs C cancelled their trip. They were able to recover their flight costs.
But their accommodation costs in R were non-refundable and therefore, they made a claim
on their travel insurance policy.
UKI turned down Mr and Mrs Cs claim. It said the policy excluded claims arising from a
policyholders pre-existing medical conditions unless the conditions had been declared
annually to UKI and it had agreed to cover them. UKI said that Mr C had declared asthma
once in 2017, at the same time he paid to take out a trip extension upgrade. But it said that it
had sent Mr C a letter in March 2018 inviting him to renew the health upgrade and he hadnt
responded. As the medical certificate showed Mr C had cancelled the trip due to asthma,
UKI concluded that the claim wasnt covered by the policy terms.
Mr and Mrs C were unhappy with UKIs decision and they asked us to look into their
complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld. She noted that the
upgrade letter UKI had sent Mr C in 2017 said that in some cases, medical upgrades would
be automatically renewed, but that policyholders could tell UKI if they didnt want this to
happen. She acknowledged UKI said itd sent Mr C a renewal letter in 2018, which he hadnt
responded to. She thought this meant that Mr C was effectively confirming that he still
wanted medical cover. And she felt that itd been reasonable for him to think he didnt need
to declare asthma again because hed already done so once. So she didnt think itd been
fair for UKI to turn down the claim and she recommended that UKI should settle                   
Mr and Mrs Cs costs.
I issued a provisional decision on 23 March 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I thought it had been fair for UKI to turn down Mr and Mrs Cs claim. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the
terms of Mr and Mrs Cs policy and the available evidence, to decide whether UKI handled
this claim fairly.
The policy terms and conditions
Ive first turned to the terms and conditions of the policy, as these form the basis of the
contract between Mr and Mrs C and UKI.
Page 8 of the policy terms includes a section called Medical Screening. This says:
Please read this section carefully. If you dont tell us about a medical condition, you and
anyone else insured by this policy will not be covered for any claim connected to your
medical condition
We consider an illness or injury to be a medical condition if an insured person would
answer yes to one or more of the questions below:
In the last 12 months have you suffered from, received treatment or are receiving treatment
or advice for..:
Any breathing condition (such as asthma or COPD)?
What happens when you tell us about a medical condition
If you tell us about a medical condition, depending on your answers we will do one of 
the following:
Cover your condition for free.
Ask you to pay an extra premium to cover your medical condition.
Exclude cover for all medical conditions and any related conditions.
Immediately underneath, the policy states:
Arranging cover for your medical conditions
When we accept a medical condition a Medical Upgrade will be added to your cover. In
most cases this will apply for 12 months, unless your health changes and we can no
longer cover your medical condition, or until the expiry of any upgrade or endorsement that
is already in place, whichever is sooner.
Page 9 sets out the following information:
Renewal of your Medical Upgrade
Before your upgrade ends we will send you a renewal invitation. You may need to contact us
so we can re-assess your medical conditions. It is important that you do so before your
Medical Upgrade is due to end to make sure that we can continue to cover your medical
conditions.A table underneath sets out a list of claim scenarios and how the declaration of medical
conditions might affect these. The table shows that if a policyholder hasnt declared a
medical condition, then cancellation claims wont be covered.
Pages 19 and 20 set out the policy cancellation cover, including specific events UKI doesnt
cover. One of these is Medical conditions which is defined as: any claim due to a medical
condition, unless you had already told us about the condition and we had agreed to cover it.
Im satisfied then that the policy terms and conditions make it clear that claims caused by a
policyholders medical conditions wont be covered unless theyve been declared to and
accepted by UKI. And I currently find that the policy terms make it sufficiently clear that cover
for a policyholders accepted medical conditions will only last for a 12-month period.
The medical endorsement and upgrade script
Theres no dispute that Mr and Mrs C called UKI in 2017 both to pay for a trip extension
upgrade and to declare Mr Cs medical conditions. UKI said that it agreed, at this point, to
cover Mr Cs asthma for free. The fact Mr C called UKI and declared his condition seems to
suggest that he was aware of the need to declare any existing medical conditions.
UKI has sent us a copy of the script it says its call handler wouldve followed when Mr C
went through the medical upgrade process. Ive considered this carefully. At the end of the
call, the script indicates that the call handler would state:
Your medical conditions are covered with no charge for the next 12 months providing
there are no changes.
While I havent listened to the call between Mr C and UKI, it seems more likely than not that
UKIs call handler wouldve followed its screening and upgrade process. That means I
currently think UKI made it clear at the time of the upgrade that medical cover would only
last for 12 months.
Following the call, UKI sent Mr and Mrs C an endorsement letter setting out that itd agreed
the trip extension and agreed to cover Mr Cs medical condition. The letter says that the
period of insurance was 13 April 2017 until 12 April 2018. I think this makes it clear that the
extended cover would only apply until 12 April 2018.
The endorsement letter includes a paragraph which states:
Automatic renewal: This upgrade may be automatically renewed by us on the renewal date.
If we intend to automatically renew, we will notify you of our intention prior to expiry together
with details of the renewal premium. If you do not wish to renew this policy you should inform
us prior to the renewal date.
The investigator thought this paragraph indicated that UKI would automatically renew Mr and
Mrs Cs upgrade and therefore wouldve taken it to mean that they didnt need to do anything
more. I disagree. I think the paragraph makes it clear that if UKI intends to automatically
renew an upgrade, it will let a policyholder know. Theres nothing to suggest thats what
happened here. Instead, UKI says it sent Mr and Mrs C a renewal invitation in March 2018,
which they didnt respond to.
I note Mr C told UKI that he didnt receive anything in March 2018 and I accept this was
possible. UKI says it can only hold quotes for 90 days and these cant be reissued. So I cant
see what was sent and what it said. But given the endorsement letter states if UKI plans to
auto-renew a policy, it will notify a policyholder before doing so, if Mr and Mrs C hadntreceived such a notification, in my view, it wouldve been reasonable for them to chase this
up with UKI and check they were still covered. Or to query why an additional premium hadnt
been charged for the additional year of cover. So I dont think I can fairly conclude that Mr
and Mrs C were entitled to assume that the endorsement was ongoing or that the medical
upgrade had auto-renewed.
Overall, Im currently persuaded that the totality of the evidence Mr and Mrs C were given by
UKI  the terms of the policy, the call script and the endorsement letter  were clear enough
to highlight that medical conditions needed to be declared to and accepted by UKI every 12
months. And as Mr and Mrs C accept that they didnt make a declaration after 2017 and prior
to the claim (and it seems from UKIs notes that Mr C told it he didnt see why he should
have to), Im satisfied that UKI hadnt agreed to cover Mr Cs asthma at the time the claim
was made.
Was it fair for UKI to turn down the claim?
As Ive set out above, UKI specifically excludes claims if theyre down to a policyholders
medical conditions. UKI felt the evidence showed that Mr Cs claim was directly related to his
asthma. So Ive looked closely at the available evidence to decide whether this was a fair
conclusion for UKI to draw.
UKI provided us with a copy of its claims notes. These say that on 10 February 2020, Mr C
called UKI to make a claim. Its notes say that Mr C was going to ask his GP to write a letter
to say that he was at risk of Covid-19 and that this was the reason he intended to cancel the
trip.
Ive looked closely at the GPs certificate. This said that Mr C was suffering from asthma and
a chest infection. The form stated that Mr C had been diagnosed with asthma in 2009 and
had symptoms of a chest infection on 3 February 2020. It said that Mr C had been to the GP
on 10 February 2020 re asthma. The form also asked the GP to confirm whether Mr Cs
condition was sufficiently severe to have caused Mr C to cancel the trip. The GP answered
yes and said:
When (H) became a country with several coronavirus cases in view of his underlying
asthma.
Based on this evidence, its clear Mr C did have a longstanding diagnosis of asthma and
took two medications for it. And while the GP seems to have diagnosed Mr C with a chest
infection on 10 February 2020, the GPs notes suggest that the reason it was medically
necessary for Mr C to cancel the trip was because of the risk Covid-19 presented to him
given his underlying asthma. It also appears it was this risk which had prompted Mr C to see
the GP on 10 February 2020. I dont think the evidence suggests that the GP felt the chest
infection itself was severe enough to lead to cancellation.
On this basis then, I find the medical certificate persuasive evidence that the reason for the
cancellation of Mr and Mrs Cs trip was directly related to Mr Cs existing condition of
asthma. So I think it was reasonable for UKI to rely on this evidence when it assessed the
claim and to draw the conclusion that the cause of the claim was specifically excluded from
cover.
In summary then, while I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Cs position, I currently think UKI acted
fairly when it turned down Mr and Mrs Cs claim.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider.UKI had nothing more to add.
Mr and Mrs C didnt respond by the deadline we gave.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as neither party has provided any further evidence or comments, I see no 
reason to change my provisional findings.
So my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman