The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited has turned down 
their claim on their home insurance policy.
What happened
While Mr and Mrs B were on holiday in June 2019, part of their garden wall collapsed. They 
claimed on their home insurance. AA turned down their claim after its surveyor said the 
damage was due to the gradual deterioration of the wall.
Mr and Mrs B got their own engineer to review the damage. He said a build-up of water 
behind the wall caused the collapse. 
Mr and Mrs B complained to AA but it stood by its decision to turn down their claim. So Mr 
and Mrs B brought their complaint to us. The investigator who looked at it thought AA had 
treated Mr and Mrs B fairly. Mr and Mrs B disagree and so their complaint has come to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. I know this will 
disappoint them but I hope the reasons Im about to give help them to understand why Ive 
reached this conclusion.
Mr and Mrs B say their wall collapsed because of a storm and so this is what theyre 
claiming for under their home insurance.
We have a well-established approach to complaints about storm damage and we look at 
three main issues:
Were there storm conditions on or around the date the damage is said to have
happened?
Is the damage consistent with the damage a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
If the answer to any of these questions is no, I cant say the damage was most likely 
caused by a storm. 
Mr and Mrs Bs policy doesnt include a definition of storm  some policies do and some 
dont. But we say a storm generally involves violent winds, usually accompanied by rain, hail 
DRN-1563641or snow. Ive looked at the Eurotempest weather records from around the time Mr and Mrs B 
say the wall collapsed. They dont show there were violent winds. 
There can, though, be times when we think rain, hail or snow by itself amounts to a storm. 
But it would have to be of an exceptional or unusual intensity for us to think that. Mr B has 
gone to considerable trouble to try to show us the rain at the time was exceptional, including 
sending us rainfall records from various sources to support his argument. 
Ive looked at these as well as the Eurotempest rainfall records from around the time. None 
of them makes me think there was a single rain event of such exceptional or unusual 
intensity as to amount to a storm. Mr and Mrs Bs own engineer refers to heavy rainfall in the 
week before the wall collapsed, as do the other reports Mr B has sent us. So I dont doubt 
there was bad weather with prolonged periods of rain at this time. But I dont think this 
means there was a storm, as we define it. 
It follows that the answer to the first question I set out above  was there a storm?  is no. 
 That means I cant say AA has acted unfairly in turning down Mr and Mrs Bs claim for storm 
damage.
Ive gone on to see if Mr and Mrs B could claim under the accidental damage cover they 
bought as part of their buildings insurance. Their policy says this is for unexpected and 
unintended damage caused to their buildings by sudden and external means. But Mr and 
Mrs Bs policy also says cover for accidental damage caused by atmospheric or climatic 
conditions and gradually operating causes is excluded. 
When AAs surveyor carried out his inspection, he said the age and retaining nature of the 
wall meant it had gradually been leaning outwards and caused the wall to collapse. Because 
of these signs of age-related deterioration, he recommended that AA turn down Mr and Mrs 
Bs claim for accidental damage. 
I should say here that it isnt my role to decide what caused Mr and Mrs Bs wall to collapse. 
Its to decide if AA acted reasonably in turning down their claim. I dont think it was 
unreasonable of AA to rely on its surveyors report to turn down Mr and Mrs Bs claim for the 
reasons it did. I say this even though I know Mr and Mrs Bs engineers report disputes the 
AA surveyors conclusions about what caused the wall to collapse. What he points to is a 
build-up of water behind the wall causing additional pressure against it that he says was 
enough for it to collapse  and he notes there was heavy rainfall in the area in the preceding 
week. So even his report doesnt suggest the wall collapsed because of sudden external 
means  which is what Mr and Mrs Bs policy says is needed for them to be able to claim for 
accidental damage. 
Taking all of this evidence into account, I dont think AA has treated Mr and Mrs B unfairly in 
turning down their claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 July 2020.Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman