DRN-3320204
The complaint
Mrs H complains Santander UK Plc declined to refund a transaction she made using her 
credit card.
What happened
Mrs H was on holiday in another country. She hired a taxi. No price was agreed upfront but I 
understand the driver indicated that the price of the journey would be calculated using a 
meter on his mobile phone. At the end of the journey, the driver refused to accept cash and 
handed her a card machine. He suggested she needed to pay the amount displayed on his 
mobile phone  the equivalent of about £5 in the local currency. 
A couple of days after the payment was made, Mrs H saw a charge of around £1,700 on her 
credit card. 
Mrs H initially reported not recognising the transaction, but it was eventually established that 
it was the payment shed made for the journey. She managed obtained confirmation from the 
hotel she was staying at and the police that shed been tricked.
Mrs H complained to Santander, but it said that she was responsible for the payment 
because she hadnt checked the amount before completing the transaction.
The complaint was referred to our service but one of our investigators didnt uphold it. While 
they sympathised with Mrs H, they didnt think Santander were responsible for the loss.
Mrs H disagreed, in summary she said:
- Santander ought to have taken action against the merchant, rather than simply 
holding her responsible
- It was unfair to suggest that she should have checked the amount she was paying as 
the drivers phone  the only indication of the price  showed the lower amount
- She was the innocent victim of a scam, so she believes that she should be refunded
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Mrs H is the victim of a scam here. But, unfortunately for her, that 
fact alone isnt enough for me to say that Santander ought to be responsible for refunding 
her loss. Ill address each potential avenue of redress for Mrs H in turn and explain why each 
isnt applicable here.
First, Mrs H, in line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the terms of her 
account is generally responsible for transactions which she authorises. Authorisation here 
carries quite a narrow meaning  that is to follow all of the steps necessary to complete the 
payment, regardless of whether the circumstances surrounding it are known. Here, theres 
no dispute that Mrs H did complete the payment and the fact she believed the payment to be 
for another amount does not invalidate that authorisation. So, as a starting point, Mrs H is 
responsible for the payment.
Im also mindful that Santander should fairly and reasonably have had systems in place to 
look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might indicate that its customers were at 
risk of fraud (among other things). And in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment 
channel used, have taken additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a 
payment, or in some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect 
customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Ive reviewed Mrs Hs previous account activity and although I can see this particular 
transaction was higher in amount than any other in the previous six months, I dont think its 
size alone was necessarily enough to cause Santander concern. Also, the card is frequently 
used internationally and had previously been used in the country of the dispute  so I dont 
think the fact the card was being used in another country ought to have concerned the bank 
either. Overall, I dont think the transaction was unusual or suspicious enough that 
Santander ought to have intervened before it was processed. 
Im also satisfied that Santander didnt make an error by not disputing this payment through 
the chargeback scheme as I dont think there was any reasonable prospect of a chargeback 
succeeding. I say this because, under the most relevant reason code  Incorrect Amount, 
Mrs H would be required to provide certification of the correct transaction amount. While 
what certification might consist of isnt defined, my understanding is that some evidence of 
the correct price (generally in the form of an invoice or contract) is required. 
Understandably, Mrs H was unable to provide this and Im not persuaded that the evidence 
shes provided from the police and hotel would be sufficient for this purpose  as it does little 
more than report her account of events. 
I appreciate that Mrs H finds it surprising that individuals acting fraudulently are able to take 
card payments  but this is a matter outside of the control of Santander.
Finally, Ive considered whether Santander have any liability under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. Section 75 means that, under certain circumstances, the creditor 
will be equally responsible for a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. 
Among other conditions, Section 75 applies only to items which the supplier has attached a 
cash price of more than £100. Here, there doesnt appear to have been any agreement 
about what the cash price was before the contract was formed  it was simply inferred that 
the price would be metered. 
Where a price isnt agreed for a service, the ordinary position in English law is that the price 
must be reasonable and what a reasonable price is, is a question of fact. 
In other words, in order to establish the price of the agreement its necessary to consider 
what the price ought to have been.
There doesnt seem to be any dispute the amount Mrs H was expecting to pay  around £5, 
was a reasonable price for the journey and that more than £100 certainly would not be. So, 
the value of the journey, and therefore the price in the absence of any agreement, is less 
than the £100 required for a valid Section 75 claim.I can understand why this conclusion seems counter-intuitive and Mrs H might believe that it 
should be the amount that she was actually charged that should be considered the price  
but that higher amount is neither the agreed price, nor a reasonable price, for the journey. 
Im afraid, therefore, Mrs Hs claim cannot be considered under Section 75.
I have every sympathy for Mrs H as the particular circumstances of her case mean that she 
is afforded little protection. But, having considered these matters carefully, I cant agree 
Santander has made a mistake by declining to provide a refund to her.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman