DRN-3074835
The complaint
Miss G is unhappy with the decision by esure Insurance Limited (esure) following a claim for 
damage to her car.  
 
What happened
Miss G had a car insurance policy with esure. Miss Gs policy document explained the policy 
would not cover Any loss or damage not as a direct result of your accident or theft.
Miss Gs car was involved in an incident on 23 July 2020. There was impact to the left side 
of her car (passenger side). The Body Control Module (BCM) controlling the locking system 
of Miss Gs car is located in the passenger side glove box. 
After the incident Miss G noticed that the car locking system wasnt working as it usually 
would. Miss G contacted esure to report the damage to her car, saying I reported a claim 
this morning, but Ive just discovered some new damage that has been done Ive arrived 
home, and my central locking is not working. I have to lock the doors manually from the 
inside. I have to push the buttons from the inside and lock it from the inside. The call handler 
advised Ill let the garage know about that, Ill add that on. And Ill put in that youve tried 
changing the batteries so its not that. 
Miss Gs car was sent to a garage within esures network. The pre-repair vehicle diagnostic 
report showed 3 problems with the BCM. The images taken at the time showed damage to 
the passenger side of Miss Gs car. The estimate completed by the garage recorded 
Associate Work Required and it was noted Investigate door lock check fuse.
Miss Gs car was repaired, and returned to her. But the damage to the locking system wasnt 
repaired. esure said this was because their engineer didnt think it was accident related. Miss 
G wasnt happy about this. On 13 August, esure arranged for a dealer to inspect the 
damage. The dealer found a fault with the locking system but didnt comment on whether the 
damage was accident related, or not. The dealer prepared a service invoice only. 
Miss G complained to esure about their decision not to pay for the damage to her locking 
system. esure responded to Miss Gs complaint on 7th September 2020 saying that theyd 
referred the issue to their Senior Engineer whod said that the BCM would not have been 
caused by this incident. The response also explained We have had the car inspected by a 
dealer and they are also unable to confirm the BCM issue has been caused by the incident. 
Unhappy with this response, Miss G referred her complaint to this service for investigation. 
The investigator asked esure for comment on whether the dealer thought the damage to the 
locking system was accident related. The response from esure said It is very unlikely they 
would ever comment on how the issue was caused and in my experience any garage or 
dealer will only confirm what the damage is not how it was caused. Therefore, the only 
option we had was to send the car to a dealer to confirm that the issue is/was and once 
confirmed this would be reviewed by our in house engineers. They deemed it unrelated to 
the accident circumstances. 
The investigator found that esure hadnt acted fairly in rejecting Miss Gs claim. The 
investigator asked esure to cover the cost of repairing Miss Gs car locking system in 
settlement of the complaint. 
esure didnt agree. They said that the bumper damage is fairly cosmetic and would not 
effect the door locking system (body control module) in any way and it is not unusual for us 
to be revisiting cases months even years later when a customer has any kind of fault with 
their vehicle and assume that it is all attributable to the original claim damage and this is a 
common fault on this make and model so is it not so the laws of probability is that it is more 
likely not related that it is to be related to some cosmetic scratching to the bumper.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved it was passed to me for decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When we investigate a complaint about an insurers decision on a claim, our role is to 
consider whether the insurer handled the claim in a fair and reasonable manner. 
Having reviewed the case, I agree with the investigators findings, for broadly the same 
reasons. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on 
any specific point its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
esure say it is not unusual for us to be revisiting cases months even years later when a 
customer has any kind of fault with their vehicle and assume that it is all attributable to the 
original claim damage. But thats not what happened here. Miss G first notified esure about 
the car locking system not working, only hours after the incident had happened. The garage 
that inspected Miss Gs car when it was sent in for repairs, recorded that the car locking 
system wasnt working. Although not a decisive factor in itself, I think the promptness shown 
in reporting the damage to the locking system, adds credibility to the likelihood that the 
damage was most likely caused as a direct result of the incident. 
esure say that the bumper damage is fairly cosmetic and would not effect the door locking 
system (body control module) in any way. Although these comments provide evidence of 
the engineers findings, I dont think they go far enough in explaining why the BCM wouldnt 
have been impacted. It is not unusual for mechanical damage to be present when a car has 
been impacted by an incident. The impact of the incident was on the same side as the glove 
box where the BCM was located. I dont think esures engineers comments about the 
damage being only cosmetic reasonably explain why the BCM wouldnt have been impacted, 
given its location, and the side of the impact caused by the incident.  
I also think esures own investigation of what happened was lacking. When Miss G 
challenged the engineers findings, esure arranged for Miss Gs car to be sent to a dealer. 
But theres no evidence to indicate that the dealer was asked to comment on whether the 
damage to the car locking system was accident related, or not. The service invoice only 
included a breakdown of the damage that was inspected, and the fault information provided. 
But there are no comments from the dealer as to the likely cause of damage. 
esure informed Miss G in the final response letter that We have had the car inspected by a 
dealer and they are also unable to confirm the BCM issue has been caused by the incident. 
esure later informed this service that It is very unlikely they would ever comment on how the 
issue was caused and in my experience any garage or dealer will only confirm what the damage is not how it was caused. This information is contradictory and indicates a lack of 
proper communication and investigation by esure. 
I wouldve expected esure to provide evidence of the instruction to the dealer, and the 
dealers professional opinion on whether the damage was accident related, or not. The 
damage to the locking system had already been confirmed and agreed by esures engineer 
and Miss G, so this wasnt in dispute. Its unclear why the matter was referred to a dealer if a 
professional opinion wasnt going to be provided. 
esure has provided contradictory evidence on what the instruction to the dealer was, and 
whether a professional opinion was provided. esures final response letter says that We 
have had the car inspected by a dealer and they are also unable to confirm the BCM issue 
has been caused by the incident. There isnt any documentary evidence on file to confirm 
the dealers findings when providing their invoice. This lack of evidence, along with what 
esure have said about a dealer not providing an opinion on the cause of damage, leads me 
to question what role the dealer had in influencing esures reasons for rejecting the claim.
Overall having balanced the engineers comments with Miss Gs testimony, and the 
circumstances of the incident with the investigation carried out by esure in determining the 
cause of damage, I dont think esure has acted fairly in rejecting Miss Gs claim. Because of 
this, I direct esure to accept Miss Gs claim, and cover the cost of repairing the car locking 
system in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons provided I uphold this complaint. 
esure Insurance Limited should accept Miss Gs claim, and cover the cost of repairing the 
car locking system in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman