DRN-3936061
The complaint
Ms K complains about the decision by AXA PPP Healthcare Limited to turn down her private 
medical insurance claim.
What happened
Ms K took out the policy in July 2018. This was taken out on a moratorium basis. This meant 
that AXA would not cover any pre-existing conditions from the previous five years, unless 
Ms K had been a member of the policy for at least two years, and had been trouble-free from 
the condition for two years in a row.
In 2022, Ms K asked AXA to authorise a consultation with a specialist. She explained she 
had been diagnosed with a condition in 2018. AXA concluded that the condition fell within 
the moratorium, and so turned down the claim. Unhappy with this, Ms K brought a complaint 
to this service. 
Our investigator thought it had been reasonable for AXA to say the condition fell under the 
moratorium. The investigator also did not think the condition met the two-year trouble-free 
period. 
Ms K did not accept our investigators conclusions and so the matter has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the policy was taken out on a moratorium basis, it doesnt cover pre-existing conditions in 
the previous five years. Pre-existing condition is defined within the policy as:
any disease, illness or injury that:
you have received medication, advice or treatment for in the five years before the 
start of your cover, or
you have experienced symptoms of in the five years before the start of your cover:
whether or not the condition was diagnosed.
In 2017, Ms K was reviewed by gastroenterology. Blood tests showed she had a high IgM, 
and they asked her GP to repeat the test. This was done on 3 January 2018. Ms K explains 
that, following the repeat blood test, gastroenterology referred her to a haematologist in June 
2018 for further assessment. Ms K took out the policy in July 2018. The haematologist then 
carried out further tests, and Ms K was diagnosed with her condition in November 2018 and 
referred to a specialist clinic.
The specialist clinic noted in March 2019 that Ms K was asymptomatic, but confirmed they 
would monitor her every few months until she became symptomatic. 
I appreciate Ms K didnt have any outward symptoms of the condition when she took out the 
policy. However, I still think it was reasonable for AXA to conclude that when the policy 
started, Ms Ks condition was pre-existing. I say that because shed had blood tests which 
showed the high IgM protein, and she had been advised by gastroenterology that the blood 
test needed to be repeated. Following this, she was advised that she needed to see a 
specialist. Im satisfied this means her condition fell under the policy definition of pre-
existing.
Since being referred to the specialist clinic, Ms K says shes been reviewed every three to 
six months by them. That means that she doesnt meet the two-year trouble-free period 
since the policy started. 
Im sorry to hear that Ms K has been going through a difficult time with her health, and I 
recognise my decision will disappoint her. But Im satisfied that AXA fairly applied the policy 
terms to her claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman