DRN-4232239
The complaint
Miss F complains that National Westminster Bank Plc didnt credit cash she deposited to her 
account.
What happened
Miss F explains that she attempted to pay £255.80 into a cash deposit machine. She says 
that £105.80 was returned but that £150 was retained and not credited to her account. 
NatWest said that it hadnt made any mistake. Miss F had raised this with a member of staff 
in branch and who had since provided a written account of what happened. The machine 
had been checked by two members of staff and no rejected cash found. There were no 
deposits recorded that day to Miss Fs account. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Hed reviewed the evidence 
provided by NatWest and which included the deposit log for the machine that day. There 
were no entries on Miss Fs account and no cash discrepancies found. 
Miss F didnt agree and wanted to take things further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Im thinking about what is most likely on a 
balance of probabilities.
Miss F was clearly in the branch as she spoke to a member of staff. She says on her 
complaint form to this service that she was told the machine in question had been checked 
by two members of staff to see if her notes were stuck inside. Nothing was found and she 
was told to see if the money was shown credited to her account. When it wasnt she raised 
this further.
There is no record of any deposit that day into Miss Fs account. And there were no cash 
differences at the machine. I appreciate what Miss F says about what happened. But Im 
afraid the technical evidence from NatWest and what the member of staff that saw her in 
branch says is different. 
Ive balanced all the information in making my decision and Im afraid I dont have a 
reasonable basis to find that NatWest most likely made a mistake. So, I wont be requiring it 
to do anything further. I know Miss F will be very disappointed by my conclusion as she says 
she has lost money.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman