DRN-2422433
The complaint
Mrs M says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI)
policy.
What happened
Mrs M bought the policy in 1999 at the same time as taking out a store card. I issued a 
provisional decision for the complaint on 3 November 2020 and said I didnt intend to uphold 
it. Ive summarised my provisional findings below:
Mrs M said PPI wasnt discussed when she took out the store card, and that she
didnt know it had been added to her account. She said she wouldnt have taken it if
it had been offered.
But the store card application form Mrs M completed included a separate section
about PPI that she signed to show that she wanted the cover. I thought it was 
unlikely Mrs M wouldve signed this without some sort of discussion about the PPI. 
So on balance I thought Mrs M wouldve realised she had a choice about whether or 
not to take it. From what Id seen, I wasnt able to safely conclude that AXA didnt 
make Mrs M aware that the policy was optional.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs M so it didnt have to check if it was suitable
for her. That means it didnt have to ask about any other means Mrs M had to cover
her store card repayments.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it
should have been. Mrs M said she had a medical condition when she bought the
policy, which meant she might have had difficulty making a successful disability claim
if shed been off work because of that condition. It was for this reason that the
adjudicator had recommended the complaint should be upheld.
Id asked Mrs M for more details about the condition she suffers from, and shed told
me she hadnt had to take time off work in connection with it. In light of that, I thought 
that even if Mrs M had known about the policys exclusion for existing medical 
conditions, it was unlikely she wouldve thought she would need to take time off work 
because of the condition she suffers from.
In addition, the policy provided a reasonable benefit.
So from what Id seen, I didnt think better information about the policys exclusion
for existing medical conditions wouldve stopped Mrs M buying the PPI.
The parties didnt make any further representations in response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ms case.
In the absence of any further representations from the parties, I see no reason to depart 
from the position set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman