DRN-2117661
The complaint
Mr K complains about what happened when he tried to make a payment out of his account, 
over the counter at Santander UK Plc.
What happened
Mr K said he wanted to make a payment of just under £3,000 to a business. He said he gave
the cashier the payment details, but they were wrongly input. He said he was only asked to
check the reference, not the account number and sort code. But the account number was
wrong, and the money went astray. Santander couldnt get it back.
Mr K said he hadnt been able to pay the money he owed, and he was incurring costs due to
non-payment. He said this had affected him emotionally and his health had suffered.
Santander said that Mr K had confirmed the details for the payment it made for him. So it
didnt think this was its mistake. It had tried to get the money back but it wasnt able to do
that. Santander didnt think it had made a mistake.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said there was no direct
evidence of what was said in the branch. But she thought Santanders cashier wouldve
asked Mr K to confirm all the details, not just the reference. The cashier wouldve known how
important this was, and asking the customer to check the details is a part of Santanders
payment process. Our investigator said shed also asked Santander to share with Mr K the
details of the account his money was paid into, and to give him advice on next steps.
Mr K wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so the case was passed to
me for a final decision. He contacted us again to say that Santander was now introducing
authentication of the payee when transfers like this are made. He said that showed 
Santander had a flaw in its system before this.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Mr K says he was only asked to check the reference for this payment. But Santander 
says that its process is to ask the customer to check all the details. And I think the 
cashier wouldve realised that this is a very important part of any payment 
transaction. Its not always possible to get the money back if this goes wrong. So I 
think its likely that Mr K was asked to check all the details before the payment was 
sent. That means its not Santanders fault the money went astray. It doesnt have to 
just pay this money back to Mr K.
Mr K said Santander was changing its system for making payments, so in future it 
would check the correct recipient was getting the money before the payment was 
sent. Thats a change all banks are making. When Mr K sent his payment, it was 
standard practice not to do this. I know that in future, Santander will do this. But 
Santander relies on other banks taking the same steps, for these checks to work. I 
cant hold Santander responsible for Mr Ks missing payment because it didnt do this 
earlier.
Once a payment is missing, theres a clear process for banks to follow. Santander did 
ask the receiving bank for the money back, which its supposed to do, and it did this 
within the timescales allowed. But then, if it cant get the money back, its supposed 
to give Mr K clear and accurate information on the options you have available  such 
as court action against the recipient.
I can see that Santander asked the recipient bank for the details of the account 
holder the money was paid to, so Mr K could take legal action if he wanted to. But I 
cant see that it passed this information onto Mr K at the time, or that it otherwise 
offered Mr K any advice on getting his money back. Unless Santander is able to 
show us now that it did this at the time, I think it should pay Mr K £150 to make up for 
the time its taken to give him the information and support he ought to have received 
at the time this mistake was made.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Mr K replied to object. Santander didnt reply. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K replied to say that Santander still hadnt given him any information on how to reclaim 
the missing money. And he said that the offer of £150 wasnt enough for all hed gone 
through. He wanted to escalate this case. He thought that at this stage, a 50/50 split would 
be reasonable, with Santander paying Mr K half of what hed lost. 
My decision on this case is final. Its the last word from our service on whether its upheld or 
not. Because of that, Ive reviewed this case carefully. Im disappointed to hear that 
Santander has yet to offer Mr K any information on the options he has available to him. I 
hope Mr K will now seek this information from Santander, and it will respond. And I think that 
a payment of £150 is appropriate, because Santander didnt do this right away. 
Mr K doesnt agree. He thinks Santander should pay half of what hes lost. But I dont think 
that the lost money is Santanders fault. Ive only asked Santander to pay some 
compensation because I think it could and should have done a little more to help Mr K when 
the money did go missing. Because I dont think the original mistake was made by 
Santander, I dont agree that it should pay Mr K half of the money that went astray. 
Ill now make the award I originally proposed.My final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc must pay Mr K £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman