DRN-3201569
The complaint
Mrs H says Provident Personal Credit Limited trading as Satsuma has not registered a 
default on her two loan accounts. She thinks it should have done this as she has been 
unable to repay the loans. She says that as Satsuma has not done this the debt will not drop 
off when her other debts are cleared, and this may affect her ability to get credit in the 
future.
 
What happened
This complaint is about two loans Satsuma provided to Mrs H in early 2019. She missed 
payments for both of these loans between April and August 2019. Mrs H contacted Satsuma 
over this time to explain she was in financial difficulty. She also explained that she was 
entering a debt management plan (DMP) with help from a debt management organisation. 
At this point Satsuma gave Mrs H breathing space for the loan repayments, that is it was 
not expecting repayments. The DMP came into in force in due course and Mrs H is making 
payments, as agreed, under this arrangement. 
I can see that at first some of the entries on Mrs Hs credit file were shown as only being 
paid late rather than in a DMP for one of the loans. Satsuma says it has now corrected this. 
Both the loans should now show on Mrs Hs credit file as being repaid under the DMP. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that it was correct to show the loans as 
being in arears and subject to a DMP. As this was a factual representation of the situation 
with the loans. She didnt agree that the loans should be shown as being in default.  
Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion and she still thought the loans should be 
defaulted. And that that Satsuma was still showing incorrect information about her loans. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about lending - including all of the relevant 
rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma is required to accurately report the information about the loan amounts, terms and 
payment history of any lending. Ive thought about whether it has done this. 
As Ive outlined above, Mrs H has been unable to pay the contractual amounts she agreed to 
at the start of the lending. And so, Satsuma is reporting to the credit reference agencies that 
these loans are in arrears. This is correct as any arrears are measured against the original 
contracts. And Mrs Hs credit file will continue to show this until she repays the loans, or 
catches up. 
And its also correct to show that the loans are subject to a DMP. I understand that Satsuma 
did not report this for one of the loans at first, but this has now been rectified. Satsuma 
should ensure this remains correct going forward. 
So, overall, I dont think that the way Satsuma is reporting these loans is incorrect and it 
fairly reflects the situation with the loans. 
Mrs H thinks that Satsuma should have defaulted the loans. And I agree that a loan can be 
defaulted after three to six months as she says. But a default is usually applied when the 
relationship between the lender and the borrower has broken down. And the lender feels 
there is no alternative, or realistic chance of repayment. But this hasnt happened here as 
Mrs H kept in touch with Satsuma. This was the right thing to do. 
The Information Commissioners guidelines about defaults are that they it wouldnt expect a 
default to be applied if a borrower was making repayments to a repayment plan. And this is 
the situation here. 
And defaulted lending is a fairly serious indicator of bad credit. A default would stay on 
Mrs Hs credit file for six years regardless of whether she pays the loans off or not. And 
Satsuma would still have to report the information about the repayments. 
As the loan is not in default Mrs H has the opportunity to make regular repayments to it and 
potentially clear the balance in time. And even if I accept that a default me drop off her 
credit file, its not clear to me that there would be advantage to her to have the loans marked 
in default. And given the circumstances Ive seen; I agree that it was right of Satsuma not to 
default the loans at the time. 
So, overall, I dont think that Satsuma has acted wrongly here. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman