DRN-4461919
The complaint
Mr L complains about the advice given by Woodgrange Associates (IFA) Ltd trading as 
Advies Wealth (AW) to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational 
pension scheme to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He says the advice was 
unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
Mr L approached AW in 2022 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. The evidence 
shows Mr L sought advice as he had significant debts, including debts with HMRC, and he 
was concerned about entering bankruptcy. He was worried doing so would lead to him not 
being able to continue his career as hed fail the fit and proper person test required to work 
in his role. He was earning approximately £70,000 a year at the time and his expenditure 
was only just met by his income.
AW completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ls circumstances and objectives. 
AW also carried out an assessment of Mr Ls attitude to risk, which it deemed to be lowest 
medium. 
On 17 March 2022, AW advised Mr L to transfer his pension benefits (the majority coming 
from the DB pension subject to this complaint but two other much smaller pensions were 
also transferred) into a SIPP and invest the proceeds via a discretionary fund manager 
(DFM). The suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were based on Mr Ls 
objectives to:
Clear his debts. This was important to him as he wanted to protect his ability to practice 
by preventing bankruptcy. For this reason, he wanted to take his tax-free cash as soon 
as he turned 55 in the coming months.
He wanted to be able to get on the housing market.
He wanted to guarantee the financial future of his children.
Mr L complained via a claims management company in 2023 to AW about the suitability of 
the transfer advice because:
Hed lost all his accrued and future guaranteed benefits.
He believes the funds he was transferred into, were too high risk for him.
He didnt fully understand the implications of the recommendation and all the risks 
involved.
AW didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. It said Mr L approached them as someone of 
professional standing who had significant debts which were forcing him towards bankruptcy. 
And if hed have been made bankrupt, hed have lost his license to practice. As such, it 
believes the advice was suitable as this was Mr Ls only option to prevent this.
Mr L referred his complaint to our service. An investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She 
explained that in terms of overall benefits received, the advice to transfer would likely not 
have been beneficial. However, there was a strong and compelling reason to transfer 
regardless, due to Mr Ls debts and the implications this could have for him. And it was clear 
Mr L was very anxious to have the debts cleared as quickly as possible. So the investigator 
felt the advice to transfer was suitable. However, she felt the investment option selected was 
too high risk for Mr L. But Mr L didnt choose to proceed with the DFM selected in any event, 
so no redress would be due.
Mr Ls representatives disagreed they said:
The adviser has simply presented two options to Mr L, that of bankruptcy or 
transferring his Defined Benefit pension to release funds to pay his debts.
There were many alternative courses of action that were not considered or 
recommended by the adviser. For example, Mr Ls debts were unsecured and there 
was no consideration given to negotiating with his commercial creditors to reduce 
payments, freeze interest or to come to some other arrangement. None of these 
debts would have led to bankruptcy and, at worst, coming to some agreement with 
these creditors would have impacted on his ability to obtain credit in the future, but 
certainly not forced him to cease practicing.
In terms of debts to HMRC of £30,000, this is a far more serious matter as HMRC 
could potentially have forced Mr L into bankruptcy. However, there is no evidence 
that the adviser recommended any negotiation with HMRC. HMRC will only consider 
making an individual bankrupt if all other options have been exhausted. Mr L was in a 
distressing situation and relied on the adviser to produce a viable solution after 
examining all the options available. The adviser did not do this. The adviser 
presented only the transfer of the pension as a solution to raising funds.
Even in the worst-case scenario, bankruptcy would have excluded Mr L from 
practising for 12 months. The advisers solution was therefore a permanent solution 
to a temporary problem.
We believe that an adviser should give good advice and not just sell financial 
products. The adviser has not demonstrated that they have acted in Mr Ls best 
interests as per COBS 19.1.6
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirementsThe below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of AW's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided not to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, AW should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ls 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im satisfied it was in his best 
interests.
Financial viability 
As the advice was given post October 2018, the business was required to carry out a 
Transfer Value Comparator (TVC). This showed the funds that would need to be invested at 
the time of transfer on a so-called 'risk-free' basis (government bonds), to provide the same 
income as the DB scheme at normal retirement age. The value of this was £1,149,914. This 
can be compared with the transfer value offered by the scheme of £742,884. The difference 
between the two represents the additional growth Mr L would need to achieve to match the 
value of his benefits from the scheme at his normal retirement age. 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The critical yield required to match Mr Ls benefits at age 60 was 11.56% per year.  The 
relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 3.1% per year for five years to retirement. For further comparison, the regulator's upper 
projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection 
rate 2% per year.
Mr Ls intention at the time was to retire at 67 and the critical yield calculated at this age was 
4.85% for all benefits taken as a pension.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ls 
lowest medium attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in 
Mr L giving up the guarantees available to them through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the lowest critical yield 
was 4.85%, I think Mr L was likely to receive benefits of a lower overall value than the DB 
scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with that attitude to risk. 
For this reason alone, a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Ls best interests. Of 
course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice; there might 
be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower 
benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility
Mr L had significant debts of approximately £60,000, which were causing financial difficulty 
as he didnt have sufficient income to cover this. Mr L did not have any savings or other 
assets he couldve used to meet these debts. And due to the debts Mr L had with HMRC 
there was a possibility he could face bankruptcy. This couldve had big repercussions due to 
his profession. It is clear from the evidence from the time that this was a big concern of Mr 
Ls, and he was very keen to take his tax-free cash as soon as possible to pay off these 
debts. He made it clear to AW that he wanted the funds accessible as soon as possible.
Mr Ls representatives have argued there were other options such as debt management 
plans and consulting with HMRC to see what options he may have had to avoid bankruptcy. 
And worst case scenario Mr L would still have been able to work in more junior roles and any 
sanction would only apply for one year. Ive considered these points, however, I think its 
clear Mr L didnt want to take any risks in terms of his career. He was receiving a salary of 
around £70,000 and he had outgoings that almost matched his income. So, any drop in 
salary couldve exacerbated his debt issues. I think Mr L was intent on raising cash to meet 
his debts, relieve the stress that the potential implications had put on him and he also 
wanted to get on the property ladder. And this is what Mr L used the money for, he was able 
to pay off his debts and hes told us he bought a house. So, I think the requirement for a 
lump sum immediately was an utmost priority to Mr L. And I think it was a fair conclusion of 
the adviser that this requirement was compelling, given the advantages it presented to Mr 
Ls quality of life.
Mr Ls only other option to raise the funds required was to take benefits from the scheme at 
age 55. However, to do so hed have to take income and Mr L didnt require ongoing income 
if he could continue to work. And hed said his intentions were to retire at 67. The 
implications of taking income early, wouldve been a reduced sum each year  and Mr L 
once his debts were cleared wouldnt have needed additional income to that extent from 55 
to 67. Whereas, by transferring but keeping the majority of funds invested, he had flexibility 
on how he could take income and the opportunity to take an annuity later when he needed to 
replace his income in retirement. And the later the annuity is taken the likely higher value 
hed receive in retirement. Mr Ls state pension would also kick in at 67 and together with his 
income from his SIPP, the income models produced by AW showed hed likely been able to 
meet his needs income needs in retirement. 
So I think he had a genuine need to access his TFC earlier than the normal scheme 
retirement age and leave his funds invested until a later date. By accessing his TFC, Mr L 
has been able to clear his debts, continue practicing in his career and purchase a property.
Although this meant Mr L wouldnt be able to take as much income from his pension at 60 or 
67 as he wouldve been entitled to through the DB scheme, Im satisfied this was necessary 
in the circumstances. 
Death benefitsMr L wasnt married at the time and wanted the option of leaving whatever remained of his 
fund to his two children. So, I dont think losing the guaranteed spouses benefit in retirement 
disadvantaged Mr L. And I think he preferred the ability to pass on whatever remained of his 
pension to a beneficiary of his choice on death.
Investment selection
I agree with the investigator that the investment strategy selected through a DFM was too 
high risk for Mr Ls circumstances and recorded risk and loss capacity profile. However, Mr L 
chose not to take forward this recommendation and he sought advice from other parties 
about how to invest his funds from the transfer. So, this isnt a point I need to consider 
further as the advice here had no detriment to Mr L as he didnt follow it.
Conclusion
Im satisfied that the advice to transfer was suitable in Mr Ls circumstances. I think releasing 
tax-free cash was in Mr Ls best interests due to the potential ramifications his debts with 
HMRC couldve had on his career. It also allowed him to purchase a property. The 
recommendation also allowed Mr L to retain his remaining benefits invested until his planned 
retirement date of 67. The alternative of taking benefits from the scheme at 55 wouldnt have 
provided this flexibility. And the income models AW produced showed Mr Ls income in 
retirement could be met (even at low growth returns) by the transferred pension(s) and his 
state pension from age 67.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I do not uphold this complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman