DRN-4153329
The complaint
Mr C complains that when he visited a branch of Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) 
to change a £20 note into coins he was told due to the money laundering procedures, he 
was required to pay money into his account and then withdraw it. Mr C felt he was being 
accused of money laundering. 
What happened
Mr C held a bank account with Nationwide. Mr C visited a branch of Nationwide on 3 
September to change a £20 note into coins. Mr C was told he couldnt do this without paying 
the money into his account first due to money laundering procedures. 
Mr C was unhappy with this as he felt he should be able to swap notes for coins without 
having to be put through an account and provided this feedback to Nationwide. Nationwide 
explained it is not allowed to swap notes/coins as it has to put it through an account as a 
cash credit/withdrawal as per the policy it has in place to combat money laundering. 
Nationwide says the cashier followed the correct process but that it would record his 
concerns as feedback.
Nationwide then wrote to Mr C on 16 September explaining despite the frustration Mr C felt 
during his visit, it deemed Mr C had acted in a way that was aggressive and not acceptable. 
Nationwide asked that Mr C be mindful of its staff and how he speaks to them during future 
interactions. Nationwide said any further reported incidents of unacceptable behaviour 
towards staff members may result in a revised course of action being considered. 
Mr C was unhappy with this, he says hes since been banned from branches of Nationwide 
and that his account has been closed and so has brought his complaint to this service. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Cs concerns and reached the conclusion that 
Nationwide hadnt done anything wrong in informing Mr C about its money laundering 
procedures. They didnt think this was a personal attack as it was a procedure that applied to 
any customer trying to change cash at the till. 
Our adjudicator hadnt seen any evidence that Mr C had been banned from Nationwides 
branches or that his account had been closed, but this is something Nationwide would be 
entitled to do within certain circumstances.  
Mr C disagreed with our adjudicators view - he wants an apology from Nationwide and 
compensation and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to look at the problems Mr C has experienced and see if Nationwide has done 
anything wrong or treated Mr C unfairly. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr C back 
in the position he wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award 
compensation that I think is fair and reasonable.
Mr C is unhappy Nationwide wouldnt exchange his notes for coins without running the 
transaction though his account. But this a policy of Nationwides that has been put in place to 
combat money laundering and applies to all Nationwides customers and as such I dont 
think Nationwide made a mistake in insisting that its policy was followed.  
Furthermore, Ive listened to the recording taken by Mr C when he says he visited 
Nationwide to make the transaction in question on 3 September. Throughout the recording I 
can hear Nationwides teller trying to explain its procedures in relation to money laundering 
regulations and why they are necessary. At no time was Mr C accused of being a money 
launderer and throughout the recording I find Mr C to be confrontational and difficult. Despite 
this the teller assisted Mr C with the transaction he wished to make and then due to Mr Cs 
behaviour he was asked to leave. 
Nationwide followed this visit up with a letter explaining that the behaviour Mr C exhibited 
was not acceptable and if he wasnt mindful of this in future further action may be taken. And 
based on the recording I heard, I dont think this was an unreasonable response or that 
Nationwide have treated Mr C unfairly.
I understand that there have been further the interactions between Nationwide and Mr C 
since he raised his complaint with Nationwide about this incident. And I can see from 
Nationwides internal contact notes that from 1 February 2023 an immediate ban from 
branches was applied and that due to verbal and aggressive behaviour Mr Cs accounts 
were to be closed with 60 days notice. 
While the ban of Mr C from branches and the closure of his accounts is a separate complaint 
and outside the remit of this decision, Mr C should note as a general rule Nationwide isnt 
obliged to continue offering an account to a customer if it doesnt want to  providing banking 
facilities and to who is a commercial decision and not something for me to get involved with.
That being said it wouldnt be fair for Nationwide to close Mr Cs account without reason. Mr 
C has provided evidence to suggest that the behaviour that Nationwide had warned Mr C 
about has continued. So based on what Ive seen I dont think imposing a ban and closing 
Mr Cs accounts wouldve been an unreasonable course of action for Nationwide to take. 
And it follows that I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman