DRN-1813133
The complaint
Mr B doesnt think its fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) to use his payment 
protection insurance (PPI) compensation to reduce a debt from which he was discharged 
when his protected trust deed came to an end.
What happened
Mr B complained to RBS in 2019 that he had been mis-sold PPI on a loan taken out in 
July 1999. RBS investigated and upheld Mr Bs complaint. RBS wrote to Mr B offering 
compensation. The offer of compensation came to £3,179.47. Mr B accepted RBS offer.  
However, in August 2002, Mr B had granted a trust deed  which became a protected trust 
deed  for his creditors. 
A protected trust deed is an alternative to bankruptcy (which is called sequestration in 
Scotland). It is a legally binding agreement between a consumer and his/her creditors, which 
is administered by a trustee. 
Mr B was subsequently discharged from his trust deed.
RBS used the compensation to reduce outstanding monies that it says Mr B hadnt fully 
repaid  despite Mr B being discharged from his protected trust deed. 
Mr B, unhappy he hadnt received the compensation, brought his complaint to our service.
Mr B say it is unfair for RBS to use the PPI compensation to reduce a debt from which he 
has been discharged. Mr B explained that there had been court cases which focused on 
whom PPI compensation should be paid to when a consumer has been discharged from a 
protected trust deed. Because of this, Mr B says the compensation should be paid directly 
to him.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint. She thought RBS had acted fairly in using the 
compensation to reduce the borrowing that was left unpaid despite Mr B being discharged 
from their trust deed.  
Mr B disagreed with our adjudicators view. As the matter hasnt been resolved, its been 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I explain my findings, I would like to explain where our services powers come from.
We were created by the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA). This Act also 
created whats now called the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).Section 225 of FSMA explains that were here to resolve disputes quickly and with minimum 
formality. And section 228 says a complaint is to be determined by reference to what is, in 
the opinion of the ombudsman, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
Alongside FSMA, the FCA sets out, in its handbook, some rules for us to follow. These rules 
are known as the DISP rules  and they can be found online.
DISP 3.6.1 R repeats section 228 of FSMA. DISP 3.6.4 R adds that, when considering what 
is fair and reasonable, an ombudsman will take into account:
(1)      relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2)        (where appropriate) what [the ombudsman] considers to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
It has already been agreed that the PPI policy was mis-sold. So I wont be looking at how the 
PPI came to be sold as that is no longer in dispute. And Mr B hasnt raised any concerns 
about the amount of compensation RBS has offered. Although from looking at what RBS 
have offered it includes everything I would expect to see. 
All that is left for me to decide is whether its fair and reasonable for RBS to use the PPI 
compensation to reduce the outstanding amount that Mr B says was written off after he was 
discharged from his protected trust deed. 
Mr B says as he was discharged from his protected trust deed and in light of relevant law 
(Scots law) the compensation should be paid directly to him. 
RBS says it has the right to offset the compensation against monies Mr B hasnt fully repaid.
Is it fair for RBS to use the PPI compensation to reduce an outstanding amount owed  
despite Mr B being discharged from his protected trust deed?
There have been some court cases about to whom PPI compensation should be paid when 
a consumer has been discharged from a protected trust deed. And this is the law that Mr B 
says I should rely on in determining what should happen to the compensation. 
Ill summarise the relevant court cases.
In July 2018, the Supreme Court issued a judgment looking at what should happen to PPI 
compensation after a protected trust deed completed. The court case was Dooneen Ltd (t/a 
McGinness Associates) v Mond [2018] UKSC 54.
In that case, the Supreme Court said the PPI compensation should not be paid to the trustee 
for the benefit of the creditors and should be paid to the consumer.
Another case that is also relevant is Royal Bank of Scotland Plc v Donnelly [2019] CSIH 56. 
And this is the case that is more relevant to Mr Bs situation.
In Donnelly, the debtor  who didnt realise she had a PPI complaint until after the trust deed 
ended  had agreed to an offer of PPI compensation. The creditor wanted to use it to pay down the amount that wasnt repaid after the trust deed ended. The court said it couldnt do 
this: when the trust deed ended the debtor was discharged from her debts, so there was no 
longer any debt owing from her to the bank which could be subject to set-off. RBS appealed 
this decision within the Inner House of the Court of Session. The appeal was heard in 
November 2019 and RBS lost the appeal. RBS are now appealing the decision to the 
Supreme Court  so there is a possibility the outcome may change.
Above, Ive explained I must take into account the relevant law when deciding what I think is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. But Im not bound to follow it. And if 
I decide to depart from it, I must say so and explain why.
In this case, I am aware of, and have taken into account, the relevant law. But, and 
importantly, within my role I must also apply an over-arching test of whats fair and 
reasonable in the particular circumstances of Mr Bs complaint  as required of me through 
FSMA Section.228 and the FCAs DISP rules.
Having done so, I think its fair for RBS to use the compensation to reduce the monies Mr B 
borrowed and didnt fully repay. Ill explain why.
RBS has provided evidence to show Mr Bs loan was written off in 2002. At the time it was 
written off, the loan had an outstanding balance of around £4,200. This is money that Mr B 
wont now ever have to repay to RBS. 
RBS has recently said that its insolvency team has no record that it entered any claim into 
Mr Bs trust deed and doesnt think it received any final dividend payment. But it isnt sure  
just that it has no records confirming either way.
If RBS didnt have a claim in the trust deed and simply wrote of the outstanding amount  
then I would consider it fair for RBS to use the PPI compensation to reduce the amount 
borrowed and left unpaid. Both parties owe each other a debt  so it seems fair that one 
amount can be off-set against the other. I dont think it would be fair for Mr B to not have to 
repay the £4,200 and RBS then pay Mr B the PPI compensation of £3,200.
If RBSs records are inaccurate, and it did have a claim in the trust deed - the fact that Mr B 
entered into a protected trust deed and was discharged from his debt when his trust deed 
came to an end doesnt, in my opinion, make a difference to what is fair.
Again, I think it would be unfair to tell RBS to pay the PPI compensation to Mr B, when Mr B 
doesnt now have to pay back the money he had borrowed. 
So it follows that I think its fair for RBS to use the PPI compensation to reduce the borrowing 
that was left unpaid and that Mr B wont now ever have to repay.
As it stands RBS says the outstanding amount, that hasnt been repaid in full, is around 
£4,200. And it is reducing that amount by the PPI compensation of £3,200 which seems fair. 
However, if it transpires that RBS did enter a claim and did receive a final dividend from the 
trust deed and Mr Bs outstanding balance of £4,200 was reduced  then that needs to be 
taken into account. If the final dividend and the PPI compensation total more than the 
outstanding debt, I would say it would be fair for Mr B to be entitled to any excess amount.
 
 As RBS doesnt have any records regarding its claim in the trust deed, Mr B should liaise 
with his trustee to see whether the amount he owed to RBS at that time was included in his 
trust deed. It may well be that it wasnt, and RBS simply wrote off the outstanding amount. 
But if RBS did have a claim in the trust deed and did receive a final dividend then Mr B 
should let RBS know so it can update and correct its records and determine if Mr B is owed 
anything.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I think its fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to 
use Mr Bs PPI compensation to reduce the monies owed and left unpaid.
If Mr B confirms The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc did have a claim in his trust deed and it did 
receive a final dividend, he should let The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc know so it can update 
its records. Also, The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc should, if the final dividend and the PPI 
compensation clear the outstanding balance pay any excess amount to Mr B. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2020.
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman