DRN-3875461
The complaint
Ms S complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc (The Co-op) failed to refund a payment
from her account as a result of a scam.
What happened
What Ms S says
Ms S was a live-in carer at the time of the incident. She looked after someone Ill refer to as
K. Whilst at Ks home, K received a call from someone impersonating a police officer. Ms S
was asked to speak with this person and was told that an investigation into bank fraud was
underway and that both her and K had accounts at branches of different banks where the
cashiers and other members of staff were involved in fraud.
Ms S was asked to confirm that the caller was a genuine police officer by dialling the
emergency number (999). Ms S called the number and was put through to another person
who confirmed that the investigation was indeed genuine. In reality, the scammers had
stayed on the line and answered the call using a different person to convince Ms S that they
were real police officers.
Ms S and K were asked to help with the investigation which would involve withdrawing cash
from their respective bank accounts so that the money could be collected and checked for
evidence. K was given a cover story to tell the cashier, and along with Ms S went to his local
branch. When they went inside and asked for cash, the cashier thought that something was
suspicious about the story and wouldnt hand over any cash.
Ms S updated the scammer with what had happened, and he directed them to Ms Ss bank
which was nearby. Ms S was told to leave the phone call open so the conversation could be
listened to whilst at the counter and recorded for evidence. She was told a different cover
story to tell the cashier. Ms S, who is from a different country, was told to explain that she
had to withdraw £9,800 in cash for a recent bereavement in her family. She was told that the
cashier would attempt to convince them about scams, but they were involved in the fraud
and Ms S should insist on receiving her money. Ms S was given additional details about
needing the payment in cash, rather than a bank transfer.
Ms S went into the branch late in the afternoon and the counter staff were asked for £9,800
and Ms S gave them the story about a bereavement. Staff discussed the withdrawal and
could only give Ms S £5,000 due to the availability of funds in the till at that time of day. They
discussed the possibility of scams with Ms S and told her about a bereavement scam that
had taken place the week before. During the withdrawal, Ms S stepped away to talk on the
phone before accepting the available funds and arranged to come back in the morning for
the remaining money.
Ms S was told to return home with K and a police courier would collect the cash to have it
checked for evidence. Ms S was told that her account was safe, and the funds were secured
in police accounts whilst the investigation continued. The courier turned up later that evening
and collected the cash. Once this had taken place, Ms S explained that she had time to think
about what had happened and began to feel uneasy. Ms S attempted to confirm the crime
reference number shed been given earlier and spoke with her colleague who advised calling
the police. A genuine police officer arrived later that evening and was able to explain that
Ms S had been scammed.
The scammers called Ms S the next morning to persuade her to collect the remaining money
and Ms S recorded the conversation. Eventually she stopped responding to their calls. Ms S
then approached The Co-op for a refund because shed been scammed.
What The Co-op said
The Co-op looked into what had happened and wouldnt refund Ms S because they believed
theyd acted appropriately when she came into the branch and discussed scams with her,
highlighting that a similar scam had happened recently. Because Ms S wasnt acting
unusually and was happy to withdraw the money  The Co-op didnt think they could have
done anything more to protect her.
The investigation so far
Ms S then brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent
review. It was looked into by one of our investigators who thought that The Co-op could have
done more to protect Ms S by invoking the Banking Protocol and calling the (genuine) police
to talk with Ms S. It was recommended that Ms S receive a refund of the £5,000 she lost,
plus interest.
The Co-op disagreed and believed theyd done enough at the time. They explained there
was no need to invoke the protocol because they were satisfied by the answers they
received from Ms S. The Co-op believed they didnt have reason to further suspect Ms S
was a victim of an ongoing scam. They asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint,
which has now been passed to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision where I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im currently minded to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process cash
withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when deciding
what is fair and reasonable in this case.
Both sides accept that the withdrawal was authorised, even though
Ms S was the unwitting victim of a sophisticated scam. Given the terms and
conditions of a typical bank account, she is presumed liable for the withdrawals in the first
instance.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industrypractice at the time, I consider The Co-op should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism,
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years,
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, a bank should, in
my opinion, fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional checks,
before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make a payment
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.
In this case, I need to decide whether The Co-op acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings
with Ms S when she attempted to make a cash withdrawal of £9,800, or whether it should
have done more than it did.
Of particular relevance in this case is the Banking Protocol  a multi-agency initiative
between the police, financial sector organisations (including banks, building societies and
the post office) and Trading Standards aimed at identifying customers who are in the
process of being defrauded and implementing safeguarding procedures to prevent their
repeat victimisation and further loss of funds. It has been fully in force nationwide since
March 2018, and I consider it to have been good industry practice at the time of this scam.
In broad terms, the Banking Protocol requires branch staff to:
Look out for any unusual or out of character withdrawals and to implement the
Banking Protocol procedure when such transactions are identified.
Discreetly question the customer about the withdrawal or transaction and their
reasons for making it, keeping in mind that the customer may have been told they
are helping to catch a corrupt bank employee and may have been given a cover
story to tell if asked about the transaction.
Consider the responses against what they expect as normal activity on the
individuals account. If they are concerned or suspicious that the customer may be
the victim of fraud, they should notify a senior member of staff, who should take the
customer to a quiet area and ask further questions to establish more details.
If the senior colleague believes the customer is the victim of fraud, either as a result
of the answers provided or through their general behaviour, they should call the
police immediately who will attend the branch to speak to the customer.
The Banking Protocol procedures are not limited to elderly or vulnerable customers, or
certain fraud types, and bank staff are encouraged to contact the police even if they are not
sure.
I also consider it fair to say that the multi-step nature of the Banking Protocol recognises that
there may be situations where the customer provides  as a result of social engineering 
a false cover story, and that the onus is on the bank staff/manager to make a judgement
about whether the customer could be a victim of fraud (and not to rely on the customersstory or assurances).
But the starting point under the Banking Protocol is that a bank should be identifying any
transactions that appear out of character or unusual for a customer. Ive firstly considered, in
relation to the request for a £9,800 cash withdrawal, whether The Co-op did enough to
identify and respond appropriately.
Although Ms S eventually withdrew only £5,000, her intent when she went into the branch
was to take out £9,800  she was only prevented from doing so because of shortages of
available cash at the tills.
It was on that basis that The Co-op based their assessment of Ms Ss request. Ms S hadnt
asked for a similar withdrawal before from her account. The largest previous withdrawal Ive
seen was £2,300. The account was rarely used and the request for £9,800 was unusual, Id
expect The Co-op to view it as such and can see that it did.
Whilst there isnt complete agreement about what was discussed in the branch, its apparent
that the following was covered:
Ms S explained she needed the money urgently for a family bereavement.
The money was for family to take back to their home country in cash.
The money couldnt be sent via a bank transfer because her family dont have UK
bank accounts.
Ms S confirmed she wasnt pressured into making the withdrawal.
The Co-op described a similar scam that had happened in branch the week before.
A warning was given about fraud and scams.
The Co-op believe that they couldnt have done anything more based on the answers and
demeanour of Ms S, but I disagree. I dont think that the bank did enough here to probe the
answers they were given and understand the detail about why Ms S needed this payment
urgently. From the discussion held, I dont think that The Co-op could have reasonably been
satisfied that Ms S wasnt at risk of financial harm.
The Co-op argue that they didnt have any reason to invoke the protocol because they were
satisfied by the answers and demeanour presented by Ms S. But here I think the cover story
presented to them was so similar to a recent scam that happened in the same branch that
The Co-op should have been alerted to the very real possibility that Ms S was also at risk of
financial harm. There were additional circumstances about her visit that I think should have
raised warning flags with The Co-op, including:
Ms S hadnt pre-booked the withdrawal.
She turned up late in the day for an urgent withdrawal.
She was visiting a branch that wasnt local to her.
There was a lack of detail about what she needed the money for.
She took a phone call midway through the withdrawal.
Why couldnt the payment be sent to her relatives international bank account?
The Co-op could have asked far more probing questions given theyd experienced a similar
fraud at the same branch a week or so earlier. I appreciate they mentioned it to Ms S, but I
dont think this was enough. The Co-op should be aware that victims of these scams are
given cover stories that include the branch staff being involved in the crime.
As far as Ms S was concerned, staff in the branch were involved in a serious crime and she
was helping the authorities. Shed already tested the scammers claim by calling the policeback but was fooled into believing she was speaking to the genuine police. Whilst I dont
think the branch staff could reasonably have convinced Ms S that she was the potential
victim of a scam, I do think there was enough information for The Co-op to have informed
the local police to attend under the protocol.
The Co-Op were the ones in a position to objectively look at the information theyd received
from Ms S, they were also the ones that knew about these types of scams and had the
means to prevent them. The Co-op staff also had recent experience of a similar scam. If
theyd called the police, I think its likely that the scam would have been uncovered as it
would have been a fairly simple matter for a genuine policeman to disprove the
investigation Ms S believed she was helping in.
Ive also thought about whether Ms S contributed to her own losses and whether this should
be reflected in the amount that The Co-op refunds. The scam presented to Ms S involved
several people and was comprehensive in its preparation to convince Ms S she was helping
the authorities. Ms S attempted to corroborate the circumstances when she was first called
by the policeman, which satisfied Ms S she was dealing with a genuine investigation. The
scammers provided a cover story that was tailored to her individual circumstances and kept
her on the phone, thereby giving her no time to take a breath and think about what she was
being asked about. It was only later that day after the money had been collected that she
started to question what had happened and eventually found that shed been scammed. She
cancelled the further cash request and informed the police and made a recording of the
scammer who was trying to convince her to go back and obtain the rest of the cash.
I dont think that Ms S was irresponsible with how she acted because shed been pulled into
a detailed scam that anticipated how shed react and provided detailed briefings about how
The Co-op would approach her request for a withdrawal. So, I dont think its reasonable to
require her to be responsible for any of her losses and The Co-op should refund her without
any reduction. The cash was withdrawn from a savings account and there hasnt been any
evidence that the money would have been moved for another purpose, so I think its
reasonable that the refund includes interest matching the account it was taken from.
Overall, I accept that Ms S was subject to a sophisticated scam and to an extent, the
scammers gave her answers to how The Co-op would approach her withdrawal. Theyd
designed a scam that put her in a position where shed mistrust the staff members  but
what they couldnt control is The Co-ops use of the Banking Protocol, which is designed to
overcome these types of scams. Whilst it may have been sophisticated, it also would have
been a relatively simple matter for a genuine police officer to demonstrate to Ms S that she
was the victim of a scam if The Co-op had invoked the protocol, which I think they should
have done.
Ive considered whether the Co-Op should also pay Ms S for the way they handled this
issue. Here, I recognise it was a scammer who stole her money, but I think The Co-op added
to the stress and worry felt by Ms S by not calling the police. This led not only to the loss of
her funds, but the unnecessary continuation of the scam, leading to a visit by one of the
scammers to the home that both Ms S and K lived in.
Ms S was worried about the visit and that the criminals had been able to identify her address
and had seen what she looked like. I do think the visit could have been prevented and the
additional stress Ms S experienced reduced if the Banking Protocol had been fully utilised.
Im currently minded to award Ms S £250 for the stress she experienced as a result of The
Co-ops approach to her situation as well as the substantive refund of £5,000 including
interest at the account rate for the period it was taken from the account until its repaid.I invited Ms S and The Co-op to give me any more evidence and information they wanted 
me to consider before issuing my final decision. The Co-op provided a copy of their standard 
script when customers ask for a withdrawal in Branch. Ms S didnt have anything further to 
add about her complaint and accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so and having considered the additional information supplied by The Co-op, I 
see no reason to reach a different conclusion. So, this final decision confirms the findings set 
out in my provisional decision.
Regarding the additional information sent in by The Co-op, Ive thought about what the 
document contains, and the questions asked of a customer when seeking a withdrawal. It 
doesnt change my thoughts on the complaint, and thats because as Ive previously 
explained, the circumstances of the withdrawal were sufficiently suspicious for further action 
to be taken by The Co-op.
Putting things right
The Co-op should now refund Ms S the £5,000 she lost as a result of the scam, including 
interest at the account rate for the period it was taken from the account until the date its 
repaid. The Co-op should pay Ms S £250 for the unnecessary stress she experienced.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against The Co-operative Bank Plc and 
theyre instructed to settle it as set out above.
If The Co-op considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Ms S how much its taken off. It should also give Ms S a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman