DRN-3638258
The complaint
Ms K complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) closed her charge 
card account and didnt refund the card joining fee.
What happened
Ms K had a charge card with AESEL. She applied for the card in August 2019. The terms 
and conditions of the account said Ms K needed to pay an annual fee of £2,200 and a non-
refundable joining fee.
But in December 2020 AESEL wrote to Ms K saying that, following an internal review, it had 
decided to cancel the card. It said that the card would be cancelled from 16 February 2021, 
and that in the meantime the card account would be blocked. The card was in fact cancelled 
with effect from 15 January 2021  and AESEL paid a pro-rata refund of the annual fee from 
that point.
Ms K thought this was unfair, and referred the complaint to us.
Our investigator looked at the complaint, but didnt recommend it be upheld. Ms K didnt 
agree. The complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AESEL, like all financial businesses, is subject to a number of legal and regulatory 
requirements. This means it may need to review an account at any time. Based on what Ive 
seen, Im satisfied AESEL was acting in line with its legal and regulatory requirements when 
it blocked Ms Ks account.
On the same day, AESEL told Ms K it planned to close her account. Ive looked at the terms 
and the conditions that applied to Ms Ks account. This said that both Ms K and AESEL 
could end the agreement without giving any reason  and that AESEL could do this by giving 
Ms K at least two months written notice. While I appreciate that Ms K would like to know the 
reasons for the closure, when AESEL closes an account in these circumstances it doesnt 
need to give reasons.
I appreciate that, as AESEL blocked the card, Ms K was in effect given no notice that she 
wouldnt be able to use the card. But this was a charge card  and so Ms K always needed 
to pay the full outstanding balance on the account each month. And Ms K does appear to 
have been able to repay the balance immediately and in full. So Im not persuaded Ms K lost 
out because of this.
Ive considered Ms Ks further comments. Ms K is unhappy that AESEL wont refund the 
initial card membership fee. Ive thought about this. The terms and conditions Ms K agreed 
to when she signed up for the account made it plain that this fee was non-refundable  and 
Ms K had the benefit of the card and its other benefits for over a year before AESEL decided 
to close it.
Ms K has also said this had an impact on her credit record  and that this was in part 
because of the short time shed had this card before it closed. But as Ive concluded that 
AESEL was allowed to terminate the card, I cant say AESEL has acted unfairly here.
Finally, Ms K is also unhappy that AESEL didnt backdate the refund of the annual fee to the 
date it initially blocked her account. AESEL has told us that although it blocked Ms Ks ability 
to make payments from the account, there were other benefits of the card that would have 
continued until the date of cancellation. So these points dont change my conclusions.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold Ms Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman