DRN-4440342
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC unfairly turned down his claim made about 
something bought using his credit card.
What happened
In 2011, Mr C, alongside another, purchased holiday club membership from a business Ill 
call Business C. This cost £3,000 and was paid by Mr C using his Lloyds credit card.1 But 
this credit card payment wasnt made directly to Business C, rather it went to a different 
business Ill call Business F.2
In 2020, using a professional representative (PR), Mr C made a claim to Lloyds under s.75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). In short, Mr C said Business C made 
misrepresentations at the time of the sale that, under s.75 CCA, Lloyds was jointly 
responsible to answer. He also said Business C breached its agreement it had with him.
Lloyds didnt respond and so PR chased it for an answer. In March 2021 Lloyds said it didnt 
receive the original claim, but that it would now investigate what Mr C had said. At that stage 
Lloyds said that Mr C could bring a complaint to our service if he wished. It also sent an 
email to PR asking for more information from Mr C, so it could consider the claim. But PR 
say it didnt receive this, so in 2022 it referred a complaint to our service that Lloyds hadnt 
properly considered the claim. Lloyds said the complaint fell outside of our jurisdiction as it 
was referred more than six months from its letter in March 2021.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but didnt think Lloyds needed to do 
anything further. He looked at the response sent by Lloyds and saw it was incorrectly 
addressed, so he didnt think it was received by PR. So he thought the complaint was one 
we could consider. But he thought the claim had been made too late to Lloyds and it had a  
defence to it under the Limitation Act 1980.
PR said that Mr C didnt agree with the view and asked for the matter to be looked at again 
by an ombudsman. In doing so it also argued that problems with Business C membership 
led to an unfair debtor-creditor relationship under s.140A CCA.
I considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of Mr Cs complaint and, as I disagreed with the reasons our 
investigator gave, I issued a provisional decision. I invited both parties to respond by 30 
October 2023 with anything further they wished me to consider before I issued a final 
decision.
I explained that, when deciding complaints, Im required by DISP 3.6.4 R of the FCA 
1 Although the membership was taken out in the names of Mr C and another, as the card used was 
Mr Cs, only he is eligible to make this complaint.
2 Lloyds has provided a complete set of payments made using Mr Cs credit card. Business F was 
paid £3,000 in December 2011. PR has also referred to £3,500 being paid on 12 June 2018, but no 
such payment appears in the records. I invited PR to provide further evidence of this payment in 
response to this provisional decision, but Ive not received anything.
Handbook to take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what [the ombudsman] considers to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
PR brought a claim on Mr Cs behalf under s.75 CCA., so I set out the relevant legal 
provisions.
s.75(1) CCA states:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) 
or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against 
the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a 
like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and 
severally liable to the debtor
s.12(b) CCA states that a debtor-creditor-supplier (D-C-S) agreement is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement being:
a restricted-use credit agreement which falls within section 11(1)(b) and is made by 
the creditor under pre-existing arrangements, or in contemplation of future 
arrangements, between himself and the supplier
An agreement is a s.11(1)(b) restricted-use credit agreement if it is a regulated CCA 
agreement used to finance a transaction between the debtor and a person (the supplier) 
other than the creditor.
s.140A CCA states:
(1)The court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement  if it determines that the relationship between the creditor and the debtor 
arising out of the  agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement) is 
unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following 
(a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of his rights 
under the agreement or any related agreement;
(c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
(2) In deciding whether to make a determination under this section the court shall 
have regard to all matters it thinks relevant (including matters relating to the creditor 
and matters relating to the debtor).
(3) For the purposes of this section the court shall (except to the extent that it is not 
appropriate to do so) treat anything done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, or in 
relation to, an associate or a former associate of the creditor as if done (or not done) 
by, or on behalf of, or in relation to, the creditor.Section 140C CCA says that the reference in s.140A CCA to a related agreement include a 
linked transaction in relation to the main agreement, which is defined in s.19 CCA as:
(1) A transaction entered into by the debtor or hirer, or a relative of his, with any 
other person (the other party), except one for the provision of security, is a linked 
transaction in relation to an actual or prospective regulated agreement (the principal 
agreement) of which it does not form part if -

(b) the principal agreement is a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement and the 
transaction is financed, or to be financed, by the principal agreement
I said that the upshot of this is that there needs to be a D-C-S agreement in place for the 
lender (here Lloyds) to be liable to the borrower (here Mr C) for the misrepresentations or 
breaches of contract of the supplier (here Business C). But, on the face of it, there were no 
such arrangements in place at the relevant times as Business C wasnt paid directly using 
the credit card, rather the payments were taken by Business F.
There are ways in which there can be a D-C-S agreement in place, even if the supplier isnt 
paid directly using a credit card. I noted that the law in this area has been clarified by the 
judgment in Steiner v. National Westminster Bank plc [2022] EWHC 2519 (KB) (Steiner). 
Steiner considered whether there was a D-C-S agreement in circumstances where Business 
F took payment on a credit card in relation to the purchase of timeshare membership from a 
business called C. The court considered the arrangements between the parties and 
concluded that, as the payment to C was made outside of the credit card network, in that 
instance there wasnt a D-C-S agreement in place.
The circumstances of Mr Cs case are very similar. Here, the same business (Business F) 
took payment for Mr Cs purchase of Business C holiday club memberships. So, based on 
the judgment in Steiner, I thought a court would come to a similar conclusion and say that 
there was no D-C-S agreement in place and, in turn, no valid s.75 CCA claim.
In response to the investigators view, PR sent submissions alleging that there might be an 
unfair debtor-creditor relationship between Mr C and Lloyds arising out of the purchases. 
This wasnt something ever put to Lloyds before, so it hadnt had the chance to consider it. 
However, I thought it was fair in the circumstances of Mr Cs case to go on to look at that 
claim and I didnt think Lloyds was prejudiced by me doing so.33 I said that as I can only 
consider how the agreements between Mr C and Business C affected the fairness of the 
debtor-creditor relationship if there was a valid D-C-S agreement in place. And, as already 
explained, I didnt think such an arrangement was in place, nor had Mr C suggested there 
was an unfair relationship for any other reason.
Under the rules set out above, I must take into account the law, but come to my own 
determination of what is fair and reasonable in any given complaint. Here, I didnt think it  
would be fair to make Lloyds responsible for Business Cs alleged failures when the law 
doesnt impose such a liability  I couldnt see that Lloyds and Business C were connected in 
any way nor was there any other reason to say Lloyds should be responsible for Business 
Cs alleged failings.
It followed that I didnt think Lloyds needed to answer the claims made.
Lloyds didnt respond to my provisional decision. PR responded on Mr Cs behalf and asked 
for an extension of the time to respond to 6 November 2023. I agreed to that extension, but 
3 I invited Lloyds to let me know if it disagreed with this approach and it didnt respond to that 
invitation.PR provided nothing further by that date.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
DISP 3.5.13-15 sets out that I may fix and extend time limits for any aspect of the 
consideration of a complaint and, if a complainant fails to comply with the limit, I may 
proceed with he complaint or treat it was withdrawn. In this case, as PR didnt provide 
information by the extended deadline to which I agreed, I find it proper to issued this final 
decision based on the information I have available and I will not extend that deadline further. 
Neither party provided me with anything further to consider, so I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional findings.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman