DRN-2003886
The complaint
Miss B and Mr B complain about the way that AXA Insurance UK Plc handled a medical 
expenses claim they made on Mr Bs travel insurance policy.
What happened
Miss B bought travel insurance on Mr Bs behalf through a broker. The policy was insured by 
AXA.
Miss B and Mr B were abroad. Unfortunately, Mr B became unwell and needed medical 
assistance. Miss B and Mr B got in touch with AXAs medical assistance team.
AXA agreed to cover the cost of an emergency consultation for Mr B. But it said that itd 
need to get a copy of Mr Bs medical records from his GP before it could confirm whether 
any other costs would be covered. It let Miss B and Mr B know that it wouldnt agree to cover 
the costs of a neurologist or dermatologist at that point. Mr B did undergo some treatment 
which he paid for himself. The GPs report wasnt received by AXA before Miss B and Mr B 
flew home. 
Miss B wasnt happy with the way AXAs assistance team had handled the claim. She felt 
AXA shouldve agreed to pay all of the costs upfront. She and Mr B had been sitting in the 
hospital waiting for AXA to confirm whether or not it would pay Mr Bs medical costs. Itd 
turned down his claim and theyd been left out of pocket. She asked us to look into his 
complaint. Miss B also complained that the broker had mis-sold the policy.
Our investigator didnt think Miss B and Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. She asked AXA 
to send Miss B and Mr B a claim form so they could make a claim for the expenses theyd 
personally incurred. She explained that travel insurers wont automatically agree to pay 
medical expenses claims  itd agreed to pay Mr Bs initial consultation, but it was entitled to 
validate the claim before it agreed to pay anything further. Because the assistance team 
hadnt received a report from Mr Bs GP, it wasnt in a position to guarantee any further 
costs. She felt this was beyond AXAs control. And she also concluded that the assistance 
team had tried to keep in touch with Miss B and Mr B.
Miss B disagreed. She explained itd been an emergency situation. She couldnt agree that 
she and Mr B shouldve been left sitting in the emergency room waiting for AXA to confirm 
cover. She and Mr B had incurred expenses which they hadnt been paid back for. The 
broker had misled her about medical expenses cover and its own role in the policy.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think AXA treated Miss B and Mr B fairly. Ill explain why.
Firstly, its important I make clear what Im considering in this decision. This complaint is 
about the way AXA (and the assistance company on its behalf) handled Mr Bs medical 
assistance claim. I wont be looking at how the policy was sold by the broker or anything that 
was discussed during the policy sale. Thats because the broker is a separate, legal entity to 
AXA and AXA isnt responsible for the actions of it. Our investigator has already considered 
Miss B and Mr Bs complaint against the broker separately.
Im sorry to hear about Mr Bs pain and illness while he and Miss B were on holiday. I dont 
doubt how worrying and distressing the situation was for them and I sympathise with their 
decision.
But in making my decision, I need to consider how AXA handled the claim and whether it did 
so fairly. So Ive looked carefully at everything Miss B, Mr B and AXA have said and sent us 
and Ive considered the terms of Mr Bs policy to decide whether I think AXA did anything 
wrong it needs to put right.
Theres no dispute that Mr B was suffering from back pain and swollen legs when he got in 
touch with AXA. So AXA offered Mr B the chance to either be seen by a doctor at his hotel or 
to visit a local hospital. Mr B preferred to visit a medical facility, so AXA arranged for its local 
provider to find details of a hospital that could treat Mr B. I think this was a reasonable 
response from AXA, as it relied on the knowledge of its local supplier to find the most 
suitable facility to treat Mr Bs condition. It also agreed to cover Mr Bs initial consultation at 
this point, even though strictly, it wasnt required to. I think this was a fair and reasonable 
course of action for AXA to take.
However, as the investigator explained, travel insurance isnt the same as a private medical 
insurance policy. It doesnt automatically cover all of the medical costs a policyholder might 
incur while theyre abroad. Its standard for insurers to require and to assess further 
information before theyll agree to guarantee that any medical expenses will be paid. Theyll 
generally want to see a medical report from the treating facility to check whether any 
treatment proposed is medically necessary and whether treatment can be delayed until a 
policyholder gets back to the UK. And often, theyll want to see a policyholders medical 
records to check a policyholders medical history and whether that impacts on their claim in 
any way.
In this case, I can see that AXA did request Mr Bs medical records from his GP promptly, 
once it received Mr Bs consent to do so. Unfortunately, it didnt immediately receive this 
consent form, but once it received the form, AXA sent this on to the GP within a few minutes. 
AXA chased up the GP to provide the necessary information, so it could make a decision on 
Mr Bs claim. I think this was an appropriate course of action and its what Id have expected 
to see. But unfortunately, it didnt receive this information while Mr B was at the hospital. I 
cant fairly hold AXA responsible for the delay in the GP surgery providing the information it 
needed during that time. 
I appreciate Miss B and Mr B feel this was an emergency situation and that they were left at 
the hospital waiting to hear from AXA. But I dont think the delay was AXAs fault. It was 
open to Mr B to return to his hotel to wait until hed heard whether the further costs would be 
covered before he decided whether or not to get further treatment done. Or it was open to him to go ahead with the appointments at his cost and to claim those costs back from AXA 
once he found out whether theyd be covered. I understand Mr B ultimately did go ahead 
with some treatment and these expenses remain outstanding.
The records Ive seen indicate that AXAs assistance team did try and get in touch with Mr B 
and Miss B during the claim, as Id expect it to. Unfortunately, Miss Bs mobile phone was 
switched off and when AXA called the hotel at some points, Mr B and Miss B werent there. 
Again, I dont think this is AXAs fault. I think it took reasonable steps to try and assist Mr B 
and to keep them both updated about what was going on.
Overall, I think AXA was entitled to be satisfied Mr Bs claim was covered before it 
guaranteed to pay his medical expenses. And I think it tried to provide both he and Miss B 
with assistance. So Im not telling AXA to do anything more.
I understand Miss B and Mr B incurred some medical, taxi and mobile phone costs. The 
investigator asked AXA to arrange for a claim form to be sent to Miss B for her to complete 
and return. AXA would then be entitled to consider the claim in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy. If Miss Bs unhappy with the outcome of the claim, shell need to 
complain to AXA first about that issue before we can potentially help.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 December 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman