DRN-1276483
The complaint
Mr K has complained that his Clarity Credit Card he held with Bank of Scotland plc (trading 
as Halifax) was declined on two occasions while he was away in Dubai. 
What happened
Mr K said that while he was on holiday in Dubai, he attempted to use his Clarity card to settle 
the outstanding bill at the hotel. But the card was declined so Mr K had to use cash to settle 
the bill. This was an inconvenience to Mr K as he was then left without cash for his next trip.
At the airport Mr K attempted to use the Clarity credit card again while he was in duty-free. 
However, the card was declined again. Mr K had to use another credit card and as a result 
he incurred foreign transaction fees for using that card abroad. Mr K wanted a Clarity credit 
card as it allows customers to spend without incurring charges for non-sterling transactions 
while overseas. Therefore, Mr K is annoyed he was unable to us the card for its intended 
purpose.
When Mr K returned to the UK, he attempted to use the card and the transaction was 
successful. So, he realised there wasnt a fault with the card. He thought Halifax must have 
declined his transactions, and so he raised a complaint about this..  
Halifax looked into Mr Ks concerns. It felt it hadnt done anythings wrong  but it did offer to 
cover the foreign transactions fees Mr K was charged when he used a different credit card. 
Mr K wasnt happy with Halifaxs response, so he brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ks complaint but she didnt recommend it be upheld. To 
summarise she said Halifax provided evidence to show that no transactions had come 
through for authorisation. Therefore, it didnt decline the transaction. And so, she didnt think 
it was fair to hold Halifax responsible. Mr K didnt agree. He said the card providers services 
worked at the airport and at the hotel. So, he felt this proved that systems at both places 
were working and so therefore his Clarity card transactions must have been declined. As Mr 
K remained unhappy the case was passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. I will 
explain why. 
Having reviewed Mr Ks testimony, it is clear he was able to use the Clarity card during his 
trip to Dubai. And given the fact he was able to use the card in UK, its evident there was no 
fault with the card as it did work overseas.
So, I have gone on to consider what happened when Mr Ks card was declined at the hotel 
and airport.In order for Halifax to decline the card, the transaction would have had to go to it for 
authorisation. With this in mind we asked Halifax to provide screenshots to show what 
transactions went through for authorisation. Having reviewed those screenshots, it is clear 
no requests went to Halifax and therefore no restrictions were put in place. So, it did not 
decline either transaction. If Halifax had declined the transaction or put restrictions on the 
card it is more likely than not that this would have been recorded.
So while I appreciate Mr Ks frustration and the fact the card didnt work on two occasions, in 
the absence of evidence, I cant reasonably hold Halifax responsible for the card not working 
on those two occasions.
I understand this issue caused Mr K a degree of embarrassment and inconvenience. He had 
to use cash to pay for the hotel, and this left him without cash for his next trip. But as I have 
explained above, I cant reasonably hold Halifax responsible for this. However, I can see that 
Halifax offered a gesture of goodwill to reimburse the foreign transaction fees which Mr K 
incurred. Which I think is fair and reasonable. So, in light of the above, I wont be asking 
Halifax to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2020.
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman