DRN-3109808
The complaint
Mr M complains that Aces Auto Mall Ltd (AAM) wont accept liability for claims on his
mechanical breakdown warranty. 
What happened
Mr M purchased a second-hand car from AAM in September 2018. It also sold him a Gold  
including Wear and Tear Mechanical Breakdown Warranty to cover the car, at a cost of 
£700.
This warranty also involved another company, which Ill refer to as P. Mr M says AAM 
guaranteed the warranty, and that P is the administrator.
Mr M has tried to claim for the mechanical breakdowns of parts that he thinks are covered by 
the warranty. But the relationship between P and AAM has broken down, with P saying that 
AAM is responsible for the contract  and AAM saying that P is responsible. 
With both P and AAM refusing to pay or consider Mr Ms claims, he referred the matter to 
our service. He thinks AAM is responsible for the contract. AAM said our service doesnt 
have jurisdiction over this matter. But our investigator concluded that the substance of the 
contract means its an insurance policy  so we can consider the complaint. And that AAM 
should consider Mr Ms claims. AAM disagreed. I issued a provisional decision in 
September 2021, explaining that I was minded to conclude that we could consider the 
complaint and that AAM should consider the claims. Mr M has confirmed that he has nothing 
to add, and AAM hasnt provided any further comments by the deadline I set. So I can now 
issue my final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
As neither side has provided any further comments, I therefore see no reason to change my 
findings from my provisional decision. Ive set these out again here:  
Can our service consider this complaint?
The Financial Ombudsman Service is subject to statutory rules contained in the DISP 
section of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook, available online. This set out 
our power to consider complaints  including the type of activities we cover. DISP Rule 2.3.1 
explains that we can only consider a complaint under our Compulsory Jurisdiction relating to 
certain activities  including regulated activities. Carrying out a contract of insurance as 
principal is a regulated activity that falls within our jurisdiction to consider, subject to the rest 
of our rules.
Mr M complains that AAM failed to carry out its contractual obligations to cover his 
mechanical breakdown claims. So whats key here is whether Mr Ms contract is a contract 
of insurance  or simply a service or repair contract. If its the former, the activity Mr M is 
complaining about  i.e. carrying out the contract of insurance  is one we can consider,
subject to our remaining rules. But if its the latter, then the activity hes complaining about
isnt covered by our service.
AAM  which sold the car and which Mr M considers liable  disputes that it provides the
contract. Its referred to a document which describes it as an Appointed Representative of
a company connected to P  but which is a separate legal entity (AP). But this is a general
information sheet about its finance and insurance services. Whereas the contract itself says:
This Agreement and its terms and conditions, detailed here, are between the
Agreement holder and the company which sold the Agreement (the guarantor)
Additionally, the definitions section explains that P (my emphasis):
have been appointed by the Dealer to deal with all administrative matters 
relating to claims handling, including payment of claims, arising using this Agreement 
by the guarantor
And the following definition is given for Dealer/We/Us/Our:
the dealer who supplied this Agreement and is its guarantor
I take on board AAMs point about the potential Appointed Representative arrangement. It
could be that it considers itself to have been acting on P or APs behalf when it sold the
policy. But, the wording says the dealer supplied the agreement and is the guarantor. I
note that, based on the evidence provided, it appears that AAM received and retained the 
full premium for this policy. So it appears that AAM has contractual responsibility for this 
contract. Im satisfied its responsible for carrying out the contract as principal.
DISP Rule 2.3.1 (above) explains that, to fall within our Compulsory Jurisdiction, the 
regulated activity being complained about must have been carried out by a firm  i.e. an 
authorised person.
AAM meets the definition of an authorised person and falls within our Compulsory 
Jurisdiction throughout the period of Mr Ms contract. Its not necessary for a firm to have 
permission to undertake the specific activity that is the subject of a complaint. The only 
requirements are that the firm is an authorised person and that it has, in fact, carried on the 
activity complained about. So if the warranty is found to be a contract of insurance, Im 
satisfied we can consider this complaint against AAM.
There is no definitive, comprehensive definition that can be applied when considering our 
jurisdiction here. But Ive taken into account case law, regulations and guidance as set out 
below.
According to article 3(1) RAO, contract of insurance includes any long-term insurance or 
general insurance contract falling in Schedule 1 of the RAO. This includes contracts of 
insurance against loss or damage to property and contracts of insurance against 
miscellaneous financial loss, including loss attributable to a person incurring unforeseen 
expense.
In Card Protection Plan v Customs and Excise Commissioners (Case C-349/96) [1992] 2 AC 
601, the Court of Justice of the European Union held that the essentials of an insurance 
transaction are:
"that the insurer undertakes, in return for prior payment of a premium, to provide the 
insured, in the event of materialisation of the risk covered, with the service agreed 
when the contract was concluded.It is not essential that the service the insurer has undertaken to provide in the event 
of loss consists in the payment of a sum of money, as that service may also take the 
form of the provision of assistance in cash or in kind ....
In Prudential v Commissioners of Inland Revenue [1904] 2 KB 658, the High Court issued
helpful criteria to determine whether a contract is a contract of insurance:
1. A contract of insurance must be a contract which for some consideration, usually 
but not necessarily in periodic payments called premiums, you secure  some 
benefit, usually but not necessarily the payment of some money, upon the happening 
of some event.
2. The event should be one which involves some amount of uncertainty ... either 
uncertainty whether the event will ever happen or not, or if the event is one which 
must happen at some time, there must be uncertainty as to the time at which it will 
happen.
3. The insurance must be against something ... that is to say, the uncertain event 
must be adverse to the interest of the assured."
The Perimeter Guidance Manual (PERG) from the FCA Handbook contains guidance on the 
activities which are regulated under Financial Services and Markets Act. Section six of 
PERG provides Guidance on the Identification of Contracts of Insurance. Whilst PERG 
cant state what the law is, it offers helpful insight into what the FCA deems to be insurance.
PERG 6.3.3G states:
The courts have not fully defined the common law meaning of 'insurance' and 
'insurance business', since they have, on the whole, confined their decisions to 
the facts before them. They have, however, given useful guidance in the form of 
descriptions of contracts of insurance.
But PERG 6.3.4G goes on to explain:
The best established of these descriptions appears in the case of Prudential v. 
Commissioners of Inland Revenue [1904] 2 KB 658. This case, read with a 
number of later cases, treats as insurance any enforceable contract under which a 
'provider' undertakes:
(1) in consideration of one or more payments;
(2) to pay money or provide a corresponding benefit (including in some 
cases services to be paid for by the provider) to a 'recipient';
(3) in response to a defined event the occurrence of which is uncertain 
(either as to when it will occur or as to whether it will occur at all) and 
adverse to the interests of the recipient.
Also relevant here is this point from PERG 6.5.1G:
Any contracts that fall outside the description in 6.3.4G which is derived from the 
Prudential case are unlikely to be contracts of insurance.
And from PERG 6.5.4G:(1) In applying the description in PERG 6.3.4 G, more weight attaches to the 
substance of the contract, than to the form of the contract.
Taking all of the above into consideration, the question I need to answer is  does the 
substance, if not the form, of the contract meet the criteria set out in PERG 6.3.4G?
This contract is described as a non-regulated, non-insurance product. Insurance premium 
tax wasnt charged. But there are many features of the contract that are consistent with the 
fundamental features of insurance. I note the Gold branding of the product suggests tiered 
levels of cover. And the cost of the contract is described as a premium. More crucially to the 
substance of the contract, it provides contractual obligations to protect the consumer from 
unplanned events adverse to the consumers interest.
In line with PERG 6.3.4G, Im satisfied this contract meets each of the following points and 
so can be treated as insurance:
1) Ive seen evidence that AAM received a payment from Mr M of £700 (including 
VAT) for the contract. This cost isnt obviously linked to the value Mr M would 
receive from the contract  which could have been nothing, or could have been 
significantly more.
2) The contact also offered Mr M money or corresponding benefit, as it covered:
i. all mechanical and electrical parts (including labour to fit them), 
of the Vehicle against Mechanical Breakdown
3) The mechanical breakdown of the car is a defined event that wasnt guaranteed 
to occur  especially within the three-year term of the contract. It wasnt certain 
when or if the car would break down. And such an occurrence would be averse 
to Mr Ms interest due to the repair cost and loss of use of the car.
PERG 6.7 sets out examples to help determine the difference between contracts 
of insurance  and other, unregulated contracts. PERG 6.7.9G goes on to explain 
that:
The FCA is unlikely to classify a contract containing a simple manufacturer's or 
retailer's warranty as a contract of insurance, if the FCA is satisfied that the 
warranty does no more that crystallise or recognise obligations that are of the 
same nature as a seller's or supplier's usual obligations as regards the quality of 
the goods or services.And PERG 6.7.11G provides the following example:
 the FCA is unlikely to be satisfied that an obligation in a contract of sale or 
supply is of the same nature as the seller's or supplier's usual obligations as 
regards the quality of goods or services, if that obligation has one or more of the 
following features:
(1) it is assumed by a person other than the seller or supplier (a 'third 
party'); or
(2) it is significantly more extensive in content, scope or duration than 
a seller's usual obligations as to the quality of goods or services of 
that kind
Ive therefore considered whether the contract simply crystallises AAMs usual 
obligations. Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, consumers have the statutory right 
under a goods contract for the goods to be of satisfactory quality. And for the purposes 
of the Act, goods are of satisfactory quality if they meet the standard that a reasonable 
person would regard as satisfactory, taking account of any description of the goods, the 
price (if relevant) and all the other relevant circumstances.
As AAM entered a contract with Mr M for the sale of the car, it was obligated to provide 
him with a car that was of satisfactory quality. For the following reasons, Ive concluded 
that the contract it sold Mr M was for significantly more extensive obligations:
Whereas AAM would generally be held liable for faults present at the point of 
sale, the warranty would also cover further faults that developed after the 
sale.
The warranty title specifies that it covers wear and tear. Which wouldnt 
normally fall within AAMs statutory obligations to repair.
The term of the warranty is three years, to cover a second-hand car. In line 
with the Consumer Rights Act 2015, after six months the onus normally lies 
with the consumer to show that the goods werent of satisfactory quality at the 
point of sale.
It strikes me as significant that Mr M paid £700 for this contract. Its unclear 
why he would have paid this  or why AAM would have asked for this price  if 
the contract simply crystallised its usual obligations.
The length of the contract  three years  goes significantly beyond the duration of 
AAMs usual obligations. There will be many faults that could develop within three years 
of the sale of the used car that AAM wouldnt be expected to cover under its usual 
obligations  but would fall under this agreement. And so for these reasons, Ive 
persuaded that the contract is effectively a contract of insurance. And that our service 
can therefore consider Mr Ms complaint about whether AAM met its contractual 
obligations.
Should AAM consider Mr Ms claims?
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it. I think AAM should consider Mr Ms claims. Ill 
explain why.Mr M has provided evidence of two repairs hes had to pay for due to AAM (and P) 
refusing to deal with his claims. He thinks these should be covered by his warranty. As 
Ive explained above, Ive found that AAM does have responsibility for the agreement as 
the guarantor. So, Im minded to conclude that it should now consider Mr Ms claims in 
line with the remaining terms and conditions of the agreement.
My final decision 
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Aces 
Auto Mall Ltd to consider Mr Ms claims.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman