DRN-3929672
The complaint
Mr A complains about American Express Payment Services Limited (AmEx) and the 
cancellation of his personal credit card. Mr A also complains about the default placed on his 
credit file following this, and the service he received during this process.
What happened
Mr A held a personal credit card account with AmEx. In 2019, while Mr A was abroad, this 
account was suspended and then cancelled. So, around the time the account was closed, 
Mr A says he made several payments, including a payment of £1,500, to reduce the 
outstanding balance.
The debt on the account was transferred to a debt recovery company, who Ill refer to as B. 
While the account was with B, a default was placed on Mr As credit file which he felt was 
applied incorrectly, and unfairly. So, Mr A raised several complaints between the summer of 
2019 and the summer of 2021.
Mr A complained about the cancellation of the card, and the way B handled his account after 
they became involved. Mr A also complained about the default applied to his account and 
how this had impacted his credit file and his ability to obtain future credit. And Mr A 
questioned the outstanding balance amount, which he didnt feel reflected the £1,500 
payment hed made in June 2019. To resolve matters, Mr A wanted AmEx to remove the 
default from his credit file and to compensate him for the upset and inconvenience hed 
suffered over an extended period of time.
AmEx issued several final responses to Mr As complaints. And in all of these responses, 
AmEx felt they had done nothing wrong when cancelling the card and applying a default to 
Mr As credit file. But in their response dated December 2020, they accepted B hadnt 
provided a call back when they shouldve done and offered Mr A £25 compensation. In 
AmExs last response, dated June 2021, they referred Mr A back to the responses they had 
issued in June 2019, June 2020, and December 2020, stating they had nothing further to 
add. Mr A remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint initially and considered all of the complaint points. 
And having done so, they didnt uphold the complaint. Mr A was unhappy with this, and 
provided detailed comments explaining why. Our initial investigators view remained 
unchanged and so, Mr A requested an Ombudsmans final decision.
But following this, Mr As complaint was reviewed by another investigator. And following this 
review, this investigator felt Mr As complaints regarding the initial cancellation of the card, 
the service provided by B during their management of the account and the application of the 
default fell outside of our jurisdiction to consider as Mr A hadnt referred these issues to us 
within six months of AmExs final response to these issues. The investigator did consider Mr 
As complaint regarding the location of the £1,500 paid in June 2019 and he was satisfied 
from the evidence hed seen that this payment had been credited to the account. So, he 
didnt think AmEx needed to do anything more.
Mr A remained unhappy with this response, explaining hed been in contact with AmEx 
following the final responses in an attempt to resolve the complaint without needing to come 
to our service. And he explained he had spoken to our service during this time for guidance. 
Mr A remained unhappy with the application of the default and he felt this should be 
considered by our service. As Mr A remained unhappy, the complaint has been passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Before I explain why Ive reached the decision, I think its particularly important to explain 
exactly what Ive been able to consider.
The types of complaint we can look into are set out in our rules which can be found in the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)s handbook under DISP. These include time limits on how 
long a customer must bring a complaint to us after a business has issued a final response.
We can only consider a complaint that has been brought to us within six months of the date 
of the final response, unless there are exceptional circumstances, or the business provides 
consent for us to continue. In this case, AmEx havent provided us with consent.
On this occasion, I can see AmEx issued a final response to Mr As complaint about the 
cancellation of the card, and the service he received from B, in June 2019. In June 2020, 
AmEx issued a final response to Mr As complaint about the default application and further 
issues regarding B and their communication with him. And in December 2020, AmEx issued 
a final response again commenting on the default application, and further service issues with 
B, offering Mr B £25 in compensation.
Mr A didnt bring his complaint regarding these issues to our service until November 2021, 
some nine months after the last final decision was issued in December 2020, when a 
complaint was set up on our system. So, Im satisfied that all of the complaint issues Ive 
listed above fall outside of the six-month time limit. And because of this, our service is 
unable to consider them further.
I appreciate Mr A did receive another final response letter from AmEx in June 2021, which 
would fall within the six-month time limit. But crucially, this final response didnt provide any 
further comments from AmEx that differed from their original responses. In fact, this final 
response explains their previous responses dated June and December 2020 still stood and 
that no further comments would be made. So, I think the referral time limits set out in the 
original responses still stood and that this response doesnt mean the complaint issues are 
able to be considered within our jurisdiction.
But as I have explained above, Ive also thought about whether there were any exceptional 
circumstances that prevented Mr A from bringing his complaints to us sooner. Its important 
to note that for a circumstance to qualify as exceptional, I would need to be satisfied that Mr 
A was incapacitated in a way that meant he had no reasonable way of contacting our 
service. For example, if he was physically unable to do so due to extreme poor health.In this situation, I dont think Ive seen anything that persuades me Mr As circumstances 
were exceptional. I can see that between June 2019 and November 2021, Mr A remained in 
contact with AmEx about the situation. And Mr A has confirmed this himself, explaining he 
took the decision to try and resolve the issue with AmEx directly, rather than using our 
service, due to the backlogs and delays we were experiencing due to the impacts of COVID-
19. While I understand Mr As thought process behind this, I dont think this means Mr A had 
no way of bringing his complaints to us sooner. As Mr A was able to continue communication 
with AmEx and B, I think it follows that Mr A couldve contacted our service to ensure a 
complaint was raised and progressed through our system within the relevant time limits. And 
I cant see that it was.
I also recognise there may have been delays in the investigation processes of AmEx and B. 
And while I understand why Mr A wouldve wanted to wait for these processes to conclude 
before deciding his next steps, I think the final responses AmEx issued make it reasonably 
clear Mr A must bring his complaint to us within six months of the date of the response itself. 
And Mr A couldve done this, while any internal investigations being conducted by AmEx or 
B, were ongoing. So, I dont think this alters my decision regarding our services jurisdiction.
But I cant see that, in any of AmExs complaint responses, Mr As complaint regarding the 
location of the £1,500 payment he made in June 2019 was addressed and answered. So, I 
do think were able to consider the merits of this complaint within our jurisdiction.
Ive seen Mr As statements from the months around, and including, June 2019. And I can 
see from these statements that, on 5 June 2019, a payment of £1,500 was credited to Mr As 
account.
As this payment was for the amount Mr A has queried, made at the time Mr A says it was 
paid, Im satisfied that this payment is more likely than not the payment Mr A is disputing. 
And so, Im satisfied the payment was in fact credited to Mr As balance and because of this, 
I dont think Im able to say AmEx have done anything wrong. Because of this, I dont think 
AmEx need to do anything more on this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr A was hoping for. And I appreciate it comes at a time 
when Mr A is suffering health conditions that will be having an impact on his day to day life. 
So, I do recognise the upset this outcome is likely to cause. But any decision I reach must be 
fair to both Mr A and AmEx, as we are an impartial and independent organisation. This 
means any complaint we consider must fall within our jurisdiction, based on the rules set by 
the FCA. And for me to direct AmEx to do anything more regarding the complaints we can 
look into, I must be satisfied theyve done something wrong. And I dont think they have on 
this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint about American Express 
Payment Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman