DRN-2867455
The complaint
Mr H complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited mis-sold his guaranteed over 50 plan. 
He surrendered the policy and received £551.08. But he says he should be refunded all the 
premiums he paid, or the equivalent of the sum assured.  
What happened
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said Aviva didnt provide any 
advice to Mr H when the policy was sold in 1994 and that it wasnt unusual for this type of 
policy to provide a fixed sum assured throughout the term. So, he didnt think the policy had 
been mis-sold. The investigator added that he didnt think Aviva should have to return the 
premiums Mr H had paid or pay him a surrender value which was equivalent to the sum 
assured. 
Mr H disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said there were various 
companies who were responsible for his policy since it started who all got some of his 
premiums and didnt have to pay him anything. So, he said the policy wasnt fit for purpose 
and he should receive a refund of his policy premiums. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr H feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I have to make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than not to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
I note Mr H has said his policy was passed to different insurers since he took it out in 1994. 
Thats not uncommon when policies have been running for a long time such as his. Aviva 
has now taken over responsibility for his policy, so I can only consider its actions here. 
Aviva has said Mr Hs policy was sold on a direct sales basis which means Mr H completed 
a form and applied for the policy without receiving any advice. The sum assured was fixed 
from this point. So, it was Mr Hs responsibility to ensure the policy was suitable for his 
needs and whether or not he felt the policy sufficiently covered any funeral expenses over 
the long term. He couldve sought financial advice at the time if he wished, but I havent seen 
any evidence that he did so. And I havent seen any evidence that he was unhappy with the 
sum assured before he decided to cancel the policy. So, I cant fairly say the policy was 
unsuitable for Mr H here. 
I understand that Mr H feels like he has paid into the policy for many years and never 
received any benefit from it. I think it would be helpful for me to explain that the nature of 
these type of policies means that the length of time the policyholder lives for will determine 
whether they receive more or less than the premiums theyve paid. This is a common 
principle with insurance, as it only pays out when an insured event takes place. And so, in 
the early years of a policy being set up, the premiums Mr H paid would be less than the sum 
assured. In Mr Hs case, the premiums he has paid exceeded the sum assured because he 
has fortunately lived for a longer period of time. He did however benefit from the cover being 
in place while he paid the premiums and received a small surrender value when he 
cancelled the policy. 
Mr H would like his premiums to be refunded instead of receiving his surrender value. Aviva 
hasnt been able to find a copy of the marketing material or the policy due to the time that 
has passed. Thats not uncommon in the circumstances due to the time that has passed 
since the sale took place. Aviva has provided a copy of documents for another policy which it 
says had the same terms and conditions which confirm Mr H would only receive a surrender 
value after paying five years of premiums and the sum assured in the event he died. Thats 
in line with how these policies work, so I dont believe Mr H is entitled to a greater surrender 
value because he has paid more into the policy than the sum assured. 
I realise this isnt the outcome Mr H is hoping for but, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont 
think Aviva has to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman