DRN-3763957
The complaint
Mrs O complains that Clarkewood Limited trading as Financial Justice (FJ) failed to 
pursue a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) claim.
What happened
In 2018, Mrs O said that shed instructed FJ to pursue mis-sold PPI claim(s) with her 
lenders, including her mortgage lender, Ill call N. Mrs O said FJ had been updating her 
until recently, but their email address was no longer working, and she couldnt get a 
response to her calls. 
Mrs O complained to FJ but they didnt respond so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator asked FJ to provide their business file, which could include copies of any 
letters of authority signed by Mrs O that instructed FJ to act on her behalf, any claim notes 
and call recordings. But FJ hasnt provided this. Our investigator said Mrs O had shown that 
FJ were acting for her in the pursuit of mis-sold PPI claim(s) and that a mis-sold PPI claim 
hadnt been submitted to N. He said as the August 2019 deadline for making mis-sold PPI 
claims had now passed Mrs O had lost any opportunity for a mis-sold PPI claim with N to 
be made. He said FJ should compensate Mrs O for this by paying her £250. 
FJ again didnt respond so Mrs Os complaint has been referred to an ombudsman to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Its unfortunate that FJ havent provided any evidence to show what they have or havent 
done for Mrs Os mis-sold PPI claim(s). Where the available evidence for a complaint is 
limited, such as the case here, I base my decision on what I think most likely happened. 
  
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) deemed 29 August 2019 as the deadline for mis-sold 
PPI claims to be made.  Any claim received after the 29 August 2019 deadline wouldnt be 
accepted by the lender(s) unless there were exceptional circumstances for doing so.
I can see that in July 2018 FJ wrote to Mrs O saying:
 ongoing claims were being investigated by ourselves
And went on to say:
 a strong indication you have been mis-sold a Payment Protection Insurance and are due a 
refund
The letter asked Mrs O to complete a letter of authority and explained that the claim had to be 
made before the August 2019 deadline. From Mrs Os testimony Ive no reason to doubt that Mrs 
O took the action as the letter also gave assurance that there was a high probability that shed 
receive her redress within six to 10 weeks. 
Mrs O said that FJ had been updating her about her claims. But they hadnt updated her about 
her mis-sold PPI claim with N. The crux of  Mrs Os dispute centres around the potential for 
a mis-sold PPI claim with N to have been successful. 
Im unable to speculate on whether N mis-sold PPI to Mrs O, and whether a mis-sold PPI 
claim would have been upheld by N as there are several factors that N would have had to 
consider. So, I cant know whether she would or wouldnt have received any redress. 
But Mrs O said shed authorised FJ to act on her behalf in pursuing whether shed any PPI 
with N. But N has told her that FJ hadnt submitted a mis-sold PPI claim to them. So N 
hadnt investigated whether Mrs O had been mis-sold PPI, and the deadline for making mis-
sold PPI claims had now passed. So, I think Mrs O has lost the opportunity for her claim to 
be fully investigated. I think FJ should compensate Mrs O for this.
Our investigator said FJ should compensate Mrs O the sum of £250 for loss of opportunity, I 
think this is fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Clarkewood Limited trading as Financial Justice to pay 
Mrs O £250 for loss of opportunity.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman