DRN-3086993
The complaint
Miss B has complained that S.D. Taylor Limited trading as Loans at Home (LAH) didnt 
freeze her account when she informed LAH she was having financial difficulties. 
Miss B says shes not been treated fairly, and to put things right, she would like 
compensation. 
What happened
The complaint is about the administration of a loan account that Miss B took in December 
2020. She took a loan for £300 which was to be repaid by 34 weekly repayments of £15.
 
I think it will be helpful to set out the timeline of events of this complaint.
 
On 2 February 2021, Miss B emailed LAH to inform it that she wanted her account put on 
hold, as she was having financial difficulties and was behind with her priority bills. At this 
time Miss B asked for confirmation by email, the account is on hold and I will not receive 
any unnecessary communication at this time.
LAH responded on the same day, it thanked Miss B for letting it know about her situation but 
explained the freeze couldnt be carried out over email. Her details had been passed to a 
member of staff who would call her later that day. 
Miss B went back to LAH on 3 February 2021. She told it this will have to be done by email 
as right now I do not feel up to talking. She also confirmed the agent was fully aware of her 
situation. The email ends with Miss B asking for confirmation the account was being put on 
hold. 
LAH emailed back confirming that a member of staff would be in contact through email in 
regard to this.
Miss B emailed LAH again on 20 February 2021 as she hadnt heard anything further from it, 
after LAHs email of 3 February 2021.
 
On 23 February 2021, LAH acknowledge Miss Bs complaint. It provided a complaint 
reference number and explained that her concerns would be passed to her local agent. But 
what Miss B wanted  couldnt be done over email. She was provided with the contact 
numbers of people to call when she was feeling up to it. 
On 24 February 2021, LAH emailed Miss B offered her a three-month payment deferral. It 
asked Miss B to confirm the information within the email was correct. Following this, LAH 
emailed Miss B on 26 February 2021, to confirm the emergency payment freeze had been 
applied to her account and would be there for 13 weeks.
 
Miss B then chased LAH for a response to her complaint on 28 February 2021. 
LAH confirmed on 4 March 2021 that Miss Bs complaint was being investigated.
 
In response to Miss Bs complaint LAH issued a final response letter (FRL) on 5 March 2021. 
LAH said it hadnt done anything wrong. LAH explained;
When any type of forbearance is offered to a customer, this is usually completed via 
a phone call as it is easier to discuss the necessary details regarding your financial 
hardship. Then most appropriate forbearance can be offered. Therefore when calls 
were arranged, this was the usual process set out in our company guidelines.
Unhappy with this response, Miss B referred her complaint to this Service on 
22 March 2021. 
The adjudicator didnt think Miss Bs complaint shouldnt be upheld. He said that Miss Bs 
loan balance and credit file hadnt been affected by the delay in applying a payment deferral 
on the account. He also didnt think LAH had provided poor service.
 
It appears that LAH agreed with our adjudicators opinion.
Miss B didnt agree with the adjudicators conclusions and she asked for the case to be 
passed to an ombudsman. Miss B then sent to us copies of key emails and documents she 
wanted the ombudsman to consider, which included what looked like a new complaint that 
she raised with LAH in June 2021. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time these loans were provided.
I want to be clear to both parties that Miss B, in response to the letter informing her that her 
case would be passed to an ombudsman provided this Service with another complaint she 
raised with LAH at the end of June 2021. LAH responded and issued a FRL on this matter 
on 30 June 2021.
This is a separate complaint issue, where the events occurred after the complaint that I have 
been asked to consider were referred to this Service. This means, I am only considering 
what happened in February 2021 when Miss B was in contact with LAH about putting a 
payment freeze on her account. I make no finding in relation to the complaint she raised in 
June 2021. 
As LAH has issued a FRL in relation to the issue raised in the June 2021 complaint, Miss B 
can, if she wishes have a new complaint set up at this Service to investigate her concerns. 
More recently, Miss B has sent us a letter she has received from LAH saying she hasnt 
made payments for a number of weeks. Again, this is a new issue so if Miss B is unhappy 
with the content of the letter she may want to raise her concerns with LAH directly. I say this 
because this Service cant consider this issue as part of this complaint as LAH hasnt been 
given the opportunity to investigate what has happened. 
So in this decision I am only considering what happened in February 2021. I havent been provided with a statement of account, but I have been given a copy of the 
credit agreement, and based on that, I agree with the adjudicator that while there was a time 
difference between when Miss B asked for the payment freeze and LAH doing it, she wasnt 
financially penalised for any delay. This is because, the account balance is the same if the 
account freeze was applied on the 2 February compared to 26 February 2021.
I also havent seen anything to suggest that Miss Bs credit file was adversely affected as a 
result of the account being frozen on 26 February 2021 rather than when she asked for it on 
2 February 2021.
So, the crux of this complaint thought, is whether Miss B says she should be paid 
compensation as a result of the delays she says occurred in LAH freezing her account. 
Having looked at everything that both parties have provided, I dont think LAH need to carry 
out any further action, and Ive explained why below.  
In this case, LAH knew fairly early in February that Miss B was having quite significant 
financial difficulties, and so it wasnt unreasonable for LAH to want to discuss her situation 
with her on the phone to make sure the help it was going to provide was the most 
appropriate for her. 
However, Miss B told LAH, fairly quickly, that she wasnt up for talking on the phone and 
wanted email contact which again wasnt unreasonable. I also accept that Miss B had to 
chase LAH for a response, and by doing so, LAH seems to have gone outside of its normal 
processes to enable the payment freeze to be set up through email. I also consider this to be 
a reasonable course of action. 
It doesnt seem that in the time between 2 February and 26 February that Miss B was 
chased for payments (or if she was, she hasnt told us). Ive also not seen any evidence that 
LAH chased Miss B for any arrears or missed payments during this time. While, I can accept 
it was inconvenient of for Miss B to have to chase for a response overall, I cant say that 
material distress and inconvenience has been caused, and therefore I am not 
recommending that LAH pays any compensation. 
Im satisfied that no financial loss has been suffered here, and while LAH couldve 
responded more quickly when it found out about Miss B not wishing to discuss this matter on 
the phone, I dont think that itself has led me to conclude that any compensation should be 
paid. So, Im not upholding Miss Bs complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not uphold Miss Bs.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman