DRN-3479363
The complaint
Mr S complains that UK Credit Limited (UK Credit) lent to him in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
Mr S was given a guarantor loan by UK Credit in August 2015. He borrowed £4000 and 
agreed to repay this over 48 months. Mr S has repaid this loan.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in April 2022. Both parties have received 
copies of the provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the 
decision below.
UK Credit gathered some information from Mr S before it agreed to lend. It asked Mr S 
about his income and expenditure. It says it verified his income by checking a payslip and 
called him to discuss his expenditure. It carried out a credit check and used this to work out 
his credit commitments. Those checks suggested Mr S had enough disposable income each 
month to afford the loan repayments. 
Mr S was entering into a significant commitment with UK Credit. He was agreeing to make 
monthly repayments for a period of 4 years. So, I think it is right that UK Credit wanted to 
gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mr Ss financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks it did were sufficient to 
achieve that aim. I think UK Credits checks were proportionate. 
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to
react appropriately to the information those checks show. Those results might sometimes 
lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. Or, in some 
cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. So, Ive looked at 
what UK Credit gathered to see whether it needed to ask for more or whether it made a fair 
lending decision. 
I have looked at the credit search that UK Credit conducted. The search showed that Mr S 
had a credit card, 2 bank accounts and 3 loans loan. He had recently obtained 2 of the 
loans. Our investigator concluded that Mr S had recently taken out credit and increased his 
indebtedness in a short space of time. I can see from looking at the credit search results why 
they would conclude this. One of the loans in particular was only taken a month before Mr S 
asked for this one. So, I think UK Credit ought to have been mindful of this when it looked 
through its credit search and was completing its assessment. 
I have also listened to a call between the parties, where UK Credit went through the credit 
search and also asked Mr S about his income and expenditure. Mr S told UK Credit that he 
was going to use the loan to pay off the balance of his credit card. I think it is reasonable for 
UK Credit to rely on what he said here and discount most of the payment to the credit card 
from the credit commitments that it assessed him to have at that time. And I can see that it 
did do this.
The credit Mr S had taken out seemed to be well managed. He was not in arrears with any 
of his accounts and I couldnt see any other signs that he was having problems managing 
his finances or that the loan wasnt affordable for him. I think when I consider how much Mr 
Ss verified monthly income was, and what he declared to UK Credit he had in essential 
spend, I think the credit he had taken out was, on balance, affordable for him. The 
repayments on his 3 loans and the repayment for this loan did represent a fairly sizable 
proportion of his monthly income. But in the circumstances, I have already described, on 
balance, I think the loan was sustainably affordable for him.
I think that the checks UK Credit performed were proportionate and didnt suggest that Mr S 
was facing any current problems in managing his finances. I think UK Credit was entitled to 
rely on what Mr S said about his finances, and what he intended to use the loan for. And that 
information suggested that he would be able to sustainably afford the repayments on the 
loan. So, I dont currently think UK Credit was wrong to give the loan to Mr S. 
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response 
to my provisional decision. UK Credit responded. It said it had no further comments to 
make. Mr Ss representatives responded and said it disagreed with my findings. It said 
there were multiple gambling transactions on the bank statements provided by Mr S 
along with overdraft charges, returned direct debits and that his monthly salary wouldnt 
have taken him out of the amount he was overdrawn by. It also added that after the loan 
was approved there were then multiple adverse accounts and a dependency on payday 
loans. It doesnt think UK Credit should have provided the loan to Mr S.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ss representatives say there was a lot of adverse information within the bank 
statements that he has provided from the time the loan was granted. This includes 
multiple gambling transactions, returned direct debits and overdraft charges. I can see 
what it is referring to. But UK Credit has said that on this occasion it didnt request bank 
statements at the time it agreed this loan. So, it wouldnt have had these statements to 
hand at the time that it carried out its affordability assessment. There was no requirement 
for it to gather bank statements from Mr S  only that it carried out proportionate checks. 
And I have concluded on this occasion that it did do so. With the information it had in front 
of it, on balance, it would have seen Mr S wasnt facing any problems in managing his 
finances and that the loan was affordable for him. 
Mr Ss representatives also add that that after the loan was agreed, there were multiple 
adverse accounts in Mr Ss name, and he went on to have a dependency on pay day 
loans. But this isnt something UK Credit would have known at the time it granted this 
loan.
It follows that I dont think UK Credit was wrong to give the loan to Mr S. So, I do not 
uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman