DRN-3479017
The complaint
Miss G complained about the service provided by American International Group UK Ltd 
(AIG) following her mobile phone insurance claim. 
What happened
Miss G had mobile phone and gadget insurance through her joint bank account. Miss G 
dropped her phone on 23 August 2021, and it stopped working. Miss G rang AIG to submit a 
claim. AIG accepted the claim and said it would first of all try to repair Miss Gs phone. 
AIG agreed to collect Miss Gs phone from her place of work the following day. However, it 
went to her home address instead and Miss G had to call it to rearrange the collection. AIG 
decided Miss Gs phone couldnt be repaired and a replacement was delivered to her on 
7 September 2021. Miss G said the replacement phone was damaged when delivered to 
her. 
Miss G complained to AIG about the collection being arranged from the wrong address; the 
collection not being in her name; misadvising her about timeframes; taking too long to decide 
her phone couldnt be repaired; lack of updates; call wait times and the replacement phone 
being damaged. 
AIG responded and partially upheld Miss Gs complaint. It acknowledged its service fell short 
in most of the areas complained about by Miss G. In relation to call wait times, it said as an 
inbound call centre it was unable to regulate the number of calls received. However, its wait 
times on this occasion were longer than it deemed reasonable. AIG said it appreciated the 
inconvenience of receiving a faulty replacement phone but said its outside its control as 
issues can develop while phones are in transit. AIG offered £125 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
When our Investigator contacted AIG, it clarified that it didnt replace the damaged device 
Miss G received on 7 September 2021 as it was reported to it outside the 72 hour timescale. 
Our Investigator upheld Miss Gs complaint. She said Miss G had tried to report the 
damaged device but had been unable to speak to an advisor. Our Investigator suggested 
AIG contact Miss G about the damaged phone and consider replacing it, in line with the 
terms of the policy. She also asked AIG to pay an additional £75 compensation. 
AIG agreed with what our Investigator said. Miss G thought £400 was a more appropriate 
amount of compensation and so this has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have no way of knowing whether Miss Gs replacement phone was working when it was 
sent to her by AIG. I know that AIG said it was working, but Miss G said it was damaged by 
the time it got to her. In any event, the issue here is that Miss G expected a working 
replacement phone to be delivered and it seems likely that hasnt happened. So, what needs 
to happen now is for AIG to look at Miss Gs phone and decide what the next appropriate 
step is, subject to the policy terms. 
The issue was that AIG originally said it wouldnt accept the phone back as Miss G didnt 
contact it about the replacement phone being damaged within the 72 hour window for 
alerting them to faulty replacements. But since our Investigators assessment, it has agreed 
to do this, and I think this is a fair outcome.  
Ive then looked at the amount of compensation thats been offered by AIG to Miss G. Its 
important to say at this point that this Service doesnt impose penalties on businesses when 
they make errors  that is one of the roles of the regulator. What we do is look at how a 
mistake might have impacted on a consumer and then decide whether it would be fair to ask 
a business to pay compensation for any distress or inconvenience. So Ive looked at what 
distress or inconvenience was caused by AIG, above and beyond the usual inconvenience 
attached to making an insurance claim of any kind. 
Although this Services approach is often to say that call wait times are an inevitable part of 
making contact with a business by phone, I can see that AIG has said it considers the wait 
times on this occasion were unreasonable. Because of that, Ive considered the impact of 
the call wait times when deciding on compensation. The avoidable inconvenience caused to 
Miss G here is that she spent a long time trying to get through to AIG by phone and that she 
was without a phone for longer than expected, as getting a replacement device was delayed 
because of the failed collection and the longer than usual time taken to deem the phone 
beyond economical repair. Having considered everything, I agree with the amount of 
compensation suggested by our Investigator, so an additional £75. 
If, once she returns the damaged replacement phone, Miss G is unhappy with how AIG has 
dealt with that matter, then she can bring it to this Service as a new complaint, after 
complaining to AIG in the usual way. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I require American International Group UK Ltd to pay Miss G an 
additional £75, bringing the total compensation to £200.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman