DRN-2258607
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain that Santander UK plc (when it was trading as Abbey National plc) 
mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about PPI policy taken out by Mr and Mrs E in 2003 in connection with a 
joint mortgage.
 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs E disagreed with the adjudicators
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Es case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those 
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
- If Santander gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mr and Mrs Es needs?
- Did Santander give Mr and Mrs E the information they needed to decide whether to 
take out the policy?
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether Mr 
and Mrs E are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something different  
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Es case and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr and Mrs E say they were put under pressure to buy the policy, and that Santander didnt 
give them a proper choice. They say they were told they had to buy the PPI to get the 
mortgage they wanted. Ive noted everything Mr and Mrs E have said. 
Santander hasnt provided much documentation from the point of sale, or a recording of the 
phone call where the sale took place. Thats not surprising, given the time thats passed, and 
its similar to other cases Ive seen. 
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr and Mrs E and 
Santander when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that these events took place many 
years ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.
Without anything else to support what Mr and Mrs E have told me, I havent been able to 
safely conclude that Santander didnt make them aware that the policy was optional. I think 
its unlikely that Santander wouldve added the cover to Mr and Mrs Es account if they 
hadnt agreed to buy it.
Santander accepts that it advised Mr and Mrs E to take out the policy and it doesnt look like 
it was unsuitable for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. I say 
this because:
- Mr and Mrs E were eligible for cover, given the policy terms and conditions. 
- Mr and Mrs E say they would have received some work-related benefits if they 
couldnt work due to sickness or accident, and that they had some savings. But the 
policy would have paid out in addition to their occupational benefits and would do so, 
it seems, for longer. Having the policy would mean Mr and Mrs E could use their 
occupational benefits and savings to pay for other expenses. So I think Mr and Mrs E 
would have had some use for the policy despite their existing arrangements.
- Mr and Mrs E werent affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main 
benefits, such as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing 
medical conditions. As they could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I 
think it unlikely they needed better advice or information about the policys exclusions 
and limitations.
- I cant be sure that the cost of the policy was clearly communicated to Mr and Mrs E 
before they agreed to buy it. But Mr and Mrs E took out the policy knowing they 
would have to pay something for it. It seems the policy was competitively priced and 
had a reasonable benefit. So I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs E would have made a 
different decision if better information about the cost had been provided.
Its possible the information Santander gave Mr and Mrs E about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it should have been. But as Ive already said, Mr and Mrs E werent affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations and the policy was competitively priced. So I think it unlikely Mr and 
Mrs E would have made a different decision if better information had been provided  
overall, I think they would still have taken out the policy.
Mr and Mrs E consider they may be entitled to a refund of some of the PPI commission they 
paid, because they continued to pay for the policy until 2011. But a commission refund is 
only payable where the corresponding credit product (in this case Mr and Mrs Es mortgage) 
was still in force on 6 April 2008. 
Mr and Mrs Es mortgage was repaid in February 2008, which is why a commission refund 
isnt relevant in this case.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman