DRN-3944350
The complaint
Miss R complains about delays assigning, surrendering, and then receiving proceeds from 
investments administered by St James's Place UK plc (SJPUK).
What happened
I wrote a provisional decision for this case last month. I also made some provisional 
decisions for other cases Miss Rs family raised with us. Miss R and her family have 
responded to all of these in a single submission. 
Among the points raised, Miss R and her family are unhappy with the level of detail Ive put 
in my decision. So I think itll help to start by explaining what my decision is  and isnt  
intended to be. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service is an informal alternative to the courts. My decision aims 
to reflect that, by focussing on the crux of a complaint. I may not respond to every point 
thats been raised. And I wont usually give a detailed history of a situation. Ill just explain 
my opinion about a complaint overall, and the key facts Ive seen that lead me to it.
Turning to this specific complaint, the relevant facts begin when Miss R was assigned part of 
some investments in October 2020, backdated it appears to 29 September. A financial 
adviser had been writing to SJPUK to achieve that since July 2020. The assignments were 
delayed though for a few different reasons.
In a separate complaint made by the person assigning the investments to Miss R, Ive 
provisionally found SJPUKs communication with the adviser should have been more 
effective. Had it been, I found it likely the investments would have been assigned sooner.
After being assigned her investments, Miss R gave an instruction to SJPUK to surrender 
them. SJPUK say they received this on 23 October. A chargeable event certificate then 
shows the investments were surrendered on 26 October. SJPUK say the proceeds were 
sent to Miss R on 20 November.
On 17 November  during a call to chase up the money  Miss R was given a valuation for 
the investments based on its value that day. This was more than what she ultimately 
received, which was based on the 26 October value.
Miss R and her family have commented that they dont think I appreciate this meant she 
received her money later than her family members did. I had appreciated that.
A series of complaints were raised about the handling of the investments. This decision 
considers the delays as they relate to Miss Rs investments.
In response, SJPUK noted that when theyd received Miss Rs surrender request, theyd 
asked for documents to verify her identity. But SJPUK accepted that wasnt right, as they 
already had what they needed to proceed. SJPUK also explained why theyd used the 
26 October value when paying Miss R the proceeds of her investments.
SJPUK decided to compensate Miss R for the delay receiving her money, working to it being 
sent to Miss R on 2 November, rather than 20 November. They paid Miss R a remedy that 
compensated her for interest at 8% on the delayed money. And they paid some 
compensation to acknowledge the trouble and upset caused.
Miss R didnt accept this remedy, so she came to us. In response to my provisional decision, 
Miss R and her family questioned our decision to split the complaints theyd raised into 
separate cases. But Im satisfied that accurately reflects how our jurisdiction applies to the 
complaints as theyve been made. 
The owners of the investments has changed over the years  primarily to improve their tax 
position. I can appreciate the strategy has been driven by the original owner, but that doesnt 
change the fact the customer of SJPUK for the purposes of our jurisdiction hasnt always 
been just them. 
I wrote last time that I provisionally didnt uphold this complaint. Some delay had been 
caused by SJPUK, but I found the steps theyd already taken did enough to put that right. 
Miss R has expressed her disagreement with my assessment of the case. Ive considered 
the points that are relevant to this complaint when making this decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My reasoning hasnt changed from last time. So Ill largely repeat what I wrote in my 
provisional decision for this final decision. But where it will help to make my reasoning clear 
on a point raised by Miss R, Ill add to my previous explanation.
Ive considered the delays our investigator discussed in their written view. I can accept some 
of the delays here were caused by things not directly under SJPUKs control.
For example, there was an incorrect postcode on the letter of authority sent to them by the 
adviser working on the transfer to Miss R. I wouldnt expect SJPUK to have accepted that 
document without further enquiries. While I appreciate Miss Rs comment that the source of 
the error was a letter from SJPUK that the new adviser was copying the postcode from , it 
was still for the writer of the later letter  not SJPUK  to ensure it was correct. 
But as a professional company communicating with another business, Id expect SJPUK to 
be able to explain any issues they had with paperwork efficiently. Had that been done better 
than it was, its likely the request to surrender Miss Rs investment wouldve come sooner.
How much sooner is hard to know. But I find early September reflects what could have been 
achieved by Miss R and her adviser if SJPUK had communicated better. To be clear, thats 
saying the surrenders here could have been actioned at the unit values available on 
1 September 2020. Paying the proceeds to Miss R would then take further time.
In their response to Miss Rs complaint, SJPUK explained how a reasonable level of service 
would see that payment being made by five working days later. I consider that a reasonable 
timescale, so Im going to apply that to the 1 September surrender date. Thatll mean 
payment would likely have been sent to Miss R on 8 September 2020  not 20 November  
if there hadnt been an unreasonable delay.
Putting things rightMy understanding is that the value of the investment would have been lower if surrendered 
on 1 September rather than 26 October. And Miss Rs intention seems only to have been to 
gift the money to her parents to invest. So Miss R herself doesnt appear to suffer a financial 
loss because of the delay. The money she received and then gifted was higher than it would 
have been, if the service had been reasonable.
I note the comments from Miss Rs family that the money was never really Miss Rs. It was 
always intended to go back to the person it had come from, so theres been a loss suffered 
by that person because they were delayed making onward investments. 
But the issue is our jurisdiction limits my remedy to putting things right for the eligible 
complainant, not people who have a linked interest in events. 
Here, the steps taken by Miss Rs family to reduce their tax bill made her the eligible 
complainant for matters that delayed Miss R surrendering the investment once it was in her 
name. I can only direct a remedy for Miss R  if she suffered any loss because of that delay. 
However, Ive explained that she doesnt seem to suffer a financial loss. So theres nothing 
for SJPUK to remedy. 
I appreciate Miss R feels its unfair she didnt receive the value she was quoted on 
17 November 2020. But that value doesnt reflect when the surrender instruction should 
reasonably have been carried out.
Here, the surrender requested on 23 October has been done with the unit values on 26 
October. Thats a reasonable timescale. To direct SJPUK to use the 17 November value 
instead is better for Miss R, but it doesnt fairly reflect the position she would have been in, if 
the service had been reasonable.
Ive thought though about the upset the situation adds to the matter. That, on top of the 
upset and inconvenience caused by SJPUKs unreasonable delays should be acknowledged 
with a compensation payment.
The situation has clearly been frustrating but the delays here have added a relatively short 
time to the actual transaction  about 10 weeks. And this wasnt money Miss R needed for 
day-to-day living expenses  it seems to have been gifted straight after it left SJPUK. And 
nor was the money lost or at significant risk of being lost. It was just held up.
So with that sort of perspective, Ive decided the compensation SJPUK have already paid to 
Miss R  both the interest payment they made and the compensation for the upset caused  
is enough to acknowledge the impact of the delays here on Miss R. Im not going to direct 
any further compensation be paid.
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint, as theres nothing further needed from St Jamess 
Place UK plc to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman