DRN-2697191
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as First Direct (First Direct), closed his bank 
account.
What happened
Mr B held a bank account with First Direct for a number of years. On 22 December 2020, 
First Direct let Mr B know that it was no longer able to provide him with banking products and 
services. And in line with the accounts terms and conditions it was providing him with two 
months written notice that Mr Bs account, along with any related services, would close on 
25 February 2021 unless Mr B wanted to arrange to close it sooner.
Following this, Mr B contacted First Direct on the same day to complain about the matter. 
Mr B was unhappy that his account was being closed. And Mr B explained to First Direct that 
he was a vulnerable person and that it should have thought about the timing of the notice to 
close the account, as it was so close to Christmas. Mr B says he was distressed by the 
matter.
The next day, 23 December 2020, First Direct issued its final response to Mr B via email. It 
explained that its decision hadnt changed, and it had exercised its right to close the account 
and any associated products under the terms and conditions of the account.
Unhappy with First Directs response. Mr B referred the matter to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint. In short, they considered First Direct could close 
Mr Bs account, and had acted in accordance with the terms and conditions of the account 
by informing Mr B of the closure and providing him with two months notice. The investigator 
also explained that First Direct wasnt obliged to provide the reason for the closure to Mr B. 
Mr B disagreed with the investigators opinion and requested the complaint be looked at by 
an ombudsman. 
So, as the matter hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
First, I would like to make it clear that businesses are entitled to make commercial decisions 
about how they operate. I dont have the power to tell a business how it should operate  
thats not my role. 
But I can look to see whether First Direct treated Mr B fairly, in accordance with the terms 
and conditions, when it decided to close the account he held.
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of Mr Bs account and it states:
We can close your account (except fixed term ones like our Fixed Rate Saver) for 
any other reason but wed always give you at least 2 months notice before we do
So its clear from the terms and conditions that First Direct can choose to close a customers 
account. But, and importantly, the terms and conditions require it to give a customer two 
months notice. 
In this case, First Direct chose to close Mr Bs account. Having reviewed its correspondence 
with Mr B, I can see it provided him with the required two months notice. It advised him on 
the 22 December 2020 of its intentions to close the account and that Mr Bs account would 
be closed on 25 February 2021. 
I note that Mr B switched his banking provider on 17 February 2021 within the two months 
notice period and subsequently Mr Bs account with First Direct was closed on 22 February 
2021, once the switch had been completed. 
I appreciate Mr B has said that the timing of the notice wasnt the best as it was just before 
Christmas. I do appreciate that this came as a shock to Mr B and would have been 
distressing and an inconvenience, but I dont find First Direct has done anything wrong and it 
acted within the terms and conditions of the account. And I am mindful that while it came as 
shock to Mr B, he was given the required two months notice period and did switch his 
banking provider within that timeframe. 
I understand Mr B wants First Direct to explain the reason it closed his account, considering 
he had been a customer for many years. But First Direct doesnt disclose to its customers 
what triggers a review of their accounts. And its under no obligation to tell Mr B the reasons 
behind the account closure, as much as hed like to know. So, I cant say its done anything 
wrong by not giving Mr B this information. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it 
do so.
Overall, the terms and conditions of the account allow for First Direct to close customers 
accounts  and in Mr Bs case, it provided him with the required two months notice period 
informing him of the closure.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2021. 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman