DRN-1670487
The complaint
Mr D complains that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, 
S.A. has turned down a baggage claim he made on his travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr D and his family were on holiday abroad and were due to fly home. They were waiting on 
the steps outside their accommodation for a taxi to take them to the airport. Theyd stored 
their bags inside the hallway of the accommodation while they were waiting, as there wasnt 
room in the street and they didnt want to block the hallway by waiting inside. Unfortunately, 
they discovered that two of their bags had been broken into and some items had been 
stolen. When they returned home, they made a claim on their travel insurance policy.
Mapfre turned down the claim. It had looked at images of the accommodation and a diagram 
Mr D had drawn showing where the baggage had been inside the hallway. It concluded Mr 
Ds luggage had been left unattended, which is specifically excluded by the policy terms.
Mr D was unhappy with Mapfres decision. He didnt accept that the luggage had been left 
unattended. He said the luggage was in full view down the hallway. He asked us to look into 
his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mapfre had treated Mr D unfairly. Shed considered images of 
the accommodation and what Mr D had said. She also referred to how the courts defined 
property thatd been left unattended. She felt Mr D and his family hadnt been in a position to 
keep their bags under observation or to prevent unauthorised interference with them. So she 
thought it was fair for Mapfre to conclude Mr Ds luggage had been left unattended.
Mr D disagreed. He didnt accept the circumstances of his claim fell within the scope of 
Mapfres definition of unattended. He felt he and his family had been able to see and were 
close enough to their luggage, which had been around six foot inside the hallway of the 
accommodation.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think it was fair for Mapfre to turn down Mr Ds claim. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And they 
mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive thought carefully about the circumstances of 
Mr Ds claim and the terms of the policy to decide whether Mapfre considered the claim 
fairly.
Mr D has provided a clear and consistent version of events. He said there wasnt enough 
room on the steps outside the accommodation for his family and their luggage. So the 
luggage was around six foot inside the hallway with the main doors to the accommodation 
open. The two bags were taken, ransacked and left. From my research, it seems the 
accommodation was a flat inside a block of flats, with stairs to other levels, a rear yard and a 
basement.
Section E of the policy  Personal Possessions and Baggage  provides cover for lost, 
stolen or damaged items. But this section of the policy also sets out things that Mapfre 
doesnt cover. One of these terms says:
We will not cover the following
Property you leave unattended (other than in your locked accommodation).
The policy defines what Mapfre means by unattended. It says: when you cannot see and 
are not close enough to your property or vehicle to stop it being damaged or stolen.
I appreciate that Mr D feels strongly that his family were close to their luggage and that they 
were able to see it. Ive thought carefully about this. But like the investigator, Ive also borne 
in mind the relevant case law, which held that for property to be considered to be attended, 
there must be someone to keep the items under observation  so theyre in a position to see 
and intervene in any unauthorised interference with them. 
In this case, given Mr Ds bags were six feet inside a hallway, I think they were likely further 
than arms-length reach away from his family. It appears the family werent the only people 
that the hallway was accessible to. And it also seems to me that the bags werent in Mr Ds 
sight and there wasnt someone observing the bags while the family waited. I say that 
because Mr D and his family didnt see the bags get taken or broken into and they didnt 
notice whatd happened until they came to move their bags to the taxi collection point. So 
this suggests the luggage wasnt under close observation or close enough for the fact the 
bags had been opened, rifled through and moved to be apparent.
Overall, while I sympathise with Mr Ds position, I think the circumstances of his claim fall 
within the definition of unattended. So I think it was fair for Mapfre to rely on its policy terms 
to turn down Mr Ds claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman