DRN-2474277
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Aviva Insurance Limited declined her claim on her home insurance 
policy.
Mrs M has been represented by her son throughout the claim and complaint. However for 
ease of reading, all references to Mrs M include the actions of her son. 
What happened
Mrs M had a home insurance policy with Aviva. In December 2019 she noticed the living 
room ceiling was showing signs of water ingress following heavy rainfall. So she made a 
claim on the policy.  
Mrs M also contacted the original contractor who fitted the roof to come and look at the 
damage. The contractor identified the problem wasnt with the roof itself but instead was due 
to a crack in the roughcast on the walls near the window and this was allowing water to get 
into the property behind the lead flashing. The roofer completed repairs to the roughcast and 
flashing.
After this, Aviva sent a contractor to assess the cause of the damage in order to determine if 
it was covered by the policy. Avivas contractor examined the damage and concluded that as 
the roof had been repaired by the original roofer, this meant it hadnt been properly installed 
the first time so was due to poor workmanship.
Aviva wrote to Mrs M in January 2020 to explain that the policy wouldnt cover the damage. 
It said there was no evidence the damage was caused by a storm and instead, existing 
damage had been highlighted by bad weather. It said as additional felt had been added 
behind the flashing, this meant its likely that the original roof was fitted poorly and had 
developed a problem over time. 
Mrs M didnt think this was fair. She said she had a report from the roofer that contradicted 
Avivas contractor and proved the damage wasnt due to poor workmanship. And she said 
she had accidental damage cover as part of the policy so her claim should be considered 
under that. She made a complaint to Aviva.
Aviva didnt uphold Mrs Ms complaint and reiterated its view that the damage had been 
caused by poor workmanship. Mrs M this was fair and brought her complaint to this service.
Since the complaint came to the service Aviva has accepted that Mrs M does have 
accidental damage cover as part of her policy. However it says the claim would excluded 
under this cover as it excludes any damage caused by water entering the property.
Our investigator considered all the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld. She 
said she didnt think there was enough evidence to say that the damage was due to poor 
workmanship. However she agreed with Aviva that the claim would be excluded as there 
was no insured peril, as there wasnt a storm at the time of the damage. Further she agreed 
it would be excluded under the accidental damage cover. However she said she could see 
Aviva had caused Mrs M distress and inconvenience in how it had handled the claim and 
recommended it pays £150 to make up for this. 
RSA accepted our investigators recommendation. However Mrs M didnt think the 
compensation was enough to make up for the distress and inconvenience she had been 
caused. She said Aviva had failed to carry out a thorough investigation and had made 
incorrect conclusions and the compensation didnt reflect this. She asked for her complaint 
to be reviewed by an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When an insurance claim is made, it is first for the policy holder to prove there is an insured 
peril. This is an event that has caused damage or loss that is covered by the policy. It is then 
for the insurer to either accept the claim or prove that an exclusion applies. 
In this case Mrs M initially claimed for damage to her property that she believed was caused 
by a storm.
In order for an insurer to accept a claim was due to storm damage, they will need to be 
satisfied that there were storm conditions at the time of the loss or immediately before. Ive 
checked the weather on the days before and the day the claim was notified and, although 
there was a lot of rain, there werent conditions that would reasonably meet the definition of 
a storm. So I agree Aviva acted fairly when declining Mrs Ms claim under the storm section 
of the policy.
However I note Mrs M also has accidental damage cover included as part of her policy. 
Accidental damage is defined in the policy as Damage caused suddenly and unexpectedly 
by an outside force. Mrs M first noticed there was a problem due to flaking of the ceiling in 
the living room after heavy rain and the following morning the ceiling covering had collapsed. 
So I agree this meets the definition of accidental damage under the policy. 
When Aviva first assessed the claim it said that Mrs M didnt have accidental damage cover. 
It has now accepted that this was incorrect. However it says the claim would be excluded 
under this section due to the following policy exclusion:
We will not cover
Damage caused by water entering the home regardless of how this happened
So while I agree that Mrs M has done enough to show there was accidental damage, I can 
see that any damage is excluded under that section of the policy if it is caused by water 
entering the home. In this case, there is no dispute that heavy rain caused the damage. So I 
think Aviva were fair to decline the claim under this section of the policy.
I have also considered Avivas handling of the claim. I agree that Aviva has provided poor 
service as it made a number of errors throughout its investigation. The contractor it sent out 
made assumptions about the work Mrs Ms roofer had carried out while repairing the 
damage. This led to it initially unfairly declining the claim due to poor workmanship. Aviva 
then incorrectly said that Mrs M didnt have accidental damage cover included in the policy. 
Further, it noted that Mrs M had been told that the claim would be declined when the 
contractors attended but Ive not seen any evidence this was the case. And it took nearly six 
weeks to confirm its position on the claim after its visit. These mistakes and poor service caused Mrs M distress and inconvenience, as it meant she 
didnt have a final answer on her claim for a number of weeks, so wasnt sure if the repair 
work would be covered. She also had to provide evidence to prove that Aviva hadnt 
accurately identified the work that had been done by her roofer. This would have been 
distressing and inconvenient. Aviva has agreed to pay Mrs M £150 to make up for the 
distress and inconvenience it has caused. I agree this is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances and in line with what I would have recommended. So I will require it to pay 
this amount if it hasnt already done so.
My final decision
I require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mrs M £150 compensation to make up for the 
distress and inconvenience its caused her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman