DRN-2720202
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about two mortgages they took out with Abbey, now Santander UK 
plc, in 2007. They say the bank didnt check they could afford the mortgages, sold them the 
wrong type of mortgage, and they have ended up over-committed to mortgages they cant 
pay back.
What happened
In 2007, Mr and Mrs S already had a mortgage with Santander, which they were paying on a 
capital and interest repayment basis. The term was due to end in 2018. Mr and Mrs S 
wanted to buy another house and let their existing property, so they approached Santander 
to discuss how they might go about doing that, including releasing equity in order to pay the 
deposit for the new house.
After speaking to Santander, Mr and Mrs S went ahead with buying the new house and 
renting out their existing one. They borrowed an extra £36,000 on their existing mortgage, 
which Ill refer to as mortgage 1, to use as a deposit for the new house. They also changed 
the whole of mortgage 1 so it was paid on an interest-only basis. They then took out a new 
mortgage  mortgage 2  in order to buy their new house. Mortgage 2 was also paid on an 
interest-only basis. In 2016, Mr and Mrs S moved mortgage 2 to another lender and say 
theyre now paying it on a capital and interest repayment basis.
Mortgage 1 remained with Santander. When the term ended in 2018, Santander said it 
wouldnt extend the term. It also said Mr and Mrs S had the wrong type of mortgage, 
because its a residential mortgage and they were letting the mortgaged property.
Mr and Mrs S say they have since been trying to sell the rented property. They complained 
to Santander in 2019. 
Santander said it hadnt done anything wrong, and it had checked Mr and Mrs S could afford 
both mortgages before it agreed to them. It also said the term on mortgage 1 had already 
been due to end in 2018, before the changes were made in 2007, so Mr and Mrs S would 
always have been expected to repay that mortgage by then.
Mr and Mrs S referred their complaint to us. Santander said it thought they had complained 
too late. An ombudsman disagreed and decided that Mr and Mrs S had met the relevant time 
limits, so one of our investigators looked into their complaint.
The investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs S didnt accept that 
and asked for a review, so their complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I realise Mr and Mrs S will be very disappointed, Im not upholding 
their complaint. Ill explain why.
First of all, I share my ombudsman colleagues view that Mr and Mrs S arent too late to 
complain: there was no particular reason for them to have known about their cause for 
complaint until they asked for a term extension in 2018. Thats when Santander gave them 
various information about the 2007 mortgage sales and told them that mortgage 1 wasnt the 
right type of mortgage for them to have had on a property they were renting out.
Secondly, I note that Mr and Mrs S have pointed to what they consider to be a number of 
procedural failings by Santander, and I think its important to be clear that this service isnt 
the industry regulator. Its not for me to fine or punish financial businesses. I think what is 
clear is that the documents Mr and Mrs S have seen about their mortgage applications are 
incomplete  and I dont find that surprising given the number of years that have passed 
since they took out the mortgages. 
Nonetheless, Im satisfied that there is enough evidence and information for me to reach a 
fair decision in this complaint. Ive given careful consideration to the evidence, as well as to 
what Mr and Mrs S and Santander have told us they remember about what happened.
Mr and Mrs S say that in 2007 they approached Santander, as their existing mortgage 
lender, for advice about whether they could realise their plans and if so, how. They say it 
gave them that advice and they followed it.
Santander, on the other hand, says it didnt give Mr and Mrs S advice or a recommendation 
about their mortgage arrangements in 2007. Thats reflected in the 2007 mortgage offers: 
both say the sales were non-advised. 
I think Santander did give Mr and Mrs S some advice. That, after all, is what Mr and Mrs S 
had asked it for: advice about whether it would be possible for them to keep their existing 
property and let it, and also buy a new property to move into. What happened next reflects 
that: Mr and Mrs S went ahead with an application to release some equity, then switched 
mortgage 1 to an interest-only basis, then applied for mortgage 2 once they had the money 
from their existing property to pay the deposit on their new house.
It is of course possible that Mr and Mrs S might have done all of that without guidance or 
advice from Santander. But I dont think thats what happened. Mr and Mrs S have provided 
various documents to support their recollections. Those include a copy of a fax they sent to 
Santander with a letter from an agent setting out the potential rental income they might get 
on their existing property, as well as copy of a handwritten note on Abbey headed paper 
setting out how much they needed to borrow, how to go about switching mortgage 1 to an 
interest-only basis and what the charge would be to do so. Mr and Mrs S went on to write to 
the bank in precisely the terms used in the note.
All of this meant that Mr and Mrs S were able to realise their plans. And I think it should 
reasonably have been clear to Mr and Mrs S from the mortgage offers what the cost of the 
new mortgage arrangements would be if they went ahead. They have said theyve never 
made any money from the rental property, due to tenants who didnt pay, others who left the 
house in a poor state, and the cost of maintenance and upkeep. I think all of those things are 
the risks and costs of owning and letting a property rather than things for which Santander is 
responsible or which it should have warned them about.
However, I also think its clear from Santanders records and what Mr and Mrs S have said 
that Santander knew in 2007 that they were keeping mortgage 1 and planned to let the 
property. Santander may have intended to grant consent to let once mortgage 2 had completed. Its not clear why that didnt happen, but I dont consider that Mr and Mrs S have 
lost out because it didnt. Had consent to let been formally agreed, they would have had to 
pay fees and/or a higher interest rate, to reflect the increased risk to Santander of its security 
being rented out  and there would have been no guarantee of an extension at term end, 
even had Santander agreed to the property being let for so long.
Mr and Mrs S feel strongly that Santander didnt properly assess whether they could afford 
the mortgages, and I agree that some of the information Santander has provided is 
contradictory  in particular, about Mr and Mrs S selling the first property on which mortgage 
1 is secured.
I dont find, though, that this necessarily means Santander shouldnt have lent. It had a duty 
to check Mr and Mrs S could afford the mortgages, but it wasnt required to have proof of 
income. Mr S was self-employed and self-certified his earnings. The completed application 
for mortgage 2 includes details of Mr and Mrs Ss stated income and expenditure. That 
income didnt include prospective rental income for property 1. Santander already had that 
information: Mr and Mrs Ss fax from their estate agent recommending a monthly rental 
income of between £650 and £695. The monthly payments for mortgage 1 were initially just 
under £550 a month. So the rent was expected to more than cover the mortgage costs.
Mr and Mrs S had been paying around £830 a month towards mortgage 1 on a capital and 
interest repayment basis. Their monthly interest-only payments on mortgage 2 were about 
£50 more than that. On this basis  and given that their rental income was expected to more 
than cover the monthly payments to mortgage 1  the new mortgage arrangements dont 
appear to have been unaffordable, and I dont accept that they would have stopped Mr and 
Mrs S from looking into whether they could apply for more favourable interest rates in the 
years that followed. I find nothing in Santanders records to indicate that they asked about 
new rates, and Mr and Mrs S havent been able to provide any details either. It was up to Mr 
and Mrs S to apply for a new rate if they wanted one.
Mr and Mrs S have questioned whether they should have been allowed to have a mortgage 
(mortgage 1) on a rental property on an interest-only payment basis. This is a very common 
arrangement because, as in Mr and Mrs Ss own case, the rent generally more than covers 
the interest payments, and the borrowers have an asset  the property  which can later be 
sold in order to repay the mortgage. 
Selling the property to repay the mortgage is what Mr and Mrs S have said they were 
intending to do. They have told us that they had hoped house prices would increase so that 
they could sell the rental property or, if not, they would switch to a repayment mortgage or 
extend the term or re-mortgage with Santander. I understand they are now in the process of 
selling the property. 
In all the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly conclude that Santander shouldnt have lent 
to Mr and Mrs S. Its unfortunate if the rental property hasnt increased in value as Mr and 
Mrs S might have hoped, but thats not down to Santander and I dont find the mortgage 
arrangements were unaffordable.
I dont think its unreasonable of Santander now not to be prepared to extend the term on 
mortgage 1 on its present residential basis, given that the property isnt being used for that 
purpose. And if Santander had treated this as a buy-to-let or consent-to-let mortgage, as it 
should have done, I dont think that would mean it would have to extend the term either.
Santander should, however, treat Mr and Mrs S fairly and explore other options with them, 
including giving them reasonable time to sell. Its generally reasonable for a lender to ask for regular updates in this situation, as well as for estate agents details so it can stay up-to-date 
with progress. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman