DRN-2194789
The complaint
Mr L complains that his mortgage lender, Barclays Bank UK PLC, didnt set up a payment 
deferral when he asked it to in March 2020. Mr L is unhappy with the service hes received 
from Barclays and he doesnt accept the offer of compensation thats been made.
 
What happened
On 23 March 2020 Mr L contacted Barclays. He called to ask for a three month mortgage 
payment deferral, to start from Aprils mortgage payment. Mr L says he was told that the 
request had been processed and someone would get back to him within 72 hours. 
As Aprils payment date approached Mr L still hadnt heard back from Barclays. On 15 April 
Mr L called Barclays again, the day before his mortgage payment was due to be paid. Mr L 
was told his payment deferral hadnt been put in place yet. Barclays then put the payment 
deferral in place for three months, covering April, May and June payments. 
Mr L complained. He was unhappy with the service he received from Barclays. And he was 
disappointed that he had to follow up with Barclays and wasted hours on the phone. He 
complains that Barclays didnt set up the payment deferral he wanted at first time of asking 
or call him back as agreed. Mr L was also unhappy about how his complaint was 
investigated, and that Barclays wouldnt listen to calls about his complaint when he told it to. 
Barclays upheld Mr Ls complaint. In its final response, dated 6 May 2020, it apologised for 
not setting up the payment deferral sooner. Barclays said this was due to the sheer number 
of applications received. Barclays offered Mr L £150 in recognition of the delay in applying 
your payment holiday, the poor service, the time spent on the phone, the misinformation you 
received and the distress caused. 
Mr L remained dissatisfied with Barclays final response. He didnt feel Barclays had done 
enough to look into his complaint. Mr L brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator thought Barclays offer of compensation was reasonable to settle the matter. 
Mr L disagreed and asked that an ombudsman reach a final decision on his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our role is distinct from that of the regulator, and its not for me to tell Barclays how it must 
manage its operations or handle complaints from its customers. 
My role, in determining this complaint, is to consider all the evidence thats available to me to 
reach my own conclusion about what happened and whether a mistake occurred. And where 
I find mistakes have been made by a financial business, I must then consider what needs to 
be done to put things right. 
I appreciate Mr Ls strength of feeling about his complaint and why hes frustrated that he 
didnt think Barclays had conducted its investigation into his complaint in enough detail. Mr L 
wanted all his calls to be listened to and I understand why he felt that was important. 
However, Im also mindful of the challenges that Barclays faced in response to the 
coronavirus pandemic and the very high volumes of requests that were made for mortgage 
payment deferrals within the early days of the coronavirus pandemic. Barclays has accepted 
Mr Ls version of events without listening to all the calls. I think thats reasonable in the 
circumstances and Ill explain why. 
First, Barclays has accepted that it should have set up a payment deferral for Mr Ls 
mortgage in March and has apologised that it didnt do this in a timely way. 
Barclays has shared a call recording with us from 23 March 2020. Mr L discusses payment 
deferrals with Barclays, but no arrangement was made to set up in this call. This was 
because Mr L needed to be transferred to another department. Mr L waited to be transferred 
and the call ended (after around 15 minutes) without Mr L being successfully put through to 
the relevant team. 
Barclays also has records that Mr L called again on 15 April to follow up about a payment 
deferral. Ive looked at Barclays contact history with Mr L and there arent records that 
conclusively show Mr L spent hours on the phone to Barclays. However, Barclays has said 
that in the early days of all its staff working at home in the first national lockdown not all calls 
were recorded. 
On balance, I think its reasonable that Barclays accepted that Mr L had asked for a payment 
deferral on 23 March even though there isnt a call recording that shows this. I can also see 
why it apologised to Mr L and upheld his complaint. 
Barclays has said to Mr L, and to us, that it struggled to manage the high numbers of 
payment deferral applications received in the early days of the coronavirus pandemic. 
Without doubt the operational challenges that Barclays would have faced in the first national 
lockdown would have severely impacted on its operations at a time when many customers 
like Mr L were reaching out to it for help. 
Regrettably Mr L suffered poor service as a result, and he had to follow up with his payment 
deferral request. In this instance it seems that Mr L contacted Barclays again in time for his 
April payment to be recalled, and the payment deferral went ahead for the three months he 
required.   
In the particular circumstances of this complaint, its fortunate that Mr L managed to get in 
touch with Barclays in time to prevent him suffering financial loss as a result of Barclays 
mistake. Nonetheless I can also understand that the whole matter would have been worrying 
and frustrating for Mr L. And Mr Ls said that he wasted time trying to sort things out on the 
phone. 
Barclays has offered compensation of £150 to Mr L for its failings on this occasion. 
Having considered the specific circumstances of this complaint, and the fact that Mr L did 
manage to get the three-month payment deferral that he wanted starting from April 2020, Im 
satisfied that the compensation awarded is fair and reasonable. I also consider this to be in 
line with other comparable complaints made to our service where poor service has been 
provided. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that this complaint shouldnt be upheld, to the extent that the offer 
already made by Barclays is fair and reasonable to settle the matter. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Emma Peters
Ombudsman