DRN-3857710
The complaint
Mr R says that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (Red Sands) incorrectly 
declined a claim he made on his smart repair insurance policy.
What happened
Mr R has a smart repair insurance policy and he made a claim for two areas of damage to 
the right-hand front (RHF) bumper on his car.
Red Sands declined this claim. It said the only damage visible was in an area where lacquer 
was peeling off the bumper. It said was this not smart repairable and was the result of 
previous poor repair, which wasnt covered by the policy.
Mr R doesnt agree. He says the repairer who inspected the car said there was one area of 
what looked like old damage, but there was also a second area with a scuff mark that the 
technician said was repairable.
Mr R brought a complaint to this service. An investigator reviewed the evidence provided 
and said it suggested that one area could be repaired. So, the investigator suggested Red 
Sands pay for this area of repair only and recommended that Red Sands pay £50 to Mr R for 
the inconvenience caused. 
Red Sands doesnt agree. It says the technicians report indicates there is no actual smart 
repairable damage on the bumper and that all visible damage is from a previous poor repair. 
Red Sands has asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint in part. Ill explain why.
Im satisfied from looking at the policy terms and conditions that the policy doesnt 
cover pre-existing damage or damage that requires a body shop repair.
I think the damage noted as peeling lacquer more likely than not falls into either of 
these categories so I wouldnt expect Red Sands to cover it.
I note the responses from Red Sands indicate that its interpretation of the 
technicians report is that there was no other damage outside of the peeling lacquer.
But I havent been provided with a copy of that report. So, I dont know exactly what 
the smart repair technician said, if anything, about the second area of damage. 
However, I can see that its quite clear from the photographs provided that there is a 
second area towards the centre of the bumper from the headlight that is scuffed. This 
area of damage was included in the original claim submission and is highlighted via a 
post-it note and arrow in the photographs.
I appreciate Red Sands have replied to our investigators view stating that the images 
show areas of peeling lacquer only, and no scuff marks. It has attached the same 
images again to its response. But from what I can see, there is a clear scuff mark in 
the images provided.  
I think there is a partial valid claim here and Red Sands need to settle it.
Mr R has told us that the car has now been sold and its unclear whether any repairs 
were ever carried out on the bumper.
I agree with the fair and reasonable resolution set out by our investigator in the view 
dated 25 November 2022. Red Sands now needs to pay to Mr R the amount it 
wouldve cost it to repair the scuff and pay Mr R£50 for the inconvenience caused for 
not paying the claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Red Sands Insurance 
Company (Europe) Limited to:
Pay Mr R a cash-in-lieu settlement up to the amount it wouldve cost it to repair the 
scuff mark visible in the photo.
Pay £50 in compensation for the inconvenience Mr R has suffered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman