DRN-1563887
 
complaint
Ms H complains that AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
AXA, as the insurer, has taken responsibility for this sale, so Ill refer to them as the seller in 
this decision.
background
Ms H took out a store card in 2003. Around the same time she was sold a PPI policy which 
wouldve helped cover her repayments on the card for up to 12 months at a time if she 
couldnt work. 
Ms H says that she wasnt told about important terms and conditions which affected her. She 
says she wouldnt have bought the policy if shed understood them properly 
The adjudicator thought that Ms Hs complaint shouldnt be upheld. AXA disagrees, so Ms 
Hs case has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im holding this complaint. Ill 
explain why Ive reached this decision.
The policy excluded Ms H from claiming if her absence from work was as a result of an 
existing medical condition. Ms H had an existing chronic medical condition. It had worsened 
over time and her treatment for it had been increased and shed had to take time off work as 
a result. I think this condition was the most likely reason for her to need to make a sickness 
claim.
AXA had a responsibility to ensure Ms H got all the information she needed to make her 
decision about buying the PPI. I dont have evidence that AXA made this exclusion clear 
enough to Ms H. 
I am satisfied that if Ms H had understood that she wouldnt have been able to make a 
successful claim for her chronic condition that she wouldnt have thought the policy offered 
her value for money and she wouldnt have bought it. So I think Ms H lost out as a result of 
what AXA did wrong.
putting things right
 AXA should do the following:
A. AXA should find out how much Ms H would have owed when she closed her store 
card account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale 
of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA should then refund the difference between what Ms H owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Ms H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Ms H would have 
owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when AXA works out what Ms H would have owed each month without PPI  Ms 
H paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest 
on the extra Ms H paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Ms 
H wouldve owed AXA something on her card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
D. AXA should tell Ms H what its done to work out A, B and C.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give Ms 
H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
Im upholding Ms Hs complaint and direct AXA France IARD to pay compensation as Ive 
described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2020.
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman