DRN-3280871
The complaint
Mrs Ws complaint is about the advice she received from Century Life (now part of Phoenix
Life Limited) in 1993 to contract-out of the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme
(SERPS).
Mrs W is represented in making her complaint.
What happened
Ive considered Mrs Ws complaint before. I issued a provisional decision on 13 January 
2022. Ive set out again what I said about the background and my provisional findings, 
explaining why I wasnt upholding the complaint. 
Mrs W applied for a Personal Pension Rebate policy in March 1993 to contract out of
SERPS. She was 16 at the time of the advice and employed as a care assistant, earning
£5,402 pa. Her employer didnt offer a pension scheme. The contributions were invested in
Century Lifes managed fund.
Mrs Ws representative complained on her behalf to Phoenix Life in January 2020. The main
points were:
Mrs W was only 17 (I think she was in fact 16) at the time and had little experience or
knowledge of pensions or investments. She accepted the advice as being in her best
interests.
The adviser had obligations under the LAUTRO (Life Assurance and Unit Trust
Regulatory Organisation) rules and a common law to duty to act with reasonable skill
and care and to disclose risks and alternatives to allow informed consent. That was
confirmed in the 2015 case of Montgomery v Lanarkshire Health Board.
Mrs W shouldnt have been exposed to the risks involved in giving up inflation
proofed benefits.
All the contributions were invested in a single, complex and high cost managed fund.
That represented a lack of diversification. There were several funds available and
contributions should have been spread across different funds to reduce risk. Low
cost funds shouldve been considered. Mrs W had been exposed to unnecessary
fund costs which hadnt been offset by fund performance.
Mrs W hadnt been fully informed of the inherent risks, all the investment costs or the
available alternatives including low cost funds, such as index linked funds.
Phoenix Life didnt uphold the complaint. It referred to the application form Mrs W had
completed with Century Lifes representative. And to the Your Right To Change Your Mind
document sent when the policy was set up with a copy of the product particulars, confirming
the purpose of the policy and the risks and charges associated with that type of unit linked
policy.
Mrs W would also have received illustrations, showing the possible pension she could
receive, taking into account her actual earnings. Phoenix Life said it was satisfied the
recommendation for the policy was suitable. At the time contracting out was considered
more beneficial for females under 50. Mrs W had potentially 44 years to build up a fund
before she reached state retirement age. And in 1993 the government offered incentives to
contract out. Mrs W had been kept informed as to the investment value of her policy and the
potential annuity she might receive  shed been sent illustrations and statements each year.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought the advice had been suitable for
Mrs W at the time. In summary the investigator said shed expect the adviser to consider
whether Mrs W was younger than the pivotal age and if she was earning more than the
minimum level. That was the case on both counts. And the potential for Mrs W to access a
company pension scheme was explored as Mrs W had confirmed that her employer didnt
offer one.
Mrs W had invested in a single fund. The investigator considered the information Mrs W had
been given at the time. She thought the fund had been explained to Mrs W. It was diverse
and not unsuitable for Mrs W.
The investigator noted what had been said about Mrs W being a minor and that shed have
been unable to accept or understand the risks involved. But Mrs W was employed at the
time and shed received her national insurance number to allow contributions to start. The
minimum age for starting a pension was 16. Mrs W was working and the investigator thought
shed have been able to accept and understand the risks involved.
Mrs Ws representative didnt agree. It said it was one thing to start saving into a pension at
a young age. But it entirely different to be expected to make an informed decision about
giving up the guaranteed, inflation protected benefits SERPS offered. Mrs W had legally still
been a child when shed been put in that position.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive first set out some background to contracting-out of SERPS. Until 1988, individuals could
only contract-out of SERPS if they were members of a defined benefit (final salary)
occupational pension scheme. In 1988, the government extended this to defined
contribution (money purchase) occupational schemes and personal pensions. If an individual
contracted out of SERPS using an appropriate personal pension, instead of a proportion of
their National Insurance contributions being used to top up their SERPS entitlement, they
received rebates that were invested in a fund with their pension provider. It was hoped the
fund would outperform the SERPS mechanism for growth, based on the National Earnings
Index.
The government also wanted to give individuals more choice about how their pension was
provided and to shift pension provision from the state to the private sector. The level of
rebate to be applied had to be decided. If the rebates were set too low then the SERPS
pension given up would likely be worth more than the investment in the personal pension. If
set too high, the government would be paying more than it needed to offset the cost of its
SERPS liabilities.
The level of rebate for contracted out individuals was set by the government after taking
advice from the Government Actuarys Department (GAD). The government set rates at a
level so as to encourage contracting-out. The rebate % level was set as standard for all.
That meant it was less beneficial for older people to contract-out, as they had less time
before retirement to benefit from investment growth on their rebates. So, for older people,
the comparative benefit given up in SERPS would likely outweigh that received bycontracting-out.
The government didnt give advice as to who should be advised to remain in SERPS and for
whom it was expected that contracting-out would be beneficial. But it was clear that age was
the key factor. Pension providers actuaries carried out comparisons of the projected benefits
from SERPS (based on the National Earnings Index) against their alternative personal
pension arrangement (based on LAUTRO set assumptions of likely future investment
returns) to decide who would likely benefit.
The ages where the providers advice as to whether to contract-out or not changed, were
called pivotal ages. There was also a lower earnings limit which was used to determine
whether an applicants earnings would be enough to benefit from contracting-out. LAUTRO
didnt determine the pivotal ages. Product providers established their own pivotal ages
based on their own product terms and charges. Some providers also set minimum earnings
levels.
LAUTRO also had specific requirements in connection with contracting-out of SERPS. It
required its members to present illustrations for customers considering contracting-out in a
specified way. Firms were required to use a premium for illustration purposes of the
minimum rebate payable for that year. And the projections were set at two specified rates 
what LAUTRO termed real rates of return (taking into account the effects of inflation). The
rates of return were set as 0.5% and 2.5% above the National Average Earnings Index. The
projections were to include charges. If real rates of return werent used, the corresponding
nominal rate of return could be used of 8.5% and 13% inclusive of charges.
LAUTRO also required the annuity illustrated to be on a comparable basis to that the
SERPS pension paid. So the annuity bases had to take into account indexation and would
increase at 3% per annum to mirror the inflation protection offered by SERPS. The annuity
projected would also include a 50% spouses pension, again in line with SERPS.
Turning now to Mrs Ws complaint, Im required under DISP (Dispute Resolution) 3.6.4R, in
considering whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, to take into
account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of
practice; and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. Im
considering the complaint on the basis of what the circumstances, including the advisers
obligations, were at the time.
Mrs W was advised to contract-out in 1993. Century Life was a member of LAUTRO at the
time and bound by LAUTROs rules and its code of conduct. While I agree that the adviser
had responsibilities under common law (including not making negligent misstatements; to
disclose all material information; and to advise with reasonable skill and care), the LAUTRO
code encompassed the common law duties and imposed higher requirements. So, in the
main, Ive concentrated on the code.
The overriding principle was that company representatives were required to exercise due
skill, care and diligence and deal fairly with investors. The code also required best advice to
be given. That included giving the investor all relevant information and using best
endeavours to enable the investor to understand the nature of any risks involved. Company
representatives, in advising an investor as to the suitability for that investor of any
investment contract, had to have regard, in particular, to the investors financial position
generally, to any rights he may have under an occupational pension scheme or SERPS and
to use best endeavours to ensure that only those contracts which were suited to that investor
were recommended.
I dont disagree with what the investigator has said about the main considerations, inadvising someone whether to contract out of SERPS, were age and earnings. Mrs W met
both criteria at the time. She was well under the pivotal age and her earnings were
considerably above the lower earnings limit  I think that was £2,912 for the £1993/1994 tax
year. Mrs W met the criteria set at the time by Century Life  and I dont think Century Lifes
approach was out of line with the industry generally - so it seemed that shed likely be better
off by contracting-out of SERPS. On the face of it, the advice wasnt unsuitable.
Mrs Ws representative has stressed Mrs Ws age at the time. I understand why. On the one
hand, Im not sure theres much difference between someone starting to make pension
provision at 17 or, say, 19. Both might be regarded as being (commendably) young to start
thinking about retirement planning. But I recognise theres a difference between simply
joining a pension scheme and Mrs Ws situation  she opted out of a government funded
pension scheme which provided guaranteed, inflation proofed benefits in favour of a
personal pension where the benefits were dependent on investment returns and other
factors.
Ive thought carefully about whether Mrs Ws age at the time makes a fundamental
difference. As far as Im aware, theres no suggestion that, because Mrs W was a minor at
the time, the contract is void and shouldnt stand. In any event, my understanding is that,
legally, a minor can enter into a contract. But a contract with a minor is usually voidable  the
minor can cancel the contract before he or she reaches age 18 or within a reasonable period
thereafter. But that didnt happen here. Mrs W didnt cancel her policy and it continued. I
dont think her age when she entered into the contract is of itself a reason why she shouldnt
remain bound by the contract.
Nor do I dont think it would be fair to simply assume that, because of her age, Mrs W
wouldnt have understood what she was doing and the possible consequences. Mrs W was
working and making national insurance contributions. She was less than two months away
from her 17th birthday when she completed the application form. It may now be unusual to be
working full time at that age (and I think in England at least theres now a requirement, if
leaving school at 16, to remain in education or start an apprenticeship or traineeship) but, at
the time, being in work at age 16 or 17 wouldnt have been uncommon.
I think its reasonable to look at the information Mrs W was given at the time and come to a
view as to whether or not shed have understood it, or at least enough to make an informed
decision. I note that Mrs W signed a declaration on the application form which read as
follows:
I confirm that I have received a brochure which explains the consequences of contracting
out of the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme and an illustration of the comparative
benefits. I understand that the benefits from SERPS are guaranteed and that while
contracted out of SERPS I shall lose my rights to SERPS benefits.
In my view, that declaration was very clear. I think Mrs W, notwithstanding her age, wouldve
known she was giving up guaranteed benefits.
Mrs Ws representative argues that Mrs W wouldnt have realised the significance of that.
But I think the essential point is that she wouldve understood the nature of the benefits that
she was forgoing. And that shed be giving up those guaranteed benefits in the hope that
shed get a bigger pension. I think that sort of trade off is something that Mrs W wouldve
understood, despite her age.
And I think she did understand the possible consequences  that she might not actually end
up being better off. Although the expectation was that she would be, that wasnt a given. Its
only many years later, when the actual investment conditions have been experienced andother factors such as annuity rates are known, that its possible to assess if a loss has
actually resulted.
I accept that Mrs W wouldnt necessarily have fully understood how SERPS worked. But I
dont think her age was really a factor in that. Im not sure that many of those who opted out
of SERPS wouldve fully understood the position and been familiar with the background Ive
set out above. I think most of those who were contemplating opting out wouldve been less
interested in the technicalities and more in whether theyd likely be better off as a result of
contracting out.
Mrs W was given a personal illustration, a copy of which has been provided. It shows that
she could expect to be better off by contracting out of SERPS. Shed be giving up a SERPS
pension of £12 pa in favour of a pension of £15 pa or £41 pa on the assumptions set out. I
think, like other investors, Mrs Ws focus would have been on that. I dont think the fact that
she was relatively young makes a material difference. And, as Ive said above, I consider the
expectation that Mrs W was likely to be better off by contracting out of SERPS wasnt
unreasonable at the time.
Mrs Ws representative has also mentioned charges. As Ive said above, LAUTRO required
charges to be taken into account in the illustrations that were provided and which were in a
form aimed at enabling a comparison to be made between the SERPS benefits given up and
what the personal pension might provide on the same basis  3% pa increases and a 50%
spouses pension. I think Mrs W was made aware of the charges  they were set out in the
booklet she received. It said the effect of charges or expenses was an expected reduction in
yield of 1.51% pa and that had been taken into account in the illustration she was given. I
dont think the charges were excessive. I dont think the advice was unsuitable simply from a
charges perspective.
Nor do I think it was unsuitable for all the contributions to be invested in the providers
managed fund. That sort of fund is generally regarded as suitable for an investor who was
willing to take some degree of investment risk. We dont know what Mrs Ws attitude to risk
was at the time but, given her age and the length of time to when shed retire, its not
unreasonable to assume she was in position to take some risk.
I agree that diversification is important. Spreading the money into different investments and
asset classes helps reduce the risk of the overall investment losing money. Mrs W was only
invested in the managed fund.
We dont know exactly how the managed fund was made up at the time. But it was
described as aiming to provide capital growth with a lower risk through a wide portfolio
spread by investing in the shares of UK and overseas quoted companies, unit trusts, fixed
interest securities and cash. I think that indicates that it invested in different asset classes to
provide diversification within the fund itself.
The product particulars also said that, to achieve that spread, the fund usually invests in
other Century Funds although the Managers may invest direct if the opportunities are right.
That suggests that what Mrs Ws representative says should have happened  that the
contributions were invested across several different funds - was achieved as the managed
fund itself invested in other funds offered by the provider.
I think the managed fund was sufficiently diverse and the advice wasnt unsuitable on the
basis that all the contributions were invested in that fund. I dont think the fund was
particularly complex, such that an ordinary (and inexperienced) investor such as Mrs W
wouldnt have understood it.
All in all, I think the advice Mrs W received, and notwithstanding her age, was suitable. Fromwhat Ive seen there was no breach of the LAUTRO code or the advisers common law
duties. I dont think the court case that Mrs Ws representative has mentioned is relevant. As
Ive said, Im considering what happened in 1993 against the prevailing circumstances,
including the then legal and regulatory position. Im not sure that a case decided much later,
in 2015, is relevant.
In response to my provisional decision Mrs Ws representative said it had nothing to add. 
Phoenix Life didnt comment further. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any further evidence or arguments my decision remains as set out in my 
provisional decision. Ive set out above in full what I said in that decision and it forms part of 
this decision.
For the reasons Ive explained previously, Im not upholding the complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint and I dont make any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman