DRN-3276072
The complaint
F, a limited company, complains about how PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA (PayPal) 
handled their merchant service accounts when F was a victim of fraud in 2020.
F is represented by its director, Mr A.
What happened
F had a payment services agreement with Braintree - which is part of PayPal. Braintree 
would process online payments for F in return for fees. The money would then be paid into 
Fs bank account. F also had a separate PayPal account.
In July 2020 Fs website was targeted by fraudsters. This led to F refunding five fraudulent 
payments (about $20,000 in total). But by the time the refunds had been made the fraudulent 
payments had been paid into Fs bank account. This left Fs Braintree account in debit. 
F disputed the amount Braintree said it owed so it didnt bring its balance back to zero. This 
led to Braintree suspending Fs account. It also led to Braintree setting off credits in Fs 
PayPal account with Fs Braintree account, and the PayPal account being suspended. 
F didnt think it was being treated fairly so it asked our service for an independent review.
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt recommend that it be upheld. As F didnt 
accept our investigators recommendation, the complaint has been passed to me a for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
As outlined, Braintree are an affiliate company of PayPal. F has a merchant account 
agreement with PayPal, but also has a separate agreement with Braintree. Both have 
responded to this complaint with their own final response letters. In my decision Ill make an 
overall finding on their actions and whether theyve treated F fairly, reasonably and inline 
with the terms of their relevant agreements. 
Very extensive correspondence between F and PayPal/Braintree has been provided as part 
of this complaint. In my decision I wont comment and dont need to comment on every 
single point raised by F. Thats not meant as a discourtesy to F - it simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service.
For ease, Ive addressed Fs dissatisfaction under the relevant, broad headings below:
The general service provided
F has been critical of the service provided by Braintree. But when considering the evidence 
in this case Ive found that Braintree were considerate, patient and supportive of F 
throughout their contact in trying to resolve this issue. For example; after initially suspending 
the online payment system, it was reinstated at Fs request. 
I have noted that Braintree accept they made a mistake when referring to an outstanding 
balance in euros when Braintree made F aware that an outstanding balance on the account 
needed to be cleared. This was caused by an administrative error. I understand that this 
caused F to have concerns about the legitimacy of the outstanding balance, but Im also 
satisfied that Braintree quickly corrected their error and explained this to F. 
F let Braintree know theyd be unavailable for a period during August and felt that Braintree 
shouldnt have taken the action to close the account during that period. On 18 August 
Braintree let F know theyd be closing the account and would resolve the balance 
alternatively. When considering if Braintree acted prematurely in taking the action they did, 
Ive kept in mind that F had been corresponding with Braintree from early July 2020  the 
best part of a month prior to the account being suspended and had also given sufficient 
warning about what would happen should the balance issue not be resolved.
Ive also noted that at the end of August, as a gesture of goodwill, Braintree arranged for a 
request to remove temporarily the limitation placed on the PayPal accounts - but again, it 
was made very clear that the outstanding Braintree balance needed clearing by 
4 September or the PayPal limitations would be put back in place. This was fair and 
reasonable in my opinion.
F has said their return to the UK to deal with the outstanding balance was delayed by a 
cancelled flight and the requirement to self-isolate upon arrival back in the UK for 14 days  
which meant they couldnt physically visit a bank branch to settle the balance (as they didnt 
use online banking). But again, Ive found Braintree to have acted positively here and 
provided a more detailed breakdown of the five fraudulent transactions that resulted in the 
negative balance and allowed F additional time (until 17 September) to transfer the 
outstanding balance. Again - this was a measured and fair action to take given Fs isolation 
period.
F was able to obtain more details from their bank and then queried a difference of around 
$300 USD between the amount credited to their account and the amount that Braintree said 
was owed to them. Braintree clarified that the difference was due to chargebacks being 
raised in GBP (£) rather than USD ($) and that transaction and chargeback fees were non-
refundable. Braintree gave F three clear and fair options for resolving the issue of the 
outstanding balance. 
F let Braintree know that theyd contacted the police to investigate a specific transaction and 
would be in touch after that investigation had been completed. Braintree explained that the 
action F had taken with the police was to investigate the cardholder, but that any outstanding 
balance with Braintree was still due. 
Overall, in my opinion, I find that Braintree treated F fairly and reasonably. F has argued:
It was only on 22 October 2020 when the lack of disbursement of funds into my 
account was clearly articulated by Braintree. Their actions made it impossible for me 
to see which fraudulent transactions actually materialised, and I was therefore unable 
to send the funds back in a timely manner to avoid transaction fees and future 
chargebacks.But Im satisfied that F was aware of what was owed and the reasons why much earlier than 
this. On a number of occasions where detailed responses had been provided by Braintree 
and deadlines set fairly, F either challenged the deadline or provided another reason why 
theyd be unable to meet the deadline. Braintree also allowed F the option of an agreed 
repayment plan for repaying the balance owed. 
The failure to prevent the fraudulent transactions occurring
F has argued that Braintree shouldve been more proactive in working to identify and prevent 
the fraudulent transactions ever taking place. But Braintree pointed out that they only 
monitor accounts at an account level and its the responsibility of merchants to monitor their 
own accounts at a transaction level. 
As theyve explained, Your gateway includes all information that is available to Braintree. 
We do not receive the actual cardholder name or address, so we have no additional details 
to provide you aside from the transaction details, which you have access to.
Ive also kept in mind that Braintree positively worked with F to try and implement fraud 
prevention tools to reduce the chances of this type of fraud occurring again. 
I consider the advice given to refund the transactions sensible and Braintree were proactive 
in temporarily suspending the account and tried to work with F to minimise future attacks on 
their website. For example when Braintree told F that certain fraud prevention tools were 
being mandated to prevent further attacks or targeting of Fs website and suspending the 
gateway account to allow time to work with F to stop fraudulent cards successfully settling on 
the account.
Overall, I find that responsibility does primarily rest with F to identify and prevent fraudulent 
transactions and I dont find that Braintree has done anything wrong in failing to prevent this 
fraud happening. Braintree isnt responsible for the actions of the fraudster. Nor it is 
responsible for the security on Fs website. Unfortunately, one of the risks of accepting 
online payments is the exposure to the type of fraud that F was a victim of here.
The fees related to the fraudulent transactions and the amount owed to PayPal/Braintree 
Braintree has explained that as F had refunded the fraudulent transactions this resulted in a 
negative Braintree account balance as the money was disbursed to Fs bank account prior to 
the transactions being refunded and additional chargebacks had also been received. 
Theyve said:
The funds from the original transactions were paid out to your bank account on file, 
prior to the refunds being issued. As our ledgers are rolling ledgers, once the funds 
were paid out to you, your account was set to 0, and the refunds caused it to go 
negative.
Over the course of the next few weeks, we attempted to resolve the negative 
balance, as we were unable to do so, we were forced to suspend your Braintree 
Account and limit your PayPal account as well. Per the Payment Services 
Agreement, merchants are responsible for any negative balance on their account.
F has said that it was Braintrees actions in allowing the funds to be paid into Fs bank 
account that has led to further fees. But the fees being questioned wouldve been charged 
under the terms of this account as the transactions had completed and the funds disbursed 
to Fs account. So I dont find that Braintree have done anything wrong. It wasnt until 6 July that F refunded the transactions. Braintree have said that the best way F could avoid a 
negative account balance in the future would be to refund the transactions on the day 
received  but under the terms of the agreement fees would still be charged.
F argues that Braintree has benefited from this fraud. But under the terms of their 
agreement, Braintree are entitled to charge the agreed account fees for transactions and 
related chargebacks  as theyll also have incurred a cost. Braintree explained that under the 
terms of their agreement, F was responsible for managing and mitigating fraud within their 
payment gateway and that a standard, flat fee is charged for chargebacks. As Braintree 
have then charged F fees related to the chargebacks and processing fees, I dont find that 
theyve done anything wrong in this regard. 
Specifically on the issue F has raised about chargebacks, its also worth pointing out that 
Braintree are an intermediary in the chargeback dispute process. They dont make the 
decision as to whether a chargeback is upheld or not by the issuing bank of the relevant 
cardholder. 
Although F argues otherwise, Ive seen no strong or persuasive supporting evidence that the 
amount owed to Braintree is incorrect.
The decision to debit Fs PayPal accounts to reduce the amount owed 
Im satisfied that the terms of Fs agreements with Braintree and the separate agreement 
with PayPal allow it to offset any amount owed to Braintree using funds from a PayPal 
account. Braintree have made it clear that when the balance owed is fully cleared, the 
relevant PayPal funds will be released back to the PayPal account. 
Im satisfied that Braintree gave F multiple opportunities over a long period of time to avoid 
this happening. Regardless of the use of may instead of will, the terms make it clear what 
options are available  under the terms of the relevant agreements.
PayPal are also entitled to place limitations or restrictions on the accounts where the 
account or activities pose a significant credit risk to them or where they believe a merchants 
actions could cause a financial loss for them or their affiliates (Braintree).
Summary
Ultimately I dont find that PayPal (or Braintree) have done anything wrong here that requires 
them to carry out any remedial action or pay compensation to F. Instead, I find that theyve 
treated F fairly, reasonably and in line with the terns of the relevant agreements. I dont find 
that they need to compensate F for the losses claimed. 
I would suggest F now speak to Braintree about a suitable way forward to settle the balance 
owed.
My decision brings to an end our services involvement in trying to informally resolve this 
dispute between F, PayPal and their affiliate Braintree.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman