DRN-3428367
The complaint
Mrs M has complained that Monzo Bank Ltd registered a marker against her at CIFAS, the 
national fraud database.
What happened
In January 2021, Mrs M received some payments that she then passed on. It turned out 
these were fraudulent funds.
Monzo closed Mrs Ms account and registered a marker against her at CIFAS. It did not 
make any inquiries with her first, and did not give her any reason for the closure or tell her 
about the marker.
Mrs M later found out about the marker and complained. She explained that someone had 
contacted her through social media, who appeared to be a friend of a friend. They told her 
an elaborate and convincing story about how they were in hard times from the pandemic. 
They said they had problems with their account and needed Mrs Ms help making some 
transfers. Mrs M accepts shed been nave, but said she was not suspicious of what was 
going on until it was too late. She said once she realised she was being lied to, she panicked 
and deleted the messages as they contained sensitive information like her bank details, and 
she was worried she may be hacked. Shes asked for the marker to be removed.
Our investigator looked into things independently and upheld the complaint. They explained 
that Monzo should have investigated things with Mrs M at the time. They found that Monzo 
had not met the standard of proof required.
Monzo didnt agree. They felt they couldnt have discussed things with Mrs M at the time 
because of concerns about tipping off. They felt the fraud reports were sufficient evidence. 
They raised other objections, which turned out to relate to a different case. The complaints 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether this report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Monzo 
needed to have more than just a suspicion or concern. They need to be able to show they 
had reasonable grounds to believe that fraud or a financial crime had been knowingly 
committed or attempted by Mrs M, backed up by evidence so rigorous that it would support 
this being reported to the authorities.
This case is finely balanced. Neither side have helped themselves much here  Monzo by 
failing to investigate things properly at the time, and Mrs M by deleting key evidence that 
could have shown she was innocent.
Both sides now understand that the funds were fraudulent. And Mrs M never disputed that 
she willingly made the transfers as she was asked to. But Mrs M explained she didnt know 
she was passing on fraudulent funds at the time, she just thought she was helping someone 
out. So the question is whether Mrs M knew she was aiding a fraudster at the time, or 
whether she was manipulated into aiding a fraudster unwittingly.
CIFAS has guidance for cases such as this. It says: given that consumers can act as a 
money mule unwittingly it is required that members provide consumers the opportunity to 
explain the conduct before filing to the National Fraud Database. It goes on to say that 
consumers should be given sufficient time to respond before making a submission to the 
fraud database, and that businesses should try more than one method of contact.
Here, Monzo did not speak to Mrs M at the time or get any detailed testimony or evidence 
from her. This is concerning. CIFAS markers can have severe effects, and must not be 
added without serious consideration. Monzo have made arguments around tipping off 
concerns, but I do not find those arguments to be relevant here. As far as I can see, Monzo 
were not contacted by the relevant bodies about any such potential issues, so it was not an 
excuse. Monzo should know that both CIFAS and our service expected them to have 
investigated things with Mrs M before adding this marker.
Because Monzo didnt investigate things properly with Mrs M at the time, I dont have any 
contemporaneous testimony to compare her current testimony with. And relevant evidence 
from Mrs Ms side is no longer available, partly because Monzo didnt ask her for it or explain 
its relevance until much later, when it was already gone. Its difficult to see how Monzo were 
satisfied that Mrs M intentionally aided in fraud without properly looking into the matter or 
trying to clarify the situation first. I also note that when it comes to evidencing their own side, 
Monzo has mixed up Mrs Ms case with other ones, which also makes it hard for me to be 
confident in their investigation here. So while I accept that Monzo had grounds to be 
suspicious or concerned, I dont think they fulfilled the criteria of the evidence being so 
rigorous that Monzo could confidently report Mrs M to the authorities.
Monzo say they relied on the reports from the sending banks. But I dont think thats good 
enough in this case. Monzo registered this CIFAS marker, not any other banks. So Monzo 
needed to be satisfied of their own accord that Mrs M had intentionally tried to commit a 
crime, and that she was not an unwitting participant.
Mrs Ms story has been consistent, and broadly plausible. People frequently fall for scams 
such as the one shes described, and for scams that are even less convincing.
From the fraud victims report, it looks like they interacted with a man, and not Mrs M. And 
I have not found a link between this man and Mrs M. As far as I can see, Mrs Ms account 
was just used to pass on the funds. She does not appear to have been involved in the scam 
itself. This also tends to suggest she may have been an unwitting participant.
Mrs Ms account had been open for some time before this incident, and seems to have 
otherwise been used normally. As far as I can see, it was a genuine account, as opposed to 
one which had been opened for the purpose of committing fraud.Lastly, I have not seen any other evidence which actually shows that Mrs M knew she was 
helping pass on the proceeds of fraud.
So I accept that Monzo had good reason to be suspicious or concerned about what 
happened with Mrs Ms account. And I accept that I cannot categorically rule out the 
possibility that Mrs M was a willing participant in the fraud. But I also cannot rule out that she 
was simply taken advantage of. I find that Monzo did not have enough evidence to meet the 
bar of recording a CIFAS marker against Mrs M, not least given their lack of a proper 
investigation at the time. And the default position is that without such rigorous evidence, the 
marker should be removed. So while I am fully conscious of the possibility that Mrs M 
knowingly and willingly tried to aid a crime, I think the risk of Mrs M being an innocent party 
is too great to justify this CIFAS marker remaining.
It follows that I think the marker should now be removed. With that said, I hope Mrs M is 
aware of how close she came to having the marker remain for the full period, and of being 
reported to the authorities. I hope that she will keep this in mind and avoid any similar 
situations in future.
Putting things right
I direct Monzo Bank Ltd to remove the CIFAS marker in dispute.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ms complaint, and direct Monzo Bank Ltd to 
remove the disputed marker.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman