DRN-2487656
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain Fairmead Insurance Limited have declined their buildings insurance 
claim.
All references to Fairmead also include their agents.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Fairmead said the policy doesnt cover any loss or damage arising from defective 
design, defective materials or faulty workmanship 
Following investigations at Mr and Mrs Ms property, Fairmead said the foundations 
of the conservatory were insufficient and werent in line with regulations at the time. 
They said if the foundations were laid at the same depth as the main house, there 
wouldnt have been subsidence issues
Fairmead have quoted the regulations relevant from the time the conservatory was 
built. But they havent pointed out specifically where the design fails to meet these 
regulations - only that theyd expect the conservatory to be built to a similar depth as 
the main property. If it didnt meet regulations, I would expect Fairmead to specifically 
tell me where in the regulations this was
The conservatory was built in 2001. So it has stood for around 18 years without any 
issues. I think its more likely than not, if there were issues with the foundations, they 
would have presented themselves sooner. So because of this and considering what 
Ive set out above, Im not persuaded by what Fairmead has said
Putting things right
Fairmead should now deal with the claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy. If Fairmead decide to cash settle any aspect of the claim, they should also add 8% 
simple interest per annum to any settlement, from the date of loss until the day the it is 
finalised.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
To put things right, I direct Fairmead Insurance Limited to do as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman