DRN-3248750
The complaint
Mr H complains that St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) failed to provide him 
with appropriate advice, or sufficient information, when he entered into a Flexi-Access 
Drawdown (FAD) arrangement in 2015.  
What happened
Mr H held pension savings that were managed by SJPWM. He also held other defined 
pension benefits in an occupational pension scheme. In 2015 Mr H approached SJP to 
discuss using some of his pension savings to provide a capital sum that he could use to 
make an investment in an overseas property development.
SJP issued its recommendations to Mr H in November 2015, after it had discussed the 
various options with him. In brief SJP recommended that Mr H should transfer his pension 
savings in a FAD arrangement. That would then allow him to take a pension commencement 
lump sum (PCLS  otherwise known as tax free cash) and a further taxable withdrawal to 
provide a total withdrawal (before tax) of around £48,500. Mr H accepted SJPs advice, and 
the transfer and withdrawal were completed early in 2016.
In 2021 Mr H engaged a new financial advisor. That financial advisor has assisted Mr H in 
making this complaint, although for ease, in this decision, I will generally refer to all 
communication as having been with, and from, Mr H himself. Mr H says that the new 
financial advisor made him aware that by taking an income withdrawal from his pension 
savings in 2015 he had triggered the money purchase annual allowance (MPAA) 
restrictions and so could only contribute a maximum of £4,000 per annum to his pension 
savings. He said that SJP had failed to make him aware of that restriction, or explore other 
alternative methods of raising the capital he needed in 2015 such as taking a personal loan, 
or accessing pension benefits held in the occupational schemes.
SJP didnt agree with Mr Hs complaint. But, as a gesture of goodwill, it offered him £250 in 
full and final settlement of his complaint. Mr H didnt accept that offer and brought his 
complaint to us.
Mr Hs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She thought that SJP had 
clearly set out the MPAA implications of the income payment taken by Mr H in 2015. And 
she said the suitability report that was produced demonstrated that SJP had considered the 
other options open to Mr H for raising the capital that he required. So she didnt think SJP 
had done anything wrong, and concluded that the complaint shouldnt be upheld.
Mr H didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr H and by SJP. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, 
I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked 
at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what 
I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
The advice that was given to Mr H was based on conversations he had with his 
financial advisor. And the recommendations were also presented to him verbally before 
being documented in the suitability report that Ive mentioned earlier. As there are no 
recordings of those conversations I have no way of knowing for certain what was said. But 
the suitability report was clearly sent to Mr H and set out the decisions that he later 
implemented. So I must base my decision on the evidence that remains from the time  
namely the suitability report that SJP produced.
I will first deal with the impacts that Mr Hs withdrawal had on his MPAA. By taking a 
withdrawal in excess of the PCLS Mr H incurred some restrictions on the amount that he (or 
his employer) could contribute to his pension savings in the future. In 2015 when the advice 
was given the MPAA was set at £10,000. But in 2017 the MPAA was reduced by the 
government to £4,000. So that is now the maximum amount that Mr H can contribute each 
year to his pension savings.
The reduction in the MPAA from £10,000 to £4,000 could not have been foreseen by either 
Mr H, or SJP. It was something introduced without warning by legislative changes. And it 
might well be that such a large reduction in the MPAA has made Mr H question the advice 
he was given in 2015. But my assessment her must be based on what SJP reasonably knew 
at the time  and that was that the MPAA was set at £10,000.
The suitability report that SJP provided to Mr H made reference to the MPAA restrictions in 
three separate areas. And the warning about the reduction in the MPAA formed a specific 
part of the declaration that Mr H was asked to sign before proceeding with the 
recommendation. So I am satisfied that the documentation from the time suggests that Mr H 
was given sufficient information to understand that his future ability to make pension 
contributions would be restricted.
But Mr H was also entitled to be advised by SJP on the impacts of that restriction, and not 
just given information. I have seen that was something that SJP considered. Its records from 
the time indicate that Mr H wasnt expecting to make significant additional pension 
contributions in the future. So although the restriction in the MPAA was undoubtedly a 
downside of taking this income payment I think it was justified by the circumstances that 
Mr H had explained.
The suitability letter also records that SJP had considered other options for Mr H to raise the 
capital he required for his property investment. It appears that two other options were 
considered possible  putting pension benefits into payment from one of the occupational 
pension schemes, or taking a personal loan to raise the capital required.At the time this advice was given, Mr H had told SJP that he generally had a monthly surplus 
of income so had no need of the sort of benefits that his occupational scheme would provide. 
Whilst taking those benefits might allow Mr H to access a further PCLS, he would also need 
to commence taking annuity income from that scheme. Doing so would both reduce the 
income he might receive from the scheme each year (since the benefits would be put into 
payment early), and mean that he was paying additional income tax (since he was still 
working full time). So I dont think it was unreasonable for SJP to discount this as a viable 
option.
SJP has recently told us that Mr Hs personal finances were complicated at the time with his 
credit record being poor due to previous borrowing. But SJP says that it was appropriate to 
not refer to those problems in its reports in order to protect Mr Hs business reputation. 
I have no way of verifying what SJP has said given the lack of documentation from the time. 
And it is possible that Mr H might not agree with that description of his finances. But I cannot 
entirely exclude the testimony from SJP as one possible explanation of why Mr H chose not 
to use a loan to raise the additional capital he required.
The suitability report does say that Mr H had been unwilling to take on a personal loan to 
raise that capital. It goes on to say that, whilst Mr H generally has an amount of disposable 
income each month, from time to time his expenditure equals his income. So he didnt want 
to take on the burden of servicing a long-term debt at that time. So whilst I cannot be sure of 
the exact reason why Mr H didnt want to raise the capital he required through borrowing, it 
is clearly something that SJP considered and discussed with him.
The withdrawal that Mr H made from his pension savings was subject to an early withdrawal 
penalty. That penalty was clearly set out in the suitability report, and had in fact been 
discussed a couple of months earlier when Mr H was considering withdrawing the entire 
amount of his pension savings. And of course there were income tax implications by making 
the withdrawal too. The report told Mr H that he would face both a higher rate tax charge, 
and a reduction in his annual allowance by taking this payment when combined with his 
normal income.
I appreciate that, with the benefit of hindsight, Mr H might not make the same decisions 
today as he made in 2015. But I think the advice he received from SJP was suitable in 
meeting the needs that Mr H set out at the time. And I think the information he was given 
about the consequences of taking the payment from his pension savings clearly set out the 
impacts that would be felt by Mr H both in terms of the restriction on his future MPAA and the 
income tax consequences. So I dont think SJP has done anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman