DRN-4305622
The complaint
Mrs O has complained that The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc (referred to here as TMW) 
cancelled a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage offer after a second credit check was carried out. As a 
result, Mrs O says she has been caused financial loss, distress and inconvenience, and 
would like TMW to compensate her for this.
What happened
Mrs O had a BTL mortgage with another lender, which was due to revert to the lenders 
Standard Variable Rate on 1 July 2022. In early 2022 Mrs O applied through her mortgage 
broker to re-mortgage the property to TMW, borrowing an additional £41,500. The mortgage 
application said that the additional borrowing was for home improvements, on both the BTL 
property and on Mrs Os residence. 
Initially TMW was going to instruct solicitors which I will call ONP. After the valuation was 
completed, the property was down-valued, and so Mrs Os broker decided to change the 
product to a different one. This new product came with free legal work, for which TMW 
instructed solicitors which I will call E. After the first mortgage offer was cancelled, ONP 
requested a new mortgage offer. TMW has explained that at the time E were passing some 
of their cases to ONP, so TMW should have generated a new offer addressed to ONP.
Inadvertently, the instruction was cancelled and so no new offer was sent out. This didnt 
come to light until 30 June 2022, the last day of Mrs Os existing mortgage interest rate 
product. TMW therefore needed to generate and send out a new offer to ONP. 
TMW has explained that when an application is amended  in this case by changing 
solicitors  it automatically re-scores, refreshing the credit search with a soft footprint (i.e. 
with no marker on the credit file). In Mrs Os case, the re-score showed high credit card and 
store card use, as a result of which the application was declined. 
On 26 July 2022 Mrs O took out a new mortgage product with her existing lender, but with 
no additional borrowing. She complained to TMW, but the complaint wasnt upheld, other 
than TMW offering £25 as an apology for incorrectly cancelling the instruction to ONP.
Mrs O didnt accept this and brought her complaint to our service. Mrs O explained that she 
had needed to raise £39,000 and so wanted TMW to reinstate her mortgage offer with this 
amount included, and to compensate her for additional interest she had to pay to her existing 
lender. Mrs O also said that her household income was negatively impacted, and that she 
had been very sad and tearful, and thought TMW should compensate her for this.
An investigator looked at what had happened, but didnt think TMW needed to do anything 
more. He was satisfied that TMW had been entitled to cancel the application in light of the 
new information about Mrs Os outstanding credit commitments.
Mrs O asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. Shes made some further points, 
which I summarise below:
TMW is in breach of contract and showed a lack of duty of care;
TMW should be held accountable because it had issued an offer which she had 
accepted;
TMW should have informed her of the cancellation much sooner, so she could have 
secured a rate with her existing lender.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In addition to the information provided by Mrs O and TMW, I have also reviewed information 
provided by Mrs Os existing lender (with whom she took out a new rate) and from her 
mortgage broker.
Having reviewed all the evidence, Im not upholding the complaint. These are my reasons.
The application submitted to TMW was for a mortgage of £225,000 - £183,500 to repay the 
existing mortgage and £41,500 additional borrowing, which the broker said was for Home 
improvements on security address and current residential address. When the mortgage 
offer was issued, E were shown as solicitors.
This was an unregulated mortgage, as it was for a BTL property. The covering letter with the 
mortgage offer contains a declaration that Mrs O has disclosed all information which is 
material to the application. The letter also states that Mrs O has confirmed she has read the 
application form and that the contents are true, accurate and complete. The mortgage offer 
says it only becomes binding when the mortgage deed is signed and the funds released.
TMW has accepted it made an error in cancelling the instruction to issue a new offer 
showing ONP as acting rather than E. As stated above, when this was actioned, it triggered 
a credit re-score. TMW told the broker on 1 July 2022:
.. the applicant has breached for high utilisation on credit/store cards. The case will 
need to be referred to our credit risk team to see if we can proceed, but in order to 
refer this we will need the following documents:
proof of income for the applicant
proof of savings
if the application has recently reduced her credit/store card balances, then 
please provide evidence of this
The broker didnt reply until 27 July 2022, but didnt provide the evidence TMW had 
requested. However, he had already arranged a product switch for Mrs O on 26 July 2022 
with her new lender, and with no additional borrowing. Im satisfied, therefore, that it was 
Mrs Os decision (presumably on the advice of her broker) to go ahead with the product 
switch.
I dont know what TMWs initial credit score showed, but I dont think the case turns on this, 
for reasons Ill explain below. 
TMW says that the re-score code showed that an applicant may be overcommitted and 
using credit either to fund their lifestyle or expand a business or BTL portfolio. Im satisfied 
that this is a reasonable concern for TMW to have, because an over-commitment suggests 
potential difficulty in funding repairs, meeting rental voids or other landlord costs. So Ive considered whether there is any other evidence to persuade me that TMWs concerns about 
Mrs O potentially being over-exposed were justified.
Mrs Os mortgage broker has helpfully provided his fact-find which he completed after 
speaking to Mrs O on 24 January 2022. It is reasonable for me to conclude that the fact-find 
records information provided to the broker by Mrs O. I am entitled to treat this as a true and 
accurate reflection of the brokers discussions with Mrs O. I am assuming Mrs O received a 
copy of this from her broker, but if not I am sure he will be able to provide it to her. 
The fact-find shows that Mrs O told the broker that she had credit, loan or store card debt 
totalling £39,100. It is noted that Mrs O was looking for new mortgage deal, financing home 
improvements, debt consolidation, and wanted to borrow an additional £41,500 for this 
purpose.
The fact-find goes on to say: You want to be free from the constant cycle of debt. By 
clearing all your unsecured credit will free up £1,400 per month. You have advised this will 
allow you to save and be in a position to over pay your mortgage therefore reducing the 
term. You will have more disposable income available on a monthly basis therefore not 
funding your lifestyle on credit. [sic]
So it appears from what the broker recorded in the fact-find that Mrs O was in a debt cycle, 
living on credit, and that the intention was to borrow enough to pay off the £39,100 she owed 
to her unsecured creditors  which is almost exactly the same amount Mrs O told us she 
needed to borrow (£39,000). I will note here that the mortgage application to TMW makes no 
mention of borrowing for debt consolidation, only for home improvements. 
I have to be satisfied that, in withdrawing the mortgage offer, TMW acted fairly and 
reasonably in all the circumstances. TMWs argument is that the re-score gave it cause for 
concern about Mrs Os financial position, and so it wasnt prepared to go ahead until those 
concerns had been alleviated. If I had not seen what Mrs O had told her broker, I might have 
concluded that TMW wasnt being fair. 
But after considering the detailed information the broker recorded about Mrs Os financial 
position, I am persuaded that TMWs concerns about over-exposure on unsecured debt 
were justified. The information from the broker provides me with corroboration from an 
independent third party (who was acting for Mrs O) that Mrs Os financial position was 
actually as TMW had suspected, as revealed by the credit re-score. 
TMW  had not, of course, seen the fact-find, but it is evidence I am entitled to take into 
consideration. It independently supports TMWs position and is evidence which leads me to 
conclude that TMWs concerns about potential over-exposure to debt were legitimate.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that TMW was entitled to withdraw the mortgage offer 
following the re-score. As I said above, TMW was prepared to reconsider if Mrs Os broker 
was able to provide evidence of her finances, including evidence that her unsecured debts 
had reduced. However, TMW is not responsible for Mrs O deciding to arrange a new 
mortgage interest rate product with her existing lender instead.
Im satisfied that the £25 TMW has offered Mrs O by way of apology for inadvertently 
cancelling the instruction to issue a new mortgage offer is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. Im not persuaded that TMW is responsible for Mrs O being unable to raise 
the additional £39,000 she has told us she needed to borrow. Thats because, before TMW 
had been able to consider any appeal by Mrs O, she decided to take out a new mortgage 
product without any extra borrowing from her existing lender.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman