DRN-3584094
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that a large payment they sent overseas from TSB Bank plc was 
rejected. They lost money through different exchange rates when it was returned. They said 
this happened because of mistakes made by TSB, and they wanted TSB to pay for the loss. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M needed to send a large amount of money overseas. They sent a small 
payment first, and that arrived. Then they sent a second, larger, payment, which was 
rejected. They sent £22,436 in this second payment, but they only got back £21,274.23 
because of a change in exchange rates. They thought that was TSBs fault, and wanted it to 
pay them for the exchange rate loss they had incurred.
Mr and Mrs M said theyd told TSB when the second payment was made that they wanted to
use all the same information as the first time. But they then found out that TSB had changed
the remitter information on the form for this second payment, to Mr Ms name. Mr and Mrs
M thought this was why the second payment was rejected.
Mr and Mrs M said they sent the full amount of £22,436 again, but Mr M realised that TSB
had changed the remitter information after this third payment was sent. He asked TSB to
change this back, and Mr M thought this was why the third payment was successful.
Mr and Mrs M wanted TSB to pay them the difference between the amount they sent and the
amount that was returned the second time, and they wanted compensation for the additional
distress caused by TSB, at what was already a difficult time.
TSB didnt accept that the payment being returned the second time was because of different
remitter information. It said the problem was a mistake in the spelling of the name of the
receiving account holder.
This spelling mistake was made on all three transfers. TSB thought it wasnt picked up on
the first transfer, because that was only for a comparatively small amount of money. But the
second transfer was much larger. TSB thought this must have triggered extra checks at the
receiving bank, and the mismatch on the names was picked up then. It said that it sent
another message just after the third transfer was sent, correcting that mistake, and the
money then arrived safely.
Although TSB accepted that its staff would have keyed in this misspelled surname, it said
that Mr and Mrs M were then responsible for checking and approving the payment details, so
this wasnt a problem it would accept responsibility for.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that the receiving bank
had confirmed that the payment was rejected due to an incorrect spelling of the recipients
name. And he said Mr M was responsible for making sure that name was right on the details
of the transfer. So he didnt think that TSB had to pay Mr and Mrs M the money theyd lost.
Mr and Mrs M were unhappy with this. They didnt think TSB knew what it was doing when it 
made these transfers, and they said they had no reason to check the first payment slip for 
mistakes, because that transfer was successful. They said they hadnt caused the spelling 
error, and it would always have been very difficult to spot. But our investigator didnt change 
his mind. Because no agreement was reached, this case came to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I proposed to uphold this complaint. This is 
what I said then: 
Mr and Mrs M made three transfers. The first low value one succeeded. The second, for
£22k, failed. Then a third £22k one went through.
Ive checked the sending transfer messages carefully, and it appears to me there are only 
two differences between the first transfer and the second. One is the value, the second 
transfer is much higher. But the other is what TSB recorded as remitter information.
On the first transfer, the remitter information used was a routing number assigned to the
receiving bank (which I dont need to name here). On the second it was Mr Ms name. 
Then for the third transfer, B used the routing number again. 
The receiving account holders surname was misspelled on all three transfers, although 
TSB did later send a follow-up to the third transfer, to notify the receiving bank of this 
mistake and correct it.
But I couldnt see that we had the full set of messages between TSB and the receiving 
bank. So I asked TSB for those. On the evidence I have received so far, I havent been 
able to see that the receiving bank did clearly set out that the reason that the second 
payment was returned was because of the mistake in the spelling that TSB highlighted.
TSB may wish to supply further evidence, in response to this provisional decision, and my
view then may change. But on what Ive seen to date, I think its more likely that the 
reason one out of these three attempted transfers failed, was because of the one thing 
that I can see is different in the documentation for that transfer  the absence of any 
routing number.
I know that Mr and Mrs M are expected to check the details on the transfer form, before 
its sent. But TSB has also explained to our service that the remitter information field is 
used for different purposes, depending on where a transfer is headed. For the country Mr 
and Mrs M were paying, this field should be used for the routing number. TSB has 
confirmed this is needed for any transfer going there.
TSB does say its the customers responsibility to ensure all relevant information is given 
to ensure a payment reaches the correct person or destination. But I think its reasonable 
for Mr and Mrs M to have relied to some extent on the expertise of TSB. And I think one 
of the points where its reasonable for Mr and Mrs M to rely on TSB, would be in deciding 
what sort of information should be provided in the remitter information box.
TSB did provide the necessary routing number, on the first transfer and third transfer it 
made. But it didnt do this on the second transfer. Mr and Mrs M had asked TSB to use 
the same information on the first transfer, but TSB put different information in this box.
So, on what Ive seen so far, I think thats likely to be why this second transfer failed. And 
I do think thats TSBs fault.For that reason, my current view is that TSB should pay Mr and Mrs M the difference 
between the amount they sent on the first transfer, which was £22,436.00, and the 
amount they received back, of £21,274.23. I note that when Mr and Mrs M made the third 
transfer, they made up this missing amount from their own money. So I think that TSB 
should pay Mr and Mrs M £1,161.77.
Mr and Mrs M have explained the family circumstances which led to them making this
payment. So I understand that this was already a very upsetting time for Mr and Mrs M. I
think TSB has, unfortunately, made this worse. So I think it should also pay £100 in 
compensation, for the distress and inconvenience that this issue has clearly caused to Mr
and Mrs M.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
TSB replied, but Mr and Mrs M didnt.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSB said that having considered this further, it couldnt see any reason why Mr M wouldnt 
have asked it to use exactly the same details as he had used when he sent his first 
international payment, which arrived without any issues. It had reviewed all three payments, 
and it agreed that the routing number was omitted on the second payment, resulting in the 
funds being returned to TSB.
So TSB said it would pay what Id suggested, to recognise its mistake. I still think thats a fair 
and reasonable outcome to this complaint, so Ill make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that TSB Bank plc must pay Mr and Mrs M £1,161.77 to cover the 
exchange rate loss they experienced when the second transfer failed, and pay £100 in 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 August 2022. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman