DRN-2615031
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy about the amount of money Highway Insurance Company Limited trading 
as LV= Highway (Highway) offered him for his car total loss claim under a motor insurance 
policy. He says the amount isnt based on the actual cost of replacing his car.
What happened
Mr D had an accident in his car and made a claim. Highway accepted the claim and an 
expert assessed the value of the car. Initially Mr D was offered £13,650 which he didnt 
accept. Mr D went back to Highway and asked for the valuation to be reconsidered. Highway 
did this and made a revised higher offer of £14,990. Mr D still didnt accept this, hed bought 
the car just over a year earlier for £19,995. He said the car hadnt depreciated in value by 
£5,000. He said these particular cars were now going up in value. He said he wouldnt be 
able to replace the car with a similar one for less than £20,000. 
Highway pointed out that across the three trade valuation guides it found values of £13,650, 
£11,074 and £12,495. Highway said this meant the average was £12,406. It said it had 
offered the highest of the three valuations and after Mr D had complained it had 
reconsidered and made a further, higher offer. Highway said the matter had been referred to 
a senior member of staff whod offered Mr D the increased amount. It said as it had offered 
£2,584 above the average and it wasnt willing to offer anything more.
Mr D was also unhappy that while he still held the logbook and a valuation settlement hadnt 
been agreed Highway had sold his damaged car at auction. Highway wouldnt increase its 
offer any further and sent him a cheque for £11,000, so Mr D brought his complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He checked the trade guides and found the 
likely cost of replacing Mr Ds car was between £11,050 and £13,650. He accepted that Mr D 
had found adverts for similar cars advertised at higher prices but said these were less 
reliable than trade guides and the prices had a margin built in for negotiating downwards. 
Our investigator therefore concluded, based on the research he did, Highways offer of 
£14,990 was fair and reasonable. Regarding the car being sold off by Highway before 
settlement, he said it wasnt unusual for an insurer to go ahead with the sale of the car. So, 
he didnt think Highway had done anything wrong when it sold the car and Highway didnt 
need to take any further action on this point. 
Mr D didnt accept this and asked for his complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Mr D had suggested that the car was an investment and that this service ought to 
get a valuation from a classic car valuation expert. He mentioned that Highway had been 
happy enough to set the policy up at a value of £19,000. But I think this was roughly the 
price Mr D said hed paid for the car. It doesnt mean this is how much Highway would pay 
following a total loss claim. 
On checking Mr Ds policy, I can see it is a standard motor insurance policy. And it sets out 
that a total loss claim will be settled based on the pre accident market value for the car 
insured. And the market value is defined as:
The cost at the date of the accident or loss of replacing the insured car, if possible, with one 
of a similar make, model, age, condition and mileage. We will usually ask an engineer to 
give us advice about the market value of the insured car, refer to guides of car values and 
any other relevant sources. In assessing the market value, you should consider the amount 
that could reasonably have been obtained for the insured car if you sold it immediately 
before the accident, loss or theft.
I did see in the policy documentation from Mr Ds broker that there was an option for an 
agreed value benefit on the policy at an additional premium. But Ive not seen any evidence 
that Mr D paid to add this extra benefit or set a specific value on the car. Also, theres 
nothing to show this car was insured as a classic car. This policy was a normal standard car 
insurance.
When cover is under a standard motor insurance policy like Mr Ds, we expect insurers to 
use trade guides to work out the market value. And the prices given in these are based on 
research across the country around the likely, rather than the actual, selling prices. And we 
think the trade guides provide an appropriate way of determining the replacement cost of 
cars, as they all carry out extensive market research.
Ive checked the guides and I can see that these suggest the likely replacement cost of 
Mr Ds car was between £11,074 and £13,650. And based on this Im satisfied what Highway 
has offered to settle his claim is reasonable. 
I appreciate Mr D has provided adverts to show higher prices than the guides, but Highway 
has provided adverts to show prices much lower than the value it based its settlement offer 
on. Mr D has said the adverts Highway provided are for cars with higher mileage than his car 
and arent exactly the same. And I understand the point Mr D is making, but the adverts from 
Highway clearly show potential similar replacements could be bought for less. 
Therefore, from all of the evidence Ive seen, the £14,990 which Highways assessor came 
up with is far beyond what any of the trade guides suggest. So, I think that Highways offer 
based on this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr D was also upset by Highway selling the car without agreeing a final amount with him. 
But Mr D had said himself he was concerned early in the claim about potential storage costs. 
So, as Highway had made offers of settlement it seems likely it didnt want to increase costs 
any further for the claim overall.  I can see on the file records that Highway claims there were 
discussions about whether Mr D could or should keep the salvage and these suggest that in 
the end it was agreed that he wouldnt. But as this was part of Mr Ds complaint that 
suggests the salvage point wasnt communicated by Highway as well as it should have 
been. Its clear this should have sorted out before Highway acted to sell the damaged car 
and understandably this upset Mr D. But based on the file records, this does suggest there 
was a discussion confirming Mr D wasnt keeping the salvage, so I dont think Highway acted 
unreasonably in the circumstances.
Mr D was surprised to find Highway had sent him a cheque for £11,000 without providing 
him with any details. I agree that does seem a little surprising, although again theres a suggestion on file that a conversation about this did take place. Our investigator thought this 
might have been an interim payment. Highway should have been clear what the amount was 
for and why. But this doesnt change my overall view that Highway has acted reasonably 
when settling this claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make no award against Highway Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman