DRN-2836570
The complaint
 Miss S complains that MotoNovo Finance Limited rejected her claim under S 75 Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 in respect of a faulty car.
What happened
In July 2020 Miss S acquired a second-hand car at a cost of £10,846 funded by a deposit of 
£500 and the balance by hire purchase agreement. It was some four years old and had 
covered some 29,000 miles.
Miss S says she encountered problems in the first few weeks with the engine management 
light (EML) and the boot sensor warning light appeared. The car was taken back to the 
dealer which repaired it. Miss S says she asked to be allowed to reject the car but was told it 
would be fixed and if it broke down again, she could reject it. The dealer says the only record 
it has of her asking to reject the car was on 1 October. 
When the car was returned there was a problem with the mileometer not giving a proper 
reading. She also said the boot had not been repaired properly and the EML was coming on. 
She took the car back to have the faults investigated and says she asked that they carry out 
no repairs.
Miss S complained to MotoNovo and it contacted the dealer which said that during the last 
inspection it had adjusted the tyre pressures and updated the software, but no faults had 
been found. MotoNovo commissioned an independent report which was carried out in late 
November. The inspector found no faults. 
In January 2021 Miss S had the car inspected by a third-party garage and it identified a 
faulty fuel sensor. It said the fuel pump needed to be replaced and estimated this would cost 
£491.47. It noted the data recording this fault showed it had been present for some time. 
MotoNovo contacted the company which had carried out the independent inspection. The 
inspector had left the business, but it said that given the pump had failed after some 3,333 
miles had been covered by Miss S it could not say the fault had been present at the point of 
sale.
After MotoNovo rejected Miss Ss claim she brought her complaint to this service. It was 
considered by one of our investigators who recommended it be upheld. She concluded that 
after the initial repair the car remained faulty as evidenced by the third-party garage 
estimate. She noted that a fuel pump should last around 100,000 miles. Overall, she said 
that while the car was second hand, considering the age and mileage she didnt think a 
reasonable person would expect as many faults as had occurred.
She said that the fact that Miss S started to experience issues so soon after purchasing the 
car and had continued to encounter more issues, led her to believe the vehicle wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. MotoNovo didnt agree and said the independent report showed the car 
was of satisfactory quality. Miss S agreed and more recently has reported a number of other 
issues.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
MotoNovo is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for 
a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So, it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
I will address the more recent problems Miss S has reported. In short these all appear to be 
wear and tear issues and not faults that were likely to have been present at the point of sale. 
These include the warning light that the brake pads need to be replaced coming on and the 
need for tyres to be replaced.  
Turing to the issue which gave rise to this complaint I have given the matter much thought 
and consider this to be a finely balanced decision. However, after deliberation I have 
concluded the complaint should be upheld. I will explain why.
It is accepted the car had issues within 30 days and it was taken back to the dealer. It 
repaired those faults, though Miss S says she would have preferred to reject the car. I 
cannot say that the fault she refers to were such that rejection was merited at that point, but 
in any event she accepted the repairs. 
Shortly after this she had issues with the mileage recording and the fuel gauge. The dealer 
said it found no issues save for incorrect tyre pressures and it also updated the software. 
The car was then inspected by an independent engineer who found no faults. However, not 
long after this Miss S took the car to another garage which identified that the fuel pump was 
faulty and needed to be replaced.
As our investigator has pointed out the pump should last or some 100,000 miles and so 
there is an issue of durability. Also, this service regards a car a single entity and the dealer 
had one chance to repair it, but the fuel pump was overlooked. The car was acquired in July 
2020 and the pump was identified as faulty in January after Miss S says it had been 
misbehaving for some months. The garage has also noted the data records show the fault 
had been present for some time. 
I appreciate that the company which supplied the independent engineer has suggested it was likely that this fault wasnt present at the point of sale. That said it didnt spot the issue 
and given the other evidence I think it more likely than not it was present at the point of sale.
The dealer had one chance to repair the car and this didnt prove to be successful therefore I 
agree with out investigator that rejection is appropriate. 
Putting things right
 Miss S should be allowed to reject the car.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct MotoNovo Finance Limited to:
end the agreement with nothing further to pay;
collect the car at no further cost to Miss S,
refund the deposit and pay 8% annual simple interest from the date of payment until 
the date of settlement,
remove any adverse information from Miss Ss credit file,
refund any payments made for the diagnostics/ repair including the recent MOT, but 
not the cost of replacement tyres.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman