DRN-2198725
The complaint
Mr C complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) provided him with a poor level of customer service and didnt send him a 
copy of his finance agreement.
What happened
Mr C signed a fixed sum loan agreement with BPF in February 2008. In or around 2015, 
BPF sold the outstanding debt to a debt collection agency. In May 2019, Mr C asked BPF to 
send him a copy of the agreement. He complained to BPF in January 2020 that he still 
hadnt received a copy of the agreement. During this period, the debt collection agency had 
also contacted BPF on several occasions to ask for a copy of the agreement to be sent to 
either itself or Mr C. Mr C told us he never received it.
BPF said it had sent a copy of the agreement and it sent a further copy with its final 
response to his complaint in March 2020. It apologised for the length of time it had taken to 
respond to Mr C and that it should have been more supportive when Mr C phoned its 
customer service team. It sent him a cheque for £25 in recognition of the poor service hed 
received. Mr C told us he didnt cash the cheque.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He concluded there 
had been delays in BPF sending Mr C a copy of the agreement, but that £25 was reasonable 
to compensate Mr C for those delays. He thought BPF had sent the agreement, but that 
Mr C hadnt received it, and that  apart from the delays  BPF had provided fair customer 
service.
Mr C didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
Our investigator should have contacted the debt collection agency because it still hasnt 
received a copy of the agreement which it has been requesting since May 2019.
BPFs cheque was dated less than seven days after its final response letter, but not sent 
until around month later. Mr C thinks BPF wanted him to cash the cheque so that it could 
close the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has referred a complaint to us about the sale of the fixed sum loan agreement. That is 
being investigated separately from this complaint and I cant comment further on that. This 
complaint is about the service Mr C received when he asked BPF to send him a copy of the 
agreement.
BPF accepts that it was aware Mr C wanted a copy of the agreement in May 2019, but it 
didnt send a copy until October 2019. When Mr C complained in January 2020 that he still 
hadnt received a copy, BPF sent another copy  but not until March 2020. It accepted there 
had been delays and offered Mr C £25. But I think £100 would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. I say this for the following reasons:
BPF was too slow to send a copy of the agreement following Mr Cs requests in 
May 2019 and January 2020.
Mr C said he didnt receive the copy sent in October 2019. To ensure receipt, BPF said 
would send the copy in March 2020 by recorded post. But it sent it by standard mail and 
Mr C again said it wasnt received.
Taking into account Mr Cs personal circumstances  he is struggling to repay a debt for 
a car that he hasnt owned since 2008  the delay in receiving the agreement has been 
particularly upsetting for him.
Mr C says the debt collection agency contacted BPF on numerous occasions but that it had 
still not been supplied with a copy of the agreement. But BPF could only send a copy to the 
parties to the agreement and I cant see that Mr C gave written authority for BPF to send the 
agreement to a third party. 
Mr C also complains about the service he received when he spoke to customer services in 
January 2020 about his complaint. But I dont find the service he received was unfair or 
unreasonable. Mr C was frustrated that he couldnt be transferred to a manager in the 
complaints team, but the member of staff he spoke to explained that the complaint hadnt 
been allocated and she couldnt transfer him. I find she remained professional and tried to 
help Mr C. 
Mr C is suspicious about the fact that the cheque BPF sent him on 16 April 2020 for £25 was 
dated several weeks before  and shortly after the final response letter was sent. But the 
final response letter said that a payment had been arranged and it seems the cheque was 
prepared shortly after the letter was sent. It then took more time for the letter to be prepared 
and despatched. I dont find theres any underlying reason for the different dates, or that BPF 
was trying to close the complaint  it had told Mr C he could refer his complaint to this 
service if he wasnt happy with the suggested resolution.
BPF has already sent Mr C a cheque for £25 which he hasnt cashed. If this cheque is still 
valid, BPF needs to send Mr C a further cheque for £75. But if Mr C has destroyed the 
cheque, or if its no longer valid, BPF will need to send him a cheque for £100.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my decision is that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, 
trading as Barclays Partner Finance, should pay Mr C £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman