DRN-3417595
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that GE Money Consumer Lending Limited (GE Money) unfairly 
turned down their claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
Mr and Mrs F bought a timeshare from a business, Business X, in October 2005. The cost of 
the timeshare was £8,845 and that was paid by a deposit of £845 and a loan of £8,000 taken 
with GE Money. The loan was in joint names and set to run for 10 years. Both the deposit 
and the proceeds of the loan werent paid to Business X, but to a different business, 
Business Y. 
Mr and Mrs F said that, among other things, when they took out the timeshare, they were 
told that they could book holidays with ease, however availability became an issue. They 
were also told that internal accommodation exchanges only took 6 weeks notice, but this 
turned out to be incorrect.
So Mr and Mrs F said that Business X misrepresented to them at the time of the true nature 
of the product. Mr and Mrs F said that had they known what Business X said wasnt right, 
they would not have taken out the membership in the first place.
Unhappy with what had happened at the time of sale, Mr and Mrs F  using a representative 
 wrote to GE Money in July 2018 (the Letter of Claim) to make claims under:
(1) Section 75 of the CCA for misrepresentation; and 
(2) Section 140A of the CCA for an unfair debtor-creditor relationship.
It should be noted that Mr and Mrs F brought their complaint with one representative, and 
then changed their representative partway through. Because of this, Ill refer to them as 
previous representative and representative. 
GE Money responded to say that it didnt have any information on its systems about Mr and 
Mrs Fs loan due to the time that had passed, but it assumed that it did provide the credit. It 
explained that any information about the loan would have been destroyed around six years 
after it was closed, and this is the likely reason why it no longer has any information on file 
about the loan. As the sale took place many years before the complaint, GE Money said that 
meant the complaint had been brought too late under the relevant provisions contained in 
the Limitation Act 1980 (LA). It also noted that the loan proceeds had been paid to 
Business Y and not Business X, so it didnt think there were the right types of agreements in 
place for the CCA to apply to this complaint.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think GE Money needed to do 
anything further. They agreed that the claim under s.75 and s.140A CCA had been brought 
too late, so they didnt think GE Money needed to consider the substance of the claim. 
Mr and Mrs Fs representative responded disagreeing with the investigator but didnt provide 
any additional reasons as to why. So, the complaint was passed to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to tell GE Money to do anything further to resolve the matter 
and Ive explained why below.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about the 
merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
I also have to take account of law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and 
standards, and codes of practice and good industry practice, when I make my decision. And 
I want to assure Mr and Mrs F, if I dont address every point thats been raised, its not 
because I havent thought about it. I have considered everything thats been said and sent to 
us. But Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is relevant and material to 
reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.
Were there the right arrangements in place for Mr and Mrs F to make a claim under the 
CCA?
Under s.75 CCA, a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is a precondition to a claim under 
that provision. The same agreement is needed for the timeshare contract to be considered 
under s.140A CCA. GE Money has said that here there was no such agreement in this case, 
as the supplier of the timeshare was Business X, but the loan proceeds went to a different 
business, Business Y, so no claim could be brought.
Having considered all of the evidence and law, I dont think the position is as simple as GE 
Money suggests. There is case law that demonstrates that it is possible a court would 
conclude that there were the right arrangements in place that gave rise to Mr and Mrs Fs 
claim under s.75 and/or s.140A CCA. What is crucial is the relationship between the supplier 
of the service (Business X) and the business that took the payment (Business Y). But Ive 
not gone on to make a finding on that point as, even if I did think there were the right 
relationships in place for the claim, I think GE Money would have a total defence under the 
LA.
Was the claim under s.75 CCA brought in time?
Mr and Mrs F said that Business X misrepresented to them the nature and benefits of the 
timeshare agreement, so they say GE Money is jointly liable under s.75 CCA. But if GE 
Money could show the claim was brought outside of the time limits set out in the LA, it would 
be entitled to rely on the LA as a defence to answering the claim. I should make it clear 
however that Im not deciding if any right that Mr and Mrs F may have to bring these claims 
has expired under the LA - thats a matter for the courts. In this decision Im considering if 
GE Money has acted fairly and reasonably in turning down Mr and Mrs Fs claims.
A claim for misrepresentation against the supplier would be brought under s.2(1) of the 
Misrepresentation Act 1967. It was held in Laws v. The Society of Lloyds [2003] EWCA 1887 
that this type of claim is an action founded in tort covered by s.2 LA or an action brought for 
a sum recoverable by statute within s.9 LA. Under both of those provisions, a claimant has a 
period of six years to bring a claim from the date on which the cause of action accrued.
As Mr and Mrs F made a like claim against GE Money under s.75 CCA, its covered by s.9 LA  which, means they had six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued to 
make the claim.
The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point in time that everything needed to 
make a legal claim occurred. So, in Mr and Mrs Fs case, thats when they could have 
brought a claim for misrepresentation against the supplier or the like claim against GE 
Money. I think that was the date they entered into the agreement to buy the timeshare, so in 
October 2005. It was at that time that they entered into an agreement based, they say, on 
the misrepresentations of Business X. They say, had the misrepresentations not been made, 
they wouldnt have bought the timeshare. And it was on that day that they suffered a loss, as 
they took out the loan agreement with GE Money.
It follows, therefore, that I think the cause of action accrued on 19 October 2005, so Mr and 
Mrs F had six years from then to bring a claim. But they didnt try to contact GE Money about 
their claim until July 2018, which was outside of the time limits set out in the LA. So I think 
GE Money acted fairly in turning down this misrepresentation claim.
The claim under s.140A CCA
Under this section a court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it decides that the relationship between the lender and the creditor arising out 
of the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make such a determination, but I 
think this is relevant law and I have taken it into account.
The LA applies to a claim under s.140A CCA too. It was held in Patel v. Patel [2009] EWHC 
3264 (QB) that when considering s.140A CCA, the time for limitation purposes ran from the 
date that the credit agreement ended if it was not still running at the time the claim was 
made. As with an action under s.75 CCA, the limitation period is six years, so Mr and Mrs F 
would have to bring an action within six years of the date the credit agreement ended. 
As mentioned previously, GE Money no longer has a record of the end date of the loan, 
meaning its more likely the loan had closed before the claim was raised. Our investigator 
noted that GE Money didnt normally keep records for more than six years after an account 
was closed, so they concluded that meant the account was likely to have closed more than 
six years before the claim was made. And in response to the view, Mr and Mrs F havent 
provided any evidence that contradicts that. Because of this, I think its likely the loan was 
settled more than six years before the claim and that means it was brought too late.
GE Money said it thinks the claim was out of scope of s.140A because of the dates of the 
agreement. S.140A CCA was introduced by the Consumer Credit Act 2006. Schedule 3 of 
that Act sets out to what credit agreements s.140A CCA applies. In short, if a credit 
agreement had completed before 6 April 2008, no claim under s.140A CCA could be brought 
in respect of that credit agreement. GE Money believed that the s.140A claim was out of 
scope because the credit agreement completed before 6 April 2008, but theres no evidence 
that shows this was the case. So I cant say it acted fairly when it responded to the claim. 
But for the reasons set out above, I dont think it would have upheld the claim if it had 
properly considered it. So, I dont think it needs to do anything further.
Unaffordable lending
Mr and Mrs F say that proper credit checks were not carried out when they took out the loan. 
The loan was taken out in October 2005, which was before this service had jurisdiction to 
consider complaints about consumer credit. So I am unable to look into any complaint Mr 
and Mrs F may have about the decision to lend to them.   My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint against GE Money 
Consumer Lending Limited.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2022. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman