DRN-3321458
The complaint
Mr K and Mr S complain that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) have not 
settled their claim fairly under their building insurance policy following a water leak. They 
want the claim paid in full and compensation for the inconvenience.
What happened
Mr K and Mr Ss kitchen was damaged following a water leak from the bathroom above 
whilst they were away for a few days. A leaking pipe was repaired and needed to be 
accessed by cutting a hole in the kitchen ceiling. Mr K and Mr S say that the kitchen plinths, 
lights, worktop, and flooring were damaged by the incident. They contacted Lloyds who sent 
a surveyor (who Ill call B) to assess the damage. Mr K and Mr S said there were ongoing 
delays and difficulties in contacting both B and Lloyds about their claim. 
B agreed there had been damage to the flooring and to one plinth, a light and a ceiling 
mounted speaker but said other items could be refitted. It said the worktop showed longer 
standing water damage which wasnt caused by the leak from the bathroom. B initially said 
repairs would cost £2,544.25 but after discussions increased this to £5,071.57 after 
deduction of the policy excess of £200. Lloyds paid this to Mr K and Mr S to settle the claim. 
Mr K and Mr S complained to Lloyds. It agreed there had been delays and paid £200 in 
compensation for this, but it said it had assessed the claim fairy and wouldnt increase the 
settlement. It said B had advised that the estimate provided by Mr K and Mr Ss kitchen fitter 
was inflated and included items that werent covered by the policy.  
Mr K and Mr S referred their complaint to our service saying as well as the worktops and 
plinths, Lloyds hadnt included payment for repair of the ceiling, which it should have done 
under the trace and access clause in the policy.
Our investigator looked into it, but he didnt uphold the complaint.
He said based on the evidence available the settlement made by Lloyds did cover the 
damage caused by the leak. The policy only provided for restoring the kitchen to the 
condition that it was in before the leak, not to improve it. He said the damage to the worktop 
appeared to be longstanding. And, as the policy didnt cover gradually occurring issues like 
wear and tear, it wasnt unfair for Lloyds to exclude the worktops from the claim. He said that 
Lloyds had already paid the £420 estimated cost of repairing the ceiling in addition to the 
£5,071.57 initially paid.
Mr K and Mr S disagreed. They said their kitchen had been very wet after the leak and was 
now showing further signs of water damage on cupboard doors and peeling wallpaper. They 
said the claim should be increased to cover this. They provided photographs of the damage 
and said they had decided to replace the whole kitchen and that it had been stripped out. 
Lloyds said as it was now more than six months from the leak occurring any new water 
damage wouldnt be related to the incident. It said it hadnt been given the opportunity to 
consider any further damage if the kitchen had already been removed. Mr K and Mr S said 
the kitchen was in a skip outside their home if Lloyds wanted to see it. Our investigator said 
it was unlikely that any new damage was as a result of the original leak as neither Lloyds or 
Mr K and Mr Ss contractors had mentioned drying being required at the time. He said the 
settlement had included wallpapering and decoration and that Lloyds had settled the claim 
fairly. He said the compensation already paid for the delays and communication problems 
was fair. Mr K and Mr S said the kitchen had been left damp, had gone mouldy and that 
Lloyds should have arranged professional drying.
As Mr K and Mr S dont agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I think Lloyds has settled the claim fairly, Ill explain 
why. 
When making a claim the onus is on the policyholder to prove their claim is valid. Mr K and 
Mr Ss policy provides for repairs or replacement of items to return their property to the 
condition it was in immediately before any incident claimed for. It doesnt provide for 
improvements to be made. Mr K and Mr S decided to replace their entire kitchen, which is 
their right, but it wouldnt be fair to say Lloyds should be responsible for any costs beyond 
making good the actual damage caused by the incident.
Bs report says that the damage to the worktop wasnt adjacent to where water had leaked 
from the bathroom. It says this damage was most probably caused by failed sealant around 
the sink and by escaping steam when opening the dishwasher door. Mr K and Mr S say this 
isnt the case as they didnt use the dishwasher often. But B says that the damaged wood 
was on the underside of the worktop and was not saturated. And, that the cupboard doors 
beneath the area of damaged worktop were undamaged themselves, which it wouldnt 
expect if water had saturated them following the leak. 
Im persuaded by Bs evidence here and think the photographs do show longer term water 
damage rather than something caused by a one- off incident. Gradually occurring damage or 
wear and tear rather than something directly caused by the incident claimed for isnt covered 
by the policy, so I dont think Lloyds has acted unfairly in rejecting this part of the claim. 
B says that only the plinth by the window was damaged and that the others didnt need to be 
replaced and could be refitted and there isnt any evidence that this wasnt the case. 
Bs report also says that no assisted drying was required. It confirms that there werent 
elevated moisture readings in the kitchen after the leak with photographs of moisture 
readings taken from the wall and the floor. The readings are both DRY, rather than at risk 
or wet. Ive asked that Mr K and Mr S be sent a copy of these photographs. I dont think 
drying was required. If it had been, I think B would have recommended this. And, neither the 
plasterer or kitchen fitter who provided estimates for Mr K and Mr S make any reference to 
drying being needed. So, on the available evidence I agree that the further damage recently 
reported by Mr K and Mr S is unlikely to be related to the leak they claimed for in June 2021.
On the evidence available I think the payments made by Lloyds did fairly settle the claim. B 
did need to increase its initial appraisal of the costs to repair the damage. And while B was 
responsive to Mr K and Mr Ss concerns here, I think Lloyds was correct to agree there had 
been a lack of clarity surrounding the claim. This resulted in some delay and inconvenience 
for Mr K and Mr S, but I think the £200 already paid in respect of this is fair compensation for what happened. 
As Lloyds has settled the claim fairly it need not do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman