DRN-1420009
 
The complaint
Miss P complains about a motor insurance policy she has with esure Insurance Limited. 
Background
In May 2019, Miss P was involved in a collision which caused damage to her car. The 
damage was caused to the rear bumper and some of the body work but was still in a 
driveable condition. Miss P made a claim on her motor insurance policy to repair the damage 
caused by the accident, which esure agreed to.
Miss P took her car to the garage to be repaired. During the time the car was there, her car 
stopped working and wouldnt start. Miss P also asked esure to pay for the repairs for this 
fault too, as she believes the additional damage was caused by the garage. 
Esure requested a diagnostic test to determine the cause of the fault. The garage found that 
the fault was likely to have been present before the accident happened. And so the damage 
wasnt caused by the accident itself, or the garage while in repairs. Because of this, esure 
declined to pay for the repairs to rectify the fault.     
Miss P is unhappy with esures decision. She says that the fault must have been caused by 
the garage, because she was able to drive the car to there, and while the car was in the care 
of the garage it stopped working. 
Miss P also complains that she has been left without a car while shes been disputing who 
should pay for the fault. Esure provided Miss P with a hire car while the damage to her car 
was being repaired, and the cause of the fault investigated. But as it has now concluded its 
investigations it has since taken back the hire car. 
Our investigator looked into this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said that 
based on the information hed seen, he didnt think the fault had been caused by the 
accident, or the garage  and so he felt esure had fairly declined to pay to repair the fault. 
Miss P had also raised concerns about the customer service shed received, but he felt that 
he didnt have enough information to conclude that esure had done anything wrong here. 
Miss P disagreed with our investigator. So the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision on the matter. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding Miss 
Ps complaint and Ill explain why.
Firstly, Id like to express my empathy for Miss Ps situation. Its clear that the issues arising 
from her car not being in a driveable state has caused her much upset and anxiety, which is 
completely understandable  especially as she tells us that she needs a car to get around. But being independent means I have to take a step back and consider what both parties 
have said. And I have to look to see if esure has acted fairly and reasonably when dealing 
with Miss Ps claim  and I think it has.
Ive seen a copy of a report that was carried out by one of esures garages. This shows that 
there seems to be a problem with the cam sensor, which is likely to have caused the car to 
stop working. The information Ive seen suggests the fault is likely to have started a number 
of months before the accident, in February 2019. In any event, based on this report, it would 
seem the fault wasnt caused by the accident, or the garage who carried out the repairs. 
Miss P has given us a report from a different mechanic. She feels this report supports her 
view that the fault was caused to the car at the garage, or during the accident. The report 
says that there was no compression in the engine and that the valve has been pushed up 
into the piston. It goes on to say that, in the opinion of that mechanic, this type of damage 
could have only been caused by travelling at high speed or while the car was being towed. 
Based on this report, I dont think it likely that the fault was as a result of the accident. This is 
because the accident Miss P had was at low speed, and the mechanic suggests the fault 
would most likely have been caused by travelling at high speed. The mechanic suggests that 
the other alternative for how the fault could have been caused is as a result of the car being 
towed. But Miss P has told us herself that she drove the car to the garage, so there wasnt 
any need for it to be towed. So, taking this report and the mechanics comments into account, 
I dont think it likely that the accident, or the garage, were the cause of the fault. 
Both reports have been provided by professional mechanics, and so I think their findings are 
likely to be accurate. So it follows that I think esure fairly declined to cover the costs of the 
additional repairs for the fault as there is insufficient evidence to say that they were caused 
by the garage or at the time of the accident. 
I understand Miss P is unhappy she no longer has a hire car, but I dont think esure has 
acted unfairly here. It only needed to provide Miss P with a hire car while it carried out the 
repairs. But as there was a dispute over the cause of the fault, esure agreed to provide her 
with a hire car while the cause was investigated. Because esure has now concluded its 
investigations, it has taken the hire car back. This is more than what it needed to do. And 
while I understand this would have been inconvenient for Miss P, esure is under no 
obligation to provide her with a hire car indefinitely.
Ive also thought about what Miss P has said about the service she received from a 
representative of esure. Esure hasnt been able to find any calls that support what Miss P 
has said, and Miss P hasnt been able to give much information about what happened. I 
appreciate the call happened many months ago now, so it doesnt surprise me that Miss Ps 
recollections of what happened arent detailed. But because of this, I cant say that esure 
has acted unfairly.
While I appreciate that this has been a very stressful time for Miss P, and the situation with 
her car has impacted on her wellbeing, I think esure has done what it needed to do when 
considering Miss Ps claim. And so, Im not asking it to do anything more for Miss P.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I don't uphold Miss P's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 March 2020.
Sophie WilkinsonOmbudsman