DRN-2060542
The complaint
Mrs H, represented by a claims management company (CMC), has complained about
investment advice provided to her by Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax.
What happened
In December 2006 Mrs H was advised to invest £38,000 in a Personal Investment Plan
(PIP), in the Managed Income Fund. At the time she was in her late fifties, widowed and
recently retired. She held around £90,000 on deposit and was primarily looking to increase
her income. Several months later, in April 2007 she was advised to add a further £30,000 to
the PIP. She surrendered it in May 2008 when she needed the money for a property
purchase.
In 2019 Mrs Hs CMC made a complaint to Halifax on her behalf about the suitability of the
advice. Halifax investigated the PIP and also the sales of some ISAs made to Mrs H in 2002
and 2006. It concluded that these ISAs hadnt been suitable for her based on the level of
risk involved and their affordability. Halifax compared their performance with a more suitable
benchmark, but this showed Mrs H had incurred no loss.
In respect of the PIP, Halifax concluded that the Managed Income Fund had been suitable
for Mrs H but that shed been advised to invest too much. It proposed she be compensated
on the basis shed invested only half the amount - £34,000.
The CMC didnt accept this, so it referred the complaint to this service.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint in which I set out why I agreed it should be 
upheld, but a different form of compensation paid to Mrs H. I said, in part:
I think that looking at Mrs Hs circumstances at the time of the advice, she wouldve been
able to take some risk with some of her money to boost her income. Although she had little
investment experience  only the ISAs that had been mis-sold to her  she had a reasonable
sum available and an investment of £38,000 from £90,000 doesnt strike me as 
inappropriate, providing it was at a level of risk that correctly reflected her likely attitude to
risk and circumstances.
Theres little in the fact find that explains how Mrs Hs attitude to risk was determined and
why it was recorded as cautious/medium. It may have been influenced by the ISAs. But at
one point it says, Risk to Capital - lower risk. And with only that sort of limited information
available, I dont think it can be safely concluded the recommendation of the Managed
Income Fund  composed of approximately 50% equities and 20% property  was consistent
with Mrs Hs attitude and circumstances.
So, I dont think Halifaxs suggestion that she be compensated on the basis that she
wouldve invested in the Managed Income Fund, but a smaller amount, is reasonable.
Rather, I think Mrs H should be put in the position shed have been in if shed still invested
the £38,000 but at a lower level of risk  equivalent to our standard cautious 50/50
benchmark, and not invested the £30,000 at all.
The CMC accepted my provisional decision, but Halifax did not. It said, in brief:
The fund at the time of the advice was made up of 50.4% UK equities, 30.2% 
corporate bonds and 19.4% property.
As the equity content was all UK-based, there was none of the risk associated with 
international equities, such as foreign exchange rate movements.
UK equites are generally considered to be lower risk equities.
The 10 largest holdings  20% of the fund  was made up of established FTSE100 
companies.
The equities were balanced by the corporate bonds, and property, to an extent.
Mrs H confirmed the level of risk she wanted to take after discussions with the 
adviser and wanted to take less risk than previously. 
The CMC has often questioned the risk rating of the fund in question, but this 
services position has generally been that it is not for us to risk rate funds.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive not been persuaded to change my view of the complaint. I still think it 
should be upheld and compensated for in the way set out above.
I note what Halifax has said about the nature of the equity content of the fund. And had it 
featured foreign equites it would have carried a greater level of risk. But this would simply 
have made it even more unsuitable for Mrs H. 
I remain of the view that Mrs Hs needs and circumstances were not consistent with the level 
of risk associated with the fund. I am not risk-rating the fund  I am simply considering 
whether Mrs H, as a retired widow in her late 50s with no investment experience beyond 
ISAs that had been mis-sold to her, was likely to have wanted or understood the kind of risk 
associated with a fund that was made up of 50% equities. 
 
Putting things right
Halifax must compare the return Mrs H received from her initial £38,000 PIP investment with 
the return that would have been achieved by our cautious benchmark  50% FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income Total Return Index and 50% Bank of England fixed-rate Bonds, 
from the date of investment to the date of surrender. 
It must also compare the return Mrs H received from her second £30,000 PIP investment 
with what would have been achieved by our no-risk benchmark, 100% Bank of England 
fixed-rate bonds, from the date of investment to the date of surrender. 
If these comparisons show any losses, the amounts should be paid to Mrs H, plus simple 
interest at 8%, from date of surrender to date of settlement.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Bank of 
Scotland plc trading as Halifax to pay compensation to Mrs H, as set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman