DRN-1704625
 
complaint
Mr B says American Express Services Europe Limited (American Express) mis-sold him a 
regular monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mr B took PPI with a credit card in 2004. Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Bs complaint should 
be upheld but Mr B didnt agree. So, the complaint comes to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Bs complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr B cant remember taking out the PPI policy on his card. Ive seen the application form and 
to get the cover Mr B had to tick a box for it. Had he not wanted the cover he could have left 
this unticked. And Mr B has signed the application form to show he agreed with its contents. 
There is nothing in writing on the application form that should have suggested to Mr B that 
he would get the credit if he took out the cover. So, on balance, I think that Mr B chose to 
take the policy and did so knowing he had a choice about it, even if he cant remember that 
now, many years later. 
American Express have told us the sale was made with no advice given to Mr B, whilst Mr B 
thinks he was advised to take out the cover. I dont need to make a firm finding on this 
because I dont think it makes a difference to the outcome of the complaint. 
If it provided advice, American Express had to sell Mr B something that was suitable for him. 
Or, if it sold the policy without a tailored recommendation, it had to give Mr B sufficient 
information to make an informed choice about the policy. 
Looking at Mr Bs circumstances at the time, if advice was given, it seems to have been right 
for him. For example Mr B was eligible for the policy and whilst there were some things the 
policy wouldnt cover, it doesnt look as though any of those things applied to Mr B at the 
time the PPI was taken, such as pre-existing medical conditions. And he seems to have had 
a need for the cover. Mr B told us he thought hed have got no company sick pay if he was 
off work through ill health for a long time. And Mr B told us he had no other means he could 
have relied on in that event, or if he lost his job. But this policy could have paid 5% of the 
balance for up to 24 months in the event that ill health stopped Mr B working, or if he lost his 
job. So, I think the policy could have been useful to him.
Its possible the information American Express gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been - including the information about the cost of the policy. But for the same reasons given above that I think the policy was suitable, I dont think better information would 
have stopped Mr B from taking out the policy. 
So I think the policy was not unsuitable for Mr B and, whilst the information he received 
could have been better, I dont think that Mr B has lost out as a result of anything American 
Express might have done wrong. 
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about American Express 
Services Europe Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman