DRN-3839922
The complaint
Mrs K has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a fee-paying Gold Service 
packaged account in December 2002.
Mrs K says that it was sold as the new account but was not given any option. Mrs K says 
she never used any of the features. For example, she says she doesnt drive so didnt need 
breakdown cover and already had mobile phone insurance elsewhere. Mrs K also says that 
she paid for travel insurance through other providers. 
What happened
Our adjudicators assessed the complaint and didnt think that the account had been mis-
sold.
Mrs K disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the complaint was referred for an 
ombudsmans assessment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. I think it may also help to explain that where 
matters are in dispute and evidence is missing, as is the case here, I need to decide what I 
think most likely happened, based on everything that is available. And having considered 
everything, I dont think the account was mis-sold. I will explain why.
Ive started off by considering whether Mrs K was given a fair choice.
Mrs K says that she was told the Gold Service account was the new account but was not 
given the option of any other account. However, when Mrs K agreed to the account, she 
already had a fee-free account, and had done so for what appears to have been a number of 
years. So I think that Mrs K was aware that fee-free accounts were generally available to 
her. And whilst Mrs K says she was not given any other options, she already had a fee-free 
account, so I think it likely that she was aware she couldve continued with her existing 
account, if she didnt want to change her account. 
Furthermore, I can see that Mrs K secured a sizeable Gold loan around the same time that 
she was sold the Gold Service account. Mrs K regularly used her overdraft at the time too. I 
note that one of the features of the account was that it provided preferential interest rates on  
loans and overdrafts.
Therefore, in the circumstances, I think its much more likely that Mrs K agreed to the 
account because she was able to make use of the banking benefits it provided, rather than 
because she thought she had no choice in the matter. As such, I think that Mrs K was in all 
likelihood given a fair choice when she agreed to upgrade her account to a Gold Service 
account.
Lloyds recommended the account to Mrs K. This meant that it had to check that it was a 
good fit for Mrs Ks circumstances. 
At the time the account cost £8 per month and included benefits such as worldwide travel 
insurance and a £100 interest free overdraft facility, with preferential interest rates on 
balances overdrawn by more than this amount (up to the agreed limit). And as mentioned 
above, it provided lower rates of interest on loans and higher rates of interest on savings 
accounts as well.
Mrs K says that she occasionally travelled abroad, and also says that she regularly used her 
overdraft. And she took out a sizeable loan around the time of the sale too. So in the 
circumstances, it looks like Lloyds recommendation was not unreasonable, given the 
number of benefits that Mrs K was clearly able to benefit from, by having the account.
As well as making sure the account was a good fit for Mrs K, Lloyds also had to provide her 
with important information about the account, so she understood what she was agreeing to.
From what I have seen, Mrs K was made aware of the cost of the account. And it also looks 
like she was made aware of some of the benefits of the account e.g. the reduced interest 
rates on loans  as ultimately, that benefit is why I think she agreed to the account in the first 
place. 
So I think that Mrs K was in all likelihood given at least some of the important information 
about the account and the benefits it provided, when it was sold to her.
However, due to the lack of evidence that is now available, I accept its possible that Lloyds 
may not have given Mrs K all of the important information about the account that it shouldve 
done. But having considered everything, I dont think that Mrs K wouldve been put off from 
agreeing to the account, had she been given more information about it. I say this as it 
appears that she agreed to it largely because of the banking benefits it provided. 
I note that Mrs K has posed the question why would she pay for travel insurance through 
other providers, if it was provided through her account? But I dont think her paying for travel 
insurance through other providers in more recent years, means that she wasnt told about 
the travel insurance when the account was sold to her. I say this because firstly, the travel 
insurance was one of the main benefits that the account provided. So I think it likely that 
Lloyds wouldve mentioned it during the sale to make the account seem worth upgrading to. I 
also say this because the account was sold to Mrs K around twenty years ago. So I think its 
just as likely that she was told about the travel insurance cover and has simply forgotten that 
it was included with her account. 
But having said that, I can see that since 2014 Lloyds has sent annual eligibility reminders to 
Mrs K. These summarised the insurance benefits provided by her account and invited Mrs K 
to contact Lloyds if she was no longer eligible for the benefits, or if the benefits were no 
longer suitable for her circumstances. So I think Lloyds did what it needed to do, to remind 
Mrs K of the travel insurance provided by her account.
Therefore, having taken everything into account, Im not able to conclude that the Gold 
Service account was mis-sold to Mrs K. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman