DRN-3375501
The complaint
Mrs F says that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited unfairly declined her claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
In 2015 Mrs F had breast enhancement surgery which was paid for using a fixed sum loan 
provided by Omni. The cash price of the surgery was £7,830, and the amount borrowed was 
£6,830, to be repaid over 48 months.
Mrs F raised a dispute with Omni around five weeks after the surgery on the basis that she 
was unhappy with the standard of the surgery. She also said shed developed an infection 
and the supplier had failed to adequately address it. Omni agreed to put things on hold whilst 
it made enquiries.
Mrs F subsequently raised a complaint about the results of the surgery with the Independent 
Sector Complaints Adjudication Service (ISCAS), but it didnt uphold her complaint. On that 
basis Omni didnt think itd be unfair to require Mrs F to start repayments of her agreement. 
But Mrs F maintained that she hadnt received the service she was supposed to have, so 
she raised a complaint with Omni.
Omni responded in September 2016. It said that ISCAS had reviewed Mrs Fs complaint 
about the surgery and not upheld it, so it didnt think it needed to do anything further and told 
Mrs F she needed to repay the borrowing it had provided.
I understand that Mrs F and Omni subsequently corresponded regarding the matter 
throughout the remainder of 2016 and into 2017. It seems that Mrs F refused to make 
repayments on the basis that the results of the surgery were not as shed expected.
Mrs F says that she considered the matter had been resolved, and she wasnt required to 
make repayments. But, in October 2019 Mrs F raised a further complaint with Omni because 
shed become aware that it had recorded information with credit reference agencies to 
represent the lending was still outstanding.
Mrs F brought her complaint to this service in October 2019. She said that she didnt think 
she should repay the lending because;
- Record of the lending had been removed from her credit file for years and then 
recently reported again as unpaid.
- She ought to be entitled to a refund or redress on services or products which are 
unsatisfactory, and shed received neither.
- The complaint she raised with ISCAS which was not upheld was about medical 
negligence, not about the outcome or results of her surgery.
Mrs F explained in detail the impact things had on her. She said she nearly died, has life 
changing scarring, PTSD and accrued debt because shes not been able to work as a result. 
Mrs F also said that she was left unable to breast feed three children which she 
subsequently had, and the whole experience had a significant adverse impact on her mental 
health.
Mrs F asked to be compensated for the loss she says shes been caused as a result of being 
unable to work. And that Omni ought not to pursue her further for any sums owed because it 
didnt chase her for those sums until recently, it recorded inaccurate information regarding 
the agreement with credit reference agencies, and shes not had the benefit of the surgery.
Omni issued a further response to the complaint in October 2019. It said that the time limit 
for medical negligence claims is three years, and now that had passed, Mrs F was not able 
to bring a further claim.
One of our investigators considered Mrs Fs complaint. They didnt think this service was 
best placed to consider it. They said this in the most part because it would be better suited to 
a court, which could compel and consider evidence as well as expert opinion on a matter 
relating to complications of a medical procedure, which this service might not be able to.
However, they found that Omni had given somewhat of an inconsistent message about 
whether it would apply interest to outstanding lending, and said it was understandable that 
Mrs F thought the matter had been resolved because it seemed that Omni had been writing 
to Mrs F at an address she no longer lived at. Overall, they concluded that Mrs F was 
particularly vulnerable to the extent that it would be in the interests of her welfare for Omni to 
write off the outstanding debt.
Omni agreed that the complexity of the case meant it was more appropriate for a court to 
consider it. However, they disagreed regarding our investigators interpretation of its 
handling of the matter. It said, in summary, that it believed it had been extremely sensitive to 
Mrs Fs situation and made extensive accommodations seeking to reach a fair resolution.
The case was passed to me and I issued a provisional decision explaining why I didnt intend 
to uphold the complaint. In summary, I said;
In considering what I believe to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, Im required 
take into account relevant law, rules, guidance, codes of practice as well as what I consider 
to have been good industry practice at the time.
When the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I make my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened given the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mrs Fs section 75 claim
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is relevant here. It protects consumers who buy 
goods and services on credit. It says, in certain circumstances, the finance provider is legally 
answerable for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier. In practice that 
means if Mrs F has a claim against the supplier for misrepresentation or breach of contract, 
she also has a like claim against the finance provider.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is also relevant here. It says, in summary, that any 
goods supplied must be of satisfactory quality  defined as meeting the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  and that any service must be performed 
with reasonable care and skill. It doesnt define reasonable case and skill, but I think an 
appropriate interpretation would be the degree of care and skill to be expected of someone 
who provides those services of ordinary competence and experience.As our investigator pointed out, I have the power to dismiss a complaint without 
consideration of its merits if I believe it would be appropriate to do so. For example, I could 
conclude that a case would be better dealt with by a court.
I can see why our investigator reached this conclusion: Mrs Fs contract with the supplier 
was for the removal of breast implants, re-augmentation and mastopexy, which I understand 
is commonly referred to as a breast lift. I imagine that establishing whether that procedure 
had been carried out with reasonable care and skill would inevitably involve hearing 
evidence from many sources, for example, medical experts and the supplier at the very 
least. This service doesnt have the power to compel evidence from experts or the supplier. 
Nor can it require participation from either, like a court can.
That being said, its for this service to determine whether Omni handled Mrs Fs section 75 
claim fairly. And thats something which I think we have sufficient evidence to make a finding 
on. Ill explain why.
Omni set out its initial response to Mrs Fs section 75 claim in September 2016. It relied 
heavily on the findings made by ISCAS in determining that Mrs F was required to repay the 
lending.
Ive considered the ISCAS report which has been provided to this service. It considered 
three points of complaint from Mrs F relating to;
- The pre-operative service provided by the supplier which caused delays to the 
procedure.
- The post-operative care provided by the supplier, specifically in relation to its failure 
to adequately address an infection.
- The outcome of the breast surgery, specifically that Mrs F had been left with 
significant scarring and constant pain leading her to feel depressed.
The report produced by ISCAS goes into detail about the events which Mrs F complains 
about. It explains that it considered correspondence between Mrs F and the supplier, as well 
as clinical records relating to the postponement of the surgery, the surgery itself as well as 
the post-operative case provided by the supplier, including further admissions to address 
post-operative complications. The report didnt uphold any aspect of Mrs Fs complaint and 
required no remedy from the supplier. I understand that the independent adjudication issued 
by ISCAS represented the final stage of its process.
Im aware from Mrs Fs correspondence with Omni that she disputed the findings ISCAS 
reached and suggested that it didnt have all of her medical records, nor did anyone examine 
her in person in relation to the investigation of her complaint.
I dont have any reason to doubt that the findings ISCAS reached are reliable  its 
recognised as an independent adjudicator for complaints about the private healthcare sector. 
In any case, even if we have been provided with more information than was available to 
ISCAS at the time, or Mrs F was able to cast reasonable doubt on those findings, I think the 
appropriate forum to have those points reconsidered would be a court, not this service.
All things considered, in the face of what appears to be objective expert opinion from an 
arbitrator specifically set up to deal with this type of complaint, I think it was reasonable for 
Omni to have relied on that evidence in declining Mrs Fs section 75 claim. Im also of the 
opinion that a reasonable interpretation of the ISCAS report is that the supplier had not 
breached its contract with Mrs F. So, I dont think that Mrs Fs section 75 claim had a prospect of success and it follows that I think Omni acted fairly in declining it.
Has Omni treated Mrs F unfairly in any other way?
Mrs F has gone into detail regarding how shes been impacted as a result of whats 
happened. I have a great deal of sympathy for her given the unfortunate events following her 
surgery. I have little doubt that the time following Mrs Fs surgery was very difficult and 
distressing.
I dont intend to mirror the level of detail of Mrs Fs submissions as I dont find it necessary to 
explain what I consider to be a fair outcome. But I want to assure Mrs F that Ive considered 
all of her submissions very carefully.
Omnis administration of the account
Ill deal firstly with Omnis administration of the lending. Given the unfortunate events which 
played out following Mrs Fs surgery, and having been made aware of that, Id have 
expected Omni to have been sympathetic to Mrs Fs position - particularly regarding 
repayment requirements of Mrs F whilst her dispute was being investigated.
Ive seen that Omni temporarily suspended Mrs Fs repayments while she disputed the 
service with the supplier from July 2015 until October 2015. Although at this point Omni 
began to record that payments werent being made with credit reference agencies, Ive also 
seen that it subsequently removed that data on a number of occasions when Mrs F made it 
aware that the dispute was ongoing.
By September 2016 ISCAS had issued its findings and Omni had set out its position to Mrs F 
regarding the requirement of her to make repayments in line with her agreement. Omnis 
contact notes suggest that Mrs F declined to make any payments on the basis she was not 
happy with the surgery and intended to appoint solicitors to pursue the matter on her behalf.
Ive seen that whilst Omni agreed to make a temporary suspension to interest being added 
to the account, it contacted Mrs F on a number of occasions over the coming months inviting 
her to set up a payment plan. Omnis notes suggest that Mrs F consistently responded 
declining to make payments, maintaining her dispute about the outcome of the surgery.
It seems that Omni last heard from Mrs F regarding repayments in May 2017. It appears to 
have subsequently sent further letters requesting repayment in July 2017, March 2018, 
March 2019 and September 2019.
All things considered I think that the position that Omni took regarding Mrs Fs requirements 
to make repayments under the lending agreement was fair. I also think that it made its 
position clear in the respect that Mrs F was required to make repayments towards the loan.
I understand that Mrs F had moved address and may not have received some of the 
correspondence Omni sent her. I havent seen any indication from Omnis contact notes that 
Mrs F told it about her updated address, but in any case, I think it had made it clear Mrs F 
was required to repay the lending. So, I dont think it was reasonable for Mrs F to have 
interpreted that she was no longer required to.
I accept that it seems that Omni failed to record information about the account with credit 
reference agencies  as our investigator mentioned, Mrs F has provided evidence to show 
that the account wasnt being reported. I can only assume that was an administrative error 
on Omnis part, and I think its absence is unlikely to have had a detrimental impact on Mrs F. 
I also dont think that its absence ought reasonably to have caused Mrs F to believe she no longer had any liability under the agreement.
Our investigator made a point about Omni not having been consistent about whether interest 
would be charged to the agreement. I disagree. I think its notes point towards it having 
agreed a temporary suspension or removal of interest. I dont think there was an obligation 
for it to have done so, whether short or long term, so I think its acted fairly in adding interest 
to the account because the agreement allows it to do so.
Overall, in relation to Omnis administration of the account, I find that it handled the situation 
fairly.
Is it fair for Omni to pursue Mrs F for the lending?
Id consider requiring a business to write off an outstanding debt in exceptional 
circumstances. For example, in cases where doing so would avoid serious imminent harm or 
serious detriment being caused to a consumer.
Our investigator concluded that Omni ought to do so because Mrs F is particularly vulnerable 
and also experiencing financial difficulties.
I accept our investigators interpretation of Mrs F as being vulnerable. Shes spoken at length 
about suffering from mental health issues which were exacerbated by the events which led 
to this complaint as well as other recent and unfortunate events in her life. That being said, 
and whilst I dont underestimate or question Mrs Fs vulnerabilities, Im not persuaded that 
shes vulnerable to the extent that being required to repay her lending with Omni would 
cause her serious harm or serious detriment.
Mrs F has also spoken at length about the detrimental impact events have had on her 
finances. But, I havent found Mrs Fs account of her finances to be particularly persuasive. 
And she hasnt, for example, said that she isnt able to repay the lending or provided 
evidence to support that despite being invited to. By contrast, Ive seen an email from Mrs F 
to Omni in which she says she doesnt have a problem paying for her surgery when shes 
happy with it and its complete. Shes also been very consistent, in saying that she doesnt 
think she ought to repay the lending because she didnt receive the service financed by the 
lending. 
Overall, Im not satisfied that this service has been presented with sufficient information or 
evidence to persuade me that requiring Omni to write off Mrs Fs debt would be the right 
thing to do in the circumstances. Nonetheless, Id remind Omni of its ongoing responsibility 
to treat Mrs F with due consideration and forbearance. My conclusions shouldnt prevent 
Omni from making a concession, such as writing off the debt, should it subsequently 
consider it appropriate to do so in light of further evidence provided to it by Mrs F.
I expect that Mrs F with be particularly disappointed in the conclusions Ive reached about 
how Omni has treated her, but I can assure her Ive carefully considered all of her 
submissions in great detail before reaching my conclusion.
Omni responded to say it had no further comments. Mrs F responded with a number of 
comments. In summary, she said;
- The information recorded with credit reference agencies is inaccurate as the debt is 
over six years old but is showing as two years old. Given the time passed since the 
start of the agreement it shouldnt be on her credit file anymore.
- Omni ought to have known she had changed address because the supplier of the surgery had known. 
- She believes her section 75 claim is valid because she didnt receive goods or 
services of an acceptable standard based on what a reasonable person would expect 
and has not been offered a remedy.
- She is in receipt of benefits, has four children and is disabled so shouldnt be 
expected to repay the debt.
- She didnt pay to be treated for an infection, but for cosmetic surgery which clearly 
went wrong. Shes mentally unwell, has an autoimmune disease which will never go 
away, cannot work and cannot look after herself.
In support of her comments, Mrs F provided medical evidence which shows she suffers from 
various conditions. She also provided a letter showing that she was entitled to Personal 
Independence Payments. And she referred to past events which she believes have 
contributed significantly to her vulnerabilities.
The case has been passed back to me to make my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I did with in my provisional decision, Ive summarised Mrs Fs recent submissions in less 
detail than she presented them. Its simply because I dont find it necessary to cover every 
point in detail in explaining what I consider to be a fair outcome. Again, I can assure Mrs F 
Ive considered everything shes said carefully and in detail.
Ill deal firstly with how Mrs Fs agreement has been represented with credit reference 
agencies. I accept Mrs Fs previously shown that Omni hasnt reported some information 
about the agreement. Ive not been presented with recent evidence to demonstrate whats 
currently being recorded so I dont know whether the information Omni is now recording is 
accurate. But, I think that if Omni has failed to record information regarding Mrs F not having 
paid towards her agreement its unlikely to have an adverse impact on her. 
I note that Mrs F has questioned the length of time the agreement will be represented on her 
credit file. Generally speaking, Id expect information to be recorded with credit reference 
agencies for the duration of the agreement and for that data to be removed in line with the 
relevant data retention schedules. In this case the lending has still not been repaid and I 
understand Omni hasnt defaulted the account or taken recovery action. So, I think its fair for 
Omni to continue to record up to date information about the account.
That being said, the information Omni records needs to be accurate. So, I remind Omni of its 
responsibility to record accurate information with credit reference agencies. If it is the case 
that the start date of the agreement is incorrect, or if there is data missing from the relevant 
entry, Omni should ensure that what its reporting is current and correct. Should Mrs F have 
ongoing concerns about what Omni is reporting, she may be able to raise this as a further 
complaint with Omni in the future. 
Im not satisfied that Omni ought to have known that Mrs F had changed address. Based on 
what shes said as well as Omnis records Im persuaded that it hadnt been told about her 
change of address, and it was therefore reasonable of it to have written to the 
correspondence address it had on file about the lending. Im not persuaded Omni ought to have known on the basis that the supplier did.
Mrs Fs comments regarding the outcome of her section 75 claim havent caused me to 
reconsider my provisional findings. I remain of the view that the outcome Omni reached was 
reasonable based on the adjudication it had sight of. And, I dont think this service is the 
appropriate forum for the adjudication to be reconsidered, for the reasons explained in my 
provisional decision. 
As I did in my provisional decision, I accept that Mrs F is vulnerable. The evidence she 
provided supports that and Ive got a great deal of sympathy for Mrs F given the challenges 
shes faced with. Im still not persuaded however, that Mrs F isnt able to repay the lending; 
shes provided evidence of being in receipt of what I understand to be a benefit which is 
available to people whether theyre working or not, and has provided very little evidence of 
her financial position despite being given ample opportunity to. It seems to me that Mrs F 
has chosen not to repay the lending on the basis that she believes the surgery wasnt of an 
acceptable standard. Particularly because shes said that to Omni previously.
In any case, there are no set criteria which Mrs F needs to meet in respect of either the 
extent to which shes vulnerable or in respect of her financial position, to justify asking Omni 
not to pursue her for the lending. These are factors we ought to take into account, but even if 
I were to accept that Mrs F isnt working and is vulnerable, ultimately it comes down to 
whether it would be the right thing to do based on what Mrs F has told us about her 
circumstances.  
Overall, whilst Im sympathetic to Mrs Fs various personal challenges, Im not persuaded 
that itd be fair to tell Omni to write off the lending based on everything thats been said. As 
my provisional decision mentioned, Omni has on ongoing responsibility to treat Mrs F fairly 
as well as with due consideration and forbearance. My decision doesnt prevent Omni from 
making a subsequent decision to write off the outstanding lending should it be persuaded its 
appropriate based on its subsequent dealings with Mrs F.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Ombudsman