DRN-1232291
 
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him a credit card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
 What happened
Mr P took out the PPI at the same time as applying for the credit card by post.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr P disagrees and so the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr P says he wasnt made aware that the policy was optional. Ive seen the application form 
that Mr P completed. There is a separate section for PPI with a box that needed to be ticked 
if the applicant wanted PPI. Mr P has ticked the box. If Mr P hadnt wanted the policy he 
could have left the box blank. I consider that Mr P would have known from the wording and 
layout of the form that he had a choice about taking out PPI. The sale happened a long time 
ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr Ps recollection of events has faded. On balance I 
think that Mr P decided to buy it, knowing that he didnt have to, even if he no longer 
remembers doing so.
Barclays didnt advise Mr P to take out the policy, so it didnt need to ensure that it met his 
needs. But it did need to provide Mr P with sufficient information for him to be able to make 
an informed choice about whether or not it was right for him.
I think Mr P would have known something about the policy  that it would have covered his 
credit card repayments if he was unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment 
 because I dont think hed have opted for the PPI without knowing anything about it at all.
Mr P has provided evidence that he had a work income protection policy at the time. The 
benefit was £431.60 per month. As Mr P was earning £20,000 at the time (according to the 
application form), the benefit would only have been around a third of his usual take home 
pay. Having the PPI would have meant that he wouldnt have had to use any of this limited 
benefit to pay his credit card bill. Mr P says he cant remember how much he would have 
held in savings at the time, although he would have had some savings. However, having the 
policy would have allowed him to retain any savings or use them to cover other outgoings at 
what would have been a difficult time. Mr P also says he had separate cover for his 
mortgage repayments, but that was covering a different risk than the credit card PPI was set up to cover. Overall I consider that Mr P had a need for the policy and could have benefitted 
from it.
Its possible that Barclays didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should 
have, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr P wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I think that he had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont think 
that further information would have caused him to change his mind. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman