DRN-3818380
The complaint and what happened
Mr L complains HSBC UK Bank Plc wont reimburse money he lost to a scam. He is being 
represented in his complaint. 
Mr L met someone online who persuaded him to invest in cryptocurrency. Between May and 
July 2022 Mr L invested over £12,200.  There was also a further payment of £15 in August 
2022 which hasnt been reported as part of this scam. Mr L also received a credit of 
£1,126.34 from the crypto-exchange in June 2022  incorrectly reported as a debit by the 
representative. Mr Ls total loss is therefore just over £11,100. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as he wasnt persuaded any of the payments 
were suspicious such that HSBC ought to have intervened in them. The matter has been 
referred for determination as the representative considers that multiple payments in one day 
ought to have triggered the banks fraud alert systems. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure the parties that although I have only summarised the complaint and 
background above, I have read and considered whats been provided. Having done so, I 
agree with the outcome reached by the investigator for the following reasons:
Under regulations and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, 
banks should execute authorised payment instructions without undue delay. The 
starting position is that liability for authorised payments rest with the payer, even if 
they were tricked into making those payments. There is no dispute that Mr L 
authorised the payments. 
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank 
had a duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams, so far as is 
reasonably possible. If in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which 
ought reasonably to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or a financial crime, it 
might be liable for losses incurred by its customer, as a result. 
The representative has argued that payments to the crypto provider ought to have 
been treated with caution has it had been banned from operating in the UK by the 
regulator. But thats not strictly true. The business had been banned from carrying 
out any regulated activities in the UK it was no longer authorised by the regulator. 
That was because it wasnt carrying out regulated activities that warranted 
authorisation. And as the representative knows, crypto assets are not regulated. 
The representative has also argued that Mr L had little to no knowledge of 
cryptocurrency before falling victim to a scam. But that doesnt appear to be strictly 
true either. Mr L received a credit from the same crypto asset provider over six 
months prior to the first transaction in dispute. And Mr L made a further payment to 
the same provider in August 2022, which hasnt been reported as being part of the 
scam. 
I have nevertheless considered the operation of Mr Ls account in the months leading 
up to the transactions in question. And while I accept some of the transactions were 
higher than other payments made from the account, Im not persuaded they were so 
high that they ought to have appeared suspicious. I am aware Mr L did make multiple 
payments to the crypto asset provider in one day. And sometimes that can be an 
indication of a customer falling victim to a scam. But Im mindful Mr L made multiple 
payments to a number of different merchants in one day, such that I consider it was a 
fairly regular occurrence and typical account behaviour for him. Overall, having 
considered the matter carefully, I dont find the pattern of payments was so unusual 
or uncharacteristic such that HSBCs fraud alert systems ought to have triggered. 
I have also considered whether there were any recovery options. As the payments 
were made by card, any chargeback option was unlikely to succeed as payments 
went to a crypto asset provider who provided the service requested by exchanging 
fiat money into crypto currency.  
I appreciate Mr L lost money to a scam. Despite my natural sympathy for the 
situation in which he finds himself, I dont find HSBC did anything wrong in following 
his payment instructions. I therefore make no award against it. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman