DRN-4318180
The complaint
Mrs Ms complained that Reassured Ltd didnt accurately capture the health information 
provided by her husband when they bought their joint life insurance policy  as a result of 
which the insurer declined her claim when her husband passed away.
What happened
In summer 2019, following discussions with their bank, Mrs M and her husband, Mr S, were 
contacted by Reassured about purchasing a life insurance policy.  As part of the application, 
Reassured put a number of health and lifestyle questions to them and captured the answers 
on the application forms.  Based on this information, an insurer Ill call U offered them a 
policy with an initial sum assured of £120,000, decreasing over a nine year term.
Mr S was sadly diagnosed with cancer in early 2020 and passed away in late 2021.  Mrs M 
made a claim on the policy.  U declined the claim.  Having considered all the evidence, 
including records from Mr Ss GP, U said Mr S had failed to disclose a fatty liver or 
diverticulitis at the time of purchase.  They said either of those conditions would have led to 
them obtaining further information before agreeing cover.  And, given his subsequent health 
issues, it was unlikely theyd ever have been able to offer cover.  
U noted that Mr S had disclosed his fatty liver to Reassured but Reassured hadnt passed on 
that information.  They said that, if she wanted to pursue this, Mrs M would need to take this 
up with Reassured.
Mrs M did so.  In their response to her complaint, Reassured accepted theyd had 
information about Mr Ss fatty liver, which theyd not included in the application.  They said 
they thought U would still have considered cover if it had been.  But they said there may 
have been other failures to disclose, which would have caused the application to be 
declined. 
Reassured asked Mrs M for the opportunity to review the medical evidence before offering 
redress.  Having done that, they concluded U would have declined cover because Mr S 
hadnt disclosed his diverticulitis.  So they said the failure disclose his fatty liver made no 
difference to Us decision.  Reassured offered £250 for the distress and inconvenience     
Mrs M was caused.
Mrs M didnt think this was a satisfactory resolution to her complaint and brought it to our 
service.  Our investigator considered the complaint and concluded Reassured needed to do 
more to resolve it.  She was satisfied that, even if Reassured had passed on all the 
information theyd been given by Mr S, U would still have declined the claim, because he 
didnt disclose the diagnosis of diverticulitis.  But she thought £500 was a more reasonable 
sum to recognise the distress and inconvenience their errors had caused Mrs M.
Reassured agreed to pay £500 compensation.  But Mrs M didnt agree with the investigators 
view.  So Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mrs Ms complaint.  But I dont think Reassured need to do 
any more than theyve already agreed to resolve it.  I know Mrs M will be disappointed by my 
decision and Im sorry about that.   Ill explain why Ive made it.
First, I want to clarify the extent of what I can consider here.  The complaints about 
Reassured  not about U.  So I cant comment on whether Us decision to decline the claim 
was fair or reasonable.  Rather, Ill focus on what Reassured did  and whether I think their 
actions were detrimental to the claim.
The key facts in this complaint arent disputed.  Mr S had two conditions  a fatty liver and 
diverticulitis.  U have indicated that either condition would have led them to postpone offering 
cover, pending a review of Mr Ss medical records.  They decided thered been a 
misrepresentation on the application, so they voided the policy and repaid the premiums.
Reassured accept Mr S disclosed the fatty liver to them, and they didnt pass that onto U.  
But they concluded even if they had, the outcome would have been the same, because Mr S 
didnt disclose the diverticulitis.  Mrs Ms position is that he couldnt disclose this because he 
didnt know he had it.  She says he did disclose he had irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) 
having been diagnosed with this in around 2014.
Ive thought very carefully about this.  Because this complaints not about U, Ive not been 
provided with all the evidence on which they based their decision  in particular, Mr Ss 
medical records.  But I do have some medical information from Mrs M.  And I have copies of 
the correspondence in which U explained their decision about the claim.
Mrs M has provided us with a copy of a colonoscopy report recording an examination of     
Mr S in 2017.  It records a diagnosis of diverticulosis and refers back to the GP.  Whilst this 
is slightly different from diverticulitis, I dont think thats relevant to this complaint, as neither 
was disclosed.
The report doesnt record what information the consultant gave Mr S.  And I dont have the 
GP records.  But the letter U sent to Mrs M following a review of their decision to decline the 
claim provides more information about diverticulitis.
The letter says:
In terms of the diverticulitis, I note that Mr S was told this was a benign condition and that 
he did not need any specific treatment for it. The question about digestive disorders does not 
specify that benign conditions should be excluded and we would therefore have expected 
this to be disclosed as well. Again this would have resulted in our underwriters obtaining a 
medical report from Mr Ss GP.
I think this shows U saw evidence  contrary to Mrs Ms testimony  that Mr S did know 
about his diagnosis.  And its clear this would have resulted in them obtaining a medical 
report from his GP  regardless of whether or not theyd been told about the fatty liver. 
Putting things right
I appreciate Mrs M wants Reassured to step into the shoes of U and pay the claim.  I dont 
think its fair to ask them to do that, because the evidence from U is that theyd have taken 
the action they did even if it were only the diverticulitis that wasnt disclosed.  That means Reassureds error in not including the information they were given about the fatty liver didnt 
change the outcome of the claim.  
But I do think its fair Reassured should pay Mrs M compensation for their admitted failure to 
include information about Mr Ss fatty liver in the application and for other errors the 
investigator identified.  I agree with her view that £500 is a reasonable amount of 
compensation for this.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Ms complaint about Reassured Ltd and 
directing Reassured to pay her £500 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman