DRN-2477098
The complaint
Mrs M has complained that TFS Loans Limited (TFS or the lender) should not 
have agreed a guarantor loan for her in November 2014.
What happened
TFS agreed a loan of £7,500 for Mrs M on the 24 November 2014. The monthly 
repayment was £288 over a term of four years, and the total amount to be repaid came 
to about £13,830 (figures rounded). This was a guarantor loan, in other words it was 
granted on the basis that Mrs M had a guarantor who would be responsible for repaying 
the loan if she failed to meet her repayments.
Mrs M says that she should never have been given the loan as it was clearly unaffordable 
for her. She says she was in financial difficulty, had defaulted on several loans and had a 
county court judgement awarded against her. Mrs M says the loan made her financial 
situation worse and she had to borrow from high cost lenders to meet her living costs. She 
also explained that she has a disability and that her mental health has suffered, because 
managing her loan repayments has caused her severe stress and anxiety.
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and found that TFS was irresponsible when it 
agreed to lend to Mrs M. They recommended that TFS refund Mrs Ms interest 
repayments along with compensatory interest.
TFS disagreed with this recommendation and asked for the complaint to come to me, as 
an ombudsman, to review and resolve. I sent out a provisional decision on the 
9 November 2020 explaining why I planned to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. I gave both 
parties a month to respond to my findings and to provide any new information or 
arguments they wished me to consider. Mrs M responded to say that she agreed with my 
provisional decision but I have had no response from TFS.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive had no new information to consider and, altogether, I see no need to depart from my 
initial conclusions. For completeness I will set out my reasons and conclusions again here.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when TFS lent to Mrs M. Its 
rules and guidance obliged TFS to lend responsibly. As set out in its Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC), TFS needed to pay due regard to the interests of its customers 
and treat them fairly and it would not be doing so if it targeted customers with regulated 
credit agreements which are unsuitable for them, by virtue of their indebtedness, poor 
credit history, age, health, disability or any other reason. (CONC 2.2.2G).
When agreeing credit, TFS needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps to assess 
whether or not a borrower could afford to meet its loan repayments in a sustainable 
manner over the lifetime of the agreement.
CONC 5.3.1G stated that
1. In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required  
a firm should take into account more than assessing the customer's ability 
to repay the credit.
2. The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required  should 
include the firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customer's ability to meet 
repayments under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner without 
the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse 
consequences.
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner meant being able to meet repayments out of 
normal income while meeting other reasonable commitments; without having to borrow 
further to meet these repayments; without having to realise security or assets (CONC 
5.3.1G - 6) or in particular without incurring or increasing problem indebtedness (ILG 4.3). 
ILG refers to the Irresponsible Lending Guidance produced by the previous regulator - 
the Office of Fair Trading - which this part of CONC specifically references.
Neither the law nor the FCA specified what level of detail was needed to carry out an 
appropriate assessment or how such an assessment was to be carried out in practice. 
The FCA said that the level of detail would depend on the type of product, the amount of 
credit being considered, the associated cost and risk to the borrower relative to the 
borrowers financial situation, amongst other factors.
As set out in CONC, the risk to the borrower directly relates to the particulars of the 
lending and the circumstances of the borrower. In other words the assessment needs to 
be borrower-focussed. It is not an assessment of the risk to the lender of recouping its 
money, but of the risk to the borrower of incurring financial difficulties or experiencing 
significant adverse consequences as a result of the decision to lend. So even in this case 
where Mrs M had a guarantor who agreed to step in and meet repayments in the event 
that she couldnt, this doesnt absolve TFS of its obligation to assess whether in the first 
instance Mrs M could meet her repayments without undue difficulty.
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mrs Ms case, I have considered 
the following questions:
- did TFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Mrs Ms loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the 
loan in a sustainable way?
- if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
- did TFS make a fair lending decision?
TFS says that it gathered information from Mrs M about her income and expenditure. It 
recorded that she had an income of £3,845 comprising her salary of approximately £1,100 
and various benefits amounting to about £2,745. These benefits included two separate 
Disability Living Allowances (DLA)  one for her and one for her daughter, who Mrs M says 
is highly disabled and spends much of her time in hospital. TFS also noted that Mrs M said 
she had three dependents.
TFS recorded Mrs Ms monthly expenses as approximately £2,770, which included £270 
of existing credit repayments each month. TFS estimated that this left Mrs M with a 
disposable monthly income of over £1,000, after she made her loan repayment.TFS says it checked Mrs Ms payslip and three months of her bank statements and 
provided copies of these covering the two months prior to the loan. These support what 
shed said about her income. It also says it carried out a check on Mrs Ms credit file and 
provided a summary of this which showed a recent current account and mail order, and a 
defaulted payday loan.
It would seem, on the face of it, that Mrs M had enough disposable income to meet her 
loan repayments each month. And that TFS carried out a proportionate check by looking 
into her income and expenses and considering her monthly disposable income. However, 
as the regulations set out, TFS needed to take reasonable steps to assess that Mrs M 
would be able to meet her repayments sustainably, in other words without having to 
borrow further or without increasing problem indebtedness. Ive looked through the two 
months bank statements that TFS provided (covering the 24 September to 21 November 
2014) and I think the information in these should have prompted TFS to look into Mrs Ms 
finances in more depth before agreeing such a relatively large loan for her.
These statements showed that Mrs M was paying other debts aside from those TFS took 
into account in its estimate of her disposable income. These include a short term high cost 
loan and a credit union loan. In addition, there were several large cheque payments 
(amounting to over £1,200 in October) and Mrs M was spending money on gambling, 
amounting to over £850 in November. TFS said in response to our adjudicators view that 
Mrs M was spending her disposable income as she saw fit and within her limits. It said 
specifically that the amounts she was spending on gambling were only a small 
percentage of her monthly income. However, taking this spending pattern into account 
alongside the other unaccounted for regular spending I can see, I think TFS ought to have 
been concerned about the sustainability of the loan repayments for Mrs M and looked into 
her expenses in more detail.
Had TFS acted on this, I think its likely it would have seen that Mrs M was having 
difficulty managing her finances. In its final response letter TFS said that when asked 
about adverse credit Mrs M said that her sister had run up a debt in her name incurring a 
county court judgement (CCJ) for £700. Mrs M said that when she found out about it she 
repaid the debt immediately and it was due to come off her credit file shortly. Mrs M has 
provided a copy of her credit file and I can see from this that there was a CCJ awarded 
against her in June 2014, just a few months before taking out this loan, for an amount of 
over £4,000. I can also see that she had at least ten active accounts at that time, most of 
which had recently defaulted and were with third-party debt collectors.
I dont think TFS would have agreed to lend to Mrs M under these circumstances. I think 
it would have been obvious that her financial situation was such that it wasnt likely shed 
be able to meet further credit in a sustainable manner and agreeing this loan simply 
prolonged her indebtedness, potentially for another four years. And so I think TFS was 
irresponsible to have agreed to lend to Mrs M on this occasion.
A statement of Mrs Ms loan account shows that she didnt manage to repay this loan as 
agreed. She incurred late payment and missed direct debit fees in most months in 2015 
and 2016, eventually entering into a repayment plan in 2019. I understand that, as of 
October 2020, there is an outstanding account balance of over £1,200.
Putting things right 
As Ive found TFS was irresponsible to have agreed to lend to Mrs M, she shouldnt 
have to repay more than the capital amount of the loan. Therefore, in order to put Mrs M 
back in the position she would have been in had it not agreed to lend to her, TFS should:-consider all payments made by Mrs M (including missed payment fees and 
returned direct debit fees) as payments towards the original capital amount of 
£7,500; and
-refund all amounts Mrs M paid above this capital amount; and
-pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates they were 
paid to the date of settlement;
-remove any adverse information about this loan from Mrs Ms credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to take off tax from this interest. TFS must give 
Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
Im upholding Mrs Ms complaint about TFS Loans Limited (trading as TFS Loans) and 
require it to put things right for her as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2021.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman