DRN-2811748
The complaint
Mr C is complaining that the car he bought through a hire purchase agreement from
FirstRand Bank Limited trading as MotoNovo finance (Motonovo) was not of satisfactory
quality.
What happened
Mr C took a hire purchase agreement through MotoNovo in December 2018 to purchase a
car. The car was approaching ten years old and had covered around 102,000 miles, and the
cash price was £9,500.
He began to have issues with the car within the first month, and after Mr C called them out,
the AA said there were fault codes for glow plugs, the control unit, and three fuel injectors.
The car was taken back to the dealer in mid-January as it was under warranty for the first
month. They kept the car for 2 weeks, providing Mr C with a courtesy car, before contacting
him to return the car to him, telling him it was repaired.
After a few more weeks, around the end of February, Mr C began to suffer similar problems
with the car as previously. He was unable to return the car to the dealership until a break in
his work in April. The car was driveable but suffered performance problems, misfires and
sometimes cut out.
The dealership agreed to look at the car and provided Mr C with a courtesy car again.
However, they were unable to fully diagnose the problems at the time as their specialist was
on holiday. They asked Mr C for the courtesy car back, so he took his vehicle back in mid-
April. It was clear to him on his drive home that the car still had the same problems, so he
left the car at a local garage, and decided to hire a car as he needed a reliable car for work
at that point. He also raised a complaint with MotoNovo at this time.
MotoNovo commissioned an independent report on the car as part of their investigation, and
this was carried out in May 2019. At this point, the mileage of the vehicle was logged as a
little over 110,000 miles. The report concluded the car had issues with glow plugs and
injectors, and that most likely these faults were not developing at point of sale.
MotoNovo rejected Mr Cs complaint based on the independent report saying the issues
were most likely not developing at point of sale. Mr C then arranged for the car to be taken to
a specialist mechanics, who diagnosed problems with injectors four, five and six, and the
glow plug control unit. The work was carried out, and Mr C paid around £1300 for this.
I issued a provisional decision on 5 March 2021. My provisional findings were as follows:
Mr C is concerned that the repairs supposed to have taken place in January might not have
been done properly, or perhaps even done at all. He feels the same problems which
appeared in the first month were still occurring in later months, making the car of
unsatisfactory quality when supplied.
The complaint brought to us is about the car supplied by MotoNovo being of unsatisfactory
quality when it was supplied to Mr C. Where I have looked at the dealer and their
involvement below, it is in their role as the broker of the Finance agreement by which
MotoNovo supplied the car to Mr C. This is to help me decide whether the car was of
satisfactory quality when MotoNovo supplied it to Mr C.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a contract to
supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
To be considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet the standard that a
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the
goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.
So, it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court
would take into account might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and
the vehicles history.
MotoNovo supplied Mr C with a car that was almost ten years old and had travelled 102,000
miles when it was supplied. And the price of the car was lower than it would have been if it
had been supplied new.
So, I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would expect that some of the parts of the
car might have already suffered notable wear and tear. And theres a greater risk this car
might need significant repair and/or maintenance sooner than a car which wasnt as road 
worn when it was supplied.
What this means in this case is that just because something went wrong quite soon after Mr
C took delivery of the car, this does not automatically mean the car was not of satisfactory
quality when supplied. If the issues being suffered would be considered normal wear and
tear for a car of the age and mileage, the car may still have been of satisfactory quality at
the point it was supplied.
On balance, it seems most likely that the car had glow plug and injector issues within the first
month, and then again in the following months. The initial diagnosis from the AA suggested
these problems, and the description Mr C has given of the car and its issues fits with this.
Then when the car was looked at later from May 2019 for the independent report, and by Mr
Cs garage, these were again the problems which were identified.
Whilst I have sympathy for Mr C in suffering problems shortly after the car was supplied, I
need to consider whether these problems demonstrate that the car was not of satisfactory
quality when it was supplied.
Mr C is also concerned that the issue may never have been fixed in January when the dealer
said they had fixed the problems. He was only told verbally that the issues had been fixed,
but when Mr C and our service have asked the dealer for job sheets or paperwork to show
what work was done, they have been unable to supply any written evidence of the work
carried out.
I agree this is unfortunate. Without the written evidence, I will weigh up whether I think repair
work was carried out at that point. In his original complaint raised with MotoNovo, Mr C
provided a detailed timeline. He said that when he got the car back, which will have been
around the beginning of February, for a short period the vehicle appeared OK to drive. With
the problems that were described in January, I am not persuaded that the car would have
appeared OK to drive in February if repairs had not been carried out. It was then the end of
February before Mr C says problems began again. Therefore, I think on balance that some
form of repair work was most likely carried out by the dealer, although I do not know exactly
what work that would have been.Unfortunately, the lack of paperwork from the repairs means we cannot be certain which, if
any, injectors were replaced out of the six injectors present in the car. We know that injectors
four, five and six were replaced in May by Mr Cs garage, and when we spoke to that
garage, they told us that it was more common to replace all six injectors at once, but if only
three were faulty at the time and the other three proved to be fine, the customer would have
a choice on this.
This differs slightly from Mr Cs testimony when he responded to us after we provided our
initial view. In his email in November 2020, he says that he had been told that none of the 6
injectors had recently been changed by this garage. I appreciate that exact conversations
can be difficult to remember accurately many months down the line. I also think its important
to recognise that for some issues with the glow plugs or injectors, replacement of the
injectors might not have been required. It might be that other repairs could have remedied
the problems, and with no definitive evidence as to what was done in January, I cant say for
certain what happened.
Its possible that three injectors were replaced in January by the dealer, and then the
remaining three by the customers garage in May. It could also be that repairs were carried
out in January which did not require the injectors to be replaced at that point.
I completely understand Mr Cs frustration however at there being no paperwork to confirm
this. He feels this is because the dealer is hiding the work they did or didnt carry out, which
would impact on my decision about whether the car was of satisfactory quality when
supplied. So, I think its important alongside this to recognise that even if I did not feel that
the dealer had carried out any repairs in January, I dont believe this would change my view
on the complaint.
We have no specific diagnosis around what has caused the injectors or glow plugs to fail. No
mechanic has highlighted a fault which has caused the problems, or specifically said it was
wear and tear or similar. I have therefore considered the general lifespans and expectations
for these parts, to form a view as to what is most likely to have happened.
Injectors and glow plugs are both parts which have limited lifespans. I have investigated this,
and on average, these lifespans for this car are between 60,000 and 100,000 miles for
injectors and around 100,000 miles for glow plugs.
So, for a car which had covered over 100,000 miles at the point of supply, I think on balance
it would be considered reasonable wear and tear if these parts needed changing, even
shortly after the car was supplied. With no evidence of any other issues, I think it is most
likely that wear and tear of these parts has led to the problems suffered with the car.
Alongside this, in the 5 months from January to May 2019 after the car was supplied, Mr C
has driven it for around 8000 miles. Whilst Mr C confirmed that the problems began fairly
soon after the car was supplied, there is no evidence that the problems were present when
the car was supplied. Unfortunately, in the following weeks and months, as Mr C has begun
to use the car regularly, these parts have most likely reached the end of their normal lifespan
and needed changing.
At this stage, I am not persuaded that the car was of unsatisfactory quality when MotoNovo
supplied it to Mr C. I sympathise with Mr C having to change these components in the first
few months, but I dont agree that MotoNovo have done anything wrong here. As such, I
wont be asking MotoNovo to do anything more.
My provisional decisionFor the reasons I explain, I dont intend to uphold Mr Cs complaint. I now invite both parties
to make any further comments or provide any further evidence by the deadline date. After
this, I will make my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The business has accepted my provisional decision, and Mr C has not responded with any 
comments. I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings and the reasons for them. 
For the reasons laid out in my provisional decision and repeated above, I dont find that 
MotoNovo has done anything wrong here, and I wont be asking them to do anymore.
  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman