DRN-3855314
The complaint
Ms K complains The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) didnt do enough to protect her 
when she fell victim to a cryptocurrency investment scam. 
What happened
In May 2022 Ms K was introduced, by a friend, to a cryptocurrency investment scheme run 
by a company that Ill refer to as D. Ms K understood that her friend had invested in the 
scheme with D and made a good return. Ms K joined a social media group to understand 
more about the opportunity and attended a video call with the board members, who 
persuaded her to invest. Having satisfied herself that the opportunity was genuine, Ms K 
transferred £2,500 from her RBS current account to a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange 
platform (Ill refer to as C). From there it was transferred to the supposed investment. 
Ms K initially made some profit from her investment, which she was able to withdraw. But 
when she tried to make a further withdrawal the social media page shed been using was 
removed and she was no longer able to make contact with D or its board members. It was at 
this stage Ms K realised shed been scammed and contacted RBS for help.
RBS considered what had happened but explained it would not reimburse Ms K for the 
payments made to C, as the funds had been transferred into a wallet account held in Ms Ks 
name. But it accepted that its service had fallen below an acceptable standard when Ms K 
tried to contact it. So, it offered her £50 compensation.
Ms K was unhappy with RBS response and so referred a complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, with the help of a professional representative (Ill refer to as H). She 
complained that RBS had not asked her any questions before processing her payment, even 
though it was out of character for her usual account usage. She considered that had RBS 
intervened when she instructed her payment her loss could have been prevented. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. While he noted that the £2,500 payment was 
larger than Ms Ks typical transactions, he didnt think the payment was sufficiently unusual 
or suspicious that RBS should have intervened before processing the payment. As such, he 
did not think Ms Ks loss should reasonably have been prevented. He also explained that 
RBS was under no duty to attempt to recover Ms Ks funds as they went to an account in her 
own name. 
Ms K disagreed and asked for her complaint to be referred to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision. She maintained that the payment was unusual and so should have triggered an 
intervention from RBS.         
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and for largely the same reasons as our 
Investigator. I realise this will come as a disappointment to Ms K, but for the reasons Ill go 
on to explain I dont think RBS has acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
Im sorry to hear Ms K was the victim of a sophisticated and targeted scam and lost money 
as a result. I can appreciate why she wants to do all she can to recover the money she lost. 
But I can only direct RBS to refund Ms Ks losses if it can fairly and reasonably be held 
responsible for them. 
It is evident that Ms K authorised the £2,500 scam payment from her RBS account. So, 
although she didnt intend the money to go to the scammers, under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 and the terms and conditions of her account, Ms K is presumed liable for 
her loss in the first instance. And under the terms and conditions of the account, where a 
valid payment instruction has been received, RBSs obligation is to follow the instructions 
Ms K provides. 
H has suggested that RBS should have reimbursed Ms Ks losses under the Lending 
Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code. This is a voluntary code 
which requires signatories, such as RBS, to reimburse customers who are victims of scams 
in all but a limited number of circumstances. But the CRM code does not apply in these 
circumstances, as Ms Ks payment was made to a cryptocurrency exchange platform where 
the money was held in a wallet account held in her own name. 
While the CRM code doesnt apply, there are other relevant obligations that could apply. In 
accordance with the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and good 
industry practice, a bank has a duty to protect its customers, as far as is reasonably 
possible, against the risk of financial harm from fraud and scams. As such, there are 
circumstances where it might be appropriate for a bank to take additional steps or make 
additional checks before processing a payment in order to help protect its customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. But a bank would only need to intervene and ask 
more questions about the payment if an instruction was sufficiently unusual or 
uncharacteristic for the account. 
Ultimately, there is a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could 
potentially be fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments.
So, the starting point for me is to consider whether Ms Ks payment instruction was 
particularly unusual or uncharacteristic, taking account of her usual usage.
Ive reviewed Ms Ks account statements from January 2021 to May 2022 when the scam 
occurred. I accept that Ms Ks payment instruction of £2,500 was significantly larger than the 
payments shed previously made on the account. Ive also noted the payment was made to a 
new payee. But I dont think these factors alone should have prompted RBS to intervene 
before processing the payment. Its not wholly unusual for a consumer to occasionally make 
larger payments, including to new payees. And while £2,500 is a significant sum of money, 
it's not so large that I think it should have stood out as unusual to RBS. 
Ive also considered the other account activity around the £2,500 payment to see if anything 
else should have alerted RBS attention, but I dont think it should have. Ive noted that 
before making the payment to C, Ms K received a payment of the same amount from a 
family member into her account. While I appreciate Ms K thinks this should have stood out 
as suspicious, its quite usual before large outbound payments for an account to be credited 
with money from elsewhere. I think it was also significant that the payment didnt drain 
Ms Ks account balance. Often a fraud or scam will look to utilise all the consumers 
available funds, which didnt happen in this case. So, while with hindsight we know that Ms K was sadly falling victim to a scam, I dont think there was enough reason for RBS to suspect 
this at the point it processed the payment.  
Overall, I can find no reason why RBS ought to have intervened before processing Ms Ks 
payment instruction. As a result, I cant reasonably conclude that it could or should have 
prevented her loss. 
Ive considered whether, on being alerted to the scam, RBS could have done anything to 
recover Ms Ks losses, but I dont think it could have. The payment went to a wallet account 
held in Ms Ks name. Any transfer onwards from that wallet would have been untraceable 
and irrecoverable. As such, I dont think RBS could or should have attempted to recover 
Ms Ks lost funds. 
In conclusion, I have a great deal of sympathy with Ms K being the victim of what was clearly 
a cruel scam. But it would only be fair for me to direct RBS to refund her loss if I thought the 
bank was responsible  and Im not persuaded that this was the case. Everything 
considered, I cannot fairly and reasonably hold RBS liable in these circumstances. It follows 
that I will not be asking it to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman