DRN-3304029
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold them two 
packaged bank accounts. The first was an Additions account that was taken out at some 
point between May 1996 and February 1998 (The account was first introduced in May 1996 
and February 1998 is the earliest record Barclays has of Mr and Mrs M having the Additions 
account). The other account was a First Additions account that was taken out in March 2007.
 
Mr and Mrs M have explained that they took out both of these accounts in order to acquire 
and maintain an overdraft facility.
What happened
Our adjudicators looked into this complaint and they didnt think the accounts had been mis-
sold. Mr and Mrs M disagreed and so the complaint has been referred for an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive used that to help me decide this case. I think it might also help to explain that where 
matters are in dispute and evidence is incomplete, I have to base my decision on what I 
think was most likely to have happened, based on everything that is available.
Additions account
In relation to the Additions account, the first thing I need to consider is whether Mr and Mrs 
M were given a fair choice as to whether to take out the account. 
I can see that Mr and Mrs M say that they held a fee-free account prior to taking this 
account. So, I think that they wouldve been aware, in general, that Barclays offered fee-free 
accounts and that they were an option for them. 
Mr and Mrs M say that they took out this account in order to obtain and maintain an overdraft 
facility. But I think that it is more likely that they took out this account in order to get a 
cheaper overdraft than was available on a fee-free account. I say this because, when this 
account was taken out, it cost £5 per month and came with an interest free overdraft buffer 
zone of £100. And by having the Additions account, Mr and Mrs M would not have to pay the 
£5 monthly overdraft usage fee (which was applicable to fee-free accounts at the time).
I can see that from the earliest records that Barclays hold, Mr and Mrs M did regularly use 
their overdraft, though I do note that as time progressed, they used their overdraft less. It 
follows then that I think that it is likely that they were using it around the time of the upgrade, 
as after all, this benefit was the main benefit this account came with at the time. 
So, I think it is likely that having the Additions account meant that they were likely to have 
saved money on a monthly basis when it was initially taken out, compared to what they 
wouldve been charged in interest and charges to use their overdraft on a fee-free account. 
I note Mr and Mrs Ms comments that they rarely used their overdraft facility and when it was 
used it was not for long periods of time. That said, the £5 monthly overdraft usage fee 
wouldve been charged if they used their overdraft at any point in each month  even if it was 
only for a day. From the earliest statements that we have it suggests that the overdraft was 
being used enough for this to likely be beneficial to them at the time they took out the 
account. 
So overall I think that Mr and Mrs H agreed to the Additions account knowing that they did 
not have to. And I think its likely they agreed to it because they were attracted to the 
overdraft benefit, rather than because they thought it was the only way to get an overdraft in 
the first instance.
This account was taken out without a personal recommendation being made, so Barclays 
did not need to ensure that the account was right for Mr and Mrs M. But it was required to 
give Mr and Mrs M enough information about the account, so they understood what they 
were agreeing to. 
Given the circumstances of this complaint, I do not know what Mr and Mrs M were told about 
the account. But I think that the overdraft benefits wouldve been highlighted to make the 
account seem attractive. I accept that they may not have been told everything about all of 
the benefits, but I cant see anything specific that they were not told that I think wouldve 
changed their decision to take out the account.
Therefore, based on everything I have seen, I dont think the Additions account was mis-
sold. The account mayve changed in terms of cost and benefits over the years it was held, 
and I appreciate that due to the changing frequency of their overdraft use, it may not have 
provided value for money over time. But this does not mean it was sold incorrectly in the first 
place.
First Additions
Turning now to the sale of the First Additions account, again I think that Mr and Mrs M 
wouldve been aware that fee-free accounts were an option for them. I note that Mr and Mrs 
M say that they agreed to this account in order to keep their overdraft facility. But I can see 
by this point that their overdraft was barely used by them. So I find it unlikely that they would 
agree to this account, rather than a fee-free account, just to have an overdraft facility that 
they rarely used. So I think its more likely that they were attracted to the benefits that this 
account came with.
When Mr and Mrs M took out this account, it was £5 a month cheaper than the Additions 
account. It had broadly the same benefits, such as mobile phone insurance and an interest 
free overdraft. But the Additions account had a larger interest free overdraft of £250, rather 
than the £100 interest free overdraft that the First Additions account came with. 
I also note that the Additions account came with breakdown cover, whereas the First 
Additions account did not. Mr and Mrs M seem to have held mobile phones at the time of this 
sale (based on their bank statements) and they say that they did not drive. So I think that 
they may have opted for this account as it was cheaper than their existing account, but still 
included benefits that they could use such as the overdraft benefits and mobile phone 
insurance. It seems that this account was recommended to Mr and Mrs M. And overall, given their 
circumstances, this account does seem a reasonable fit for their circumstances at the time of 
the sale. So being advised to downgrade to a cheaper account with more suitable benefits is 
not unreasonable.
Again, I do not know what Mr and Mrs M was told about the account. But I think that the 
main benefits wouldve been discussed, and possibly a comparison made between what the 
First Additions account provided compared to what they already had. Again I accept that 
they may not have been told everything about all of the benefits but I cant see anything 
specific that they were not told that I think wouldve changed their decision to take out the 
account.
Therefore, based on everything I have seen, I dont think the First Additions account was 
mis-sold either. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman