DRN-4413809
The complaint
Mr E complains that Metro Bank PLC unfairly closed his account and asked him to repay his 
outstanding balances, which has had an impact on his credit file. Hes asked for the debts to 
be written off.
What happened
The facts of this case are largely not in dispute, so I will mention them only briefly here.
Mr E held accounts with Metro, including a current account with an overdraft, a loan, and a 
credit card. In February 2020 the bank wrote to him to say they no longer wished to provide 
him with banking services and would be closing his accounts in 60 days. 
However, Mr Es current account was in its overdraft, and Metro prevented any more 
spending until the account was paid off. This meant the direct debit for his loan could not be 
paid, and late payment markers were recorded on his credit file. They also prevented any 
further transactions on the credit card. Metro asked for his balances to be repaid.
In April 2020 Mr E complained about the restrictions on his account and the closures, but 
Metro responded to say they had acted in line with the terms of his account. 
Mr E entered into an agreement to make repayments to his loan, lower than the original loan 
schedule. He also entered into payment arrangements for the outstanding balances on the 
credit card and overdraft. 
In December 2020 he found that arrears were being reported on his credit file for the loan 
account, when he said hed been informed theyd be removed. Metro responded to say that 
they couldnt find any evidence this had been agreed. They said they had an obligation to 
report accurate information to the credit reference agencies. 
Mr E referred his complaint to our service, asking that the negative information be removed 
from his credit file, and the debts written off. It was looked at by several investigators with us, 
and Metro made several offers to resolve the complaint. The final offer from Metro 
acknowledged the payment arrangements were not put in place quick enough, so they 
offered to:
Remove the missed payments from Mr Es credit file from before the payment 
arrangements were in place
Refund the credit card interest from March 2020 to July 2020 to reflect the delay - 
£151.65
Refund him a balance on £83.37 he had previously repaid, which they had previously 
offered to write off
Pay him £75 for the delays in setting up his payment arrangements.
The investigator felt this was a fair way to resolve the complaint. They said Metro were within 
their rights to ask for repayment of the overdraft  but they should have set up the payment 
arrangements for the debts sooner. They felt it was right that these payment arrangements 
were recorded accurately on his credit file.
Mr E rejected this as an outcome  he said it didnt reflect the impact of the removal of the 
overdraft on him. He also said the accounts had now been defaulted on his credit file. The 
investigator looked at this, and said this was because he had subsequently stopped making 
payments to the debts, so it would be reasonable for Metro to record this as defaulted.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill clarify that this decision is not about Metros decision to close Mr Es current account and 
credit card. He complained about this separately, and then did not refer that particular 
complaint to our service in time. So, I wont be making any findings on whether Metro were 
fair to close the account. But I consider this to be relevant background information to the 
complaint Im deciding on  namely how Metro have dealt with Mr E and the balances 
outstanding.
The investigator has rightly pointed out that overdrafts are borrowing from banks  and they 
are repayable on demand. This is outlined in the terms of the account. In this case when 
Metro decided to close Mr Es account it was overdrawn, so its reasonable for the bank to 
ask for this to be repaid, and to stop any further lending with the overdraft. 
Similarly with Mr Es credit card, when Metro made the decision to close the account, they 
are under no obligation to allow continued spending with the card. As the bank were looking 
to exit the banking relationship, its understandable they wouldnt look to lend more money.
But even though Metro can ask for the overdraft to be repaid they still have an obligation to 
treat Mr E with forbearance and due consideration. At the time Mr E was near the credit 
limits for his overdraft and his credit card. There were signs that Metro could have picked up 
on that Mr E might struggle to repay the full overdraft balance in one go. It would have been 
reasonable at this point to look into Mr Es income and expenditure and see what he could 
afford to repay.
However, I can see this wasnt done until several months later. I can see from the contact 
notes Mr E contacted Metro to discuss a payment arrangement, but nothing was put in 
place. I accept he was making genuine attempts to resolve the situation and wasnt looking 
to avoid the debt.
When the payment arrangement was put in place, Mr E was making less than the 
contractual repayments towards his loan. Ive considered whether it would have been fairer 
to allow Mr E to continue making the contractual repayments to the loan. But I also note that 
the amount Metro agreed to accept for the payment arrangement  covering the loan, credit 
card and overdraft  was lower than the monthly repayments of the loan. 
As this amount would have been based on what Mr E could afford to repay at the time, it 
would seem to me that Mr E couldnt afford to continue repaying the loan at the contractual 
rate. In these circumstances, I would see it as unfair for Metro to ask him to continue 
repaying the loan at the contractual rate.Metro have accepted they didnt do enough to help at the time. They have already refunded 
the overdraft charges for this period, and I think its right they also refund the credit card 
interest. Im also satisfied its reasonable they remove any missed payment markers from 
Mr Es credit file and change it to show a payment arrangement was in place at this time. 
Ive considered what Mr E has said about not being informed of how it would be recorded on 
his credit file. But I also have to consider that it doesnt appear he was in a position to repay 
the overdraft or credit card in full, as he was asking Metro for a payment arrangement. So, 
there would always likely be an impact on his credit file in relation to these accounts. And the 
arrears notices issued by Metro explain the consequences of not making the full 
repayments. 
Metro has an obligation to report accurate information to the credit reference agencies, and 
as there was a payment arrangement in place then its not unreasonable for this to be 
reported as such. 
And when Mr E subsequently stopped making payments to the arrangement, then its also 
reasonable for Metro to record these as missed. I havent seen anything to suggest Metro 
offered to suspend or stop collecting the payment arrangements while the complaint was 
with our service. So, it would still be up to Mr E to continue repayments.
Metro previously offered to write off the then-outstanding balance of the overdraft (£83.37). 
Mr E has since repaid this anyway. But Im satisfied its fair for Metro to refund this directly to 
him. But there still remains outstanding balances on the credit card and loan. This is money 
that Mr E has been lent and had use of. As such, I dont think its unreasonable for Metro to 
ask him to repay it. I dont see a reason to ask them to waive or write off any further debts.
But Im satisfied that Metros delay in setting up the repayment plan will have caused Mr E 
more inconvenience than was necessary. Considering how long it went on, I think a payment 
of £75 compensation is appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that to resolve this complaint Metro Bank PLC must
Adjust Mr Es credit file to remove any late payment markers from February 2020 to 
June 2020
Deduct the credit card interest charged between March 2020 and July 2020 from the 
outstanding balance.
Refund £83.37 directly to Mr E.
Pay Mr E £75 compensation for the delays in setting up his payment arrangements.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman