DRN-3461130
The complaint
Miss M complains about the way Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) 
handled a claim she made on a group income protection insurance policy.
What happened
Miss M was a member of her employers group income protection insurance policy. 
Unfortunately, in July 2019, Miss M was diagnosed with cancer for the second time and 
required treatment. She made a claim on her group income protection insurance policy. In 
February 2020, Miss M was able to return to work on a phased basis and her claim 
remained in payment on a partial basis. Miss Ms return to work plan was put together with a 
rehabilitation team.
In late August 2020, Miss M returned to work on a full-time basis and so her claim was 
closed. At this point, Miss M was paid full pay by her employer. However, Miss M wasnt able 
to continue with working full time, as she was feeling unwell and run-down. And so in early 
October 2020, she began working four days per week. She asked L&G to reopen her income 
protection claim as a linked claim. 
L&G told Miss M that it would need to see medical evidence to demonstrate that Miss M 
wasnt fit to work full-time hours before it could reinstate her claim. Thats because evidence 
had already been provided from the rehabilitation team to show she was fit to work her 
contracted hours. Reports from treating therapists were provided in support of Miss Ms 
claim. L&G also required some information from Miss Ms GP. However, due to some delay 
in the provision of Miss Ms medical notes, L&G reinstated Miss Ms claim without the 
evidence itd requested from her GP.
Dr G, L&Gs Medical Officer also reviewed Miss Ms claim and put together 
recommendations in order to support Miss M returning to full-time hours over a period of 
weeks. This plan was due to commence on 30 November 2020 and the claim was reinstated 
from this point. Initially, it was recommended that Miss M should return to work full-time after 
a 10-week period. However, Miss M was unhappy with the proposed plan dates, as these 
included a period of annual leave. She subsequently underwent further assessment with 
occupational health. In February 2021, following review of additional medical evidence, it 
was ultimately decided that her part-time working should continue. Therefore, L&G continued 
to pay Miss M partial benefit under her policy.
Miss M was unhappy with the way L&G had handled her claim. She felt itd caused 
unnecessary delays in asking for medical information and that it had caused her further 
stress and upset. She also questioned why L&G hadnt appointed an independent medical 
examiner (IME) to assess whether she was fit for full-time work.
Our investigator thought L&G had handled Miss Ms claim fairly. She felt itd been fair for 
L&G to request further medical evidence in support of the claim, given the rehabilitation 
specialist had indicated that Miss M was fit for full-time work in September 2020. She didnt 
think L&G had caused unnecessary delays during the claims process. And while she 
understood why Miss M hadnt been happy with Dr Gs initial suggestion that her return to 
work plan should begin while she was on a period of annual leave, the investigator felt L&G 
was entitled to rely on the opinion of its clinician. She noted that when subsequent medical 
evidence showed Miss M wasnt fit for full-time work, L&G had continued to pay Miss Ms 
claim. So overall, she was persuaded that L&G had treated Miss M fairly.
Miss M disagreed and Ive summarised her responses to our investigator. She said her claim 
had been closed by L&G initially in August 2020 without its rehabilitation team checking how 
she was. She maintained that Dr Gs plan had been unreasonable, and she said her 
therapist had strongly agreed with her on this point.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. Miss M let us know that in September 2021, 
L&G ceased payment of her claim. I must make clear that this decision will only consider 
L&Gs handling of the claim up until 4 March 2021  the date L&G issued its final response 
to Miss Ms complaint. Thats because under our rules, a financial business must have the 
chance to look into a consumers concerns before we can potentially look into a complaint. If 
Miss M is unhappy with the termination of her claim in September 2021, shed need to make 
a new complaint to L&G about that issue alone before we can potentially look into it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Miss M, as I appreciate shes been through a 
distressing illness and a worrying time, I think L&G has handled her claim fairly. Ill explain 
why.
First, Id like to reassure Miss M that while Ive summarised the background to her complaint 
and her detailed submissions to us, Ive carefully considered all shes said and sent us. 
Within this decision though, I havent commented on each point shes raised and nor do our 
rules require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues. 
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
circumstances of Miss Ms claim and the available evidence, to decide whether L&G treated 
her fairly.
It's a general principle of insurance that its for a policyholder to provide enough evidence to 
demonstrate that they have a valid claim on their policy. Once an income protection claim 
has been accepted and is in payment, it would be for L&G to demonstrate that it should no 
longer be paid. It seems to me that much of Miss Ms complaint turns on the fact that L&G 
required further medical evidence from her treating team before it would reinstate the claim. 
So Ive carefully considered whether I think it was fair for L&G to do so.
Theres no dispute that L&G had accepted Miss Ms incapacity claim and was paying partial 
benefit while Miss M was working on a phased-return basis between February and August 
2020. This plan had been agreed between Miss M and the rehabilitation specialist.
However, on 31 August 2020, Miss M returned to work on a full-time basis. And so I dont 
think it was unfair for L&G to close the claim in August 2020, as Miss M was entitled to full 
pay from her employer. I also dont think it necessarily needed to call Miss M ahead of her 
return to work, following the conclusion of her phased return plan with the rehabilitation 
specialist.
Its clear from the evidence though that Miss M began to feel unwell and suffer from symptoms of fatigue following her return to full-time hours. She spoke with L&Gs 
rehabilitation specialist on 24 September 2020 to discuss how she was feeling following her 
return to full-time hours. Ive seen a copy of the report and I can see that Miss M had been 
undergoing cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) and had been advised to undergo EMDR 
treatment. L&Gs rehabilitation specialist suggested a referral to a clinic for this particular 
treatment to try and prevent further delays. I can also see that the specialist concluded:
Although the member has reported of fatigue and anxiety, I do not consider that these will 
prevent her from continuing with her contracted hours and duties.
They arranged a follow-up call with Miss M to check on her progress and recommended to 
L&G that it should proceed with the referral to support Miss M and to reduce the potential for 
her to be absent from work.
In my view then, the available evidence at this point suggests that the rehabilitation specialist 
felt that Miss M was fit to work full-time and suggested ways that L&G could support her. So 
it seems to me that L&G was taking proactive steps to try and support Miss M. And I also 
think that given the rehabilitation specialist felt Miss M was fit to work her contracted hours; it 
was fair for L&G not to reinstate the claim at this point.
It seems following the referral, the providers of Miss Ms CBT failed to pass on full details of 
what was expected by the EMDR provider at her first appointment. I dont doubt that this 
caused Miss M additional frustration and upset, and I appreciate she felt that this was 
therefore a wasted appointment. But L&G wasnt responsible for the way third-party 
therapists provided information to one another and so I dont think it would be fair for me to 
conclude that it had made any error here.
Miss Ms GP issued her with a sick note which stated that she was fit to work altered hours. 
This was initially issued on 29 September 2020 for a period of three weeks. This is a 
relatively short period of time and neither did it explain why Miss M was prevented from 
carrying out her role on a full-time basis. And so I can understand why L&G required further 
medical evidence from Miss Ms treating practitioners to show that she wasnt fit to work her 
contracted, full-time hours. This means I think it was reasonably entitled to request further 
information, both from her GP and the therapists providing treatment.
L&G first contacted Miss Ms GP for information on 17 November 2020. I accept this was 
some weeks after Miss M had returned to part-time hours and so I can understand why this 
delay may have been frustrating. I also understand though that Miss Ms employer had paid 
her full pay during October and November 2020, so I dont think I could fairly find shed 
suffered any actual financial loss as a result of this delay. I say that because she wouldnt 
have been entitled to partial benefit until December 2020  once her employers pay had 
reduced. It seems that the GP didnt print Miss Ms notes until mid-January 2021 and the GP 
didnt provide a specific response until 27 January 2021. Therefore, it seems to me that the 
real delay here was down to the GP practice, rather than anything L&G did wrong.
Whilst L&G waited for this information, it made the decision to refer Miss Ms case to Dr G 
for review. In the absence of the medical evidence, I think this was a fair and pragmatic step 
from L&G and an attempt to move things along for Miss M. Dr G recommended a phased 
return to work, beginning on 30 November 2020 and ending on 11 January 2021. Therefore, 
L&G reinstated Miss Ms claim from 30 November 2020 onwards. I appreciate Miss M was 
unhappy with Dr Gs plan because it was intended to build stamina  but she had annual 
leave booked for much of December 2020. Therefore, she didnt feel the plan was fair or 
would allow her to achieve its aim.
Ive thought about this carefully. I dont think it was unreasonable for L&G to rely on the clinical opinion of its own medical specialist when assessing the claim. But it seems to me 
that given Miss Ms concerns with Dr Gs conclusions, it sought further medical evidence to 
allow it to review her claim further. I think this was a fair and appropriate step from L&G. In 
January 2021, L&G asked for further evidence from Miss Ms therapist regarding her fitness 
to work. It also requested a report from occupational health, which was provided in mid-
February 2021. A further occupational health report was provided around a week later. The 
occupational health specialist recommended a longer period of a phased return to work. And 
on the basis of this additional medical information, L&G agreed to continue paying Miss Ms 
claim partially. I dont think this was an unreasonable timeframe  evidence was requested 
and reviewed promptly and a further claims decision was made in good time. 
Miss M has also queried why L&G didnt appoint an IME to assess her health. While I can 
understand why she may have felt this was a preferable option, I dont think L&Gs decision 
not to do so here has caused her to lose out. Thats because L&G was able to obtain 
evidence not just from its own Medical Officer; but also from Miss Ms therapist; her GP and 
from occupational health. And the totality of this evidence allowed L&G to make the decision 
to continue to pay Miss Ms claim for partial benefit.
As such then, whilst I sympathise with Miss Ms position, because its clear how strongly she 
feels about the handling of her claim, overall, I dont think that L&G has treated her unfairly. I 
understand there was a delay in settling the GPs invoice  but this was a matter between 
L&G and the GP practice. Miss M received full pay between August and November 2020 
and her claim was reinstated on 30 November 2020. I find L&G was reasonably entitled to 
satisfy itself that Miss M was unfit for full-time work, following her earlier full-time return. And 
broadly, I dont think it caused any overall delays for which I think I could fairly award 
compensation. This means Im not telling L&G to take any action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman