DRN-1525419
 
The complaint
Mr O complains about how Great Lakes Insurance SE settled his claim following a burglary 
at his caravan. 
What happened
Mr O had a caravan insurance policy with Great Lakes. In April 2019 the caravan was 
broken into and a number of items were stolen. Mr O made a claim on the policy.
Great Lakes accepted the claim, however said electrical items left in the caravan wouldnt be 
covered by the policy, as they were only covered while the caravan was in use. 
Mr O said that he was on a planned holiday in the caravan and only left it to return home for 
a few days following the death of his dog. He said, due to this, the caravan was in use as he 
returned a few days later to continue the holiday. So he thought the electrical items should 
be covered. He made a complaint to Great Lakes.
Great Lakes didnt uphold Mr Os complaint. It said the caravan didnt meet the definition of 
in use as outlined in the policy at the time of burglary and therefore electrical items werent 
covered. However it offered £20 compensation for any confusion caused. 
Subsequently, Great Lakes agreed to cover some additional items including a battery 
powered vacuum cleaner and some LED lights as a gesture of goodwill. But it said that 
cover wasnt provided for the television.
Mr O wasnt happy with this, he thought the caravan met the definition of in use as he was 
mid-way through a holiday. He said the policy says that it is still considered in use seven 
days after the holiday if parked at home, and as the storage park was its registered address 
this should be considered as home. Further he said Great Lakes had caused him 
inconvenience as it had paid the settlement in small amounts rather than all at once. He 
brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
She said the caravan didnt meet the definition of in use as laid out in the policy, so she 
thought Great Lakes had handled the claim fairly. Further she said the lights and vacuum 
cleaner were only included as a gesture of goodwill, which is why these payments were 
made separately after the original settlement.
Mr O didnt agree with this, he said the terms in the policy about electrical items were 
complicated and unclear. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Great Lakes says that the theft of electrical items isnt covered under the policy when a 
caravan isnt in use. It states under exclusions in the policy:
Theft of electronic or electrical equipment whilst left in the caravan when it is not in use;
So I can see that when a caravan isnt in use, then electrical items wont be covered. 
However Mr O and Great Lakes disagree about whether the caravan met the definition of in 
use at the time of the theft. 
The policy defines in use is as follows:
When you, your immediate family or any authorised user are using or visiting your caravan 
for holiday purposes or when the caravan is attached to a towing vehicle. This includes a 
seven (7) day period immediately prior to and returning from you, your immediate family or 
any authorised user using or visiting your caravan for holiday purposes provided the caravan 
is kept at your home during this seven (7) day period. Please note the policy definition of 
home excludes communal parking areas and public roads or highways.
So in order for the caravan to be considered in use under the policy it first needs to be 
being used for holiday purposes or attached to a towing vehicle. 
Mr O says he was mid-way through a holiday in the caravan, which means it was being used 
for holiday purposes at the time. I understand why he feels this way, as he always intended 
to return and complete his holiday. However I need to consider whether it was in use at the 
time when the theft took place. 
Mr O left the caravan and returned to his home for three to four days before going back to 
the caravan and discovering the theft. That means it took place while he was staying at his 
home, away from the caravan. During that time he wasnt using the caravan for holiday 
purposes. He was living, sleeping and using the facilities at his permanent home. If the theft 
had taken place while he was staying at his home and not mid-way through a stay at the 
caravan, then the cover would reasonably not apply. And I cant say that Mr Os intention to 
return to the caravan in the coming days changes that. 
So although Mr O always intended to return and complete his holiday, during the days when 
he was at his permanent home I dont think its reasonable to say the caravan met the 
definition of in use as described in the policy. 
Mr O also says that the caravans registered address is the storage address where it was 
left. He says this means that address should be considered as home as described in the 
definition above. This would mean he fulfilled the second part of the definition of in use:
This includes a seven (7) day period immediately prior to and returning from you, your 
immediate family or any authorised user using or visiting your caravan for holiday purposes 
provided the caravan is kept at your home during this seven (7) day period.
The policy also includes a definition of the word home, as follows:
Within the boundaries of your permanent residence or your immediate familys or any 
authorised users permanent residence but excluding communal parking areas and any 
public road or highwaySo although the storage site is the caravans registered address, the policy is clear that 
home relates to an authorised users permanent address. So I dont think where it is 
registered is relevant here.
Mr O says that he doesnt think the exclusion for theft of electrical items is made clear in the 
policy, so it isnt fair for Great Lakes to rely on it. I have looked at the policy and I dont agree 
that its unclear. The exclusion is listed in the policy and the terms in use and home are 
defined as I have outlined above. This leaves little room for interpretation. So I think the term 
is made clear.
So I dont think Great Lakes has treated Mr O unfairly in its application of the policy so I 
wont ask it to do anything differently. It has offered Mr O £20 compensation for any 
confusion caused. I think this is a fair offer.
Mr O is also unhappy about how Great Lakes has paid the claim. He says he has had to 
continually contact it in order to get payments made in bits, rather than it agreeing to the 
whole amount at once. I have looked at the emails between Mr O and Great Lakes. I can 
see that it has agreed to make additional payments on top of the original settlement amount. 
However it has done this as a goodwill gesture. And not because the items are covered by 
the policy. So although I appreciate that Mr O has been in contact with Great Lakes 
regularly, and that would be inconvenient for him, as it offered the additional payments as a 
goodwill gesture I think this is fair and I wont ask it to do anything more. 
 My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I wont require Great Lakes Insurance SE to do anything 
differently or in addition.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman