DRN-3855731
The complaint
Mr B complains is unhappy with how Ageas Insurance Limited has administered his motor 
insurance policy and the details it has recorded on an external database. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on providing my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
The information recorded on an external claims database by Ageas was brought to 
Mr Bs attention by his new insurer, as it said he had not made them aware of an 
incident he had been involved in. The information recorded on the database correctly 
detailed the incident, showed that Mr Bs NCD had been allowed and the matter 
closed. Ageas internal records show the matter was recorded as information only.
Ageas provided a letter to Mr B confirming the incident was recorded as information 
only. I think this was a reasonable action to take and one which we usually see 
insurers do in circumstances such as this. This allowed the new insurer to remove 
the additional premium it had requested from Mr B.
I understand Mr B disagrees with the terminology of claim being used to describe 
this incident however that is standard industry practice. The incident was correctly 
recorded on the database by Ageas and therefore it would have been available to 
view by the new insurer Mr B approached. The issue here appears to have been that 
the new insurer was unaware of the incident and therefore it made further enquiries 
when the external database was checked. I understand Mr B believes his integrity 
was questioned however, I dont think Ageas made an error here.
While I dont think Ageas should have recorded an admin fee against this claim, 
which it has now agreed to remove in any event. I think this matter is coincidental to 
the issue Mr B originally complained about. The CUE record itself for the recording of 
the incident was correct and Ageas took action to confirm it was an information only 
claim as I would have expected it to do.
Ageas has agreed to pay Mr B £100 compensation to reflect the upset this matter 
has caused him and to resolve the complaint. Having reviewed everything, Im 
satisfied this is sufficient. I wont be asking Ageas to make a separate apology to 
Mr B in this instance as I dont think it needs to.  
For these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
Ageas has already taken the actions mentioned above to put this matter right, so it doesnt 
need to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint against Ageas Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman