DRN-2859659
The complaint
Mr J complains that, in 2015, Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him a packaged bank 
account (PBA). 
What happened
Mr J says he was sold the PBA in 2015 when he also applied for a mortgage. Mr J says that 
recently he had discovered that he could not use the travel insurance, because he had a 
significant medical condition when the PBA started. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the evidence and said they thought the complaint shouldnt 
be upheld. Mr J didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive 
kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
In return for a monthly fee, the PBA came with a number of benefits. These included:
Worldwide family travel insurance. 
Worldwide mobile phone insurance  covering phones belonging to the account 
holders and their immediate family. 
Vehicle breakdown and recovery service (UK & European). 
Extended warranty/identity theft assistance/worldwide emergency card assistance.
Free foreign ATM usage. 
Banking benefits including a 3% AER on credit balances up to £2,500, and a fee-free 
overdraft up of £100 (if approved)
When Nationwide sold the PBA to Mr J, it did so on a non-advised basis. If it had been 
an advised sale, it would mean that Nationwide had looked into Mr Js circumstances 
and was saying that the benefits of the PBA were a good fit for him. But Ive not seen 
evidence that it made Mr J think he was getting a personalised recommendation  and 
this wasnt Nationwides usual practice anyway for this kind of account. 
So, as it wasnt an advised sale, it was up to Mr J to decide whether the benefits suited 
him, and whether there were enough useful ones to make it worth the monthly fee. From 
what Ive seen of the information Nationwide is likely to have given Mr J, I think its likely it 
gave him enough clear and fair information for him to make that choice. And this includes 
the potential limitations in claiming for travel insurance if youve got a pre-existing medical 
condition.  
So, overall, I dont have strong evidence that the PBA was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman