DRN-4289127
The complaint
Mr S complains that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited has unfairly restricted the settlement of his 
claim under his private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S has private medical insurance provided through his employers. The insurance is 
underwritten by AXA.
In January 2023, Mr S started to suffer from symptoms of facial numbness, amongst others. 
He contacted AXA for an authorisation to see a specialist. Mr S had already booked an 
appointment with a consultant for 7 February 2023 but AXA told him that the particular 
consultant and hospital were not fully covered by the policy and so it would only cover 60% 
of the costs. AXA gave Mr S details of other consultants and facilities whose fees would be 
paid in full.
Mr S saw the consultant on 7 February 2023 and had some diagnostic tests completed on 
that day. He returned to the same facility for further consultations and treatment. AXA paid 
60% of the bills.
Mr S complained to AXA. It didnt think it had done anything wrong, however, as a gesture of 
goodwill, it agreed to reimburse in full the initial consultation and tests that took place on that 
same day, minus the policy excess. Unhappy with the settlement, Mr S then brought his 
complaint to this service. He said he contacted the consultants that AXA had given him but 
they either had no appointments available within a suitable timeframe or the consultant didnt 
have reviews online that he could research. And as he was worried about his health he didnt 
want to wait. He said that, as AXA had agreed to pay for the initial consultation and tests, it 
should also pay everything else in full as it related to the same claim.
Our investigator looked into the matter but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He 
said that he didnt think that the waiting time for an appointment with a fully covered 
specialist was unreasonable. And he said that AXA had made Mr S aware before he had the 
initial appointment that it would only cover 60% of the costs but he chose to continue 
receiving treatment with that consultant and at that facility - knowing he wouldnt get full 
reimbursement of his costs.
Mr S disagreed with our investigators opinion. As no agreement could be reached the 
matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding 
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ss complaint.
The policy terms and conditions
Mr S feels that AXA should pay in full for the treatment. AXA has said that, as the consultant 
isnt one of its listed Priority Health specialists and the hospital isnt in its directory, it will only 
pay 60% of the cost.
 
Ive firstly looked at the policy terms and conditions to see what cover is available. I can see 
that in Section one, the policy states the following:
1.1 > Why its important to use hospitals or day-patient units in the Directory of 
Hospitals
If you have treatment at a hospital or day-patient unit thats not in the Directory of 
Hospitals, we will only pay 60% of the charges from that hospital or day-patient unit, 
as long as they charge up to the normal rates published and charged by that hospital 
or day-patient unit. You will be responsible for paying the remaining charges.
1.2 > Why its important to use Priority Health specialists
If your treatment is provided by a specialist who is not a Priority Health specialist but 
who is recognised by AXA Health, we will only pay 60% of the charges that would 
normally be paid by AXA Health. You will be responsible for paying the remaining 
charges.
If your treatment is provided by a specialist who is neither a Priority Health specialist 
nor recognised by AXA Health, you will be responsible for paying the full amount of 
the charges
From looking at these terms, I think it is clear that cover is only provided in full for those 
consultants and hospitals which appear on either in the directory of hospitals or are listed as 
a Priority Health Specialist. Claims for consultants and facilities not on the lists will be 
subject to reduced payments or in relation to bills for consultants not recognised at all, 
declined in their entirety.
Has AXA considered the claim fairly?
AXA has confirmed that the consultant is recognised but isnt a Priority Health specialist and 
the facility isnt in the directory. Therefore, Im satisfied that it would be fair for AXA to restrict 
any payment to 60% of the cost. 
Mr S has argued that he saw this consultant as he was able to get an appointment quickly, 
whereas some of the other consultants had waiting times of over a month. I can appreciate 
why Mr S would have wanted to see someone as quickly as possible but the waiting times 
for appointments isnt something that AXA has any control over. So, Im not persuaded that 
this changes the outcome. 
Im also aware Mr S has said some of the consultants mentioned by AXA didnt have reviews 
that he could look at or they didnt specialise in his condition so he couldnt use them. While I 
understand that Mr S may have wanted to conduct research into which consultant was right 
for him, and he is of course entitled to do so, this doesnt mean that the lack of reviews made 
these other consultants unsuitable. And in relation to the specialism of each consultant, Ive 
not been provided with any evidence to show that the other consultants on the list wouldnt 
have been able to assist Mr S with his symptoms. So, I dont think this means AXA should 
pay the full cost of his claim.AXA has agreed to pay the full cost of Mr Ss initial consultation and tests completed on the 
same day, purely as a gesture of goodwill. As Mr S was aware of this restriction to the cover 
prior to the appointment and certainly before he booked any subsequent consultations and 
tests/treatment, I dont think AXA has to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman