DRN-3541100
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy with what Aviva Insurance Limited did after she made a claim on her legal
expenses insurance policy.
All references to Aviva include its agents and claims handlers.
What happened
Miss S took out legal expenses insurance (alongside her home insurance) with Aviva in
September 2017. In January 2021 she made a claim on her policy as she had a dispute with
the landlord of her block of flats (a local authority).
She said the local authority hadnt taken action in relation to health and safety issues shed
raised (relating to a tenant leaving items in a communal area). And she was unhappy with a
lack of service from the concierge of her building. Miss S withheld payment of service
charges and was unhappy the local authority informed her mortgage provider about this. And
she was unhappy with the action the mortgage provider then took following that contact.
Aviva turned down the claim. It said there was evidence of her complaining about the
neighbour leaving possessions in communal areas in 2016. That was prior to the start date
of her policy and it excluded claims where that was the case. It also thought the service
charge issues related to this. Our investigator agreed these issues had begun prior to Miss S
taking out her policy. He thought Aviva acted fairly in turning down the claim she made.
Miss S didnt agree. She said the issues she raised in 2016 had been satisfactorily resolved
and she didnt make a further complaint about her neighbour storing personal items on the
communal landing until October 2020. In any case the issues relating to the concierge were
unrelated to this and we hadnt considered the concerns about the actions of her mortgage
company. She said points raised about how Aviva looked into her complaint hadnt been
considered either. Miss S also raised concerns about what happened when the policy was
sold, and the questions she was asked at that time.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint last month. In summary I said:
Miss S has made a number of points about the sale of this policy and the questions she feels
she should have been asked at that time. However, that isnt something Im considering in
this decision. What Im looking at is whether her claim was fairly turned down by her insurer
 Aviva. Any concerns Miss S has about the sale of the policy will need to be separately
considered against the seller of the policy (which wasnt Aviva).
In considering the claim decision Ive taken into account the relevant rules and industry
guidelines which say Aviva has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. It
shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. And Ive looked at the terms and conditions of
Miss Ss policy. These exclude from cover:
Claims where the initial dispute or series of incidents leading to a claim on this policy
happen before this cover starts or after it comes to an end as shown on your schedule. You
can only make one claim for all disputes arising from the same incident.
Ive thought about how that applies here. Its not in dispute Miss S did complain about her
neighbour leaving items on the communal landing in 2016. However, shes told us the issue
was resolved at that time by the action the local authority took and what subsequently
happened was unconnected to it. But I dont think thats supported by other evidence.
In particular Ive reviewed the correspondence between Miss S and the local authority. When
she raised this issue again in October 2020 she described this as a recurring Health and
Safety issue of keeping items on communal area by [her neighbour] that has been previously
several times complained about but evidently not dealt properly with. She went on to say I
have repeatedly complained of the same issue.
The following month Miss S reiterated her concerns saying please be advised that in the
light of the repeated failure of your organisation to deal with this long ongoing issue I
withhold any further service charge payments until this complaint and the long ongoing issue
is correctly, productively and effectively dealt with. And in correspondence with a local
councillor the same month she highlighted an ongoing failure to address health and safety
effectively and appropriately leading to ongoing issue of breach by tenants who have happily
getaway with such breach for years.
I appreciate there appears to have been a period of time after 2016 when Miss S didnt raise
concerns about the neighbour leaving items in the communal area. But given Miss Ss
comments I think what then happened was a recurrence of the previous issue (and
connected to it) rather than being an entirely new event. As a result I dont think Aviva acted
unfairly in concluding the first in the series of incidents leading to Miss Ss claim took place
before her policy started.
Miss S says the service charge issue was separate to this. I dont agree with that either. I
appreciate she doesnt appear to have withheld service charges as a result of what
happened in 2016. But her decision to subsequently do so was clearly connected to her
frustration with what she saw as the lack of action to address the neighbour issue by the
local authority.
As Ive said when she informed the local authority of her decision to withhold payment of
service charge she said it was because of this long ongoing issue. And the wording of the
policy excludes from cover claims where the initial disputeleading to a claim on this
policy occurred before the policy started. I dont think Aviva did anything wrong in saying her
concerns about service charges as they relate to either the local authority or her mortgage
provider were linked to something that happened prior to the start of her policy.
However, I dont see how the same can apply to her concerns about the concierge service.
Ive not seen evidence of Miss S raising this issue prior to March 2020. And this appears to
be entirely unrelated to the problems with her neighbour. Her concerns about the concierge
stem from difficulties with parcel delivery and a lack of response to her contact about that.
So I dont see Aviva can rely on the exclusion for events that took place before the policy
started to turn down this element of her claim.
It will therefore need to reconsider it against the remaining policy terms to see if this is
something that falls within the definition of an insured event set out in the policy and, if it
does, whether it also meets the other terms and conditions for cover to be provided.
Miss S has also raised concerns about how Aviva considered the complaint she made
following the decline of her claim. I dont think its in dispute Aviva didnt send a final
response addressing the complaint within the timeframe its allowed under the relevant rules.However, where a business isnt able to do that the rules require it to send a response
explaining the position and informing a complainant they can now refer the complaint to us.
Aviva did that at the end of March. And it did then provide a detailed response to her
complaint on 26 April 2021.
But I do think Miss S will have been caused some understandable distress and frustration at
having part of her claim turned down for the wrong reasons (particularly when she
referenced this issue on a number of occasions in her correspondence with Aviva). In
recognition of this, and the fact this wasnt picked up as part of the complaints process,
Aviva should pay Miss S £150.
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss S said the legal expenses insurance was sold as a standalone policy (rather than being 
alongside her home insurance as Id suggested). She queried how she should pursue a 
complaint about the sale of that insurance. She also said Aviva had turned down the whole 
of the claim she made. She questioned why Id suggested this had only been turned down in 
part. 
Aviva also responded. It said the issues with the concierge related to a service that should 
be provided under Miss Ss lease. It thought this was another incident in a series of 
connected incidents about a lack of obligations under the lease being performed (which had 
led Miss S to withhold payment of her service charge). As the claims Miss S had made were 
about disputes over the landlords failure to meet their obligations it didnt agree they were 
separate and unconnected. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I appreciate Aviva did turn down the claims Miss S made in their entirety and I dont 
believe Ive suggested otherwise. What Ive concluded was Aviva acted reasonably in 
turning down the claim as it related the neighbour dispute and services charges. But I didnt 
think it had done so in respect of the concierge issue. And thats why I thought this part of 
the claim should be reconsidered against the remaining policy terms. 
Turning to the points Aviva has made about this, I appreciate the neighbour and concierge 
problems do both relate to Miss Ss lease and whether the landlord is complying with their 
obligations under it. But the question is whether the concierge issue can reasonably be said 
to be caught by the policy term which excludes Claims where the initial dispute or series of 
incidents leading to a claim on this policy happen before this cover starts. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, Ive not seen evidence of Miss S raising the 
concierge issue prior to the start date of her policy; she doesnt appear to have raised it until 
March 2020. And I cant see theres any connection between this issue and the problems 
with her neighbour. If the problem with the neighbour had never taken place Miss S would 
still have had the same difficulties with the concierge. So I dont see Aviva can reasonably 
argue the neighbour problem was one of a series of incidents which led to her claim for the 
concierge issue. And I dont think it can turn down her claim on that basis. I also note the comments Miss S has made about this policy not being taken out alongside 
her home insurance. However, the policy in question is the one she took out in 2017. The 
documentation shes provided in support of her position is a renewal from September 2021. 
Nevertheless, I appreciate the policy appears to be one which allows you to select the cover 
you need so it may be that when first taking this out Miss S didnt choose the home 
insurance option.  
But I dont think that makes a difference to my findings. The key issue here isnt whether the 
policy was taken out alongside home insurance or as a standalone product but that it wasnt 
Aviva which sold it to Miss S. So any concerns she has about the sale arent something its 
responsible for and will need to be pursued as a separate complaint against the business 
that is. If Miss S is able to provide our investigator with further information about that he may 
be able to assist in asking the business involved to look into that complaint.
Putting things right
Aviva will need to reconsider the claim relating to the concierge against the remaining policy 
terms to see if this is something that falls within the definition of an insured event set out in 
the policy and, if it does, whether it also meets the other terms and conditions for cover to be 
provided. It will also need to pay Miss S £150 to recognise the distress she was caused by 
what it got wrong. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Aviva Insurance Limited will need to put things right by 
doing what Ive said in this decision. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
Im required to ask Miss S to accept or reject my decision before 25 June 2022.
 
James Park
Ombudsman