DRN-3415409
The complaint
Ms L complains that National Westminster Bank Plc made her mortgage application really 
difficult. She says it did an affordability check and then kept changing the goal posts when it 
came to finalising her offer.
What happened
Ms L was applying for a mortgage with NatWest in early 2021 as part of a transfer of title 
application. Ms L says that the bank made the whole application process stressful and 
prolonged and kept moving the goalposts in relation to affordability. Ms L says that NatWest 
required her father to pay off a £14,000 loan, then a further £6,000 off the mortgage when 
she was told that she would get the mortgage offer in her name. But then NatWest changed 
their minds saying that her father would have to pay off her student loan.
NatWest didnt accept that it had misled Ms L about affordability or unnecessarily prolonged 
the application process, but it accepted that there was an appointment missed and technical 
issues and offered compensation of £150 for those. Our investigator didnt recommend that 
this complaint should be upheld as she thought that NatWest had provided appropriate 
information throughout the process. Miss L disagreed saying in summary that she was told 
that her father had to pay the money to reduce the mortgage to make it affordable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To come to a decision on this complaint, Ive also listened to the available calls that NatWest 
has provided. This was an application for a mortgage in Ms Ls sole name to replace a joint 
mortgage to coincide with a transfer of title application. There was an initial problem of 
affordability discussed in the first phone call I listened to. Ms Ls income alone would not 
support a mortgage of £171, 730 which was the balance at the time. Ms L discussed adding 
a parent to the mortgage but given their ages, that might have affected the term and made 
the payments unaffordable. One of the problems on affordability were the repayments on the 
two loans that Ms L mentioned. Ms L queried what if the loans were paid off and she didnt 
have those outgoings and the adviser worked out some figures to show that if the higher 
loan was paid off and a lump sum was paid to bring down the mortgage balance that a loan 
of £165,000 was affordable. 
On listening to the conversation, I found that it was a helpful, friendly conversation where 
solutions were suggested and interrogated and a scheme of what could be affordable on the 
information provided was suggested. This was an application on the margins of affordability 
that required the assistance of Ms Ls parents to succeed and my view was that in this early 
conversation that the adviser was easing Ms Ls concerns that even on the margin of 
affordability that what Ms L wanted to achieve  the home in her sole name - could be 
achieved. As I understand it Ms Ls parents went ahead and paid off one of the loans and 
reduced the mortgage balance. Whilst the adviser didnt instruct them to do that. I 
understand why they would have done it - to give Ms L a better chance of getting the 
mortgage. Ms L says in her Complaint Form that we were told we would definitely get the 
mortgage in my name Thats simply an inaccurate recollection of the conversation and 
wasnt said by the mortgage adviser. At that stage Ms L hadnt yet made a mortgage 
application 
The issue that seems to have arisen is that although Ms Ls parents had paid off a loan and 
reduced the mortgage balance that was not enough to make the mortgage affordable. This 
was because Ms L had a student loan which she was paying off and affected her outgoings. 
This wasnt mentioned by Ms L in the first or second calls I listened to and the adviser hadnt 
entered it in her calculations. But if Ms L hadnt mentioned it, the adviser wouldnt have 
known about it and couldnt be expected to have considered it in her figures.  I understand 
the annoyance that Ms L and her parents must have felt when having made the initial 
payments they felt that they had to pay more. Clearly it would have been better for her 
parents to wait on the full application to get the full picture but they werent directed to make 
the payments when they did by NatWest, and I cant hold NatWest at fault for that. The 
problem of this loan surfaced later in the process and I can understand Ms Ls 
disappointment that it would affect the affordability assessment and that the solution was for 
her parents to pay if off. But none of this was down to any misinformation given by NatWest.
 
My opinion of the conversations I listened to gave me to understand that Ms L and NatWest 
were working to the same goal of getting to where Ms L eventually got  a mortgage in her 
own name in a house in her own name. I dont accept that NatWest misled her and her 
parents to believe that if they made the payments referred to in their first phone conversation 
that she would definitely get a mortgage. But not all the conversations are recorded. Ms L 
has other issues including the prolonged nature of the application process, cancelled 
appointments, prolonged scrutiny of the affordability, request for more bank statements 
which led Ms L to conclude that the process was discriminatory against Ms L as a single 
female when her experience of a joint application was more straightforward.
It does seem that the application process took longer than I would expect for a 
straightforward application. On the other hand, I recognise that this was a transfer of title 
mortgage application where Ms Ls single income alone without the assistance of her 
parents wouldnt have allowed the application to proceed. This wasnt straightforward and I 
recognise that as the application was on the margins of affordability, it may have required 
more investigation from the lender to determine whether it is in fact affordable. This of 
course must have been stressful for Ms L, who wanted to retain her home for her child, but 
the bank is required to ensure that a mortgage is affordable to the borrower and the 
information it requested from Ms L such as six months bank statements to show child 
maintenance payments isnt unusual. I accept that the process may have been smoother 
when she previously made a joint application with two rather than a single income and no 
transfer of title or indeed later when the transfer of title and the affordability issues had been 
sorted. But that doesnt indicate to me that the difficulties Ms L encountered were because 
she was a single female rather than a male and that NatWest was discriminating against her, 
but rather that the circumstances of these applications were entirely different.
That said there appears to have been service issues during the course of the process that 
would have put extra stress on Ms L. But my view of the process as a whole is that Ms L and 
NatWest were working towards a goal that they were able to achieve within a reasonable 
period. So, I feel that the offer of £150 for the service issues by NatWest represents fair 
compensation to Ms L and I cant fairly uphold this complaint.  My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman