DRN-1604427
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that payments are regularly taken from his current account with 
Barclays Bank UK PLC but immediately returned. He thinks that Barclays should be able to 
stop this happening. 
What happened
Mr B has explained that, towards the end of 2018 he noticed quarterly payments of some 
£17 being taken from his account and immediately credited back to it, with a reference 
suggesting a direct debit payment to a company, T. The amount taken later increased to 
more than £24 a quarter - but again payments were taken and then credited back to the 
account on the same day.
When Mr B queried this with the bank, it said that it had no direct debit mandate in favour of 
T, and so it couldn't do any more than return the payments as and when necessary. It 
suggested Mr B contact T and offered him £40 for the inconvenience to which he'd been 
put. 
Mr B contacted the company which he thought was taking the money - the publisher of 
a magazine to which he'd subscribed some years earlier. That company said it wasn't taking 
the payments but suggested that a different company (also a magazine publisher with a 
similar name) might be responsible. 
Mr B contacted T. He had also subscribed to a magazine which it now publishes - again, 
some years ago. It maintained that he had a current subscription and that it was receiving 
quarterly payments from him. He explained this to the bank, but was unhappy when it said it 
couldn't do any more to help.
Mr B referred the matter to this service, but she took the view that Barclays had done all it 
could. Mr B asked that an ombudsman review the case.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my view, much of the confusion here arises from the way the direct debit system operates. 
Rather than the customer instructing a bank to make payments to a recipient, the recipient is 
provided with the customer's banking details and requests payment from the bank. When, as 
as happened here, a bank receives a request for payment but it holds no direct debit 
mandate, that may be reflected by a payment and immediate reversal on the customer's 
account.
I can understand why Mr B is concerned by this operation, and why he thinks the bank 
should be too. However, I'm satisfied that the regular payments and immediate reversals are 
triggered here by T's requests for payment, not by anything the bank has done or not done. Each time T asks for payment, the bank's systems identify that there's no mandate in place 
and reverses them. 
It does appear that the problem here is with T, and I know that Mr B has tried to resolve 
things with that company. But its systems tell it that it's receiving payments from Mr B, even 
though it isn't. That's not at all satisfactory for him, but I'm afraid I can't properly say that it's 
the fault of Barclays - or that it can do any more than it is to resolve things.
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I don't require Barclays Bank UK PLC to do 
anything more to resolve Mr B's complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman