DRN-4011737
The complaint
Mrs S complains about the way John Lewis Financial Services Limited (JLFS) handled her 
request for a refund. 
Mrs S husband is an additional cardholder and made the purchase, he has also been 
involved with trying to resolve the complaint, but as the main account holder, Ill refer to only 
Mrs S for ease of reference.
What happened
On 14 July 2021 Mrs S ordered a quantity of quarry tiles and a bag of grout from a supplier, 
Ill refer to as R. She used her JLFS credit card to pay £1,215.12 for the items. Upon 
delivery Mrs S found several of the tiles were damaged. R agreed to send replacement tiles, 
which were received in August 2021, but Mrs S found that these were also damaged. 
Mrs S contacted JLFS on 12 August 2021 to ask it to assist with getting a refund, it sent her 
a dispute form and advised her to keep hold of the tiles whilst the dispute was still ongoing. 
Mrs S was still in negotiations with R, who eventually offered to a reduced refund of £1,000, 
after deducting carriage and handling costs. Mrs S declined Rs offer.
In August 2021 JLFS sent Mrs S a letter requesting copies of documentation regarding the 
dispute. Mrs S sent the supporting documentation to the address on the letter on 9 
September 2021. She tried calling the number on the letter, but it was no longer in service. 
As Mrs S hadnt heard from JLFS, she followed this up, and was told the address on the 
letter was no longer in use, and it hadnt received the supporting documentation. Mrs S had 
to resend her documentation.  
On 3 November JLFS raised the chargeback with Rs bank on Mrs S behalf and 
subsequently credited £1,215.12 to her account. On 15 December 2021 the chargeback was 
defended and declined by Rs bank. R said it had provided replacement tiles, Mrs S hadnt 
requested a refund and its usual process would be to provide a refund once tiles were 
collected and inspected. 
JLFS sent Mrs S an email and several reminder emails with a link requiring her to complete 
its declaration form and comment on Rs defence via its online system, so it could continue 
with her claim. For security reasons Mrs S didnt want to click on links sent in emails, so she 
requested JLFS send her a letter outlining what she needed to do next by post. JLFS 
explained there wasnt enough time to do this by the deadline, 30 December 2021. 
JLFS said its records showed Mrs S had viewed the documentation on the online system but 
hadnt completed it. Mrs S denied this and explained there was a delay in getting the 
required passcodes, so when she tried to access the documents, they were deleted. When 
Mrs S contacted JLFS, it told her not to worry about the deadline and agreed she could send 
the documentation by post, which she did.
JLFS still contested Rs defence without Mrs S comments and raised a second chargeback 
(pre-arbitration), which Rs bank declined in January 2022. Having considered Rs defence, 
JLFS took the decision to not pursue the matter further under the VISA chargeback scheme. 
It re-debited the account and advised Mrs S that the chargeback had failed.
JLFS then considered Mrs S dispute under section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974. It didnt 
think the claim met the required financial limits, because the tiles were priced individually for 
less than £100. JLFS didnt advise Mrs S of the outcome of her section 75 claim.
Mrs S raised a number of complaints about the way her dispute was handled. She was given 
the incorrect contact details to send her supporting evidence. She was given conflicting 
information by different advisers about whether the funds would be re-debited. She was 
unhappy she couldnt contact anyone in the dispute team directly, she had issues accessing 
the documents on the online dispute system. And even when she asked for the documents 
to be emailed as attachments, this didnt happen. Mrs S felt she had to resend her 
documentation on several occasions and doesnt think JLFS considered the evidence 
provided.
JLFS didnt uphold Mrs S complaint. It was of the view the chargeback wasnt successful 
because Mrs S had failed to complete the declaration and provide her comments in time. 
Unhappy with the outcome Mrs S referred her complaint to our service. JLFS later offered to 
refund the total cost of the transaction as a goodwill gesture. Our investigator was of the 
view the offer was fair, in the circumstances she didnt recommend JLFS do anything else.
Mrs S disagreed; she said JLFS had all the evidence it needed to pursue her chargeback. 
She wants JLFS to pay a substantial sum in compensation to reflect the level of customer 
services received, in her earlier submissions she requested over £7,000 in compensation. 
Mrs S has also requested an apology and wants JLFS to arrange for the collection of the 
tiles and grout at no cost to herself.
I asked JLFS for further information about what it said in response to Rs defence that Mrs S 
hadnt asked for a refund following the delivery of the replacement tiles. It didnt provide any 
additional information. I let both parties know I was minded to uphold the complaint, because 
I thought Mrs S had provided sufficient evidence to support her claim, including an email 
sent to R, requesting a refund following the delivery of the replacement tiles, and Rs 
response offering £1,000 refund. In the circumstances I thought there was enough evidence 
for JLFS to progress the dispute to arbitration and had it done this, I thought it was more 
probable than not that the chargeback wouldve been successful. I also thought it was more 
likely than not, that Mrs S did face difficulties when she tried to access the online 
documentation and so was unable to complete it. 
In the circumstances, I thought JLFS offer to refund the transaction was fair. I said that due 
to the customers journey I thought it should pay her £250 compensation and provide her 
with an apology. I also thought it was fair JLFS pay for any costs incurred for the disposal of 
the items ordered (upon proof) as Mrs S only retained them because JLFS asked her to. 
JLFS said it agreed with the resolution Id outlined. Mrs S didnt think £250 compensation 
went far enough to reflect the distressed caused, she wants a substantial increase to the 
compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S has provided very detailed submissions in support of her complaint. I want to assure 
the parties that Ive reviewed everything on file (including the call recordings). And have 
considered the points raised by Mrs S. However, I do not intend to respond to every point raised, no discourtesy is intended by this instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key 
issues here and our rules allow me to do this. And this simply reflects the informal nature of 
our service as a free alternative to the courts. 
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances. 
JLFS considered this matter under both chargeback and section 75- as Id expect it to do. 
Ive considered its approach to both separately.
Chargeback 
Chargeback is the process by which a bank or credit card provider looks to resolve a 
settlement between a consumer and a merchant under the relevant card scheme. Initially the 
card provider will temporarily refund the payment back onto the card account and will raise a 
dispute with the merchant. The merchant is then required to respond within a prescribed 
period of time with any further information it wishes to provide and set out why it thinks the 
chargeback shouldnt go through. The cardholders bank can make further representations if 
it thinks the merchants defence is weak or invalid. Ultimately the cardholders bank can ask 
the card scheme provider to arbitrate on the outcome.
There is no right for a consumer to require that a chargeback claim be made. But if the right 
to make a chargeback claim exists under the applicable scheme rules  and if there is a 
reasonable prospect of success  we consider it to be good practice for a chargeback claim 
to be made. 
JLFS did submit a chargeback on Mrs S behalf under the VISA reason code 53 Not as 
Described or Defective Merchandise. Which I think was the appropriate code. In defence R 
said it had provided Mrs S with replacement tiles, and she hadnt subsequently requested a 
refund, so it assumed the matter was resolved. JLFS sent Mrs S a link to an online 
declaration form for her to sign and comment on Rs defence, but she didnt complete it by 
30 December 2021, as requested. It said it had evidence to show Mrs S accessed the 
document. Despite this JLFS did progress a second chargeback (pre-arbitration) without Mrs 
S comments, which was rejected on 17 January 2022, Rs bank raised the same defence as 
it did with the first chargeback. 
JLFS says Mrs S chargeback failed because despite viewing the declaration form online, 
Mrs S failed to sign it and complete it by 30 December 2021, so it had to proceed without her 
comments.
Mrs S has explained that due to her concerns about security she didnt initially click on the 
links in the emails sent by JLFS. However, once she was informed what she needed to do 
and by when, she did attempt to access the document via the link. JLFS has provided 
evidence to show the document was viewed but not completed. But Mrs S has been 
consistent about not being able to access the document because there was a delay in 
getting the passcodes, so when she tried to view it, the document was already deleted. She 
has provided us with a screenshot to confirm the document deleted message she received. 
In the circumstances, I think its more likely than not that if Mrs S had viewed the declaration 
form, she wouldve completed it, in order to progress her claim. So, on balance Im satisfied 
Mrs S faced problems when she tried to access the documentation online.
Having considered R defence JLFS decided not to pursue the chargeback to the final stage 
of arbitration. The key question as I see it is whether JLFS did enough here, or whether it should have reasonably pursued this matter further. And if it had done so, what is likely to 
have happened. 
Ive considered the information Mrs S provided and what happened here. Mrs S sent JLFS 
her supporting documentation in September 2021, she then followed this up with Rs terms 
and conditions in October 2021. She had resent the same documentation on several 
occasions by email and post by 27 December 2021. The evidence provided included 
photographs of the damaged tiles. An explanation of the damaged tiles and copies of emails 
between Mrs S and R, in particular the email dated 12 August 2021, where Mrs S 
expressed, she was unhappy with the replacement tiles, requested a full refund and asked R 
to collect both sets of tiles.  She also provided Rs response email where it offered the 
reduced refund of £1,000, after it had delivered the replacement tiles. 
Having considered the requirements under the reason code, I think Mrs S had provided 
JLFS with sufficient evidence in support of her claim, moreover I think the evidence shed 
provided clearly countered Rs defence that it was unaware she was unhappy with the 
replacement tiles, because she hadnt requested a refund.
In the circumstances, I think JLFS already had the evidence it needed to counter Rs 
defence, so I think it wouldve been reasonable for JLFS to pursue the claim to arbitration. 
And I think that had it done this, its more likely than not that Mrs S chargeback wouldve 
been successful. JLFS has already offered to refund the £1,215.12 transaction which I think 
is fair. Mrs S no longer has a credit card account with JLFS, so in line with our approach 
JLFS should also add interest at an annual rate of 8% simple to the refund from the date the 
chargeback was initially refunded, to the date of settlement. Due to her security concerns 
Mrs S has requested JLFS provides direct contact details so she can provide her account 
information for the refund over the phone, and I think this is fair.
Mrs S has also requested JLFS arranges for the collection of the tiles/grout or pays for the 
items to be disposed. Under the chargeback scheme Mrs S wouldve only been entitled to a 
refund for the transaction and not any consequential costs associated with disposing of the 
tiles. However, I can see that Mrs S was arranging for R to collect the tiles, but only retained 
them because JLFS asked her to. In the circumstances, I think its fair for JLFS to reimburse 
Mrs S any costs incurred for disposing of tiles and grout once she has provided it with a 
receipt/invoice.
Section 75
JLFS also considered Mrs S dispute under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make purchases 
of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim against the 
provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services if there has been a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part. 
JLFS declined Mrs S section 75 claim because it didnt think it met one of the technical 
conditions due to the tiles being priced individually under £100, but it didnt tell her this. 
Section 75 only applies to individual items being claimed that exceed £100 and are less than 
£30,000. Looking at the sales invoice I can see the quarry tiles were priced individually 
under £100. And there isnt any indication on the invoice that she was buying a job lot, or a 
package of items presented for sale at an inclusive price. In the circumstances, I dont think 
section 75 protection applied to this transaction, so I dont think JLFS made a mistake when 
it declined Mrs S section 75 claim.
Customer servicesI do think Mrs S experienced some frustration and inconvenience due to the handling of her 
dispute. She was initially given the incorrect address to send her supporting evidence and 
had to resend this, the letter also contained a number which was no longer available. She 
was given contradicting information by different advisors about the money being re-debited 
to the account. She also had trouble accessing online documentation and when she called, 
advisors were unable to tell her what the document said. And she was also told by the 
complaints team that she would be sent the documentation as an email attachment in an 
email, but this didnt happen. The consumer also had to speak to various advisors, to try to 
sort this all out and she has told us how frustrating it has been to try to get this resolved and 
I recognise this has taken some time. And although JLFS did subsequently consider Mrs S 
claim under section 75, it didnt inform her of the outcome.
Mrs S has requested an apology from JLFS for the level of customer service received and it 
agrees to do this, so I think this is fair. 
In addition to an apology Mrs S has asked for a substantial sum in compensation and wants 
JLFS to make changes to its processes. However, I think I should clarify that it isnt our role 
to punish or penalise a business for its performance or to tell it how to run its business 
thats the role of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. Taking Mrs S journey into 
account I think the JLFS should pay her £250 compensation to reflect the inconvenience and 
frustration caused. I appreciate Mrs S may not think this enough, but I think this is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances here.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and I direct John Lewis Financial Services Limited 
to:
1. refund Mrs S £1,215.12, adding 8% simple interest per annum from the date the 
chargeback was initially refunded, to the date of the refund
2. provide Mrs S with direct contact details so she can provide her account details 
over the phone for the refund
3. reimburse Mrs S any costs incurred (upon proof) for disposing of the tiles and 
grout
4. pay Mrs S £250 compensation and provide her with a written apology for the level 
of customer services experienced. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
Karen Dennis
Ombudsman