DRN-3224426
The complaint
Mr M complains that SG Kleinwort Hambros Bank Limited (Kleinwort Hambros) treated him 
unfairly when it declined his request to extend his mortgage term. 
He says hes incurred costs by paying fees to set up alternative finance on less favourable 
terms with another lender. 
What happened
In 2016, Mr M took out a mortgage with Kleinwort Hambros for around £750,000 on interest 
only terms, over a five-year term. 
In 2020, Mr M approached Kleinwort Hambros to ask about extending the term of the 
mortgage and borrowing additional funds. During a meeting he explained that his repayment 
vehicle would be funds from exiting his business in seven to ten years, a potential 
inheritance and security of his buy to let property. 
Kleinwort Hambros responded to say that it wouldnt be possible to borrow more and that it 
might not be able to extend the term.
 
Mr M approached a mortgage broker but due to the coronavirus pandemic, found that many 
lenders were not considering new business. He asked Kleinwort Hambros to allow him a 
further 12 months on his term to secure a new lender, but this was declined. 
Mr M secured a mortgage with a new lender and redeemed with Kleinwort Hambros in 
August 2020. 
He complained to Kleinwort Hambros that they declined his request to extend the term  
despite assurances that he would be able to when he took the mortgage out. It didnt uphold 
the complaint and so Mr M referred the matter to this service.
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr M 
disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to reassure Mr M that Ive considered all the evidence before reaching my 
decision. In doing this, Ive also listened to the calls that Mr M has had with our investigator. I 
appreciate his strength of feelings on the matter and how important this is to him. 
Mr M says that when he took the mortgage out in 2016, Kleinwort Hambros only offered five 
year mortgages but was assured by the staff members he spoke to that he could just re-
mortgage for a further five years at the end of the term. He says he was told this was 
common amongst their other clients.
Ive considered the mortgage offer. It sets out that the mortgage was on interest only terms 
over a five-year term  at the end of which the capital balance would need to be repaid. Ive 
not seen anything to suggest that extensions would be provided. And Im mindful that 
extensions are never guaranteed beyond the initial term.
When Mr M approached Kleinwort Hambros in 2020, his circumstances had changed  he 
said that he intended to exit his business in around seven to ten years and that he was due 
some inheritance from an elderly relative. It considered this repayment method but ultimately 
said that it was not prepared to offer an extension on this basis. It suggested that Mr M 
refinance to a high street lender. 
I can appreciate that this must have been very disappointing, and frustrating for Mr M - 
particularly in the backdrop of a global pandemic. And that this added to an already stressful 
situation. 
But Kleinwort Hambros was under no obligation to extend the term. Id expect it to give fair 
consideration to a request to do so carefully and think about what would be in Mr Ms best 
interests. Here, Mr Ms repayment vehicle had changed, and Kleinwort Hambros considered 
the information provided by Mr M as to how he could repay the capital, but ultimately didnt 
accept this as it said it didnt meet its criteria. 
And having considered this information, I dont think that this would have ultimately been in 
his best interests to extend for a further five years. It seems to me that the suggestion of re-
mortgaging to a high street lender to provide a longer term and a mortgage on both capital 
repayment and interest only terms would be in his best interests. 
I can appreciate how frustrating this situation must have been for Mr M. Unfortunately, due to 
the coronavirus pandemic and lenders change in risk appetite following this, hes found it 
more challenging to re-finance elsewhere that it otherwise would have been in normal 
times. 
I understand that Mr M has now been able to secure a mortgage with another lender. Hes 
said that this is on less favourable terms and that hes had to pay a large arrangement fee. 
But I dont think it would be fair for me to hold Kleinwort Hambros responsible for this. As Ive 
said, the change in lenders risk appetite and fact that many lenders were not taking on new 
business at the time was a result of the wider impact of the coronavirus pandemic and 
uncertainty this was bringing and its unfortunate that this came at the same time that Mr M 
was trying to extend his term or look to re-mortgage. 
Customer service
Mr M has also complained about how he was treated by Kleinwort Hambros. And hes said 
that he was told by a staff member that the service they gave him fell short of what they 
would usually expect. Ive no reason to doubt this and can appreciate that it was very 
distressing to Mr M to be told that he could not refinance the mortgage  especially as this 
was communicated via email rather than over the phone. 
I can see that Kleinwort Hambros apologised for this in its letter of 27 August 2020 and 
having thought about everything carefully, I wont be asking it to do anything further here. 
I understand that this will be a disappointment to Mr M but having considered, I dont think I 
can fairly uphold this complaint. 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Camilla Finnigan
Ombudsman