DRN-2937057
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE has turned down a cancellation claim she 
made on her travel insurance policy.
Mrs Ls represented by Mr L.
What happened
Mrs L and Mr L booked a holiday abroad in August 2019. They were due to travel between 1 
and 15 March 2020. Mrs L took out a sole annual travel insurance policy on 8 October 2019, 
which would provide cover for the planned trip.
However, on 28 February 2020, Mr Ls GP advised him that he wasnt fit to travel. The GP 
stated that cases of Covid-19 had been found in the country Mr and Mrs L were planning to 
travel to. Given Mr Ls existing medical conditions, the GP felt that Mr L shouldnt travel. So 
on 29 February 2020, Mrs L (and Mr L) cancelled their trip and Mrs L made a claim on her 
travel insurance policy.
Great Lakes turned down Mrs Ls claim. It said the policy terms and conditions didnt cover 
the circumstances of the claim.
Mrs L was unhappy with Great Lakes decision and so Mr L asked us to look into her 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mrs Ls complaint should be upheld. He noted that at the time 
Mrs Ls trip had been cancelled, thered been no advice against travelling by the Foreign & 
Commonwealth Office. And he didnt think Mr L had suffered an exacerbation of his medical 
conditions which would be covered by the cancellation section of Mrs Ls policy. So he felt it 
was fair for Great Lakes to turn down her claim.
Mrs L disagreed. And so the complaints been passed to me to decide. I need to make it 
clear that this decision only concerns Great Lakes decision to turn down Mrs Ls claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mrs L, I think it was fair for Great Lakes to turn 
down her claim. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms and conditions of Mrs Ls policy and the circumstances of her claim, to decide whether 
Great Lakes treated her fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mrs Ls policy, as these form the basis of her 
contract with Great Lakes. As Mrs L didnt travel as planned, I think it was appropriate for 
Great Lakes to consider her claim under the Cancellation section of the policy. This provides 
cover for the following insured events:
What is covered:
We will pay up to a maximum of £500 for Basic cover or £5,000 for Comprehensive cover
per insured person for your non-refundable deposits and amounts you have paid (or you are 
contracted to pay), for your travel and accommodation (including pre-paid excursions up to 
£300 for Basic cover and £350 for Comprehensive cover), and up to £350 (£175 for loss of 
deposit), Comprehensive cover only, for pre-paid kennel or cattery fees which you do not
use because of the following:
a) you, a close relative, travelling companion or any person with whom you have arranged to
stay during the trip suffers unforeseen illness, injury or, death.
b) you abandon your trip following a delay of more than 12 hours to the departure of your 
outward trip that is covered within Section 5 Travel Delay.
c) you or any person with whom you plan to travel being called for Jury Service or being
summoned as a witness in a Court of Law (other than in a professional or advisory capacity).
d) you being made redundant, provided you qualify for a redundancy payment under current
legislation applicable within your home country.
e) your presence is required by the Police because of accidental damage, burglary, flooding 
or fire which has affected your home, and has occurred within 48 hours before the start of 
your trip, when the damage is in excess of £1,500.
f) the Foreign and Commonwealth Office issue a directive advising against all, or all but 
essential travel to your trip destination because of an earthquake, fire, flood, or hurricane.
In this case, Mrs L cancelled her trip as Mr L had been advised that he wasnt fit to travel 
because of the risks Covid-19 presented to him, given his existing medical conditions. The 
available medical evidence doesnt suggest that Mrs Ls husband had suffered an acute 
exacerbation of his existing conditions or an unforeseen illness which meant he couldnt 
travel. It seems the medical advice was precautionary in nature. I dont think it was unfair for 
Great Lakes to conclude then that the circumstances of the claim werent covered by any of 
the listed events Ive set out above.
I can depart from a strict interpretation of the policy terms if I feel their application produces 
an unfair result. So Ive considered this carefully. But in this particular case, the available 
evidence indicates that Mrs L herself was fit to travel. And I havent seen any medical 
evidence to suggest her GP advised her specifically against doing so because of concerns 
about her own health. Ive also borne in mind that at the time Mrs L cancelled her holiday, 
there was no Foreign & Commonwealth Office advice against travel in place  this wasnt 
issued until over two weeks after the trip had been cancelled. Therefore, on the facts of this 
complaint, I dont find there are any reasonable grounds on which I could fairly direct Great 
Lakes to step away from a strict interpretation of the policy terms.
Overall, while I sympathise with Mrs Ls position, as I appreciate shes been left out of 
pocket, Im satisfied that in the circumstances of this complaint, it was fair for Great Lakes to 
turn down her claim.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman