DRN-3983661
The complaint
Mr T and Ms L are unhappy that Collinson Insurance Services Limited declined a claim for 
the value of an expired credit note.
What happened
Early in 2020, Mr T and Ms L booked to travel abroad at the end of April 2020. However, due 
to the Covid-19 pandemic they were unable to travel. They received a credit note from the 
travel provider equivalent to the amount theyd paid for the transportation costs in the sum of 
£264 to be used by a certain date, which was subsequently extended to the end of 2021 
(the credit note). 
At the time of booking their travel abroad, and the date of cancellation, Mr T and Ms L had 
the benefit of a travel insurance policy, underwritten by a particular insurer. However, that 
policy expired and wasnt renewed.
Mr T and Ms L then took out an annual, multi-trip, travel insurance policy, underwritten by 
Collinson, covering the period 4 August 2020 to 3 August 2021, which was renewed in 
August 2021 for a year (the policy).
Mr T and Ms L were unable to use the credit note before it expired. So, they claimed on the 
policy for the value of the unused credit.
Collinson declined the claim because it concluded this wasnt covered by the policy. It said 
the expiry of a credit note wasnt an insured incident. And any claim for such credit would be 
made under the travel insurance in place at the time of the cancellation, against the incident 
causing the cancellation. And at the time of the cancellation incident, Mr T and Ms L didnt 
have a policy underwritten by Collinson, for which the credit note was issued. 
Unhappy, Mr T and Ms L complained to our service. Our investigator looked into what 
happened and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr T and Ms L requested an Ombudsmans 
decision, so the complaint has now been passed to me to consider everything afresh to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Collinson has an obligation to handle claims fairly and promptly. And it mustnt unreasonably 
decline an insurance claim. 
I know Mr T and Ms L will be disappointed, but I dont uphold their complaint. Thats because 
Im satisfied Collinson has acted fairly and reasonably by declining their claim. Ill explain 
why.
The terms and conditions of the policy say at page 11 that cover applies for any trips 
that begin after the effective date of the policy and during the period of insurance. 
A trip is defined as being: any cruise, holiday, business trip, leisure trip, volunteer 
trip or journey made by you within the area of travel shown in the Schedule, which 
begins when you leave home and ends when you get back home or to a hospital, 
nursing home or medical institution in your home country, whichever is the earlier.
The credit note expired during the period of insurance; it hadnt been used for 
another booking. I dont think Collinson has unreasonably concluded that there 
wasnt a trip booked during the period of the policy, to which the credit note related. 
The cancellation section of the terms and conditions of the policy set out whats 
required for a claim to be made under that section of the policy and the expenses 
which can be covered, relating to a cancelled trip. As a trip hadnt been booked, there 
was no trip to cancel. 
The trip abroad was cancelled in April 2020, which occurred before the policy was 
taken out. Mr T and Ms L sought to claim for the value of the credit note relating to 
that trip. However, the expiry of the credit note isnt, in itself, an insured event under 
the terms of the policy.
In the circumstances of this complaint, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for 
Collinson to accept a claim in relation to a cancelled trip which occurred prior to the 
date the policy started.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr T and Ms Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Ms L to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 May 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman