DRN-1476282
complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank plc (Lloyds), mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr H took out a credit card in September 1997. At the same time he was sold a PPI policy 
which wouldve helped cover the repayments on his credit card for up to 12 months at a time 
if he couldnt work. It also provided life cover for the outstanding balance.
Mr H originally said he didnt know he had PPI. He says he didnt want it or need it. But he 
later also said that he was told he had to have it to get the credit card. 
The adjudicator didnt think Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. Mr H disagrees, so his case 
has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Hs 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Mr H applied for the credit card by completing an application form. Lloyds has provided a 
copy of Mr Hs original application form and this shows that Mr H ticked a box to say he 
wanted the PPI. The PPI appeared in a section headed optional features. He couldve left 
this box blank if he didnt want it, as he did with other products offered on the application 
form in the same section.
Lloyds has provided copies of Mr Hs credit card statements. Each of these shows the PPI 
as a separate cost. So if Mr H hadnt agreed to take the PPI I think hed have queried it when 
he saw it on his statements. 
Ive also considered that Mr H has provide some conflicting information. While he initially told 
us he didnt know he had the PPI, he later told us that he had been led to believe he had to 
buy it to get the credit card. But I havent seen anything to suggest that anyone at Lloyds told 
Mr H this.
On balance, on the information I have, I think its likely Mr H chose to take the PPI knowing 
he didnt have to, although its understandable he doesnt remember this over 22 years later.
Because Lloyds isnt certain how the PPI was sold (by post, or by application in a branch) it 
has worked on the basis that it gave Mr H a personal recommendation to buy the PPI. This 
holds Lloyds to a higher standard, so I think this is a fair way to look at this case. So Lloyds 
had to take reasonable steps to make sure the PPI was right for Mr H. Looking at Mr Hs personal circumstances at the time of sale I think the policy was suitable for him. I say this 
because:
 
Mr H was eligible for the policy, and he wasnt affected by any of the terms which 
mightve made it more difficult to make a successful claim, such as those related to 
existing medical conditions or self-employment;
Mr H wouldve received some sick pay from his employer. But the policy wouldve 
paid out in addition to this and potentially for much longer than his full sick pay 
wouldve lasted. So it provided an additional benefit;
Mr H says he had a policy to cover him if he was sick. From his description it seems 
that this was a cash benefit policy which would have paid some money if he spent 
time in hospital and provided assistance with things like dental costs and some 
private medical costs. But this wasnt the same as PPI, which would have paid out 
even if Mr H wasnt in hospital;
Mr H would have been entitled to some redundancy pay, but I dont think it would 
have been worth more than a few weeks pay. The PPI would have would have paid 
out for up to 12 months at a time and any redundancy pay Mr H received could have 
been used for other important uninsured expenses;
Mr H says he had some savings at the time, but that these were to help towards a 
deposit for a house purchase. The PPI would have meant Mr H didnt need to divert 
those savings just to help pay his credit card balance; 
The cost of the policy was comparable with other similar policies on the market at the 
same time. It was flexible as it could be cancelled at any time without a financial 
penalty. And I havent seen any evidence to suggest it wasnt affordable for Mr H at 
the time. 
 
Its possible Mr H didnt get all the information he ideally should have done. But I dont think 
even if Lloyds had given him all the information hed have acted differently and not bought 
the policy, because it was suitable for him in the way Ive described above. So I dont think 
Mr H lost out as a result of anything Lloyds might have done wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint so it follows that Lloyds Bank plc doesnt have to pay any 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2020.
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman