DRN-2930019
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) acted unfairly 
by lending to her under a hire purchase agreement for a car, when she could not afford to 
borrow. Moreover, she suggests by reason of this the agreement is unenforceable
What happened
Mrs B is represented in her complaint by her adviser, who I will call Mr B. To make this 
decision easier to read, I refer to Mrs B throughout. I do this even where a submission was 
made by Mr B on Mrs Bs behalf.
In December 2016 Mrs B entered into a hire purchase agreement with VWFS for a used car. 
VWFSs records show, and this does not appear to be disputed, that the full contractual 
payments were made towards the agreement until January 2018. The payment for that 
month was missed. It appears that VWFS contacted Mrs B at this point, but it received 
neither response nor payment.
Several more payments were missed. Each time it appears that VWFS contacted Mrs B 
about this. However, VWFS tells us it received no payment or response. Further, again it 
does not appear that Mrs B disputes any of this.
VWFSs records also show the following, in April 2018, it issued a notice of default. In this 
notice, amongst other things, VWFS told Mrs B what payments had been missed and what it 
might do should the arrears not be paid. In August 2018, it wrote to tell her the agreement 
had been terminated by it for non-payment, and later that month it wrote to tell her its agent 
would be acting for it to either recoup the outstanding payment or repossess the car. VWFS 
also started court action which it has paused while Mrs Bs complaint is with us. It appears 
that VWFS has now repossessed the car.
Mrs B suggests that the lending was unaffordable. Further her position is that because the 
lending was unaffordable VWFS has breached relevant consumer law and therefore the 
agreement is unenforceable. Further, she suggests that she permitted VWFS to take the car 
back, but only if it agreed to be bound by certain pre-conditions. She tells us it went back on 
what it agreed as it has not kept to those pre-conditions.
Mrs B complains that VWFS has acted inappropriately in the actions it has taken to try to 
recover its car from her.
To put things right Mrs B asks that VWFS refund all repayments made to the agreement and 
add interest to this refund. She also asks that it compensate her for the expenses she has 
incurred in the process of bringing her complaint. She requests that VWFS pay interest on 
this compensation. Mrs B also requests a payment to make up for the distress and 
inconvenience, she tells us she has experienced due to VWFSs behaviour.
VWFS does not accept it has done anything wrong and does not agree to pay the 
compensation Mrs B has requested.
Dissatisfied with the response shed received from VWFS Mrs B came to our service.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Bs complaint. She did not recommend upholding it.
VWFS accepted our investigators recommendation, Mrs B did not. In summary, Mrs B 
repeated her previous stance. She also suggested we had not held VWFS properly to 
account.
Mrs B asked that an ombudsman take a fresh look at her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
In deciding what is fair and reasonable I have to keep in mind relevant legislation, amongst 
other things, which includes as Mrs B has mentioned, the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the 
CCA 1974). as well as the regulatory obligations that VWFS has to comply with in the 
course of the regulated activity of providing hire purchase finance.
I want to deal with a preliminary point before looking at the remainder of Mrs Bs complaint. I 
think it is important to look at this point up front as Mrs B has put considerable emphasis on 
it. Specifically, I can see that Mrs B has repeatedly and in great detail argued about the 
enforceability of the hire purchase agreement under the CCA 1974. The CCA 1974 gives the 
courts discretion to decide whether a credit agreement is enforceable, however no 
comparable power is given to this service. It follows that if Mrs B wishes to have a 
declaration under the CCA 1974 that her agreement is unenforceable, she must go to court 
for that. 
At the time Mrs B took out her finance with VWFS, businesses had to meet the relevant 
regulatory obligations. In summary, when lending money to Mrs B, VWFS was required to 
ensure that Mrs B could repay the borrowing in a sustainable manner without it adversely 
impacting on her financial situation. A lender should have obtained sufficient information to 
make an informed decision about the lending. Exactly what a lender should consider was for 
each lender to decide and the guidance and rules listed a number of things each lender may 
have wished to consider. Any checks should have been proportionate, based on the size of 
the borrowing.
In particular, firms such as VWFS, needed to make a reasonable assessment of 
creditworthiness, based on sufficient information. They ought not to have lent unless they 
could demonstrate that they had proper regard to affordability risk in the individual case.
The extent and scope of an assessment should have depended upon, and ought to have 
been proportionate to, the individual circumstances. In particular, the firm should have taken 
into account factors such as, the type and amount of credit, its duration, the cost of the 
credit, and the total amount payable, both in absolute terms and relative to the customers 
financial situation where known. The higher the affordability risk in the particular case, the more rigorous the assessment is 
likely to have needed to be. For example, the firm may have needed to obtain additional 
information, or subject it to additional scrutiny. Firms should have considered whether 
information should be verified, and by what means, to ensure that it was reasonable to rely 
on it, and how it should have been factored into the assessment.
Therefore, taking into account the relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law at 
the time Mrs B took out the hire purchase agreement, I think there are three overarching 
questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. These questions are:
Did VWFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs B 
would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way? If so, did it make a fair lending 
decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mrs B wouldve been able to do so?
Did VWFS act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
If I determine that VWFS didnt act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs B and that 
she has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair a way to put things right.
Did VWFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs B 
would be able to repay the money she borrowed under her hire purchase agreement 
in a sustainable way?
As set out above, the regulatory framework requires VWFS to have carried out a 
proportionate and reasonable assessment, based on sufficient information, of whether Mrs B 
could afford to make the repayments under the agreement with it in a sustainable manner.
VWFS has shared with us the steps it took before lending to Mrs B and how it analysed the 
information that it got. Moreover, VWFSs position is that appropriate checks were completed 
in order to establish Mrs Bs credit worthiness and the affordability of the agreement from the 
get-go. 
I am grateful for the detail VWFS has provided in setting out how it assessed Mrs Bs ability 
to repay the agreement. However, the difficulty is that although it has told us, in broad terms, 
what it did, it has not shared the results of the checks it undertook and what these showed 
about Mrs Bs financial situation and her ability to repay it. That being so, Im not in position 
to safely conclude that its checks went far enough. 
Would proportionate checks have shown Mrs B could not afford the borrowing?
It is not enough for me to say the checks were not proportionate. I also have to find that they 
would have shown that Mrs B could not afford the borrowing. To do this I need information 
about Mrs Bs full financial situation at the time. That is where I have run into another 
difficulty. In order to make an assessment of Mrs Bs financial standing at the relevant time 
we asked Mrs B to provide us with her bank statements and information about her wider 
financial circumstances. 
Mrs B has provided us with one bank statement which covers part of November 2016 and 
December 2016. It is not clear to me if this was Mrs Bs only bank account, as it does not 
show much in terms of the normal monthly expenses that most homeowners (as it seems 
she was then) might have, such as utilities. Moreover, relatively large sums seem to have 
come into her account and left shortly after, the reason for this has not been explained. I also 
might have expected to have seen statements for several months immediately before and 
after when Mrs B took out the borrowing to fairly assess her financial situation at the relevant 
time. Neither have I seen anything that demonstrates what other financial commitments Mrs 
B had at the time when she applied the hire purchase agreement with VWFS.I also take on board that Mrs Bs payment history, that is that she was able to make the 
repayments for several consecutive months is not consistent with what she tells us about not 
being able to afford the repayments.
For all of these reasons on balance I have no proper basis for saying that Mrs B was unable 
to afford the repayments.
It also follows that I dont agree with Mrs Bs specific point that the agreement was flawed or 
incapable of being relied on by VWFS because Mrs B says but has not demonstrated that 
she could not afford the borrowing.
Did VWFS act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Mrs B suggests that VWFS set aside its contractual rights to seek to recover its car when 
she stopped making repayments. She suggests it relinquished these rights and instead 
agreed to collect its car but only on the basis of a new set of conditions that Mrs B put 
forward. Mrs B is strongly of the view that VWFS did accept her conditions. She tells us 
VWFSs agent told her VWFS accepted her conditions. Plus, she also says I also have 
evidence (exchange of correspondence) that [VWFS] has accepted the conditions attached 
to the uplift of the Vehicle. 
Ive no doubt Mrs B thinks she reached an agreement both via VWFSs agent and with 
VWFS directly. But I have seen a letter from VWFSs agent that Mrs B sent in, it does not 
say that her conditions were accepted, quite the opposite
During the call I did not say l was fully aware of the conditions, which had been accepted by 
[VWFS], and only confirmed that after speaking to the client, [VWFS] they are wanting me to 
collect the vehicle and continue with action.
Moreover, I have seen no exchange of correspondence that suggests VWFS accepted Mrs 
Bs new terms and waived the rights it had as result of the hire purchase agreement. Rather 
all the correspondence I have seen from it suggests that it was intent on exercising its legal 
rights as set out in the hire purchase agreement to the fullest degree.
It follows that I am not persuaded that VWFS did give up its rights to pursue Mrs B for 
payment and agree to compensate her for doing so by accepting her new terms. 
Further, in the circumstances, I see no reason to say VWFS is unable to rely on the terms of 
the agreement that both parties freely entered into. I say this because, by entering into the 
agreement they were both confirming that they intended to be bound by the terms of the 
agreement. The recovery proceedings were in line with the terms of the agreement. And Mrs 
B has not said that she was prevented by anything VWFS did wrong from responding to its 
correspondence about the missed payments or the default notice or the default.
For all of these reasons, in the circumstances, I can see no basis on which I can find that 
VWFS has acted unreasonably or been unfair to Mrs B. It follows I will not be telling it that it 
must cease taking action against Mrs B or pay any of the expenses she has asked it to pay.
Since the complaint has been with us Mrs B has now also raised the issue of being coerced 
into taking out this agreement. This appears to be an entirely new matter and for this reason 
it has not been considered by VWFS in its final response to Mrs B or investigated within this 
complaint. It follows that I am unable to look at this matter in this final decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman