DRN-2183364
The complaint
Mr A complains Policy Excess Insure Ltd (PEX) unfairly renewed a roadside assistance 
insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2019 Mr A took out a 12-month roadside assistance insurance policy arranged 
by PEX. In July of the same year he sold the car that the policy covered. In February 2020 
he received an email explaining the cover would be renewing. A few days later, shortly 
before the renewal date, he contacted PEX to say he didnt need the cover. But PEX had 
already taken payment from Mr As account. It refused to cancel the policy or refund the 
premium.
 
Mr A complained to PEX. In response it said the policy terms gave it a right to renew the 
cover and take funds from his account. It said Mr A had agreed to this when taking out the 
cover in 2019. So it wouldnt agree to cancel the policy. Mr A wasnt happy with that so came 
to this service. 
Our Investigator said PEX had acted unfairly. He recommended it cancel the policy without 
charging any fees. He felt it should also pay Mr A £50 compensation to recognise the trouble 
and upset it had caused him. Mr A accepted this. PEX agreed to refund the premium but not 
to pay the compensation. Mr A wasnt willing to accept that. So the complaint has come to 
me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, PEX will need to refund Mr L the premium and pay him £50 compensation.
Ive considered everything PEX says about the terms and conditions Mr A agreed to when 
taking out the 2019 policy. But this service doesnt just consider the terms of contracts. We 
are required to look at whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Ultimately, I dont 
consider it fair or reasonable for Mr A to be charged for the cover - when he had told PEX 
before its start date that he didnt want it and had no need for it.
 
I accept PEX had already taken payment for the cover. But that doesnt mean it would be fair 
for it to keep those funds. So to put things right PEX should refund the full premium it took. I 
believe that to be £59.99.  
PEXs handling of this issue has caused Mr A unnecessary trouble and upset. This added to 
the distress he was already experiencing as a result of poor health. Its been an unnecessary 
inconvenience to him. So to recognise the impact of all this PEX will need to pay Mr A £50 
compensation. 
PEX said its already provided some compensation to Mr A by waiving a £4.99 charge. That 
seems to be a fee PEX feels would be payable in the event of him not renewing the policy in 
2021. But as the 2020 policy was unfairly renewed it wouldnt be reasonable to charge Mr A 
a fee for not taking out cover for the following year. So I havent taken that £4.99 into 
account when calculating the compensation payable to Mr A. And PEX shouldnt deduct it 
from what it pays him.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I require Policy Excess Insure Ltd to refund Mr A £59.99 and 
pay him £50 compensation. It should do this within 28 days of us telling it hes accepted my 
final decision. If it pays later than this it should add interest at a rate of 8% simple per year 
from the date of my final decision to the date it makes payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman