DRN-3904849
The complaint
Ms G has complained about how Mortgage Agency Services Number Five Limited (MAS5) 
has handled her mortgage account.
This complaint has been brought by a representative  Mr W  who is acting on behalf of 
Ms G. Any reference to Ms G in this decision should be taken to mean Mr W acting on her 
behalf where appropriate.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision in December 2022, the findings of which said:
I trust Ms G wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed this complaint in the way 
that I have. Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what 
I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not 
considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right 
outcome. This service is impartial between, and independent from, consumers and 
businesses. What this means is that we dont represent either party, and we look at things 
independently without taking sides.
Ms G is unhappy about the decision my colleague reached about our jurisdiction to 
consider this complaint, and the decision another ombudsman colleague reached in 2020 
about the ground rent and service charge payments made in 2018. There has to be some 
finality in our process and it wouldnt be appropriate for us to continue to correspond about 
the same matters once an ombudsman has issued a decision on them.
Having reviewed my colleagues October 2022 decision I cant see that shes erred in her 
understanding of our rules, or in how she has applied them, and so there will be no further 
mention in this decision about our jurisdiction.
In addition, Im satisfied my other ombudsman colleague  in 2020  was aware that the 
2018 CCJ was for around £1,340 but that MAS5 had paid around £1,700 to the 
management company, a point Ms G is now making. I say this because my colleague 
makes reference to both the CCJ (that was for around £1,340) and the Section 146 notice 
(that incurred a further £360 cost) in her final decision, so she had sight of both documents 
and the different sums on them. If my colleague had felt MAS5 should only have paid the 
lower amount, then she would have made a finding to that effect in her decision. For that 
reason, this isnt new evidence such that Id consider the payment of the 2018 amount 
again.
The payments MAS5 made to the management company that I can consider are:
June 2015 £599.24
January 2016 £8,256.10
May 2020 £3,124.80
February 2022 £958.84
MAS5 is entitled to pay ground rent and service charge arrears (plus associated costs) 
where it is necessary to preserve the security interest, and then add those amounts to the 
mortgage debt. If MAS5 hadnt paid them, its possible the matter would have moved to 
forfeiture of the lease (that is, in effect, repossession of the property by the freeholder). 
Ms G says she didnt receive the invoices from the management company, but I cant 
consider that here as this complaint is just about MAS5 and its actions. I also cant 
consider whether the amounts the management company said were due were correct, or 
any errors by the court, for the same reason.
If Ms G wanted the payments refunded to her mortgage account, she would have needed 
to show MAS5 the money wasnt due. To do this, Ms G would have needed to take the 
matter to a tribunal or other relevant authority. If it had then been found that some or all of 
the money already paid to the freeholder wasnt due, but the freeholder wasnt ordered to 
return it, then thats a complaint Ms G could have raised with MAS5. But without anything 
from a tribunal or other relevant authority to show that the amounts werent due, and that 
the freeholder hadnt refunded the money directly to Ms G, then I cant say MAS5 did 
anything wrong in making the payments and then adding those amounts onto the mortgage 
debt. 
Ms G was in breach of her mortgage conditions when she didnt pay the ground rent and 
service charges on the property, so MAS5 was entitled to take legitimate steps to recover 
the money owed to it, such as starting legal proceedings. That may be unwelcome to Ms 
G, but I dont consider that unfair or unreasonable on the part of MAS5 when considering 
how long this situation has been going on for, and the sums of money involved.
Ms G has complained about the interest rate that has been charged on the mortgage, 
highlighting some recent legal action and media attention about MAS5s standard variable 
rate (SVR).
The information Ms G has highlighted isnt relevant to her mortgage account as it relates to 
customers that are on the SVR, with complaints being about whether or not the SVR has 
been varied fairly. But Ms G isnt on the SVR, shes on a Bank of England Base Rate 
(Base Rate) tracker product so her rate always varies in line with any changes to the 
Base Rate. Having considered her interest rate history from July 2016 to date Im satisfied 
MAS5 varied her interest rate in line with the changes to the Base Rate exactly as I would 
expect.
Ms G has recently said that she doesnt feel MAS5 has calculated her payments correctly, 
citing the increases in 2022 to her monthly payments. In 2022 there were Base Rate 
increases in February, March, May, June, August, September, November and December, 
and having looked at the amounts MAS5 said Ms Gs contractual monthly payment 
(CMP) went up by each time, these are broadly in line with what I would expect to see.
Ms G has also said that funds have been misallocated. By this I think she means that when 
she made £100 per month payments that she marked to go to her arrears, that some of 
that amount was instead paid to the normal mortgage. That isnt a misallocation; Ill explain 
why.
From May 2021 Ms G was due to be paying her CMP plus £100 towards the arrears. But 
shed taken a payment deferral (under the regulators covid-19 guidance) in 2020 which 
meant her CMP had increased from £232.61 to £234.03. This was explained to her in a letter dated 21 July 2020. Unfortunately Ms C, when she started making the payments 
under the arrangement in May 2021, paid £232.61 plus £100, rather than the £234.03 plus 
£100 that was due. Then when her CMP increased throughout 2022 (due to the Base Rate 
changes) she kept her payments at £232.61 plus £100.
MAS5  in line with most lenders  will allocate payments in a certain order, and that is to 
the CMP first, and then anything extra that is left will go towards the arrears. That is entirely 
normal, and as I would expect. As Ms G was paying a few pounds less than she should 
under the CMP part of her payment, then MAS5 didnt act inappropriately in taking the 
CMP shortfall from the additional £100 arrears payment. This meant Ms G wasnt paying 
the extra £100 per month that she agreed to under the arrangement that was put in place, 
and so the arrangement was considered broken.
Its not the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to provide an auditing service or carry 
out a forensic analysis of mortgage accounts. Ive looked at the transaction history for the 
period I can consider and theres nothing on there that appears unusual or incorrect. Of 
course, its open to Ms G to instruct an independent suitably qualified professional to audit 
her account. But that would have to be at her expense  though if errors were found to her 
financial detriment, she could complain about them and her costs in discovering them could
be taken into account in putting matters right. But as things stand, during the period Im 
able to consider, Im not persuaded that MAS5 has mis-managed her account.
I understand Ms G has asked that MAS5 doesnt contact her by phone, and asked that it 
instead deals with Mr W. However I understand from MAS5 that Mr W hadnt provided the 
proof of identity that it had asked for so it could set him up with third party authority on the 
account.
MAS5 has acknowledged it got things wrong when Mr W provided the information 
originally, and it has paid £150 compensation for that. Having considered everything, that 
seems a fair offer.
However, since then I can only see a record of Mr W saying he had returned the form 
again, but nothing about him providing the proof of identity that MAS5 had asked for. It may 
be he has provided it and, for some reason, it wasnt logged correctly. If that is the case I 
would ask him to provide the information to our investigator as an alternative means of 
resolving the situation, and we can then pass that onto MAS5.
But until such time as MAS5 has all the information it needs (and it may be things have 
moved on by now, and MAS5 does have that information) then I cant say it has acted 
inappropriately by remaining in contact with Ms G as she is the only party to the mortgage, 
and the mortgage is in arrears and in breach of its terms and conditions. Having looked at 
the level and the nature of contact I dont think MAS5 has harassed or bullied Ms G, and so 
I dont think it has acted unreasonably in not acting on Mr Ws cease and desist letters.
Previously I can see that Ms G asked MAS5 to only contact her on Saturdays as she 
worked during the week, whereas more recently it seems Mr W is saying she shouldnt be 
phoned at all for medical reasons. If that is the case, then Ms G should provide further 
information to MAS5 about her medical concerns (such as medical reports, or letters from 
her doctor or consultant) and it can then assess whether her account should be handled 
differently. 
Having considered everything, whilst I can see there are times that MAS5 got things wrong, 
Im satisfied the compensation it has already paid for those errors is fair and reasonable. In 
respect of the remainder of the complaint, Im not currently minded to find that MAS5 has 
acted inappropriately and so I dont uphold it.Mr W  on behalf of Ms G  didnt accept my provisional decision and sent further 
submissions. These comprised of multiple pages of documents that we already held, and 
then later two short emails which said (I quote):
Firstly I apologise for not pagnaiting the information.
From it you will see comments on the documents highlighted transactions that were 
questioned.
Charges applied twice without reason interest on payments non incalculable. Fluctuations 
in arrears ( low on letter high the next often multiple letters in the same month)
Payments of CCJ above the amount on CCJ letters advising no information has been 
received from the creditors on this ( see woblr and dixon and enails to and from a GRA 
enail address)
Letters asking for information duely ignored authorisation forms completed to allow me to 
converse by phone again ignored.
All scumilate into either a lack of attention for the customer account obtuse behaviour or a 
realisation that they're wrong and no ambition to correct.
You will see compensation letters realising a lack of attention but no change in practice.
All on all a failure of FCA principle of business and regulation.
Please not the FCA have been advised of the practice and they have confirmed they are 
monitoring the business. I do realise I will mit be privy to any outcome the FCA come to.
And
On addition you will see enails between ICO and the DPO of coop ghe parent company 
and their lack of information provided with excuses
What Ive decided  and why
Mr W has raised various points in relation to my provisional decision. I wont be answering all 
those points  or in much detail  if they dont alter the overall outcome of this complaint.
There are quite a few transactions that have been highlighted, none of which appear to be 
incorrect. For example, one charge relates to a £60 fee on 9 December 2020 for a field 
agent visit, which has been annotated despite knowing of dispute. 
At that point no payment had been made since August 2020 so a field agent visit was 
entirely appropriate. Even if a customer disputes the amount they should be paying each 
month  or anything else on the account  payments must be made each and every month 
otherwise further action will be taken, such as the instruction of a field agent. That is entirely 
normal and as I would expect. Otherwise the situation could be abused, and constant 
disputes raised, as a way of avoiding making mortgage payments. Im not saying that was 
the case here. But Im sure Ms G can understand why that would be a risk and therefore it 
wouldnt be fair on a lender for no payments to be made, when there is no dispute that a 
substantial debt is owed (and it is just a relatively small percentage of the overall debt and 
monthly payments that is being disputed).Another note says 6993 x 3 erroneous. By this I think the note is indicating that an amount 
has been charged three times in error, and I assume it relates to either the £6,988 
transaction for ground rent and/or service charge, or to the £6,636 transaction for ground 
rent and/or service charge.
As my colleague explained in her jurisdiction decision, we wont be considering further 
complaints about those ground rents and/or service charges as complaints about them had 
previously been decided by our service. And neither sum has been charged three times to 
the mortgage account.
The first transaction relating to the sum of £6,988 was on 2 August 2017 when it was debited 
from the account. There were then two transactions for the same amount on 7 February 
2018, one credited the sum to the account and the other debited it from the account  so 
those two transactions cancelled each other out. So the £6,988 has only been added to the 
mortgage debt once.
In relation to the sum of £6,636, this was debited from the account on 14 November 2018, 
credited back to the account on 9 April 2019 and then it was redebited on 17 April 2019. So 
the £6,636 has only been added to the mortgage debt once.
As I explained in my provisional decision:
Its not the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to provide an auditing service or 
carry out a forensic analysis of mortgage accounts. Ive looked at the transaction history for 
the period I can consider and theres nothing on there that appears unusual or incorrect. Of 
course, its open to Ms G to instruct an independent suitably qualified professional to audit 
her account. But that would have to be at her expense  though if errors were found to her 
financial detriment, she could complain about them and her costs in discovering them could 
be taken into account in putting matters right. But as things stand, during the period Im 
able to consider, Im not persuaded that MAS5 has mis-managed her account.
Having considered the various highlighted transactions and annotations, I see no reason to 
depart from that finding.
The letters that are sent setting out the arrears balance will vary as that figure is a snapshot 
at the time the letter is produced, so any payments to the account or any missed/late 
payments will mean that figure will change. 
This can be seen by the two letters from April 2022 that Ms G has referred to. The first letter 
was dated 15 April 2022 and said the arrears were £789 with the Next Subscription Date: 
15/04/2022; that is, the date the letter was issued. The second letter was dated 20 April 
2022 and said the arrears were £1,064 with the Next Subscription Date: 15/05/2022; that 
is, the following month. 
Had Ms G made her April 2022 payment on the due date then the second letter wouldnt 
have shown a worsening arrears situation  the arrears figure was higher because a further 
monthly payment had been due on 15 April and as it wasnt paid (between the 15 April and 
the 20 April letters) then the second letter showed that increased arrears balance.
Whilst Ms G has also sent us a letter from 28 April 2022 which has been annotated Arrears 
is different again - that isnt the case. The arrears figure given in the letter of 28 April is the 
same as the figure given in the letter of 20 April - £1,064. The monthly payment due going 
forward had changed, but that was because of a change in the interest rate being charged 
(following a Base Rate increase).Ms G has said that her payment due date was changed from the 15th of the month to the 1st 
of the month in 2021 but that wasnt the case. If the payment due date had been changed a 
letter would have been issued to confirm that and Ms G would have needed to make her full 
monthly payment on the 15th of one month, and then pay in full again around two weeks later 
on the 1st of the next month, and that never happened.
Instead Ms G paid on the following dates:
10 May 2021
10 June
16 July
20 August
21 September
26 October
23 November
No payment was made in December
4 January 2022
3 February
4 March
4 April
If Ms G wanted to move her payment from the 15th of the month to the 1st of the month, then 
she would have needed to pay on 15 December 2021, and then again on 1 January (for 
example). A change couldnt be achieved by missing a month. It would also need to be 
agreed with the business, especially for an account that is already in arrears, and if that had 
happened then MAS5 would have issued a letter confirming the change. On the contrary, 
MAS5 sent a letter on 28 July 2021 which said:
Your contractual due date will remain the 15th of each month. This means that your 
mortgage will be deemed to be overdue until your payment is credited to your account.
Just changing the date you pay the mortgage doesnt mean there is a formal change in the 
payment due date. This is all normal industry practice.
I explained in my provisional decision why I wouldnt be considering the points relating to the 
payment of the CCJ being higher than that on the CCJ letters and that Ms G said she hadnt 
received information about them, I quote:
In addition, Im satisfied my other ombudsman colleague  in 2020  was aware that the 
2018 CCJ was for around £1,340 but that MAS5 had paid around £1,700 to the 
management company, a point Ms G is now making. I say this because my colleague 
makes reference to both the CCJ (that was for around £1,340) and the Section 146 notice 
(that incurred a further £360 cost) in her final decision, so she had sight of both documents 
and the different sums on them. If my colleague had felt MAS5 should only have paid the 
lower amount, then she would have made a finding to that effect in her decision. For that 
reason, this isnt new evidence such that Id consider the payment of the 2018 amount 
again.
And
MAS5 is entitled to pay ground rent and service charge arrears (plus associated costs) 
where it is necessary to preserve the security interest, and then add those amounts to the 
mortgage debt. If MAS5 hadnt paid them, its possible the matter would have moved to 
forfeiture of the lease (that is, in effect, repossession of the property by the freeholder). Ms G says she didnt receive the invoices from the management company, but I cant 
consider that here as this complaint is just about MAS5 and its actions. I also cant 
consider whether the amounts the management company said were due were correct, or 
any errors by the court, for the same reason.
Having considered everything again, I see no reason to depart from those findings.
The same applies to the authorisation forms to allow Mr W to deal with matters, I quote:
I understand Ms G has asked that MAS5 doesnt contact her by phone, and asked that it 
instead deals with Mr W. However I understand from MAS5 that Mr W hadnt provided the 
proof of identity that it had asked for so it could set him up with third party authority on the 
account.
MAS5 has acknowledged it got things wrong when Mr W provided the information 
originally, and it has paid £150 compensation for that. Having considered everything, that 
seems a fair offer.
However, since then I can only see a record of Mr W saying he had returned the form 
again, but nothing about him providing the proof of identity that MAS5 had asked for. It may 
be he has provided it and, for some reason, it wasnt logged correctly. If that is the case I 
would ask him to provide the information to our investigator as an alternative means of 
resolving the situation, and we can then pass that onto MAS5.
But until such time as MAS5 has all the information it needs (and it may be things have 
moved on by now, and MAS5 does have that information) then I cant say it has acted 
inappropriately by remaining in contact with Ms G as she is the only party to the mortgage, 
and the mortgage is in arrears and in breach of its terms and conditions.
Mr W hasnt, despite my offer to assist, provided us with the information as an alternative 
means of resolving the situation, and neither he nor Ms G has provided me with evidence 
that proof of identity was also provided to MAS5 each time, rather than just the form (other 
than in the first instance which MAS5 has already paid compensation for).
Having considered everything, I see no reason to depart from my findings on this point.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said previously, Im not answering all the points raised in Mr Ws recent emails as they 
dont affect the overall outcome of this complaint, however I can confirm Ive read and 
considered them (and all the documents provided) when reaching this decision.
Having done so I see no reason to depart from the findings I reached in my provisional 
decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2023. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman