DRN-3574305
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that TSB Bank plc (TSB) claim he still owes an outstanding debt which 
theyve recorded on his credit file, despite previously telling him he no longer owed anything 
What happened
Mr C opened his account with TSB in 2014. An overdraft facility was agreed in October 
2017. Early in 2018, Mr C exceeded his overdraft limit. While this was adjusted, the excess 
occurred again in February 2018.
Around that time, TSB were contacted by a debt advice charity on Mr Cs behalf. A monthly 
repayment plan was proposed and agreed for the amount Mr C owed on his overdraft. But 
the agreed monthly reductions werent maintained. Over the course of several months, TSB 
wrote to Mr C regularly to let him know his account balance was in excess of the reducing 
overdraft limit theyd agreed. At one point, Mr C repaid what he owed in full. But later began 
reusing the overdraft facility until the agreed reducing limit was exceeded again.
Despite TSBs letters, Mr Cs account balance continued to exceed the agreed reducing 
limit. So, TSB issued a default notice. Mr Cs account was eventually closed in December 
2018 and a default was recorded on Mr Cs credit file with the credit reference agencies.
In October 2020, TSB received further contact from the debt advice charity representing Mr 
C. They proposed a small regular monthly repayment to reduce the outstanding debt. But in 
December 2020, TSB were advised that the debt advice charity were no longer acting for Mr 
C. 
In October 2021, Mr C complained to TSB. He said theyd agreed to waive the balance that 
he owed them and close off the account. He also said TSB had agreed to remove any record 
of the debt from his credit file. 
TSB sent Mr C a written response to his complaint in December 2021. But Mr C didnt 
receive this. So, he contacted TSB again in March 2022 to find out what was happening. 
TSB sent another copy of the final response to Mr C by email. That response said TSB had 
agreed to refund charges an interest totalling more than £600. As this amount was more 
than Mr C owed to TSB, he believed he no longer owed them anything and his credit file 
would be updated to reflect that.
Mr C contacted TSB again in early April 2022. He wasnt happy they hadnt yet amended his 
credit file and charges hadnt been refunded to his account. When TSB investigated further, 
they discovered Mr C had been sent the wrong final response. That response related to a 
different complaint from a different customer. So, they sent him a new response to his 
complaint.
In the new response, TSB apologised for their mistake. They explained what had happened 
and said theyd investigated his complaint again. They said they wouldnt be able to clear the 
balance he owed. They had offered Mr C £50 compensation for being misadvised which he 
wasnt happy with. But they said he was happy to receive that sum as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr C wasnt happy with TSBs response. He said hed first contacted TSB to arrange to 
repay what he owed and had funds set aside for this. He said that when they told him he 
didnt owe anything; he redirected those funds to reduce other debts. So, the money was no 
longer available, and he could no longer repay them. Mr C said TSBs actions had caused 
him distress and anxiety and had made him very ill. He believes TSB had promised him he 
didnt have to repay what he owed, and they should honour that promise. 
Having referred his complaint to this service, our investigator didnt think TSB needed to do 
anything more. While she acknowledged that TSB had sent Mr C a letter suggesting that 
refunds would clear his debt with them, she thought TSB had addressed this appropriately 
and didnt agree that the outstanding debt should be waived. 
Mr C didnt agree with our investigators findings. He felt very strongly that TSB had treated 
him unfairly. He insisted theyd told him, on many occasions, he didnt owe anything. He 
wanted TSB to provide recordings of his telephone conversations in which they confirmed he 
had no debt. He couldnt understand why it would be acceptable for TSB to reverse that 
decision.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Cs complaint has been passed to me to review 
and issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSB have provided this service with copies of their files and correspondence relating to Mr 
Cs account and dealings with them. Im satisfied that Mr C did have an outstanding 
overdraft with TSB back in 2018. And it appears this wasnt repaid in the manner proposed 
and agreed with TSB. 
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) issue guidance and principles for the reporting 
of arrears, arrangements and defaults (PRAAD) at credit reference agencies. It says that as 
a general guide, a default may be recorded when you are three months in arrears, and 
normally by the time you are six months in arrears. TSBs actions appear to comply with 
these guidelines, So, I cant reasonably say that theyve done anything wrong here.
So, Ive then considered whether TSB later told Mr C that he no longer needed to repay what 
he owed them and that theyd remove any related information from his credit file at the credit 
reference agencies.
TSBs file notes show all contacts they had with Mr C from early 2020. Theres no evidence 
of any meaningful contact until the debt advice charity contacted them again in October 
2020, albeit this then stopped in December 2020. TSB have confirmed that the next contact 
was in October 2021 when they received a complaint from Mr C claiming theyd agreed to 
waive the balance he owed and remove all records from his credit file.
I appreciate that Mr C will be very disappointed but having reviewed all the files and 
evidence available up to October 2021, Ive found nothing to suggest TSB had agreed to or 
told Mr C that. 
Ive then considered TSBs final response issued in December 2021. I accept Mr C says he 
didnt initially receive it. But Im also aware the same letter was then emailed to him in March 
2022. The letter is clearly addressed to Mr C.
My first observation is that the description of the complaint appears to differ from Mr Cs own 
complaint. Further, the letter refers to documentation received from a debt advice charity in 
November (2021) about your credit card. TSBs files show that a debt advice charity wasnt 
dealing with Mr Cs situation then. And Mr Cs complaint didnt relate to a credit card.
The letter goes on to say that TSBs collections department have agreed to refund charges 
and interest since July (2021). Again, this doesnt appear to relate to the basis of Mr Cs 
complaint. They hadnt applied any charges or interest during that period. So, I think TSBs 
letters raises some questions about its relevance to Mr Cs complaint.TSB subsequently confirmed that theyd sent the wrong letter to Mr C. The wording did, in 
fact, relate to a completely different customer. I think this explains the discrepancies Ive 
highlighted above. Mr C has been clear that he believes TSB should stand by the contents of 
this letter as it was clearly addressed to him. I do understand why Mr C feels this way. But I 
think it was clear something wasnt right with what TSB said in that letter. 
TSB have admitted they made a mistake here. And they subsequently issued a revised 
response to Mr Cs complaint. In it, they acknowledged their error and confirmed agreement 
to pay £50 as a gesture of goodwill for being misadvised. And I think this amount fairly 
reflects their mistakes here.
Mr C also says he was told, in various telephone conversations, he didnt owe anything. I 
havent seen anything that definitely confirms thats what TSB said. But as the wrong 
response letter was held on his file with TSB, I can understand why, when he called, they 
might have told him that given the contents of the letter. I want to reassure Mr C that I do 
understand and appreciate his strong beliefs and feelings here. But Im satisfied that the 
original complaint response sent by TSB was a genuine mistake. 
For that reason, I cant reasonably insist that TSB waive what Mr C owes. Ive considered 
everything Mr C has told this service very carefully. But ultimately, theres no disputing that 
Mr C had an overdraft with TSB that he hasnt subsequently repaid. And I dont believe it 
would be proportionate, fair or reasonable to ask TSB to waive that debt because of their 
mistakes here. Mr C has benefitted from the money he owes. So, I believe its only fair that 
he should remain liable for it. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman