DRN-3868481
The complaint
Mr A complains AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly cancelled his motor insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on providing my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
The terms and conditions of the policy state that on the fourth occasion of a missed 
payment a policy maybe cancelled, without providing an opportunity to make up that 
payment. AXA was entitled to act on the terms and conditions of the policy and 
cancel the policy.  
Im satisfied Mr A was provided with details of the potential consequences of missing 
payments. 
The contract Mr A entered into stipulates when the payments are due. As they were 
not made on that date, I would say they have been missed not bounced as Mr A 
suggests. 
It is unfortunate that the fourth missed payment happened to be the last of the 10-
month payment plan he had entered into, however this does not impact my decision 
here. 
I disagree that the credit rating check at the start of the policy would have informed 
AXA that Mr A was likely to miss payments in the future. I also dont think this means 
he should have been treated any differently. 
We expect consumers to be open with financial institutions as to any difficulties they 
may be having  Mr A has said he mentioned his circumstances to AXA in a phone 
call, but he has not been able to provide any evidence of this or a date/time when he 
called. AXA similarly have no record of Mr A contacting them. 
Based on the evidence available to me, I cant say AXA were aware of any specific 
difficulties Mr A was experiencing or that it acted unreasonably in cancelling the 
policy based on the terms and conditions. 
Mr A argues he was unfairly denied earning a further years NCD, however I disagree, 
as set out above, AXA were entitled to cancel the policy. The policy also had a 
further two months left to run and there would have been no guarantee Mr A would 
have been claim free during this time.  
As Mr A breached the terms and conditions of the policy and cancellation of the 
policy was started by AXA, it did not act unreasonably in refusing to subsequently 
accept Mr As attempt to cancel the policy. To have done so would have meant the 
incorrect position would be reported. I appreciate Mr As concerns about having to 
disclose a cancelled policy, however I dont think AXA have acted incorrectly here. 
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I reject Mr As complaint against AXA Insurance UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman