DRN-3976098
The complaint
Mr A complains that Haven Insurance Company Limited declined his claim on his motor 
insurance policy for the theft of his car and the loss of his personal possessions. He wants 
payment for his car and his possessions.
 
What happened
Mr As car was stolen by a passenger whilst he left it unattended with the key on the seat. 
Haven relied on the keys in car exclusion in the policys terms and conditions to decline the 
claim. Mr A said Haven scrapped the recovered and damaged car before he had a chance to 
recover his personal possessions. He wanted compensation for this. Haven said there was 
no evidence that the listed possessions had been in the car when it was recovered. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought it was 
fair and reasonable for Haven to decline the theft claim because of the policy exclusion. He 
thought Haven had provided images of the recovered car that showed that no personal 
possessions were in the car. And he thought their loss wouldnt be covered in any case due 
to the policy exclusion for theft when the keys were left in the car. 
Mr A replied that he thought Havens claims investigator had confirmed the list of 
possessions and this would be shown in a video taken of the interview with him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A said he stopped at a shop, became distracted, and left his key on the seat of his car 
whilst he went into the shop. His passenger then stole the car, and it was later recovered by 
the police damaged and declared a Category B write off. 
Haven said it sold the cars salvage to avoid storage costs and paid Mr A the cars scrap 
value. But it declined the claim and said there was no evidence of any personal possessions 
left in the car when it recovered it. I can understand that Mr A is frustrated by Havens 
decision. Hes explained the financial impact this has had on him, and I was sorry to hear 
about this.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Haven relied on a policy exclusion under What is Not Covered to decline the claim:
Damage or loss to Your Car, spare parts, Accessories or Personal Belongings by theft, 
attempted theft or unauthorised use when: 
The keys have been left in Your Car
I think this is a common exclusion in motor insurance policies, and I do not find it unusual or 
unreasonable. But it is significant, and I would expect it to be set out in the policy wording, as 
it is, and in the summary or Key Facts document. And I can see that the exclusion is 
included in the proposal form sent to Mr A when he took out his policy. So I think it was 
sufficiently brought to Mr As attention and its fair and reasonable for Haven to rely on it. 
There is no dispute that Mr A left his key on the cars seat. Theft due to this is excluded from 
cover. And so I think it was fair and reasonable for Haven to decline Mr As claim in keeping 
with the policys terms and conditions. 
I can see from Havens file that Mr A contacted it two months after the car had been 
recovered to ask for his personal possessions to be returned. By this time, Havens agent 
had sold the car for scrap. And it said there were no personal possessions in the car when it 
had taken it from the police impound. Mr A said he had given Havens claims investigator a 
list of the possessions and these had been confirmed as present. 
Unfortunately, the video of the interview isnt available for me to consider. But I have seen 
Havens file and I can see that Mr A told the interviewer that there were items present in the 
car when it was stolen. But I havent seen that the interviewer confirmed that these were 
present when the car was recovered by Havens agent. 
By this stage, the car had been in the hands of the thieves, the police didnt say that there 
were any items recovered from the car, the recovery agents photographs taken when it 
recovered the car dont show any items in the car. So I have no evidence to show that the 
personal items were in the car when Haven took possession of it. And so I cant reasonably 
hold Haven responsible for their loss. 
Mr A said he was unhappy that Haven disposed of the car without telling him. But I cant see 
that Mr A contacted Haven to recover his car after it collected it from the police impound. 
And I havent seen evidence that he told Haven that he wanted to retain the salvage. As the 
car was a Category B total loss, it was unfit to drive in any case. And Haven paid Mr A the 
salvage amount it received for it. So I cant say that Haven caused Mr A any loss in this. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman