DRN-3102917
The complaint
Miss G complains about the redress Toyota Financial Services (UK) Plc (TFS) provided 
after they agreed to allow her to reject a car she was financing through them.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint TFS, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss G acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then TFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
As Miss G identified a fault with the car within the first 30 days the relevant legislation 
allowed her to reject the car without providing the business with an opportunity to repair the 
fault.
The relevant legislation says that if a fault is identified in the first six months it is to be 
assumed it was present at the point of supply when the business were responsible for the 
quality of the car: unless the business can demonstrate otherwise. 
So, it wasnt for Miss G to provide and pay for reports to demonstrate the origin of the fault 
and TFS should refund any additional report costs Miss G can provide receipts for.
TFS say that the dealership have taken costs for fuel provided when the car was supplied 
and for delivery. They say it wouldnt be fair to ask them to refund those charges as they 
didnt take them. But I disagree. When a car is rejected under a hire purchase agreement we 
would usual expect the deposit to be refunded to the consumer. The cost of fuel and delivery 
has been deducted from that deposit. I dont think its fair for Miss G to pay for the delivery of 
a car that was of unsatisfactory quality or for fuel that she wouldnt have needed to use if the 
business had taken the car back when they should have. The deposit should be refunded in 
full without any deduction and TFS should add interest to the refund as Miss G has been 
deprived of that money.
TFS should refund all the monthly instalments Miss G has paid and they should add interest 
to the refund. The relevant legislation says that they are allowed to retain some or all of 
those instalments in respect of any use Miss G has had from the car. But as the independent 
inspector confirmed in mid-March that only 190 miles had been completed in the car, and 
TFS allowed rejection the next month, I dont think it would be fair for TFS to retain any 
instalments paid. I think Miss G had little use from the car and what use she did have was 
most likely impeded by the turbo issue she complained of. 
I think Miss G has been inconvenienced here. Shes had to wait some time for a resolution to 
her complaint and has had to escalate it to this service when I think it could have been 
resolved earlier. Shes also had to arrange inspection reports when I think the onus was on 
the business to do so. In the circumstances I think TFS should pay Miss G £100 
compensation. 
Putting things right
Ive detailed this above.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Toyota Financial Services 
(UK) Plc to:
if they havent already done so - end the agreement and collect the car at no cost to 
Miss G;
refund the full deposit and add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement;
refund any finance instalments Miss G has paid and add 8% simple interest per year 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
refund the cost of any garage reports Miss G paid for to demonstrate the fault if Miss 
G can provide evidence of those charges. Add 8% simple interest per year from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement;
refund the cost of the DEKRA inspection if this hasnt already been done;
pay Miss G £100 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience caused.
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Miss Gs credit file in relation to 
this issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman