DRN-3428245
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy about how long it took Lloyds Bank PLC to investigate and return funds to 
his account after he noticed some unauthorised transactions.
What happened
Mr G was abroad when he logged into his online banking account to make a transfer. At that 
point he noticed several thousand pounds had been removed from his account. So he 
reported the matter to Lloyds. 
Lloyds sent Mr G an acknowledgement text and explained it would investigate the matter. 
However, Mr G required urgent use of the funds and therefore he repeatedly called Lloyds in 
the following days for updates on what was happening. 
Lloyds completed its investigations and returned the funds to Mr Gs account. However he is 
unhappy with how long that took and wants Lloyds to reimburse him for the cost of calls he 
had to make at international rates. 
Lloyds looked into the matter but didnt think it had done anything wrong. It was entitled to 
investigate the matter and considers it kept Mr G suitably updated on its progress. Mr G 
disagreed. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and explained to Mr G that Lloyds was entitled to 
follow its processes and she didnt think it had caused any delays in investigating the matter 
and returning the funds to Mr G. She didnt think Lloyds needed to reimburse any call costs 
as it was Mr Gs decision to call as frequently as he did. 
Mr G disagreed with the investigators conclusions and asked for an ombudsmans decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr G feels very strongly about what has happened however when looking at 
this complaint I must make a distinction between the distress and inconvenience the 
fraudster caused by taking Mr Gs money and whether Lloyds did anything incorrect which 
added to that. 
Having reviewed everything, I dont think Lloyds did anything wrong here. A significant 
amount of money was taken from Mr Gs account and therefore it was important Lloyds 
completed a thorough investigation into the matter. Im satisfied it explained what would 
happen to Mr G and it did not give him any definite timescales as to when its investigation 
would be complete. I dont think it delayed in its investigation and the money was returned to 
Mr Gs account without any unavoidable delay. 
I understand why Mr G was anxious for the money to be returned as quickly as possible and 
why this motivated him to call Lloyds repeatedly. However, this was his choice to do so. As I 
havent found Lloyds did anything wrong here, I wont be asking it to pay any compensation 
to Mr G or reimburse the cost of the calls he made. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I reject Mr Gs complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman