DRN-2978548
The complaint
Miss H complains to Trading 212 UK Limited about losses on contracts for difference (CFD) 
trades. She says she shouldnt have been able to trade these products, and seeks 
compensation for not only her financial loss, but also for the impact this has had on her 
wellbeing.
What happened
Miss H opened a trading account with T212 in March 2020. Though she had no prior 
experience, she says she wanted to invest some money to take advantage of the stock 
market downturn resulting from the pandemic. She said she hadnt heard of CFD trading  
something she noted was offered alongside T212s investment platform. 
Miss H recalls answering questions when opening her account  things like her name, date 
of birth, nationality, address  as well as questions about her investment experience. She 
said the terminology in the terms and conditions didnt make sense to her given she had no 
knowledge or experience. Miss H also recalls receiving an email to confirm the opening of 
her account which included a small risk warning  but the CFD reference within this didnt 
mean much to her, given her unfamiliarity with the product. 
Miss H says she opened her account for traditional investment purposes but was later 
surprised to learn shed gained access to a less traditional account which allowed her to 
trade on leverage. She says she accidentally deposited £1,000 into the CFD part of T212s 
app and mistakenly opened a position on an airline stock (thinking shed bought the shares). 
She says she had considerable beginners luck, making around £3,000 quite quickly. Having 
watched the beginner tutorial videos and having made money, Miss H says she had a 
tremendous amount of false hope and confidence. But she went on to lose the profit shed 
made, as well as more capital, in the hope of making the profit back. 
Citing the regulators rules, Miss H told us she hadnt seen any risk warnings given shed 
used T212s app rather than their webpage. She says she was completely unaware of the 
complex and risky nature of CFD trading, along with the fact that over 70% of people lose 
money. With this in mind, she made a complaint to T212 in August 2020. She pointed to 
losses she made on banking, gold and oil positions  the latter involving losses of around 
£18,000 in May 2020. 
Ultimately, Miss H felt she wasnt able to understand the risks or withstand the losses her 
account exposed her to. She said shed lost around £22,000 and it was a bad time for her to 
lose money as shed been unable to work during the pandemic given her profession was 
face-to-face. 
Not only this, but Miss H also told T212 shed been suffering from post-concussion 
syndrome following an accident shed been involved in two weeks prior to opening her 
account  she said shed since come to understand that her head injury made her much 
more likely to develop problem gambling and addiction tendencies. 
In addition to her financial losses, Miss H also explained shed suffered extreme depression, 
stress, anxiety, loss of appetite, sleepless nights and nervous breakdowns. This had 
negatively affected her mental strength and capacity to look for a new job. Miss H asked 
T212 to put things right for her by compensating her with £27,371 to cover her losses, a 
period of unemployment as well as therapy sessions shed had given the impact the losses 
had on her. She also suggested they ought to change their onboarding process to include a 
question about what a new customers state of mind might be, and whether they had head 
injuries or were under the influence of alcohol or drugs. 
T212 looked into Miss Hs concerns but didnt agree theyd done anything wrong. They 
pointed out the risk warnings shed have seen when opening her account, the answers she 
gave them about her appropriateness for trading and summarised her trading activity  
which they considered to show a level of sophistication given the number of orders shed 
placed in a short space of time, her use of stops and take profit, and the various instruments 
she speculated on. In respect of the specific losses Miss H had highlighted, for example the 
commodity trades, they pointed to their terms that said it remained her responsibility to 
continually monitor her positions given the effect volatility and leverage could have. Given 
the health issues Miss H had mentioned, T212 set her account to close only. 
Remaining unhappy, Miss H asked for our help. In addition to the points Ive summarised 
above, Miss H shared some of her trading history with us and stressed that the volatility in 
the markets during the time she was trading meant T212 ought to have reduced leverage 
from 10:1 to 2:1. 
Having considered whatd happened, our investigator didnt agree T212 had done anything 
wrong. She felt Miss H had been given appropriate risk warnings, yet these had been 
bypassed in order to open the account. She also noted Miss H hadnt told T212 about her 
medical situation, so they werent to know they ought to have done anything differently for 
her. 
Our investigator recognised Miss H had made profits of around £4,000 in the early days of 
trading, but that shed also lost around £2,000. And that over 50 trades were made during 
the first two days of account activity. Given this, if Miss H hadnt have fully appreciated how 
her account worked at the outset, her trading experience within the first two days will have 
changed this. Ultimately, our investigators view was that despite the confusion Miss H felt 
from using T212s app, the onus was on her to have carefully read and understood the 
premise of the account before she used it. 
Miss H didnt agree and said, in summary:
She wanted our investigator to read an article from the regulator about how 
investment platforms were advertising their services and how the market was 
changing. She said our investigator would regret the position shed taken when the 
regulator brings in a rule to make firms separate their investing and CFD platforms.
She wouldnt be surprised if the regulator bans CFD platforms in future given the 
inherent harm they bring about.
It was immoral of T212 to lure her to their investment platform and combine CFD 
terms with traditional investment terms, to then allow her to trade CFDs.
It was easy to miss the warning signs when opening the account. 
She remembered the risk warning popping up when shed completed the 
appropriateness questions, but it didnt cite the percentage of retail investors who lost 
money.
She didnt pay much attention to warnings about CFDs given her intention had been 
to invest, not trade CFDs.She wanted evidence to show that the screenshots T212 say she saw when opening 
her account would have been what she shed seen  she suggested theyd been 
added or modified since she opened her account. 
Despite agreeing to the risk disclosure notice, she wasnt paying attention to CFD 
risks given she was opening the account to invest, not to trade CFDs. 
Though she had done very well in her first days of trading, she disagreed with T212s 
comment about her activity showing a level of sophistication, particularly given the 
£18,000 losses within two days.
The profit shed cited making within her first two days was £3,300 despite what our 
investigator said  Miss H said that this success led her to believe that she would 
quite easily make the money back again.
She disputed the answer shed given about the number of CFD trades shed made in 
the year before opening her account  though the screenshot from T212 showed her 
answer was more than 1,000 she said she had answered -1,000 meaning less 
than 1,000  she implied it wouldve been contradictory for her to answer that she 
had zero years of experience, yet also claim shed traded over 1,000 times. 
She had read and understood the risks around traditional investing  but felt these 
were miniscule compared to the risks involved with CFDs. 
She still thought T212 should have reduced leverage on oil trades during the volatile 
period, and asked that at the very least, those losses and cryptocurrency losses 
should be refunded. 
She felt that when a company stood to gain when its customers lost, they ought to 
have a duty of care to ensure users are appropriate for their platforms  she 
disagreed with our investigators view that it was for to her let T212 know about her 
medical issues. 
She sent us a video to show that it was confusing for her to see whether she was 
investing or trading CFDs.
She also pointed out shed used the practice area for investing but not for CFDs, so 
this should prove she didnt realise she was trading CFDs given shed shown 
intention to invest traditionally. 
Our investigator considered everything Miss H had said, but wasnt persuaded to change her 
view. As an agreement wasnt reached, the complaint was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As T212 are a regulated firm theyre subject to the rules set out in the regulators handbook 
 the conduct of business (COBS) section is whats relevant here. T212 werent required to 
assess the suitability of Miss Hs upcoming trading given they werent going to be giving her 
any advice  her account was opened on an execution only basis so it was for her to decide 
which trades to make. However, COBS 10 required T212 to assess her appropriateness to 
trade as she did. In other words, this required them to gather relevant information from 
Miss H in order to decide whether she had the necessary knowledge and experience to 
understand the risks involved. 
Looking at the answers Miss H provided, I can see that she didnt have the knowledge and 
experience to pass the appropriateness test. She told T212 she was self-employed in the 
creative / media business, earning between £25,000 and £75,000 a year with less than 
£15,000 in savings. She said she was intending on putting between £100 and £19,999 into 
CFD trading and had placed more than 1,000 CFD trades within the last year with an 
average sum somewhere between £1 and £4,999. Miss H also said she had 0 years experience trading CFDs on a non-advised basis and didnt have any relevant professional 
experience or qualifications. 
Miss Hs answers indicated she wasnt an appropriate candidate for this sort of trading. T212 
displayed a warning to this effect. It said: Based on your answers, we would like to advise 
you to carefully consider if CFDs are the right product for you. Before you proceed, 
remember that CFD trading carries a high risk of losing your entire deposit. You can get 
acquainted with the risks involved by using the Practice mode first. If you would like to trade 
in real money nonetheless, please confirm that you understand this. There was then a button 
which said I confirm which needed to be pressed in order to open the account.
I have concerns that the warning T212 provided wasnt in line with the European Securities 
and Markets Authoritys (ESMA) questions and answers relating to the provision of CFDs 
and other speculative products to retail investors under MiFID. I say this because at Section 
4  which focussed on the assessment of appropriateness when offering CFDs or other 
speculative products to retail investors  question 2 asked what action should a firm take 
where the assessment of appropriateness indicates that a CFD or another speculative 
product is not appropriate for a client, but the client wishes to proceed with the transaction?. 
In answer, it was explained that the expectation for proceeding would be more than a tick 
box exercise and I quote:
the warning should be designed in such a way that it is an actual interruption in the 
process of authorising the opening of an account or entering a particular transaction. 
The warning should be stated in clear language, indicating that, on the basis of the 
answers provided, the specific product or service in question is not appropriate for 
the client as the client is not likely to understand the risks involved. It should also 
recommend clearly that the client does not proceed. When presenting the warning, 
confirming an intention to proceed with the transaction should not be presented to the 
retail client as the first logical next step.
The answer went on to give examples of good practice  such as a mandatory cooling off 
period or a separate form or email  both intending on creating a reasonable interruption of 
the process. And the answer also gave examples of bad practice, suggesting that a warning 
to say CFD trading may not be appropriate would be unlikely to make the applicant 
sufficiently aware of the risks.
T212s warning didnt say their trading offering wasnt appropriate for Miss H. It also didnt 
say they recommended she didnt proceed. And its button to confirm was the logical next 
step for opening an account. On that basis, it is arguable T212s warning wasnt in the spirit 
of the rules and may not have gone far enough in warning Miss H. 
However, it is my view that in the specific circumstances of Miss Hs complaint she would 
have proceeded even if T212s warning was in line with ESMAs suggestions. I say that 
because of what shes told us  which I will explore later  about not intending on trading 
CFDs and not engaging with the risks she was told about, it is likely she will have continued 
to open her account even if the wording had been stronger.  
Having given the warning, and with it being accepted, T212 then had the option to either turn 
down Miss Hs application or proceed with it. They chose to proceed and allow the account 
to be opened. Despite the fact T212 didnt consider her an appropriate candidate for trading, 
it doesnt follow that they did anything wrong by letting her open an account anyway. I say 
that because if a firm warns the client of their concerns but they wish to proceed, the firm is 
able to open an account and guidance at COBS 10.3.3 asks them to have regard for the 
wider circumstances. Consideration for whether it was fair and reasonable for T212 to let 
Miss H trade involved a balance between the rules and guidance. T212 had to treat Miss H fairly and act in her best interests, but Miss H would now say that allowing her to open the 
account and commit so much of her money wasnt in her interests. 
Despite this, we must recognise that the rules allow businesses to open these sorts of 
accounts despite failure of appropriateness tests if warnings are given. The guidance and 
the rules cant be incompatible  spread betting or CFD trading cant be so contrary to a 
customers interests that they could never open an account if they failed an appropriateness 
test, or thats what the regulator would have said in the rules. So all the circumstances must 
be considered and a balanced view taken.
Arguably T212 could have done more to consider Miss Hs particular application before 
opening her account. Yet we must also recognise they warned her they didnt think the 
account was appropriate for her. She chose to ignore those warnings and proceed anyway. 
She chose to trade and indeed did so for some time. None of these were things T212 
advised her to do. She also told them she was self-employed, had an income and had some 
savings  so I dont think other concerns about Miss H ought to have been triggered. 
I recognise Miss H challenges the compatibility of her answers when considering the number 
of trades she says shed made against her years of experience, but I dont share her 
concerns. Miss H said shed traded more than 1,000 times, but had zero years of 
experience  I dont agree these are incompatible answers, indeed from looking at her 
activity I can see traded CFDs 1,084 times in around six weeks. So it was certainly possible 
for someone to have less than a years trading experience but have traded more than 1,000 
times. This however hasnt been something key in her case given that her appropriateness 
answers didnt allow her to pass the test in any event. 
Opening the account required Miss H to confirm shed read and understood the risks 
involved. Shes told us she didnt think much of the CFD risk warnings given she wasnt 
intending on trading CFDs. Shes also said she didnt really understand CFDs, so wouldnt 
have fully appreciated the terminology used either. Despite this, we cannot overlook the fact 
that Miss H did trade CFDs, and in my view, she ought to have known she had. I note one of 
the first positions Miss H took was in an airline stock. She says she was looking to buy 
shares, however she took a long and a short position  and she shorted more stock than she 
had. She couldnt have done this if she were simply selling stock she owned as this is not 
how traditional investing works  and I dont think Miss H could say she didnt realise this 
point given her lack of investment experience as even outside of the context of investing, it is 
generally understood that you cannot sell what you do not own. 
In addition to considering this initial activity, Ive also thought about what Miss H will have 
seen with regards to trading CFDs too. Miss H felt the video she shared with us (showing 
how fast the app opened) meant she didnt know she was trading CFDs. But I can see that 
the screen it opened onto had CFD in a circle at the top left of the screen. And when she 
clicked on the button with three lines to show the menu, there were two separate buttons for 
Trading 212 CFD and Trading 212 Invest. Miss Hs video showed us that toggling between 
these options would reload T212s welcome screen, in either orange for investing or blue for 
trading. And after selecting either option, the button selected stayed highlighted in its 
corresponding colour, whether the investing or trading functions were in play. So I think it 
ought to have been clear to Miss H that she was trading CFDs. 
Miss H has concerns that the screenshots T212 have shown about risk warnings are not the 
same version of the app she used over two years ago. I take her point here, as I cannot be 
sure about what screens shed have seen. But I dont think this affects the outcome of her 
complaint given she has told us she didnt heed the warnings of the risks that she does 
remember seeing, and that she wouldnt have scrolled to read all the warnings provided  
when downloading the app she said shed have read the description and looked at reviews, but wouldnt have scrolled down to read the warning. She said there werent warnings within 
the app, but to open her account through the app she had to bypass a risk warning. And 
though she says people dont read everything, she did agree shed read and understood the 
risks and terms. So even if what T212 have now shown us didnt appear, I dont think itd 
have made any difference as to how Miss H proceeded.
On the first day of trading, Miss H placed 16 CFD trades  12 were profitable but four were 
not. On the second day of trading, Miss H placed 43 CFD trades  26 were profitable but 17 
were not. I take Miss Hs point in that she did well when she first begun trading, with more 
profitable trades than losing trades. But this does not take away from the fact that she did 
experience losses, and these will have gone some way towards improving what she says 
begun as very little understanding or knowledge. Though Miss H says she was lured into 
trading further to recoup losses, I dont think this excuses the fact that she had experienced 
losses and decided to continue anyway  just as she chose to proceed in spite of T212s risk 
warning. I think Miss H ought to have appreciated the impact leverage couldve had on her 
trading in the first two days when she earned more money than she thought she would. 
I note Miss H didnt agree with T212s comment about her trading showing a level of 
sophistication, especially given her considerable losses on oil in May 2020. Despite this, I 
take the point T212 are trying to make  Miss H didnt start especially slowly when she 
opened her account, she placed a number of trades in those first few days and had a real 
taste of profits and of losses. She traded on various different instruments too, giving her a 
good insight into how the products worked and how asset classes and industries varied. Her 
oil losses were the result of substantial market volatility, so I dont agree with what she 
implies about these losses proving her inexperience  by the time she made those losses, 
shed traded for some weeks already and they can be largely attributed to considerable 
market movement which was felt by both novice and professional traders alike. 
I was sorry to hear about Miss Hs injury and can appreciate the impact it will have had on 
her. But what I have to balance here is whether this changes things with T212. From what 
we know, T212 were unaware Miss Hs mental capacity might have been reduced  though 
Miss H says they ought to ask about this sort of thing, the regulator hasnt required it in their 
rules. Had she have told T212 about her personal circumstances, I would have expected 
them to take it into account, but I cannot see that she did notify them until she made her 
complaint  thereafter they didnt allow her to trade which is understandable. As T212 didnt 
know they might need to consider treating Miss H differently, I cant say they are at fault for 
not doing so.
I recognise Miss Hs strength of feeling here and appreciate what shes said about practising 
with investing rather than trading CFDs. Despite this, the fact remains that she did trade 
CFDs and my view is that the profits and losses she experienced initially were enough for 
her to realise she wasnt making traditional investments. Had Miss H have been surprised 
about the result of her trades in those first two days and had raised this with T212 then, it is 
possible theyd have been able to help her understand whatd happened  either theyd have 
clarified things for her and she couldve decided whether to continue or not, or she might 
have shared the medical issues shes shared now and they could have made their decision 
to stop her trading much sooner. But Miss H didnt query what she says was surprising 
success. Instead she chose to continue trading despite experiencing losses as well as her 
gains. 
Overall, I do sympathise with Miss Hs situation as she did lose a lot of money which has 
clearly been hard on her both personally and financially. But I dont agree this means T212 
are at fault. Its important we recognise T212 warned Miss H that they didnt think the 
account was appropriate for her, but she chose to accept the warning and proceed 
regardless. Though Miss H says she wouldnt have picked up on the warnings about CFD trading given she was intending on investing, we cannot overlook the fact that she decided 
to trade CFDs despite not fully understanding the product. So despite Miss Hs inexperience 
and financial situation, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for the risks she accepted 
at the time and the decisions she made to trade to now be transferred to T212 by way of 
them compensating her for her losses. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Miss Hs complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept or reject my decision 
before 1 December 2022.
 
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman