DRN-3102946
The complaint
Mr T has complained that his car bonnet was damaged when an agent of EUI Limited 
trading as Admiral replaced the windscreen of his car. Mr T made a claim under his car 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr T made a claim to his insurer, EUI for damage to his windscreen. EUI arranged for his 
windscreen to be replaced. 
Mr T complained to EUI as he said the agent caused damage to the bonnet while carrying 
out the repair/replacement. 
EUI didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint as it said the bonnet scratch was recorded on the agents 
jobs sheet as being pre-existing.
Our investigator recommended Mr Ts complaint should be upheld. Video evidence showed 
the agent in contact with the bonnet  but the investigator said it was inconclusive as to 
whether he had caused damage to it. However, the footage recorded the time the agent 
came to Mr Ts home to carry out the works. But the job sheet was completed with timings of 
an hour after hed left. So the investigator didnt think EUI could rely on the accuracy of the 
job sheet as the agent seemed to have completed it after the works had been carried out. 
So she thought EUI should arrange for the bonnet scratch to be repaired at no cost to Mr T. 
And she recommended EUI pay Mr T £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
Both parties accepted the investigators findings. However, Mr T then provided an estimate 
which included repairs to other parts of his car totalling £1,300. It was agreed that repairs to 
the roof rail would be excluded and so this reduced the estimate by £200. But Mr T said the 
remaining estimate was in relation to damage caused by the windscreen replacing agent. 
This included damage to both front wings and the front bumper.
EUI didnt agree. It said it would only meet the costs to repair the bonnet scratch which came 
to £350 on the estimate. 
The investigator issued a second view  and said she thought it was fair for EUI to meet the 
costs of the bonnet scratch only. Mr T hadnt mentioned the other damage in his complaint to 
EUI  or to us. And these scratches were on the job sheet which Mr T hadnt disputed at the 
time when he complained about the bonnet scratch. 
Mr T told the investigator he only referred to the main scratch which was on the bonnet, and 
focused on this over the smaller scratches. He said he forgot about the other scratches until 
he got the repair estimate.
EUI accepted the investigators second view. Mr T wants EUI to meet the costs of the 
estimate of £1,100 (which excludes the roof rails damage) and so he wants an ombudsman 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think that its a fair and reasonable outcome to ask EUI to meet the costs to repair the 
bonnet scratch. Video evidence doesnt definitively show the agent causing the bonnet 
scratch damage. It shows the agent use a brush on the bonnet. But because the time the 
agent completed the job sheet was well after the job was finished and the agent had left, I 
dont think the recording of the bonnet scratch can be relied upon as being accurately 
recorded before the agent started work.
However, I dont agree that EUI is responsible for the additional damage listed in the recent 
estimate provided by Mr T. This isnt damage Mr T previously reported  which I would have 
reasonably expected him to mention when he raised his complaint about the bonnet scratch. 
Mr T didnt dispute the pre-existing damage reported by the agent on the job sheet  apart 
from the bonnet scratch. Video evidence doesnt show the agent likely damaged the front 
bumper or wing. 
I think EUI caused Mr T some distress and inconvenience in its handling of the claim. And 
Mr T has had the trouble of obtaining an estimate (although as Ive said I think EUI is 
responsible for only part of the damage quoted). So I think EUI should pay Mr T £100 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require EUI Limited trading as 
Admiral to meet the claim for repairs to the bonnet scratch in line with the estimate of £350 
and pay Mr T £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
EUI Limited trading as Admiral must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr T accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
simple rate of 8% a year.
If EUI Limited trading as Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr T how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr T a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman