DRN-3435708
The complaint
Mrs M had touring caravan insurance underwritten by Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva). She 
complains that Aviva didnt offer her enough to replace her caravan when it was badly 
damaged. The complaint against Aviva includes other companies acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mrs M had an accident while towing her caravan. Aviva decided that it wasnt possible to 
economically repair the caravan and declared it a total loss. Mrs M had new for old cover 
on her insurance policy. Aviva offered her £26,000 which was the sum insured under her 
policy. Mrs M wasnt happy with this as she said it wasnt enough to replace the caravan with 
a new one of the same make and model.
Mrs M complained to Aviva. Aviva said Mrs Ms policy stated that the sum insured was the 
maximum amount that would be paid out. 
Mrs M wasnt happy with this response and complained to this service. Our investigator 
upheld her complaint. He said as Mrs M had a new for old policy it would be fair and 
reasonable for her to expect to be covered for an amount sufficient for her to be able to 
replace her caravan on that basis. Based on information provided by Mrs M, and his own 
research, the investigator suggested that Aviva should pay her £33,374 to settle the claim. 
He also suggested Aviva should pay Mrs M £200 for her distress and inconvenience. 
Aviva didnt agree with the investigators suggestion, and so Mrs Ms complaint has been 
passed to me. Mrs M wants her claim settled so that she can buy a new caravan of the same 
make and model as the one that she lost.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im upholding Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
On 1 April 2022 I issued a provisional decision. My provisional decision said:
When Mrs M took out her insurance via a broker she was asked what the purchase price 
was. She had just bought the caravan for £25,999 and she couldnt quite remember the 
exact purchase price so she said £26,000. This became the sum insured under her policy. 
The accident where the caravan was written off was just a few months later. At the point of 
sale, Mrs M wasnt advised that she needed to keep checking that the sum insured was 
enough to cover a new caravan or what would happen if the sum insured wasnt enough to 
buy a new replacement.
Ive looked at the documents sent to Mrs M in connection with her insurance policy.
The statement of fact/statement of insurance and certificate of insurance do say 
caravan sum insured £26,000.
The certificate of insurance says new for old/market value: new for old.
The insurance schedule says policy type new for old, caravan total sum insured 
£26,000, these are the maximum amounts we will pay and should be read in 
conjunction with your policy wording and issued subject to the terms of the policy 
wording.
The insurance booklet says conditionsyou mustmake sure your sums insured 
are high enough to cover the caravan and contents to be insured.
However the insurance booklet also says:
index linking - if your insurance schedule shows that you have selected claims 
settlement on a new for old basis the sums insured under section 1 will be index 
linked in line with the RPI or similar index or a minimum of 3% whichever is higher;
sum insured condition - for any caravan up to 15 years oldpurchased from new 
the sum insured must be adequate to cover the cost of replacing the caravan as new 
as at the commencement date of the insurance or at a subsequent renewal dateIf 
at the time of a loss the sum insured is too low, we will not settle claims on a new for 
old basis and will reduce any payment to a market value basis. If your sum insured is 
insufficient to replace your caravan on a market value basis then any claim will be 
reduced by the proportion of underinsurance;
definitionsmarket value  the current market replacement value of your 
caravantaking into account age, type and condition at the time of the lossnew for 
old - the cost of replacing the caravanwith a comparable brand new equivalent 
replacement in the event of total loss up to the sum insured shown in your insurance 
schedule;
section 1 caravanbasis of settlementfor any caravanpurchased new which is 
lost stolen or destroyed and less than 15 years oldwhere the sum insured is 
sufficient we will pay for a replacement as newIf the caravanwas not purchased 
new, the sum insured is not sufficient to cover the full replacement value as new or 
the caravanis over 15 years old the caravanwill be replaced at the current 
market value. If your sum insured is insufficient to replace your caravanon a 
market value basis then any claim will be reduced by the proportion of 
underinsurance. 
I think the policy documents are difficult to understand and somewhat contradictory. Mrs M 
did as she was asked and insured the caravan for a sum adequate to cover replacement as 
new at the time of commencement of the policy, in fact what she had just paid for it. The 
caravan was a total loss just a few months later. 
I think its fair and reasonable for a consumer taking out a new for old policy to expect that it 
would cover the cost of an equivalent new item. Aviva only asked Mrs M to be sure the sum 
insured was sufficient to cover the cost of a new caravan at the commencement date of the 
insurance or at renewal. I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to expect Mrs M to 
either insure the caravan for more than shed just paid for it, or to update the sum insured to 
reflect the rise in caravan prices within a few months.I can see that ordinarily it might be expected that the price of a new caravan would increase 
only very slightly over the course of a few months, and the index-linking term in the policy 
would most likely cover this. However Mrs M has provided persuasive evidence that caravan 
prices rose much more than might usually be expected after she bought her caravan, 
probably due to restrictions on other types of holidays due to Covid-19. So Im inclined to 
think it would be fair and reasonable for Aviva to pay Mrs M more than the £26,000 it has 
offered.
New for old insurance policies are a relatively recent type of insurance for caravans, 
although they are commonly found in other policies like contents insurance. They usually 
involve the insurer simply giving the consumer a replacement new item rather than a 
monetary settlement. This is to the insurers advantage as insurers can often get large 
discounts from retailers and so it works out cheaper for them to provide a replacement rather 
than pay the consumer to do so. It would have been open to Aviva to simply replace Mrs Ms 
caravan with a new one of the same or equivalent make and model, and Aviva may wish to 
consider doing so now in settlement of Mrs Ms claim.
Ordinarily when this service is looking to value a vehicle we would use the relevant trade 
guides to come up with an average price as at the date of loss. However they do not cover 
caravans. The investigator used a well-known caravan sales website to look at the prices of 
equivalent caravans and came up with an average of £33,374. Full details have already 
been provided to Aviva. I accept that these prices dont necessarily relate to the date the 
caravan was damaged. However Mrs M wasnt able to buy a new caravan immediately the 
old one was damaged, because Aviva didnt offer her enough as a settlement. So I think its 
fair and reasonable to use these prices.
Mrs M has experienced considerable delay and frustration in trying to get her claim settled 
for an amount sufficient to replace her caravan. I intend to require Aviva to pay her £200 in 
recognition of this.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, I intend to uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
 
I intend to require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mrs M £33,374 in settlement of her claim; 
this being a fair and reasonable amount to enable her to replace her caravan with an 
equivalent new make and model. I also intend to require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mrs 
M £200 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused by the delays in settling her 
claim.
 
Responses to my provisional decision
Both Mrs M and Aviva said they had nothing further to add to my provisional decision.
My final decision
I require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mrs M £33,374 in settlement of her claim. I also 
require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mrs M £200 in recognition of her distress and 
inconvenience.
Aviva Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mrs M accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 19 May 2022.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman