DRN-3029015
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2005. Mr L says Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) mis-sold him PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr Ls 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint, but they thought Tescos offer to pay 
back some of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high commission and 
profit share Mr L paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Mr Ls representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ls. I havent set out that detailed information 
here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Ls complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Tesco should have disclosed the 
commission it received  but that Tescos offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
Mr L has said the PPI was included in the credit card package, but I think Tesco made it 
clear that Mr L didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out. I say this 
because Tesco has been able to give us a copy of Mr Ls credit card application and 
agreement. This has been completed by hand and signed and dated by Mr L. I see there 
is a separate section entitled Payment Protection and Mr L has ticked the relevant box 
in order for the PPI to be added to his credit card account. There was an equally 
prominent box he could have ticked if he hadnt wanted the PPI. And this was a postal 
application so Mr L would have completed it in his own time and without any involvement 
from a Tesco representative. So, taking all of this into account I think Mr L knew he had a 
choice about taking the PPI and decided to take it upon application of his credit card. 
Tesco didnt recommend the PPI to Mr L  so it didnt have to check that the PPI was 
right or suitable for him. But it did have to give Mr L enough clear and timely information 
so he could decide for himself if it was right for him.
Its possible the information Tesco gave Mr L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out  so it looks like he wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr L  for example he 
wasnt affected by the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover. And it wasnt too 
dissimilar to what he reasonably thought he was buying from the information he was 
given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for 
him if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr L would have declined the 
cover had Tesco done anything more.
While the policy contained exclusions on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr Ls circumstances at the time of sale and despite its exclusions, 
the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. So, I think he would have 
still thought he had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mr L would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely he thought he was getting, and I think the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I 
think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr Ls representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant Tesco should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But Mr Ls representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Ls individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Ls particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means Tesco doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr L.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.Having done so Ive decided Tesco should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that Tescos offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused 
is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Tesco didnt tell Mr L about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this case. 
So, taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share  introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin  which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Tesco and Mr L was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
Tesco didnt tell him about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case.
I dont think Tesco acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr L because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr Ls representative has made a number of representations about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act on his complaint.
In summary they have said Mr L should get back all the money he paid for the policy 
because: Tesco failed to tell Mr L about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, the 
low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that meant 
the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr L wouldnt have taken out the policy had they 
known about the level of commission and he should receive a refund of all the premiums he 
paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for Mr L 
in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Tesco not disclosing the high level of 
commission to him before he purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr Ls representative suggests, driven to conclude that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Tescos failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Tesco to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mr L paid for his PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mr L 
with the policy which Ive concluded above he would still have taken out if Tesco had done 
everything it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So, I consider that Tescos offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mr Ls complaint or make any award in 
favour of him for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that Tesco 
Personal Finance PLC should pay Mr L an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable) 
if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2021.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman