DRN-2496067
The complaint
Ms G is complaining about how Safe World Insurance Group (UK) Ltd (Safe World) has 
handled a claim she made on her deposit protection insurance. 
What happened
In December 2019 Ms G placed an order for some glazed doors to be used in a newly 
extended kitchen. Timeliness was emphasised in the contract. She paid a 25% deposit 
(£1007.50) in early December and should have been sent details of deposit protection 
insurance  which was arranged by her supplier (B) on her behalf.
In February 2020  days before the new doors were to be fitted, Ms G received an email 
saying B was transferring its contracts to another company, which would cause a delay. It 
said that if this didnt suit Ms G she could make a claim on her insurance to get her deposit 
back. It later became apparent that B ceased to trade in early March.
Ms G needed the doors as soon as possible to meet her timing requirements. She didnt 
believe the supplier suggested by B would deliver the doors in a reasonable timeframe, so 
she looked around for a new supplier. She also contacted DGCOS (which provided the 
insurance) and was told she couldnt start the process of making a claim to get her deposit 
back until B ceased trading, and also that if she transferred her order to the new company 
suggested by B she might be asked to pay additional money by any administrator dealing 
with Bs insolvency. Eventually Ms G got a copy of her policy and found it was underwritten 
by Safe World  and made a claim in late March.
Safe World said Ms G cancelled the contract because B couldnt install the doors in time. It 
said that at this point her insurance ceased  Safe World says this was on 23 March 2020. It 
says this means she had no insurance cover when B went into liquidation  1 April 2020.
Safe World also said Ms G had other routes to follow to get her deposit back  essentially 
that she could claim as an unsecured creditor in Bs insolvency. Safe World said that also 
meant it need not meet the claim.
Ms G asked us to look at her complaint  but as she hadnt complained formally to Safe 
World at that point we asked the insurer to issue a final response letter to the complaint. 
Safe World did that but maintained its position as described above. 
Ms G supplied evidence (via us) to Safe World that B had ceased trading on 3 March 2020. 
Our investigator issued her thoughts on the complaint  which was that Safe World had 
unfairly rejected Ms Gs claim. She thought Safe World should meet the claim by returning 
the deposit. Additionally she thought Safe World should pay £50 compensation for the way it 
had treated Ms G.
 Safe World acknowledged that it should have met the claim, and that it would normally have 
assessed the work to see if it could complete this without loss to itself. Only if it couldnt do 
that then it would return the deposit (minus any excess that applied).
Safe World said that as Ms G had had the work done it was deprived of its preferred first 
option. But it said that it would offer £500 to Ms G as a gesture of goodwill. It doesnt want to 
pay £50 compensation recommended by our investigator for the inconvenience it caused by 
rejecting Ms Gs claim. It says Ms G commissioned the doors elsewhere before it had had a 
chance to respond to any claim or complaint, so its offer of £500 is fair. 
Ms G says the £500 offered doesnt reflect her losses or the delay in returning her money.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Safe World has agreed that it should not have refused Ms Gs claim. So this decision is 
about the amount offered as settlement rather than whether the claim should have been met 
or not.
Im going to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
The right thing for Safe World to do, as it made a mistake, is to put Ms G in the position 
shed have been in if it hadnt made the mistake. So Safe World should meet the claim.
Safe World wants instead to make a goodwill gesture of £500. It says it shouldnt have to 
meet the claim in full because it wasnt able to assess the cost and then complete the work if 
it chose to do so. Safe World says thats because Ms G ordered windows from a different 
supplier almost immediately after B said it couldnt complete the work.
Im not persuaded by that argument. Safe World decided it wasnt going to pay the claim 
when Ms G initially lodged it. After that it couldnt reasonably expect Ms G to not have the 
windows installed by a supplier of her choice, or to wait for the outcome of a complaint that 
was only resolved by referral to this service. So I think Safe World  by wrongly rejecting the 
claim  deprived itself of its opportunity to complete the contract.
That means Safe World cant refuse to meet the claim under the remaining terms and 
conditions, or reduce payment. 
Putting things right
Safe World should meet this claim by returning the deposit in full less any applicable excess, 
subject to any other relevant terms and condition in the policy. If Safe World has already 
paid the £500 it offered Ms G, then it can deduct this from any payment made.
Im also satisfied that Safe World has caused Ms G some inconvenience, and think the £50 
compensation recommended by our investigator is reasonable. This should also cover any 
lost interest Ms G might have suffered whilst waiting for the return of her deposit. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Safe World Insurance Group (UK) 
Ltd to meet Ms Gs claim and pay her the compensation outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021. 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman