DRN-3625889
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Hyundai Capital UK Limited has unfairly charged her for damage to a 
car she returned when her contract hire agreement came to an end.
What happened
In 2018, Mrs G took out a contract hire agreement with Hyundai Capital UK Limited for a 
new car. The agreement was for four years. 
In February 2022, Mrs G arranged for the return of the car with Hyundai Capital UK Limited. 
It was agreed that the car would be collected and inspected at a local Hyundai garage 
(which I shall call D), as Mrs G had work commitments. Mrs G says the car was left at D and 
that the salesperson there confirmed to her any marks on the car would be covered under 
the fair wear and tear guidelines. 
Mrs G says she received a call from D some weeks later, to say the car still hadnt been 
collected. Mrs G therefore contacted Hyundai Capital UK Limited again and the car was 
collected on 14 March 2022.
Upon collection, an inspection was carried out and damage to the car was highlighted that 
was outside fair wear and tear. Hyundai Capital UK Limited highlighted issues that totalled 
£990. Mrs G didnt agree with this and raised a complaint. She said the car hadnt been 
collected for four weeks and therefore her responsibilities for the car ended when she 
originally returned it to D. Mrs G also said she had verbally been told by an experienced 
salesperson that any remaining issues with the quality of the car would be down to fair wear 
and tear. 
Hyundai Capital UK Limited responded and advised that until the car was collected by it, Mrs 
G was still responsible for the car. This was regardless of when she returned it to D. It said 
the pictures on the inspection report showed the damage was outside of what the British 
Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association guidelines (BVRLA) considered as fair wear and 
tear. Hyundai Capital UK Limited did remove the £250 charge for the service history being 
incomplete but said the remaining £740 remained payable.
Mrs G referred her complaint to our service and the matter was considered by an 
investigator. The investigator concluded that Hyundai Capital UK Limited had acted fairly 
when charging for the damage and didnt need to do anything further. 
Mrs G disagreed with the investigator and said she had acted correctly when returning the 
car to D rather than to Hyundai Capital UK Limited directly, as this had been agreed by all 
parties. She said that when the salesperson at D had inspected the car, the only damage 
mentioned was such that would fall within fair and wear and tear. Mrs G doesnt believe the 
experienced salesperson at D would have missed dents and scratches larger than 25mm. 
As Mrs G didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I would like to point out Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
In this case, Im satisfied it was agreed that Mrs G could return the car to D directly. Mrs G 
says that the collection should have occurred sooner than it did. It appears that the reason 
for the delay was because Hyundai Capital UK Limited hadnt been successful in contacting 
D. I appreciate Mrs G says she feels this is unlikely as D is open seven days a week, but on 
balance I see no reason why Hyundai Capital UK Limited wouldnt have tried to collect the 
car when it had previously agreed to do so. I think it more likely that unfortunately Hyundai 
Capital UK Limited and D just missed each other when attempting contact. 
Mrs Gs agreement explained in the Returns Conditions Schedule that the car would be 
deemed to be in good condition if it has no abnormal wear and tear as determined by the 
BVRLA standard.  The agreement says Mrs G may be charged if this isnt the case.
Ive reviewed the BVRLA guidance regarding chips, dents and scratches and looked at the 
inspection report carried out by the third-party company. Having done so, Im satisfied the 
car has suffered damage that would be considered outside of the BVRLAs fair wear and 
tear standards. This has been clearly evidenced via photos. Given the type of issues 
evidenced in the photographs, I dont agree that what is being charged for has been caused 
because of manufacturing defects. 
I understand that Mrs G has concerns that this damage wasnt highlighted by Ds 
salesperson. I cant see that D provided Mrs G with an inspection report when she left the 
car with it. Im unsure why D told Mrs G what it did, especially as the damage is clear to see. 
It may be that the salesperson incorrectly believed the damage present would be classified 
as fair wear and tear. 
Alternately, Ive considered whether the damage occurred after Mrs G left the car with D. 
However, given the nature of some of the damage, it seems unlikely it would have been 
caused whilst being on Ds forecourt. I find it more likely this damage was present when Mrs 
G returned the car to D. 
Considering the damage that is present on the car, I dont find it unfair that Hyundai Capital 
UK Limited charge Mrs G for this and the applied charges arent unreasonable in the 
circumstances.  
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Gs complaint against Hyundai Capital UK LimitedUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Paul Blower
Ombudsman