DRN-3332168
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund him around £1,200 that he paid to what 
he says is a scam company using his debit card.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
I understand that Mr S was the victim of a previous scam in which he lost a significant 
amount of money. More recently he was contacted by a company Ill refer to as P who said 
they could help him recover the money he lost to the scam. 
Mr S made payments to P for their services. At the time he believed this was going to help 
him get his money back. In April 2020 Mr S paid P around £1,200 using his Santander debit 
card. Mr S later concluded that P were operating a scam. He reported this to Santander and 
asked for help to get his money back. Santander considered a chargeback but were 
ultimately unable to assist. 
Mr S contacted our service and a complaint was made. Santander maintained their position 
and Mr S asked us to investigate. He thinks Santander havent acted fairly, particularly as 
hed also made a payment to P from another bank (using a credit card), who have 
reimbursed him. 
One of our Investigators didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. In summary 
she didnt think Santander ought to have done more. As he still disagreed, Mr S asked for an 
Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
In February 2022 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr S feels P were operating a scam. But Im not currently persuaded this is 
the case. I can see that P as an entity still exist, and they claim to offer consultancy to assist 
people recover funds theyve lost to scams. 
I also note that the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) warning about P that Mr S has 
provided in his submissions to our service isnt currently visible / active on their website. 
There are also a large number of online reviews of the services P provides, which are 
predominantly positive. P also seems to be registered as a business in its home country. 
And whilst Ive not been able to find evidence that they are regulated (either in the UK or 
elsewhere) to provide financial services, it doesnt seem that this is what they are doing. 
They appear to be providing an advisory / consultancy service which Im not persuaded 
would require financial regulation. Taking all of this together, I dont think that the bar 
required to safely conclude that P were operating a fraud or scam has been met. 
As such, there was no reason for Santander to have intervened in the payment Mr S made 
to P. Banks must be alert to fraud and scams, but they have no obligation to protect against 
bad bargains. 
When Mr S reported to Santander that he felt this payment had been made as the result of a 
scam, he asked them to consider a chargeback. Santander ultimately didnt pursue this 
further. They asked Mr S for the terms and conditions of his agreement with P and they 
confirmed with him that P had never given him a 100% guarantee of being able to recover 
his funds. Mr S has also sent our service an invoice for a consultation which shows the 
same date as his payment. 
Whilst there is no right to a chargeback, I generally consider it to be good practice that a 
chargeback be raised if there is a reasonable chance of it succeeding. In these 
circumstances, I dont think the outcome Santander reached was unreasonable. Its most 
likely that P would have been able to evidence that theyd provided advice or a consultation 
to Mr S. And Mr S own testimony supports that P never guaranteed it would be able to make 
a full recovery of his loss. I think Santander declining to take a chargeback forward was a 
reasonable exercise of their discretion. 
I appreciate Mr S says he received reimbursement from another bank in relation to a 
payment to P. But there are a variety of reasons why a bank might choose to reimburse their 
customer. And this doesnt change my mind as to whether Santander have acted fairly. 
Im obviously sorry to hear that Mr S lost money in this way, but I dont think Santander were 
under any obligation to intervene when the payment was made. And I dont think they ought 
to have done more to try to recover it. So for these reasons, Im not intending to uphold this 
complaint.
Santander responded to say they had nothing further to add. Mr S didnt respond to my 
provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further comments or evidence for my consideration, I see no 
reason to deviate from the outcome explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman