DRN-1865505
The complaint
Mrs I has complained about Link Financial Outsourcing Limiteds delay in responding to her 
settlement offer.
What happened
In April 2019, Mrs I had an outstanding balance of £6,179.25. She wrote to Link with a full 
and final settlement offer of £3,090.
Link did not initially respond to this. In August 2019, Mrs Is debt management company 
chased Link, but also did not get an answer.
In November 2019, Mrs I complained to Link. She was unhappy they hadnt responded to 
her offer. She explained that because she wasnt sure if Link would accept, she didnt 
complete a review of her finances with her debt management company, and because of that 
the company ended the debt management plan. She felt this was Links fault. She also felt 
her credit file wouldve looked better if Link had responded sooner.
Link apologised for overlooking her offer, confirming they had received it. They explained 
they couldnt accept an offer of £3,090, but could accept £3,849.52. They also offered Mrs I 
£50 compensation for their delays in replying.
Mrs I didnt accept this and came to our service. As a resolution to her complaint, she wants 
Link to accept her original full and final settlement offer, and to change their procedures so 
that such a delay never happens again.
Our investigator looked into things independently. He agreed Link had got things wrong. 
Though he didnt think an earlier reply wouldve helped Mrs Is credit file, as Link thought her 
offer was too low in any case. He explained that an outstanding full and final offer didnt stop 
Mrs I from completing a review with her debt management company, as she couldve 
adjusted things later if the offer went through. So he didnt think Link were responsible for 
her debt management plan closing. And he explained that we couldnt force Link to accept 
an offer it found too low, nor could we tell them to change their procedures. But he did think 
Link had caused Mrs I unfair stress and anxiety by failing to reply in time, and he felt £100 
compensation was a fairer amount than £50.
Link agreed to pay £100. Mrs I didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator, and for much the 
same reasons.
I think all parties accept that Link should have replied earlier, and that they got things wrong 
here. My main concern, then, is how this affected Mrs I and how to put that right.
Like our investigator, I dont see that an earlier reply was likely to have helped Mrs Is credit 
file, as it looks like Link thought her offer was too low in any case. So I have not found that 
Links mistake had any unfair impact on Mrs Is credit score.
Mrs I was still able to complete a review with her debt management company, and then 
adjust things later if her settlement offer got accepted. So I dont think Link were responsible 
for Mrs Is debt management plan ending. Mrs I may be able to make a separate complaint 
about her debt management company if she feels they acted unfairly.
It is clear that Links delay caused Mrs I unfair stress and anxiety, so Ive thought about how 
to put that right.
I understand Mrs I would like Link to change how they work going forward. But as our 
investigator explained, I cant comment on Links procedures as a whole  were only here to 
look at complaints about individual situations. Its the regulator  the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA)  who regulates financial businesses and their processes. While I appreciate 
where Mrs Is coming from, I cant tell Link to change their communication procedures.
I also understand that Mrs I would like Link to accept her full and final settlement offer. But 
I cannot force Link to do that. Broadly speaking, its their choice whether to accept it or not. 
Link have made a counter offer for £3,849.52, which doesnt seem unreasonable considering 
the outstanding balance.
When a business gets things wrong, we often tell them to pay compensation, to recognise 
their error and the impact it had. Its clear that this matter has caused Mrs I distress, and so 
I think Link needs to put that right.
We have guidelines about what levels of compensation to award, and we need to be 
consistent. I agree with our investigator that Links initial offer of £50 was too low, and that 
£100 is a fair total amount of compensation to put things right here.
Lastly, I understand that Mrs I has had further issues with Link, following her complaint. Im 
only able to look at the issues that Mrs I brought to this service, rather than separate issues 
that arose afterwards. But Mrs I can make a separate complaint to Link about those new 
issues, and she may then be able to bring that to our service as a separate case.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I think Link Financial Outsourcing Limited should pay Mrs I 
£100 compensation in total.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman