DRN-4233581
The complaint
Mr F and Mrs F complain about how Aviva Insurance Limited have handled a flood claim on
their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr F and Mrs F have a home insurance policy with Aviva. Following a flood in July 2021,
they claimed on their policy for the damage caused to the property and the contents. Aviva
reviewed the claim and accepted it. Aviva dried out the property and arranged for repairs to
be completed, however when the repair work was due to start the builders said the property
hadnt been dried correctly and wasnt habitable.
Mr F and Mrs F spoke with the builders to discuss the work needed and werent happy with 
how Aviva intended to complete some of the work. There were also ongoing discussions 
between Mr F and Mrs F, and Aviva about how much it would pay to replace the damaged 
contents. Ultimately, due to concerns with how Aviva would repair the property, and 
discussions about replacing the contents. Mr F and Mrs F opted for Aviva to cash settle the 
claim. They provided a quote to Aviva for the work needed and asked Aviva to pay the quote 
for their own builder. Aviva didnt agree and obtained three other quotes. The quotes varied 
between £70,000 and £125,000.
Aviva originally offered to cash settle Mr F and Mrs Fs claim for the lowest of the four
quotes. Around 18 months later, following lots of discussion between Aviva and Mr F and
Mrs F, Aviva issued a full and final offer to settle the claim for just over £151,000. Mr F and
Mrs F didnt agree this was enough and asked Aviva to increase its offer.
While the discussions had been ongoing between Aviva and Mr F and Mrs F, the complaint
was referred here. Before our investigator looked into the complaint Mr F and Mrs F
confirmed that the outstanding issues were, payment for the strip out works Mr F had done,
the amount Aviva would pay for the windows and doors, the amount offered to replace the
kitchen, the increased energy use Mr and Mrs F had incurred while the property hadnt been
repaired and how the settlement would be paid.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and found that Aviva hadnt handled the claim as
well as it should. He found that Mr F and Mrs F had to live in a property which wasnt
habitable and had done so for around 18 months. Mr F and Mrs F also have health issues
and a young family member which meant theyd been severely affected by living in the
property. Because of this, our investigator recommended Aviva pays £2,500 compensation
for the poor claim handling.
He also recommended Aviva provide a breakdown of how the kitchen replacement cost had
been reached and assess the quote from Mr F and Mrs F, revise the costs for the bathroom
supply and fitting, re-imburse Mr F and Mrs F for the increased energy costs for May, June
and July 2022, and pay the cash in lieu payment in one lump sum and also without the need
for Mr F and Mrs F to replace the contents first.
Since our investigator issued their assessment, Mr F and Mrs F confirmed that Aviva has
made an interim payment of £151,443.28 for their claim. Aviva also confirmed it would be
providing a breakdown to Mr F and Mrs F of how it arrived at this figure.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 19 June 2023 where I said:
Before I issue my decision, I feel it would help to explain my role. Were an informal dispute
resolution service set up as a free alternative to the courts. In deciding a complaint, I
focus on what I consider to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting on every
issue in turn. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party. Rather it reflects the
informal nature of our service, its remit and my role in it.
Its not our role to claim handle, as were a dispute resolution service. Aviva hasnt issued a
final response, or if it has, one hasnt been provided to this service so its not clear on
Avivas position on the complaint. Our investigator has also spent a considerable amount of
time going between Aviva and Mr F and Mrs F to reach the settlement which has been
proposed.
Avivas responsibilities under the policy are to assess claims fairly and promptly. When doing
so, it should also communicate with its customers in a clear fair and not misleading way.
Given this claim has been ongoing for almost two years and the interim payment has only
just been made Im not satisfied Aviva has met its obligations. Its even more disappointing
to see that Mr F and Mrs F have been severely impacted by this poor claim handling. While
Im not going to list all the issues again, Im satisfied £2,500 is fair and reasonable
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by this claim taking so long and Mr
F and Mrs F having to live in a property for 18 months which wasnt habitable. Therefore,
Aviva needs to pay this amount to Mr F and Mrs F if not already done so.
In regard to the settlement of the claim, I can see Aviva has paid Mr F and Mrs F
£151,443.28. I understand when this figure was originally communicated to Mr F and Mrs F
they didnt think it was enough. This was mainly focused on the kitchen costs, bathroom
costs and the cost for the replacement doors. Im also aware that Aviva was requesting
further information about these and giving Mr F and Mrs F a breakdown of how its reached
its settlement. Its not clear if Aviva has provided a breakdown of how its calculated the
settlement to Mr F and Mrs F. Therefore, if Aviva hasnt provided a breakdown of these
costs, then it needs to do so within 28 days of my final decision and provide a detailed
breakdown of how its calculated the settlement for the kitchen, bathroom and the doors and
windows. 
If Mr F and Mrs F are then unhappy with the final amount Aviva has paid, they will
need to raise that as a separate complaint as Im not making a finding in this decision on
what Aviva has paid. This is because while this claim has been ongoing for a long time. Its
only since Aviva made its interim payment and provides the breakdown of how its reached
that amount that Mr F and Mrs F will be able to raise concerns about it. And so, as that
breakdown looks like it should have been provided to them in April 2023, and this complaint
was referred to us in July 2022, Im not going to make a finding on it in this decision, as its
not the complaint which was originally referred to us.
I understand Mr F and Mrs F maybe disappointed with my decision, however as explained
above. Were a dispute resolution service and not claims handlers, therefore if theyre
unhappy with the cash settlement of over £150,000 which Aviva has recently made. That
would need to be raised as a new complaint.
Aviva didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr F and Mrs F responded and asked for 
clarification on what Aviva had paid. In particular they asked for clarification on the energy 
costs, flooring costs and the Kitchen and Bathroom costs. They said our investigator had said some of their quotes would need to be paid if Aviva couldnt provide a breakdown of 
how it had reached the amount it had offered. They also said some of these issues have 
been raised since July 2022 and so didnt agree they would need to be raised as a new 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed Mr and Mrs Fs response, but its not persuaded me to depart from the findings 
in my provisional decision. While I do empathise with Mr and Mrs Fs situation as Aviva 
hasnt handled their claim well, however Im not going to direct Aviva to do anything further 
than outlined in my provisional findings. This is because Aviva has recently paid a cash in 
lieu settlement of their claim. While Mr and Mrs F have questions over the amounts paid by 
Aviva, without the breakdown of how this figure has been reached its not possible to say 
whether the amount Aviva has paid is a fair and reasonable settlement to their claim. 
I understand Mr and Mrs F has been questioning the amount Aviva offered since July 2022, 
but at that time the offer made by Aviva was less than half the cash in lieu payment its now 
made. Therefore, Aviva needs to provide Mr and Mrs F the breakdown of how the cash in 
lieu settlement has been reached, within the next 28 days, so Mr and Mrs F can review it 
and decide whether its one they accept. If it isnt, then Mr and Mrs F will need to raise a new 
complaint with Aviva outlining why theyre not happy with the settlement of over £150,000. If 
Mr and Mrs F then arent happy with Avivas response theyre able to refer that complaint her 
for us to consider. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint. I 
require Aviva Insurance Limited to:
1. Provide Mr and Mrs F a detailed breakdown of how it reached the cash in lieu 
settlement of over £150,000. This needs to be provided within the next 28 days
2. Pay Mr and Mrs F £2,500 for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman