DRN-3462743
The complaint
Mr G complains about We Fight Any Claim Limited (WFAC) and the fees they are charging 
him following a successful claim for mis-sold Payment Protection Insurance (PPI).
What happened
In April 2017, Mr G signed a Letter of Engagement (LOE) and Letter of Authority (LOA) 
authorising WFAC to pursue claims for mis-sold PPI against lender L on his behalf. 
Following this authorisation, WFAC say they submitted claims to lender L in May.
But Mr G says he dealt with lender L directly before he instructed WFAC. And in June, Mr G 
says lender L contacted him directly to see if he wanted them to liaise with him, or WFAC. 
Mr G says he asked lender L to continue dealing with him directly and so, lender L revoked 
WFACs authority, writing to WFAC to confirm this. 
On 5 July, lender L issued their final decision letter to Mr G directly, upholding two of his 
claims and providing with him with a pre-tax refund of £5,845.27. But following this offer, and 
lender Ls confirmation that WFAC had no authority to pursue the claims, Mr G says he 
continued to receive correspondence from WFAC including a request for a new LOA to be 
signed in November 2020. Mr G says he didnt respond to any of these communications.
In September 2021, WFAC issued Mr G with an invoice for their fees, calculated on the PPI 
refund he received in July 2017. Mr G didnt pay this invoice and so, WFAC instructed a 
third-party debt collection company to pursue him for payment. Mr G was unhappy with this, 
so he raised a complaint. 
Mr G didnt think WFAC were fair to invoice him for their fee. Mr G explained hed cancelled 
the agreement with WFAC verbally over a month before he received the refund from lender 
L. And he thought lender L had made it clear that WFAC had no authority over the claim 
before the refund was issued. So, he wanted WFAC to waive their outstanding invoices.
WFAC responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought they submitted the 
claims that led to the refunds Mr G received when they had authority to do so. So, they 
thought they had acted fairly, and in line with the terms and conditions of the agreement Mr 
G entered into, when invoicing Mr G for their fee. So, they didnt think they needed to do 
anything more. Mr G remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to 
us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They were persuaded that Mr G 
cancelled his instructions to WFAC before he received a refund from lender L, based on their 
assumptions and the information available to them. So, they didnt think WFAC had acted 
fairly when issuing an invoice and thought this should be cancelled. And they thought WFAC 
should compensate Mr G £100 to recognise any upset he was caused by their chase for 
payment. 
Mr G accepted this recommendation. But WFAC didnt. They provided a new timeline of 
events, which they thought showed Mr G cancelled their instructions after he received the 
refund from lender L. So, they thought they were entitled to charge Mr G for their fee, based 
on their terms and conditions. Our investigator considered WFACs comments, but this didnt 
change their opinion. So, they maintained their original recommendations. WFAC didnt 
agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome. 
It's not in dispute that Mr G did initially authorise WFAC to submit claims to lender L on his 
behalf. So, I dont intend to discuss this in any further detail. Instead, my decision will focus 
the fees WFAC are charging Mr G. And when doing so, Ive thought about the terms and 
conditions of the agreement Mr G entered into, as well as the fairness of WFACs actions. 
And most importantly, Ive thought about the main area if dispute, which centres around 
whether Mr G reasonably cancelled his agreement with WFAC before lender L issued the 
refund he received.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful for me to explain 
how Ive considered the complaint. Due to the length of time thats elapsed since Mr G 
instructed WFAC, and lender L issuing their refund, WFAC have been unable to provide call 
recordings of conversations they had with Mr G. So, Im unable to say for certain what was 
said verbally around this time. I also recognise that the length of time means Mr G has found 
it more difficult to provide evidence to dispute any system evidence WFAC still hold. So, Ive 
placed the same weighting on the testimony Mr G has provided as I have done on the 
evidence WFAC has been able to provide. And from this, Ive thought about what I think was 
most likely to have happened at the time and whether WFAC were fair to issue their invoice 
considering this. And in this situation, I dont think they were. 
Ive first thought about whether I think Mr G reasonably cancelled his instruction to WFAC, 
before lender L made their offer. I recognise WFAC doesnt think Mr G did, and they say the 
first time Mr G mentioned the cancellation was in August 2017, a month after lender L 
provided him with a PPI refund.
And I appreciate that, because of this belief, WFAC feel their fee is invoiced fairly, as their 
terms and conditions do explain that they are entitled to charge their fee even if an 
agreement has been cancelled, if the cancellation is made after a customer has been 
notified that an offer of compensation is due. 
Ive read the e-mail Mr G sent to WFAC in August 2017. And in it, Mr G states I spoke with 
your office a month ago and withdrew my claim so once again, I no longer wish you to 
proceed. Im in agreement that this constitutes as a cancellation as its made clear Mr G 
didnt want WFAC to proceed any further.
And I recognise this e-mail was sent on 5 August, a month after he received his PPI refund 
from lender L. So, I understand why WFAC would decide they were still fair to issue Mr G for 
their fee when they were notified of the refund some years later by lender L directly. So, Ive 
thought about whether I think Mr G had, more likely than not, attempted to cancel his 
agreement with WFAC earlier than this e-mail, as he states he did.I appreciate WFAC say that, if Mr G has contacted them a month earlier, this wouldve been 
around the time an offer was made. So, they dont believe this e-mail changes their position. 
But I dont think its fair or reasonable to use Mr Gs statement of a month ago as a strict 
deadline, as I think it was provided in a vague sense by Mr G in the context of the e-mail.
And from what I can see, is that Mr G did withdraw WFACs authority on the claim with 
lender L in June, which is before any refund was issued to him. And I can see lender L wrote 
to WFAC on 21 June making them aware of this in a letter that WFAC received on 26 June.
This letter from lender L explains that they would no longer be dealing with WFAC. And it 
explains that they had advised Mr G to contact WFAC directly to formally end the agreement 
he held with them. So, I think WFAC were made reasonably aware before lender L issued 
their refund that Mr G wanted to cancel the agreement he held.
And, as Mr G had taken the time to speak to lender L to withdraw WFACs authority, I think 
its most likely that he wouldve followed lender Ls advice and cancelled his agreement with 
WFAC around this time. And I think this falls in line with Mr Gs testimony, that he spoke to 
WFAC and made them aware of this around a month before he e-mailed WFAC to re-iterate 
this desire in the e-mail Ive already discussed. While WFAC say they dont have a record of 
this conversation, its already been admitted that due to the time thats elapsed, calls are 
unable to be searched for and found. So, I dont think WFAC not being able to evidence this 
call means it didnt take place.
Based on the evidence and information available to me, I think its more likely than not that 
Mr G did cancel his agreement with WFAC before lender L issued their decision. And 
because of this, I dont think WFAC have acted fairly or reasonably when invoicing Mr G for 
their fee. As I dont think WFAC have acted fairly, Ive then thought about what I think WFAC 
should do to put things right.
Putting things right
Any award or direction I made is intended to place Mr G back in the position he wouldve 
been in, had WFAC acted fairly in the first instance.
In this situation, had WFAC acted fairly, I think it wouldve been noted that Mr G had 
cancelled his agreement before he received a refund from lender L. I note WFAC have 
admitted this shouldve been done in an e-mail sent to our service in March 2022, before 
they changed their position following our investigators view.
Had WFAC done this, then I dont think they wouldve issued Mr G with an invoice for their 
fee when they received communication from lender L in 2021. So, I think the outstanding 
invoice should be cancelled and not pursued any further.
And I think it wouldve been distressing and upsetting for Mr G when he received an invoice 
for a substantial sum from WFAC, so many years after the claim had been settled by lender 
L. And I appreciate how stressful it wouldve been for Mr G to receive chaser letters, leading 
to a debt collection company being appointed. So, as I dont think WFAC shouldve pursued 
this fee in the first instance, I think WFAC should compensate Mr G for the upset this is likely 
to have caused. Our investigator recommended WFAC pay Mr G £100 to recognise this. 
And I think this offer is a fair one, which falls in line with what I wouldve awarded had it not 
already been recommended. So, I think WFAC should pay Mr G £100 to recognise the 
trouble and upset hes been caused.My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr Gs complaint about We Fight Any Claim 
Limited and I direct them to take the following action:
Cancel their outstanding invoices and stop any further collection activity; and
Pay Mr G £100 to recognise the trouble and upset hes experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman