DRN-3733194
The complaint
Miss M complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard (Barclays), 
irresponsibly increased the credit limit on her credit card account in 2016, and later, when 
she struggled to make her repayments, kept placing her account on hold rather than deal 
with her request to set up a payment plan. Miss M further complained that Barclays failed to 
contact her as it should have done, and later transferred her account to a third party despite 
saying this would not happen, and that it failed to take account of her health problems during 
this period.
What happened
Miss M took out a credit card with Barclays in September 2012. In April 2016 Barclays 
increased the credit limit from £5,200 to £8,200 at Miss Ms request. Miss M believes that 
this increase in the credit limit contributed to her later problems. 
Miss M subsequently struggled to make the repayments on the card, saying she had family 
issues and then health problems.  She said she offered to set up a repayment plan, but 
Barclays kept placing the account on hold and referring it to Barclays specialist support 
team. Miss M further said she didnt hear from Barclays until it offered her compensation in 
relation to the credit limit increase on her card. Miss M told us she was informed that the 
account would stay with the specialist support team, but then received a letter from a debt 
company saying that it now had control of the debt. 
Miss M was also unhappy about how Barclays handled a data subject access request, but 
as this did not form part of the original complaint to Barclays, and it has not had an 
opportunity to answer this point, I have not considered it further here. 
Barclays responded to Miss Ms complaint, saying it had offered support with her financial 
difficulties, and disputing Miss Ms account of the sequence of events. It also said that when 
it granted Miss Ms request for an increase in her credit limit, it had no reason to consider it 
unaffordable for her. But it later changed its lending criteria, and on the basis that it would 
not then have granted an increase of that size, it offered a refund of fees and charges as 
compensation. 
Barclays told Miss M that it was not upholding her complaint. Miss M was unhappy with this 
and so she brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into it but didnt 
think it should be upheld. Miss M didnt agree and asked for it to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website, and Ive taken this into account here.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ms complaint. Ill explain why. 
Ive firstly considered the credit limit increase in 2016. 
In summary, before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks. There isnt a set list of checks required of a lender, but it needs to 
ensure the checks are proportionate when considering things such as the type and amount 
of credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the credit and 
the consumers circumstances. So Ive considered whether Barclays completed reasonable 
and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss M would be able to make the repayments 
on the credit card account in a sustainable way with a higher credit limit. 
Barclays provided a list of the checks it completed before granting the credit limit increase, 
and the credit reference information it relied on. It also sent in copies of Miss Ms credit card 
statements from September 2015 onwards. 
Barclays said it was able to confirm Miss Ms annual salary from the credit reference files, 
along with her credit card, loan and mortgage commitments, and it took all these into 
account when making the lending decision. It looks as though the mortgage was held jointly 
with Miss Ms partner, and she had a loan and credit card balances in her sole name. Our 
investigator requested further information from Miss M so as to look at her circumstances in 
more detail, but this was not provided. 
Barclays hasnt said that it discussed Miss Ms income and expenditure with her at the time, 
and I think it should reasonably have done so given that the increase in the credit limit was 
significant  looking at Miss Ms monthly income at the time, the loan payment and 
repayments due on the credit card balances, along with part of the mortgage payment, took 
up quite a high proportion of it. On the other hand, the credit card had a minimal balance at 
the time the limit was increased, and a few months earlier the balance had been cleared 
completely with a payment of over £4,000. There was one late payment fee shown on the 
statements just before the credit limit increase, but this appears to have been credited back 
to the account, and Ive no other evidence to say that Miss M was having difficulty in 
managing her commitments at that time. 
On balance, although I think Barclays could have looked at Miss Ms circumstances in more 
detail - Im not satisfied it carried out proportionate checks  we dont have a full picture of 
Miss Ms circumstances, so I dont have enough evidence to say that the increase in the 
credit limit of £3,000 was unaffordable for Miss M when it was granted in 2016. 
I note that Barclays later reviewed its lending criteria, and as part of a wider exercise 
involving a number of consumers, it wrote to Miss M in August 2020 to say that the limit 
increase it previously provided was too high, in the context of its current lending criteria. 
Barclays told us that this letter was not an admission of error, but as its lending standards 
had changed over the years, it may not have provided the same limit in 2020 using current 
standards. Barclays refunded £138.09 to Miss Ms account in relation to interest, default fees 
and charges, and offered £75 compensation for the inconvenience. So Miss M has received 
some compensation with regard to the credit limit. However, I should say here that, despite 
this, and as I noted above, I dont have enough evidence to say that the credit limit increase 
was unaffordable when it was granted. 
Turning now to the question of whether Barclays provided appropriate support, Barclays has 
sent in copies of its contact notes and letters issued to Miss M about the account, as well as 
the statements I mentioned earlier.
Ive set out below the sequence of events as shown in the contact notes and letters. I can see that Miss M maintained payments on the credit card account until early in 2018. 
She then contacted Barclays in May 2018 to say that she was having financial difficulties 
because her husband was unemployed, and her income had reduced. Barclays said it 
advised Miss M to contact a debt advice organisation for help. She agreed to do this so 
Barclays put a 30-day hold on the account and confirmed this in writing the same day. The 
letter stated that fees and charges wouldnt be applied during the period, and that either Miss 
M or the debt adviser should get back in touch with Barclays within 30 days, failing which 
Barclays would assume that Miss M was able to make her minimum repayments. Its not 
clear from later notes that Miss M did contact a debt adviser for help. 
The following month, Miss M contacted Barclays again to say that her financial situation 
hadnt improved, and she had also had a family bereavement. She told Barclays that she 
was feeling very stressed, and explained more about her family circumstances, so Barclays 
put her account into the care of its specialist support team. Again Barclays placed the 
account on a 30-day hold and wrote to Miss M to confirm this, acknowledging in the letter 
her difficult circumstances. 
In July 2018, Barclays wrote to Miss M asking her to get in touch. The letter confirmed that 
the account would remain on hold, and it included details of debt advice organisations that 
could help. The letter also said that Barclays was required to tell Miss M that it was likely to 
issue a default notice in three months time. Miss M called Barclays in August 2018 to say 
that shed been signed off work for two weeks, but wasnt sure about getting sick pay as she 
was in a new job. It looks as though Miss M agreed to contact a debt adviser and another 
30-day hold was applied. 
In September 2018, Barclays wrote to Miss M asking her to make contact by 28 October and 
stating that it was putting her account on a final 30-day hold. The letter also referred to a 
default notice, and on 2 October 2018 this was issued. The notice set out what Miss M 
needed to do by 2 November 2018 and offered the possibility of a payment arrangement, 
along with contact details for debt advice organisations.
Miss M called Barclays on 5 November 2018, saying she was on a phased return to work, 
but was unsure of her income. Barclays agreed to a further hold on the account. Barclays 
also told us that it reminded Miss M of the default notice and what would happen next. As 
before, Barclays confirmed the hold in writing on the same day. 
At the end of November 2018, Barclays registered the default and wrote to Miss M to confirm 
this. 
The information from Barclays shows no further contact from Miss M until November 2021, 
and no payments made. In the interim. I can see that Barclays specialist support team wrote 
to Miss M in June and July 2019, asking her to make contact. 
In April 2020, Barclays contact notes show that the specialist support team tried to call Miss 
M but was unsuccessful. I note that Miss M said this call was not to her number, although 
Barclays said the number in its records was one that had previously been used by Miss M 
when calling in. Having said that, Barclays could not confirm the actual number used, so its 
possible the caller misdialled. In any case, Barclays contact notes show that a letter was 
sent to Miss M, and the account placed on a further 30-day hold. 
As Barclays notes show Miss M did not contact the specialist support unit, her account was 
removed from its care in July 2020. And in November 2021, Miss Ms account was sold on to 
a third party and this was confirmed to her in writing. Following this letter, Miss M contacted Barclays and I can see that she explained about the 
health and family issues she had been dealing with. The notes also show that Miss M said 
she had only received the default notice and the letter about the compensation relating to the 
credit limit. And Miss M has told us that the reason she didnt make contact with Barclays 
was that her health was declining. 
Ive thought carefully about what Miss M and Barclays have said, and I can see that Miss M 
has had a difficult time over the past few years.
I note that Miss M said she didnt receive Barclays letters. However, looking at the copies 
Barclays sent in, I can see that they are all correctly addressed, and Miss M hasnt 
mentioned any postal difficulties. The vast majority of correctly addressed letters are 
delivered in the normal way so I can see no reason why Miss Ms letters should not have 
been delivered. Miss M hasnt said that she didnt receive her monthly statements, and I note 
that as the account fell into arrears, the statements included notes encouraging contact with 
Barclays and setting out the consequences of non-payment.
Miss M said that Barclays kept putting the account on hold rather than setting up a payment 
arrangement. I can see from the contact notes and the letters that Barclays encouraged Miss 
M to seek help from a debt adviser, who would normally assist with setting up a sustainable 
repayment plan with all creditors (and the notes suggest that Miss M was behind with other 
payments). The on-hold periods gave Miss M time to organise a repayment plan. But Ive no 
evidence to suggest that Miss M did seek such help. And in any case there is no reason why 
Miss M could not have made payments into the credit card account as and when she was 
able to. 
More generally, the Financial Conduct Authority (the regulator) requires businesses to treat 
customers in difficulties with forbearance and due consideration. This may include 
suspending or waiving interest, accepting lower payments (or deferring them), and allowing 
customers more time to repay their debt. These arrangements are generally intended to be 
short term. 
Looking at what happened in Miss Ms case, I can see that while the account was on hold, 
fees and interest were suspended, and from whats in the letters Barclays were allowing 
lower or deferred payments and allowing Miss M time to arrange payments. The tone of the 
letters was sympathetic and Ive no reason to think it took a different approach during the 
phone calls. Overall the evidence suggests that Barclays treated Miss M with forbearance 
and due consideration as it was required to do. I cannot see that Barclays disregarded Miss 
Ms health problems insofar as it was aware of them.
I think it was also fair for Barclays to issue the default notice when it did. Guidance from the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO) says that information reported on a persons credit 
file must be fair, accurate, consistent, complete and up to date. And the ICO also says that 
its likely to be reasonable to register a default when a consumer is at least three months in 
arrears, and it would usually expect a default to be registered by the time the consumer is six 
months in arrears. It looks as though Miss M was more than six months behind with her 
payments when Barclays registered the default, so I dont think it acted unfairly in doing so. 
Miss M is also unhappy that the account was transferred to a third party. I have a copy of the 
terms and conditions, and I can see that they allow for the account to be transferred to 
another party or the debt sold on to another organisation. This happened some time after the 
account went into arrears and after unsuccessful attempts to contact Miss M. So I dont think 
Barclays did anything wrong in transferring the debt. Overall, my conclusion is that Barclays offered appropriate support to Miss M, and that it did 
not act unreasonably in issuing the default notice and eventually transferring the debt to a 
third party. Whilst I can see that Miss M has had a difficult time, I dont consider I can fairly 
say Barclays should have done anything more. As I noted above, Im also not satisfied that 
the increase in the credit limit was unaffordable for Miss M. Therefore Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman