DRN-4042311
The complaint
Miss F has complained to us about the irresponsible sale of loans given by Commsave 
Credit Union Limited (Commsave).
What happened
Commsave thought the lending decisions were reasonable. Miss F didnt agree and brought 
her complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked at everything provided and 
thought that this was a complaint that we couldnt uphold. Miss F objected to the outcome 
reached by the investigator. So, the complaint was referred to an ombudsman for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Commsave will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Our investigator detailed the loans as follows:
Application Date Loan Amount
Loan 1 13/05/2020 £500
Loan 2 30/12/2020 £700
Loan 3 05/02/2021 £500
Loan 4 07/03/2021 £1,000
Loan 5 21/05/2021 £4,000
Loan 6 15/06/2021 £1,000
Loan 7 04/08/2021 £1,500
Our investigators assessments provided a detailed account of the increases and 
suspensions of credit, and they are summarised above. Neither party has called the 
specifics into question, so, I dont intend to cover them off here.
Miss Fs complaint is that Commsave made credit available that was unaffordable. 
Commsave has explained that it relied in part on information that Miss F provided at the 
time of application to assess affordability. They said they carried out credit searches in Miss 
Fs name to assess Miss Fs level of debt at the times of each lending decision and to 
understand how she had been managing that debt. With that information and using their 
own scoring metric, Commsave decided to agree to the loans above. Commsave also asked 
Miss F to provide income and expenditure information which also was factored into the 
lending decisions.  Commsave has told us they had not approved every request for 
borrowings made by Miss F. So, the lending was not indiscriminate.   
The Commsave checks showed that Miss F had only a modest amount of other borrowings 
compared to her declared income and her declared disposable income at the time of each 
lending decision. 
And I have noted that Miss Fs credit file was reasonably clean at the time of each loan 
application. When I say this, I mean that Miss Fs management of her existing credit showed 
no recent history of CCJs, defaults or any late payments. And so, I dont think that the 
information that Commsave had at the time of the lending decision, would have led them to 
feel they ought to make more searching enquiries of Miss Fs financial situation. And in 
addition, the information that Commsave had presented to it and which it acquired, 
suggested that at the time the lending decisions were made, Miss F was affording her 
existing credit. And her declared disposable income would not have seemed unreasonable 
in themselves and for the lending provided. So, Commsave were not put on notice of any 
reason not to agree any of the lending requests it agreed to from any of the above. 
Miss F has explained that she had a gambling habit at the time which was the prime cause 
of her existing borrowings and the borrowings with Commsave. But Miss F also told us that 
she had not told Commsave about the gambling habit. And, as discussed above, the 
gambling habit had not led Miss F to blemish her credit file at the time she applied for the 
loans. 
I have to look at the information that was available to Commsave at the time they made their 
lending decisions and not to use hindsight. Commsave was not made aware of the habit at 
the time the loans were made. And I have seen insufficient evidence that the other 
information that Commsave acquired or had presented to it at the time of the lending 
decisions, would have led them to think that they were remiss in not checking Miss Fs 
expenditure more closely. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, I have seen insufficient 
evidence to think that the credit Commsave provided to Miss F was unreasonable. 
I know that Miss F will be disappointed with my decision, in itself and because she has 
invested time and energy in pursuing her complaint. But I want Miss F to know that each 
case is determined on the individual merits of that particular complaint. And that I have 
considered all the submissions made in this case. And having considered all the 
submissions in this case, particularly those concerning the time of the lending decision, I 
have not found sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman