DRN-1168342
The complaint
Mr E has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc added a fee when he ported his mortgage 
product to a different property. 
What happened
Mr E had a mortgage with HSBC relating to property L. In 2017, he entered a new product 
with HSBC relating to this mortgage - giving him a fixed interest rate until the end of 2020.
As part of the terms for this new product, Mr E was liable to pay an early repayment charge 
(ERC) if he repaid all or part of the loan, above his standard payments, at any time prior to 
the end of 2020. 
In 2019, Mr E wanted to move home. He obtained a mortgage offer from HSBC for the new 
property, property H. The product relating to this offer was the same as he had on property L 
- i.e. he was porting this product to property H. Much of the correspondence involved with 
this process was via Mr E's solicitor, but purely for the sake of simplicity in this decision, I 
have largely just referred to Mr E.
HSBC confirmed the redemption amount required for the mortgage on property H. And the 
letter HSBC sent confirming this said that an ERC may be payable. However, it also said:
"If the customer is transferring the fixed interest rate to a new HSBC Bank mortgage 
then the Early Repayment Fee won't apply provided that the new loan is drawn down 
at the same time as the existing loan is repaid and is for at least the same amount and 
repayable over the same term and the existing loan."
Mr E completed the sale of property L and the purchase of property H. He repaid the 
balance of the mortgage on property L, £65,902.16. And was provided with a loan for 
property H. 
Mr E then noticed that the balance on his mortgage statements for property H was for a loan 
of £66,708.11. He complained that HSBC had added an ERC to his mortgage and that it 
shouldn't have. HSBC said that no ERC was added though. 
Our investigator didn't find any evidence that an ERC had been added. The £805.95 
difference between the mortgage on property L and property H had potentially been retained 
by Mr E's solicitors. 
Mr E remained unsatisfied and his complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I should firstly make it clear that this decision is limited solely to assessing whether or not 
HSBC applied an ERC, or a penalty, to Mr E's mortgage at the time of this transaction. Mr E 
has, since this complaint was made, also raised concerns about the level of borrowing and 
this will be considered as a separate complaint. 
Having considered all of the available evidence, I am not persuaded that HSBC has added 
any ERC or penalty to Mr E's mortgage as a result of him porting the product to property H. 
In May 2019, HSBC provided Mr E with a letter explaining the amount required to redeem 
the mortgage on property L. This said that £66,799.02 was the total repayment amount 
required to repay the borrowing on 28 June 2019. It also explained that this amount included 
an ERC of £896.86, but that this was not payable if the product was being transferred to a 
new HSBC mortgage - which is what Mr E was intending. Removing this ERC gave a 
redemption amount of £65,902.16. 
On 28 June 2019, Mr E's solicitor sent HSBC £65,902.16. This fully redeemed the mortgage 
on property L.
The day prior to this, HSBC had sent Mr E's solicitor £66,708.11. HSBC has sent a log of 
these transfers. HSBC has said that this is the amount of borrowing Mr E's solicitor 
requested. This amount was, in effect, new borrowing and did not include any ERC or 
penalty charge relating to the mortgage on property L. 
Mr E has indicated that he did not want to borrow any more on property H than he owed on 
property L. From the information available, it seems the whole sum sent to Mr E's solicitor 
may have been used as part of the purchase of property H. But exactly what the solicitor did 
with these funds, or why a higher amount was lent as had been owed, is not the subject of 
this decision. 
So whilst Mr E may not have desired to borrow £805.95 more than he owed, this is what 
happened. There is no evidence an ERC, or a penalty charge, was applied to Mr E's loans in 
relation to the porting of the product.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2020.
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman