DRN-3729973
The complaint
Mrs H complains about the advice appointed representatives of Quilter Financial Planning 
Solutions Limited gave to transfer the benefits from her defined-benefit (DB) occupational 
pension scheme to a personal pension. She says the advice was unsuitable for her and 
believes this has caused a financial loss.
It was Quilters appointed representatives, rather than Quilter itself, which gave Mrs H 
advice. But, as Quilter is responsible for the appointed representatives actions I will refer to 
it throughout this decision. 
Professional representatives have helped Mrs H to bring this complaint. But, for ease of 
reading, Ill refer to the representatives comments as being Mrs Hs.
What happened
Mrs H was a deferred member of her former employers DB scheme. In 2004 the employer 
was in financial difficulties and entered liquidation. It notified its scheme members that it 
wouldnt be able to cover the full liabilities of the DB scheme. In September 2004 the 
scheme administrators sent Mrs H a statement of entitlement which said that her pension 
fund had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of around £49,155. And that, assuming 
the scheme was 100% funded, she would be entitled to a full pension of around £4,331 at 
the schemes normal retirement age of 62, which would rise to around £4,441 when she 
turned 65. But it said that because the scheme was underfunded, the actual benefits were 
likely to be reduced to between 75% and 85% of the given figures. 
Mrs H was introduced to Quilter with a view to discussing her pension options. She met with 
it in December 2004. As well as noting the information from the statement of entitlement, 
Quilter obtained an illustration from a named personal pension provider. That showed what a 
personal pension might pay Mrs H if she transferred her pension funds from the DB scheme 
and invested those in the named personal pension. 
Quilter recorded that Mrs Hs attitude to risk was medium. It said the growth rate required 
(the critical yield) to match the benefits from the DB scheme was less than 5%.
Quilter recommended that Mrs H transfer her DB benefits to a named personal pension. 
Mrs H signed the forms to go ahead with the transfer on 9 December 2004. The next day, 
10 December 2004, Quilter wrote to Mrs H setting out the reasons for its recommendation. 
Amongst other things it said:
Mrs Hs DB scheme was underfunded and it would only pay her between 75% and 
85% of her full pension entitlement. But that amount could be subject to further 
reductions.
The DB scheme would offer an annuity guaranteed to increase with inflation of 3% or 
less. The personal pension wouldnt offer a guarantee but Quilter said a growth rate 
of 5% a year would allow Mrs H to exceed the income from the DB scheme. That 
calculation was based on 80% of the maximum scheme benefits being payable. 
Transferring to a personal pension would allow her flexibility to choose pension 
entitlements at a time suitable to her.
By accepting Quilters recommendation Mrs H acknowledged she was giving up a 
level of guarantee from her DB scheme. But the reduction in benefits from that 
scheme wasnt known and was likely to increase. 
In 2010 the DB scheme administrators wrote to Mrs Hs personal pension provider. It said it 
had identified that Mrs H was entitled to an additional sum of around £11,795 from the 
scheme, which it paid into her personal pension.
Mrs H complained to Quilter in 2021 about the suitability of the transfer advice. Amongst 
other things she said:
Quilter didnt discuss the benefits shed be giving up by transferring.
It didnt provide a report or analysis and as such she wasnt in a position to make an 
informed decision.
The benefits from her personal pension were based on investment performance and 
didn't match her profile as a cautious investor.
She wasn't aware that she was giving up a guaranteed pension and still thought it 
would be guaranteed. 
Quilter didnt explain the risks involved in investing in a personal pension.
It didnt act in line with the regulators principles and guidance.
Quilter replied. It said it couldnt find any evidence that it had given advice to Mrs H.
Mrs H brought her complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. After we provided 
Quilter with information it acknowledged that it had given Mrs H advice to transfer her 
pension. But it said it thought its advice was suitable. It also said it believed Mrs H had 
brought her complaint outside of the allowable timescales for doing so. 
Our investigator provided her analysis of Mrs Hs complaint. First the investigator said she 
believed that Mrs H had brought her complaint in time. She said shed seen no evidence that 
Mrs H should have brought her complaint sooner. Second our investigator looked into the 
merits of Mrs Hs complaint. Amongst other things she said:
The information provided indicated that there were failings in the advice process.
At the time the regulator required advising firms to obtain a transfer value analysis 
(TVAS) before making a personal recommendation. But there was no evidence 
Quilter had done that. That meant that Quilter couldnt have adequately compared 
the DB scheme benefits to the recommended personal pension.
It appears that Quilter estimated the critical yield value.
Given the uncertainty surrounding the position of the scheme, it would have been 
difficult for Quilter to accurately compare benefits between the schemes.
The projected investment growth rates at the time (known as the discount rate) and 
Mrs Hs medium attitude to risk indicated that there was a realistic prospect of Mrs H 
achieving higher benefits by transferring to a personal pension than she would 
receive from the DB scheme
Mrs H had questioned Quilters assessment that she had a balanced (medium) 
attitude to risk. But Quilter had set that out explicitly in its letter of 10 December 2004 
and there was no evidence at the time to suggest that Mrs H didnt wish to take any 
risk with her pension. So our investigator was satisfied that Quilter had discussed 
attitude to risk with Mrs H and had assessed it accurately. 
The former employer was in liquidation and the DB scheme administrators had said 
that pension benefits were likely to be reduced to between 75% and 85% of their maximum level. So it was reasonable for Quilter to assume that the DB scheme 
wouldnt pay Mrs H her full benefits. 
The Financial Assistance Scheme (FAS)1 didnt begin operating until 
September 2005. So, in 2004, there was no certainty that the DB scheme would be 
able to join it or whether any additional funds would be available following the 
employers liquidation. 
There was a possibility that Mrs H could lose her pension, or only receive a very 
small part of it. In those circumstances transferring out of the DB scheme was in her 
best interests.
Mrs H didnt agree with our investigators assessment of the complaint. Amongst other things 
she said:
The regulators guidance at the time was that advising firms should start by assuming 
that transferring from a DB scheme was unsuitable.
Mrs Hs full benefits weren't transferred and as such she had benefits both in a 
personal pension and also from the FAS and our investigator didnt consider this.
Quilter didnt advise Mrs H that her full benefits would not be transferred or what 
would happen with the remaining funds.
The former employer was discussing matters with FAS and Quilter should have 
deferred giving advice until the issue was clear.
Given Quilters failings in the advice process Mrs H wasnt provided with the 
opportunity to make an informed decision. She said that she was simply presented 
with a sign and transfer option.
She doesn't agree with Quilters crude growth rate. She said the personal pension 
illustration shows Quilters rates are entirely incorrect.
Quilters comments that the benefits from a personal pension could be higher is 
incorrect and misleading. 
While the DB scheme was in deficit and the company in difficulty, transferring 
benefits wouldnt protect Mrs H from the effects of this. 
Mrs H said she would send us additional information about her FAS benefits. 
Our investigator replied. She said, amongst other things:
While it appeared that Quilter estimated the critical yield figure, shed seen no 
evidence its suggested growth rate of around 5% was incorrect. She asked Mrs H to 
provide any evidence to support her argument that Quilters growth rate wasnt 
accurate.
The FAS didnt begin operating until September 2005. And the DB scheme didnt 
register with it until 2013. Our investigator didnt think Quilter could have known that 
at the time of its advice in 2004.
Similarly, Quilter couldnt have known in 2004 that further benefits from the DB 
scheme would become available years later. 
There were failings in the process that meant Mrs H wouldnt have been able to 
make a fully informed decision. But our investigator believed that Mrs H would have 
gone ahead with the transfer even if it hadnt been for those failings.
Mrs H didnt send us any further information. But as she didnt agree with our investigators 
assessment of the complaint it was referred to me to make a final decision.
1 The FAS is a Government funded scheme which provides financial assistance to members of certain 
defined benefit pension schemes. Generally, eligible members had lost all or part of their pension 
following their scheme winding up due to being underfunded, between 1 January 1997 and 
6 April 2005. FAS began operating in September 2005.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In bringing this complaint Mrs H has made a number of detailed points. I've considered 
everything shes said carefully. But in this decision I dont intend to address each and every 
point raised. Instead I will focus on what I see as being the key issues at the heart of Mrs Hs 
complaint and the reasons for my decision.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business and the Code of Business rulebook 
(COB). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Quilter's actions here.
In 2004 the regulators guidance, set out in its rulebook (COB - 5.3.29) was: 
When advising a customer who is, or is eligible to be, an active member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme whether she should opt out or transfer, a firm should:
(a) start by assuming it will not be suitable, and
(b) only then consider it to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate on the evidence available 
at the time that it is in the customer's best interests.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided not to uphold the 
complaint for broadly the same reasons given by the investigator.
Was Quilters advice suitable?
After meeting with Quilter in December 2004 Mrs H signed documents to apply to transfer 
her DB scheme funds to the named personal pension. But Quilter hasnt kept the records I 
would have expected to see of what it discussed with Mrs H and whether or not it met all of 
its regulatory requirements. So theres little evidence that it did all it should have done when 
considering recommending a transfer from Mrs Hs DB scheme.
Quilter did record details about Mrs H DB benefit entitlements. It also assessed that Mrs H 
had a medium attitude to risk, although it hasn't documented how it arrived at that 
assessment. But given that she had 12 years to retirement there was scope for her invested 
funds to grow during that period. So I think its likely she would have accepted that level of 
risk at the time. However, I would have also expected Quilter to gather details of Mrs Hs 
financial circumstances and obtain a TVAS report. But theres no evidence it did those 
things. In order to advise Mrs H clearly, I think it needed to do more to set out the relevant 
advantages and disadvantages of remaining in the DB scheme against transferring to the 
named personal pension.
Quilter estimated the critical yield required to match the benefits from the DB scheme was 
around 5%. Given that it didnt obtain a full TVAS its not clear how it arrived at that figure. But looking at the sums involved and the fact that Mrs Hs DB benefits were thought to be 
reduced by up to 25% because of the underfunding of the scheme, that critical yield figure 
seems reasonable.
Mrs H said she didnt agree with Quilters crude growth rate estimate. But she hasn't shown 
me any evidence beyond her comments that indicates the figure wasnt broadly accurate. 
And for the reasons I set out below I think Quilters estimated growth rate of 5% was 
reasonable.
At the time that Quilter advised Mrs H the regulator was publishing discount rates (that is the 
likely investment growth rates) to enable advising firms to calculate loss assessments in an 
industry wide pensions review. And I consider those discount rates provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
Quilter gave its advice. Quilter estimated the growth rate required to exceed the occupational 
pension at retirement was around 5% a year. This compares with the discount rate of 7% a 
year for 12 years to retirement.
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 9%, the middle 
projection rate 7%, and the lower projection rate 5%. I've taken this into account, along with 
the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mrs H's recorded attitude to risk and also the 
term to retirement. I think Mrs H was likely to receive benefits of a higher overall value than 
the DB scheme at retirement as a result of investing in line with her recorded medium 
attitude to risk. And on the basis of the financial information available at the time, the transfer 
was likely to have seemed an attractive prospect to Mrs H.
Ive noted Mrs Hs comments that the personal pension illustration showed that Quilters 
estimated growth rates were entirely incorrect. But I don't agree. Quilter estimated that a 
growth rate of around 5% a year was enough to exceed the benefits from the DB scheme. 
The personal pension illustration shows Mrs Hs expected yearly pension at age 62. It gives 
figures based on the regulators low, middle and high growth rate projections of 5%, 7% and 
9% respectively. Its worth noting that when showing those projected figures, the illustration 
doesn't give a single sum but instead gives the amounts in whats sometimes referred to as 
slices (because of changing pensions rules over time). So the projected yearly pension 
income is the amount when each of those slices is added together. And, when those figures 
are added together the illustration shows that - at the DB schemes normal retirement age of 
62 - the personal pension would pay Mrs H around £3,670 a year at a growth rate of 5% and 
£5,760 at a 7% growth rate.
Further the DB administrators said that Mrs Hs yearly pension income would be reduced 
from between 25% to 15% depending on the funding position of the scheme. And, when 
setting out the reasons for its recommendation Quilter said that for comparison purposes it 
had used a figure of 80% of Mrs Hs benefit entitlement, which would have been a pension of 
£3,464 a year. That figure is less than the projected income from the personal pension if it 
grew at the regulators lowest projected growth rate of 5%. And, given that the discount rate 
at that time was 7%, then a projected growth rate of 5% seems fairly conservative. So I don't 
think its fair to say that Quilters growth rate was entirely incorrect or misleading.
Its notable that Mrs H signed the forms applying for the transfer the day before Quilter sent 
her its letter setting out the reasons for its recommendation. That indicates that, as well as 
not gathering full information about Mrs Hs circumstances or obtaining a TVAS, Quilter was 
prepared to go ahead with its recommendation without setting out its reasons for it in writing. 
Its likely that Quilter would argue that it had already explained the reasons for its 
recommendation to Mrs H in person. But, transferring out of a DB scheme is a one-off event. 
Once transferred there's no going back, the benefits of the DB scheme are lost forever. So, I 
think Quilter should have ensured that Mrs H had had sight of all the relevant information in writing before proceeding and that includes the contents of Quilters letter of 
10 December 2004. But, while I think Quilter certainly could have improved its advice 
process and theres little doubt that it was flawed, I also think its likely that Mrs H would 
have gone ahead with the transfer anyway even if Quilters advice had been faultless.
Thats because, as I've said above, the company sponsoring the DB scheme was in 
liquidation. It couldnt afford the full liabilities of the DB scheme and the pension 
administrators had already told Mrs H that her pension entitlements would be reduced. 
Although at that point they couldnt say by exactly how much. So the DB scheme was facing 
a very uncertain future.
At that time, the Government had passed primary legislation a year earlier to introduce the 
FAS. But the regulations setting out how that law would operate werent in place and 
wouldnt be so until September 2005. And in those circumstances, where little was known 
about how the scheme would operate, there was no certainty that Mrs Hs DB scheme would 
be accepted into the FAS. In fact its notable that Mrs Hs DB scheme didnt successfully 
enter the FAS until 2013, some eight years later. So I dont think Quilter or Mrs H could 
reasonably have been expected to predict that the DB scheme would enter into the FAS at 
some point in the distant future.
Further, the DB trustees had offered Mrs H a CETV of £49,155. And that sum was 
guaranteed. So, by transferring when she did and investing that money in an alternative 
fund, Mrs H was ensuring that her pension fund wasn't further reduced because her former 
employer couldn't afford the DB schemes liabilities.
Mrs Hs said that Quilter didnt arrange the transfer of the full value of her fund. Theres 
evidence that the scheme administrators established in 2010 that the fund hadn't paid Mrs H 
her full entitlement from the scheme. So they paid Mrs H additional funds into her personal 
pension. But theres nothing in the paperwork the DB scheme administrators provided in 
2004 to show that Mrs H would be entitled to an extra sum. So I dont think Quilter could 
have reasonably known that was the case. 
Further, Mrs H said she also has a pension entitlement paid by the FAS. She hasnt provided 
us with any more detail of what that entitlement is, when it began or when she knew she 
would receive it. But I've seen nothing in the paperwork the DB scheme administrators 
provided that indicates they were offering anything other than the full value of the fund to 
Mrs H. So I dont think Quilter would have known that Mrs H had any entitlement under the 
FAS. Thats especially the case as  at that time  the FAS still wasnt operational. And, as 
I've said above, the DB scheme didnt enter into the FAS for another eight years. So I don't 
think Quilter did anything wrong in not realising that Mrs H might have an entitlement under 
the FAS at some point in the future.
Summary
At the time Quilter gave Mrs H advice her DB scheme was in an uncertain and seemingly 
precarious position. The expected growth rate from a personal pension would most likely 
have indicated that Mrs H would be better off by transferring than remaining in her DB 
scheme. So I think Quilters advice to transfer out of the DB scheme was reasonable in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman