DRN-2934449
The complaint
Mr C complains on behalf of himself and the other members of a leaseholders association of
an apartment block, in respect of a block policy, about the failure of FirstPort Insurance
Services Limited to notify them of a large increase in premium, and other issues.
What happened
Mr C says that at the time of the renewal in July 2020 of their block policy, which was taken
out by the management company, there was a large increase in the premium. He and the
other leaseholders believe the brokers should have obtained alternative quotes. They are
also concerned that FirstPort and the management company (F) are part of the same parent
company so are in a conflict of interest situation. And F has refused to give details of the
claims in the past year which the insurer has used to justify the increase in premium.
To resolve the complaint, Mr C has said they would like reimbursement for excessive
insurance premiums, an independent audit of historical claims and an independent review of
the policies, procedures and controls relating to intercompany transactions.
On review by this service our investigator said that the leaseholders arent eligible
complainants in respect of the sale of the policy under the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules
that govern this service.
Mr C disagreed and said that as the management company and the broker are a part of the
same company, in essence the leaseholders are the clients and the property management
company has absolved its responsibility in the transaction. He also pointed out that he was
advised by FirstPort to approach this service.
The matter was passed to me and I issued a provisional decision. I in it I said that although I 
thought that Mr C and the other leaseholders were eligible complainants, any issues with the 
sale and administration of the policy lay with the freeholder who appointed F to manage the 
policy for them.
Mr C said that the only reason they are in this situation is because the two firms are part of 
the same group. And that as far as the question  do they as the ultimate beneficiary have 
the right to request the details of the transaction?  it may be that they do not but the 
Financial Ombudsman certainly does and definitely should request the details of the 
transaction. In particular we should find out what  interaction there was between the broker 
and the named client prior to the firm committing to the renewal? If we find that they did 
nothing, is this fair or correct behaviour? Mr C feels it definitely is not and there should be 
consequences for their inaction.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said:
The DISP Rules say we can only consider complaints from eligible complainants. DISP 
2.7.6
sets out that there are a number of ways someone can be an eligible complainant. I consider
the two following parts of the rule are relevant in this case:
a person must also have a complaint that arises from matters relevant to one or more of
the following relationships with the respondent;
(1) the complainant is (or was) a customerof the respondent 
(5) the complainant is a person for whose benefit a contract of insurance was taken out or
was intended to be taken out with or through the respondent
Im satisfied Mr C and the other leaseholders arent customers of FirstPort; instead its the
freeholder who appointed F to take out the policy which is a customer of FirstPort. So, they
dont qualify as eligible complainants under this part of the rule.
However I think the policy was clearly taken out for the benefit of Mr C and the other
leaseholders. They effectively own their individual apartments unlike for example residential
private tenants. They would, in the event of a claim, clearly be able to benefit from the cover
given by the policy. So they are, in my view, eligible complainants. So I will go on to consider
the merits of the complaint.
Mr Cs complaint is that on renewal of the policy there was a large increase in the premiums.
As leaseholders they werent given the opportunity to query this, and FirstPort failed to seek
alternative quotations on the market. For the whole development there was a 200% increase
and in Mr Cs case his premium more than tripled. Mr C believes F failed in its duty to ensure
the premium was fair. F said it "considered the rate offered by the current insurer was a fair
reflection of the risk presented" and it did not want to damage its reputation with insurers. It
said, "the renewal approach was agreed with [FirstPort]".
Whilst Mr C disagrees with FirstPorts explanations, the simple fact is that the policy was
sold to the Freeholders who had appointed F to manage it for them. Mr C and the other
residents arent customers of the broker so far as the sale is concerned. This means that in
my view any issues with the sale of the policy lie with the freeholder and F. So it is for F
and/or the freeholder to query the renewal terms.
As far as details of any claims are concerned I dont think Mr C and the other leaseholders
are entitled to this information from FirstPort or F. Thats an issue concerned with the
administration of the policy and any individual leaseholders if the claims involve them.
I understand that Mr C believes that F has been negligent in its dealings with the policy.
Unfortunately for Mr C, whilst he might have other avenues for complaint about F, F isnt
subject to our jurisdiction. So I cant consider that aspect further.
Lastly Mr C has pointed out that F and FirstPort are part of the same overall parent company
giving rise to a potential for conflict of interests. However they are separate entities and Im
not aware of any rule forbidding this type of arrangement. It doesnt follow that the
leaseholders then become the customers as Mr C has argued. Again as F and FirstPort
were both appointed by the freeholder thats a matter for it to deal with rather than the
individual leaseholders.
Overall, I think that Mr C is eligible to complain on behalf of himself and the other
leaseholders, but as the complaints involve the sale and administration of the policy they 
have no direct involvement with that, so I cant uphold their complaints concerning those
issues.As Ive said, I dont think that Mr C and the other leaseholders, from an insurance point of 
view, are entitled to the information Ive mentioned in my provisional findings. I reiterate that 
it is a matter for the freeholders and their appointed agents. Whilst this service does have 
the right to ask for information from any regulated business, that is only if we feel it has 
relevance to the complaint and to the persons asking for it. Mr C is effectively asking that we 
investigate a business and customer issue in which he has no involvement. As Ive said in 
my provisional findings, Mr C may have other avenues of complaint against the agents but 
the outcome of the complaint made to this service, is that its not upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman