DRN-3812931
The complaint
Mr C has complained that ReAssure Limited incurred delays in the payment of his personal 
pension policy (PPP) as a lump sum. Mr C has also complained that the plan recorded his 
retirement date as 2040 rather than 2020 as hed expected.
What happened
On 3 June 2021, Mr C contacted ReAssure with his up to date address. Before this, 
ReAssure had been unaware of it. Mr C has said he had been incarcerated, which was the 
reason for this.
Following this, Mr C updated ReAssure with his new bank details and stated his intention to 
pay missed contributions in a letter dated 29 June 2021, which ReAssure received on 30 
June 2021.
ReAssure then wrote to Mr C on 13 July 2021 with his retirement options, and again on 16 
July 2021 with his pension summary.
Mr C then wrote to ReAssure on 21 and 23 July 2021, which ReAssure received on 22 and 
26 July 2021 respectively. Mr C complained that his retirement date in the documents was 
stated as 2040, when he said his retirement date should be 2020. He also said he wanted to 
take his pension as a lump sum.
ReAssure wrote to Mr C on 28 July 2021 with an application form so that it could process his 
request to pay any missed contributions. ReAssure then responded to Mr Cs complaint on 3 
August 2021. In this letter, ReAssure apologised for not responding to his lump sum request.
On 5 August 2021, ReAssure received the application form from Mr C to pay his missed 
contributions. Following this, on 9 August 2021, ReAssure then sent Mr C another retirement 
options pack, but also a risk assessment questionnaire as he had requested to take his 
pension as a lump sum.
ReAssure received the completed risk assessment questionnaire from Mr C on 19 August 
2021. It also then received payment for missed contributions on 27 August 2021.
Re-Assure then sent Mr C an application form on 1 September 2021 for his lump sum 
payment request. ReAssure received this on 13 September 2021.
ReAssure then sent Mr C another risk assessment questionnaire on 17 September 2021, 
and another lump sum application form on 26 September 2021. It received the second risk 
assessment questionnaire on 28 September 2021, and the second lump sum application
form on 1 October 2021.
ReAssure then paid Mr C his lump sum on 13 October 2021, which it confirmed to him in 
writing on 14 October 2021. 
But Mr C remained unhappy with what he considered to be the delays ReAssure had caused 
and that he felt ReAssure hadnt answered his concerns about the selected retirement date 
and death cover. 
Mr C therefore brought his complaint to our service. At the time he brought the case to
our service, he also said that he was unhappy that the valuations ReAssure provided for his 
lump sum were different every time.
In the investigators initial assessment, he concluded that the complaint should be upheld, 
saying the following in summary:
He was satisfied that ReAssure had dealt with Mr Cs initial request to take his 
pension plan as a lump sum in a reasonable time frame, this being within its ten 
working day service standard.
Once Mr C had returned the risk assessment questionnaire, ReAssure then dealt 
with this within ten working days.
But he noted that, once ReAssure had received Mr Cs risk assessment 
questionnaire and lump sum application form, it then sent them out again  and he 
couldnt see why this had been necessary.
As such, he considered that ReAssure should have processed Mr Cs lump sum 
payment request within ten working days of 13 September 2021, and it would then 
have been paid to him by 27 September 2021 rather than 13 October 2021.
As to the selected retirement date, the investigator noted that the pension summary 
letter had recorded this as being 2040, but it also said that Mr C was able to take his 
pension benefits at any age after 55  and so the investigator didnt think that Mr C 
had in any case been disadvantaged by this.
Regarding Mr Cs concern that the pension was described as death cover, he 
though there had been a misunderstanding around this. He confirmed that the 
pension plan was a pot of money which was designed to be paid to Mr C as pension 
benefits, but that the death cover was a feature of the plan which bore no additional 
cost to Mr C.
And finally, with regard to the differing valuations quoted by ReAssure, the 
investigator said that these had been correct at the date of issue, and that the actual 
value would be calculated on the date of payment  and werent guaranteed.
To resolve the complaint, the investigator recommended that ReAssure calculate the 
notional value of Mr Cs lump sum, had it been paid on 27 September 2021. If there was a 
loss, this should be paid to Mr C with the addition of 8% pa simple interest.
He also said that ReAssure should pay Mr C a further £150 in respect of the distress and 
inconvenience which it had caused him in delaying paying his lump sum.ReAssure disagreed, however, saying that, although it did receive the first questionnaire, 
some of the questions hadnt been answered and due to it having no phone number for Mr C 
(along with awareness of physical limitations in speaking over the phone), it couldnt do what 
it would normally have done and called him. As such, it needed to issue the new 
questionnaire.
The investigator reconsidered his view on the matter and issued a further assessment on 28 
September 2022, in which he said the following:
Hed noted ReAssures response and, having checked the initial risk questionnaire, 
hed confirmed that parts of it were incomplete. He also noted that, in the first 
application form, Mr C had indicated that he was adding a Power of Attorney, but that 
it was his understanding that this wasnt Mr Cs intention.
These missing parts were then completed in the second questionnaire, and the 
Power of Attorney option was left unticked on that version.
ReAssure was then able to process the application, and did so in line with its service 
standard.
As such, the investigator said that he no longer thought that Re-Assure needed to pay 
compensation to Mr C.
Mr C disagreed, however, saying that ReAssure had acted contrary to the documents which 
had been issued when the plan began more than 30 years ago, and also queried as to why 
the plan had death cover attached to it, along with his retirement age being recorded as 85. 
Mr C remained of the view that his pension should have been paid when he reached 65 in 
September 2020 and that Re-Assure had caused unnecessary delays in making payment.
As agreement hasnt been reached on the matter, its been referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, whilst I know this might disappoint Mr C, Ive reached the same overall 
conclusions as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
Firstly, regarding the death cover, I would reiterate what the investigator has said, in that 
there is no separate cover on the plan for which Mr C has been paying an additional amount. 
In the event of his death, the plan value would be paid to his beneficiaries, which is a 
standard feature of such pension plans.
Ive then thought about the matter of whether ReAssure delayed in paying Mr C his pension 
lump sum, and Mr Cs comments that his pension benefits should have been paid to him 
from his 65th birthday in September 2020. 
But it wouldnt have been able to contact him regarding payment of his pension before hed 
updated it with his new contact details in June 2021. 
And even if it could reasonably be concluded that ReAssure should have started paying his 
pension in September 2020, it wouldnt have known how Mr C wished this to be done. The 
default assumption tends to be that policyholders would want to be paid an annuity  so a monthly or annual sum for life  rather than withdrawing the whole pension amount as a 
lump sum, as Mr C eventually did.
As to the matter of Mr Cs anticipated retirement age being 85, ReAssure has confirmed that 
this was originally set to 2020, but that if the pension benefits arent taken at that point, then 
the normal retirement date is automatically moved to a later age. And its further said that no 
early retirement exit penalty was applied for Mr C taking benefits when he did. As such, Mr 
C hasnt been financially disadvantaged by this.
And then, having also considered the matter of the amount of time it took for ReAssure to 
pay Mr C his lump sum in September/October 2021, I agree with the investigators 
reassessment of what happened here. It does seem to be the case that, due to the initial 
questionnaire being incomplete, ReAssure needed to reissue it. And once it was satisfied 
that it had the required information, ReAssure then paid the amount in a reasonable 
timeframe.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman