DRN-3421429
The complaint
Ms A and Mr M complain about the service they got from Society of Lloyds following a claim
on their home insurance policy.
References in this decision to Society of Lloyds includes the agents it instructed in
connection with Ms A and Mr Ms claim.
What happened
Ms A and Mr M had an escape of water at their home, for which they claimed on their home
insurance policy with Society of Lloyds.
Ms A and Mr M say that, in the years that followed, theyve had to make many complaints
about how their claim was handled by Society of Lloyds. They say some of these complaints
were resolved, some were ignored and others were not even registered.
Society of Lloyds says its underwriters have upheld some of Ms A and Mr Ms previous
complaints and that, apart from this most recent complaint, Ms A and Mr M havent
escalated any of them to Society of Lloyds (this last point is something Ms A and Mr M 
dispute).
Ms A and Mr Ms most recent complaint is about the circumstances in which Society of
Lloyds made a £50 deduction from a payment due to them of just over £500.
The background is that Ms A and Mr M had had to spend some time in temporary alternative
accommodation while repairs were carried out to their home. The payment they were due
from Society of Lloyds was for electricity costs theyd incurred there. And the £50 deduction
Society of Lloyds made from the payment was for a carpet burn at the accommodation.
Ms A and Mr Ms complaint points are that:
There were discrepancies in the dates they were given by Society of Lloyds about
when the payment had been requested.
Society of Lloyds acted unprofessionally by asking them  rather than the loss
adjuster who was handling their claim  if the £50 could be deducted from the
deposit for the alternative accommodation. Ms A and Mr M say this because they
didnt pay the deposit themselves and so didnt think they had the right to give an
answer.
The loss adjuster acted unprofessionally in making the deduction from the payment
without notifying Ms A and Mr M beforehand.
When Ms A and Mr M complained to Society of Lloyds about this, it accepted that thered
been failings. It said:
The discrepancies in the dates Ms A and Mr M were given about when the payment
had been requested were because one of its agents had requested it not knowing
that another agent  the loss adjuster  was still reconciling other outstanding claim
payments.
Because Ms A and Mr M didnt pay the deposit for their alternative accommodation, it
wouldve been more appropriate for its agent to contact the loss adjuster in the first
instance, rather than Ms A and Mr M, about the deduction.
It wouldve been better if the loss adjuster had contacted Ms A and Mr M to let them
know what was happening with the payment and the deduction, especially given that
it resulted in a delay in the payment being sent out.
Because Society of Lloyds accepted more could have been done to keep [Ms A and Mr M]
informed about what was happening with the outstanding payment  and the deposit return
deduction, it offered Ms A and Mr M a compensation payment of £50.
Unhappy with this offer, Ms A and Mr M brought their complaint to us. The investigator who
looked at it didnt think Society of Lloyds had treated Ms A and Mr M fairly. He accepted
Society of Lloyds had acknowledged the payment delay but felt it couldve done more from a
service point of view overall. In particular, he thought Ms A and Mr M shouldve been
contacted about the carpet burn and shown proof of the damage caused. He thought this
wouldve allowed them to reply with their own version of events and be shown what the
evidence was. Our investigator thought an award of £150 more fairly compensated
Ms A and Mr M for what had gone wrong.
Society of Lloyds disagreed with our investigators findings. It said Ms A and Mr M were
made aware of the carpet burn, had said they were shown a photo of it and didnt deny
responsibility for it. So Society of Lloyds asked for an ombudsman to decide                      
Ms A and Mr Ms complaint.
In my provisional decision of 30 March 2022, I explained why I didnt intend to uphold         
Ms A and Mr Ms complaint. Ms A and Mr M dont agree with my provisional decision, while 
Society of Lloyds has accepted it. So Ms A and Mr Ms complaint has now come to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided the compensation of £50 that Society of Lloyds has paid      
Ms A and Mr M for the distress and inconvenience it caused them in handling the payment 
and the deduction is fair and reasonable. Ive explained my reasons for this in my provisional 
decision as follows: 
Its not in dispute there were failings by Society of Lloyds in its handling of the payment and
the deduction, as Ive described them above. I think Society of Lloyds has acted fairly and
reasonably in acknowledging them.
But while everyone is in agreement Society of Lloyds shouldve informed Ms A and Mr M
about how it was making the deduction, based on what Ive seen so far, I think it was fair and
reasonable of Society of Lloyds to make it. Ordinarily, youd expect a deduction for damage
to a rental property to come out of the rental deposit (and maybe thats what happened
here). But Ms A and Mr M didnt pay the deposit. From what Ive seen, though, they were
made aware of the burn (even though, as they say, they couldnt authorise its deduction from
a deposit they hadnt paid). They also say in correspondence with Society of Lloyds that
theyd seen photographic evidence of the burn. So I dont think Ms A and Mr M were
deprived of the opportunity of giving Society of Lloyds their views on the deduction for the
carpet burn, if theyd wanted to.I have seen a reference in the case file Society of Lloyds has sent us where Ms A and Mr M
say they were owed a payment from the landlord of their alternative accommodation of
perhaps £150 for unused heating oil. I think their implicit suggestion is that the £50 deduction
couldve been made from this. But, also from their case file, it looks as if Ms A and Mr M had
already been reimbursed for the unused oil. If Im wrong about this, Ms A and Mr M and/or
Society of Lloyds should let me know and Ill look at this issue again. As things stand,
though, and as Ive already said, I dont think Society of Lloyds was wrong to make the
deduction, even if it didnt go about it as it shouldve done.
Its important to give my views on the deduction for the carpet burn because of its bearing on
how I assess the distress and inconvenience Society of Lloyds actions caused
Ms A and Mr M. The process of making an insurance claim is never hassle-free. Its inherent
within any complex claim involving significant repairs and multiple parties that therell be a
degree of stress and inconvenience. And we dont make awards for things that arent more
serious than the normal nuisances of everyday life.
Its clear from the correspondence Ive seen that, because Society of Lloyds didnt keep
Ms A and Mr M informed about what was happening with the payment or tell them
beforehand that it was making a deduction from it, it caused them distress and
inconvenience that was beyond the normal nuisance of everyday life. It mustve been
perplexing when the payment didnt arrive when theyd anticipated, and confusing that it was
for less than theyd expected. But, as Ive said, theirs was a large and complex claim. In that
context, and based on what Ive seen so far about the impact Society of Lloyds failings in
this case have had on Ms A and Mr M, I think its offer of £50 (which I understand it has
already paid) is fair and reasonable. So my current view is that I dont think Society of
Lloyds needs to do anything more.
As Ive already mentioned, while Society of Lloyds has accepted my provisional decision, 
Ms A and Mr M havent. They say they are very disappointed by it and are unhappy theyve 
had to complain multiple times to Society of Lloyds. They say there is no mechanism to 
address the fact that we had to complain multiple times as each case has to be handled 
separately  this is most unsatisfactory.
Other than a comment to clarify the position with the heating oil that I mentioned in my 
provisional decision, Ms A and Mr M havent commented much on my findings in it. Theyve 
focussed instead more generally on having to make separate complaints to Society of 
Lloyds throughout the claim and on its complaint-handling processes. But as I said in my 
provisional decision, its only the facts and circumstances of this particular complaint that I 
can look at and make a decision on.
For the reasons given in my provisional decision (and which now form part of this final 
decision), I think the compensation of £50 that Society of Lloyds has paid Ms A and Mr M for 
the distress and inconvenience it caused them is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Ms A and Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 May 2022.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman