DRN-3699808
The complaint
Ms Ws complaint is about a mortgage she holds with Bank of Scotland plc (BoS). She is 
unhappy with the administration of the account and believes that BoS caused the arrears on 
the mortgage. She also complained about the correspondence she received in February 
2021 regarding the term of the mortgage ending. 
What happened
Ms W bought the property in question with a buy-to-let mortgage in 2007 when she was a 
property developer. Subsequently, she moved into the property and it became her main 
residence. The mortgage term ended on 1 December 2018.
Ms W raised complaints with BoS over time and it issued several final response letters 
starting in 2015. Ms W referred her complaints to us and two of my ombudsmen colleagues 
issued decisions in 2020 regarding our jurisdiction and later, the merits of the parts of the 
complaint that we could consider. 
Further complaint points were considered by BoS and final response letters sent to Ms W in 
2020 and 2021. Ms W asked us to consider all of her complaints about BoS. I issued a 
decision on 8 June 2022 setting out that some complaint points didnt fall within our 
jurisdiction and others, as they had already been considered or excluded by my ombudsman 
colleagues, we wouldnt be looking into. I confirmed that the only complaint point we would 
be considering was that about the end of term correspondence sent to Ms W from 
23 February 2021 and any resultant activities. As such, I have only detailed information 
below that is relevant to that complaint point. 
BoS wrote to Ms W on 5 December 2019, 10 January 2020 and 31 January 2020 regarding 
the term of the mortgage having ended. 
The letter of 23 February 2021 from BoS again informed Ms W that it had been trying to 
contact her to discuss her plans for repaying the capital as the mortgage term had ended. It 
also confirmed that the mortgage was in arrears and so the amount needed to repay the 
mortgage would include some missed payments. BoS asked Ms W to call to let it know her 
plans and it also offered help in the event that she was going to have difficulty paying. BoS 
also set out the information that it would need Ms W to have in the event that she was 
having difficulty repaying the mortgage.
Ms W responded to BoS on 1 March 2021 by informing it that she was shocked by receipt of 
the letter. She said that she hadnt received any correspondence from it for some time, 
although she had received its letter of 21 January 2021 the previous week. She explained 
that she had called after receiving the letter dated 21 January 2021 and had spoken to BoS 
about the situation. She said that there had been no mention of her losing her home or 
needing to immediately repay over £164,000, but rather she had been able to set up a direct 
debit mandate. Ms W went on to explain that the property was in poor condition and was 
worth less than the outstanding mortgage. She questioned whether the nine calls from 
withheld numbers he had received the previous week had been from BoS. Ms W set out her 
then current circumstances and some improvements she was expecting in the future, and all 
of her concerns with BoS handling of her mortgage. 
BoS explained that it had send Ms W a mortgage statement in November 2018 which had 
made it clear that there had been less than a month left on the term of the mortgage. Due to 
the complaints made, it had limited the amount of end of term correspondence, to letters 
dated 5 December 2019, 10 January 2020 and 31 January 2020, before its letter of 
23 February 2021. It said that on each occasion it had set out the potential consequences of 
the mortgage not being repaid. BoS said that its letters hadnt been meant to cause Ms W 
upset. In relation to Ms W not being told about the possibility of repossession when she 
called following the January 2021 letter, it said that the teams shes spoken to would not 
have been in a position to discuss the end of term situation, and so it BoS didnt think 
anything had been done wrong.
On 12 May 2021 BoS sent Ms W another end of term letter. It asked her to call it if she 
wasnt able to pay the full balance in the following seven days. It also wanted that if it didnt 
hear from her, it could result in legal action being started to repossess the property.
Subsequently, Ms W called and wrote to BoS making further comments about the end of 
term letters and process. BoS explained that the February 2021 letter was a standardised 
template designed to accommodate many different scenarios. It apologised for any 
confusion the content of the letter about any linked accounts caused Ms W, but reiterated 
that it needed to give her the information it contained. BoS was also satisfied that the content 
of the letter was correct. It was also clarified why the balance of the mortgage could change 
and confirmed that the balance had increased because Ms W hadnt made a payment in 
April 2021 and the one made in March 2021 was lower than the amount of interest charged.
Our investigator considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend that it be upheld. She 
was satisfied that Ms W was aware the term of the mortgage had ended. In addition, as BoS 
didnt have a valid telephone number for her, it wasnt unreasonable that the communication 
about the term end had been in writing or that it hadnt sent as many letters as it normally 
would have, given Ms Ws ongoing complaints. The investigator was also satisfied that the 
departments Ms W had spoken to in early 2021 had dealt with the issues they were meant 
to, and that all departments couldnt help with all matters. Overall, the investigator was 
satisfied that Ms W had the contact details for the end of term department if she had wanted 
to discuss the fact that she wasnt able to repay the mortgage, and she wasnt persuaded 
BoS had acted inappropriately.
Ms W initially said in response that shed had the same phone number since at least 2015 
and BoS had that number throughout. In addition, she said that she had called BoS 
whenever they had asked her to, but the outcome had been, without exception, either 
fruitless or resulted in this service being lied to. In addition, Ms W said that due to having 
contracted Covid-19 in 2019, both her hearing and speech were impaired and so 
conversations were difficult for her. Subsequently, Ms W reiterated the history of events and 
all her complaint points, but she didnt add anything new to the issue being considered in this 
decision. 
As Ms W didnt accept the investigators conclusions, it was decided that the complaint 
should be referred to an ombudsman for consideration. In the meantime, the investigator 
confirmed that any new complaint points needed to be referred to BoS in the first instance, 
before we could become involved.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a mortgage term ends, and there is an outstanding balance owed, a lender is obliged 
to contact the borrower to remind them that the debt needs to be repaid and to warn what 
the potential consequences are if it is not. BoS did just that in its 23 February 2021 letter and 
the subsequent one in May 2021, and it also offered to look at what it could do to assist 
Ms W if she was unable to repay the mortgage. I cant find that it was wrong to impart any of 
this information to Ms W and it was necessary. While Ms W found the content of the letter 
upsetting, in that BoS told her it could repossess her home if nothing was sorted out, I dont 
consider that the intention of the letter was to upset Ms W. 
As for Ms Ws concern that she wasnt told her home was at risk when she called to set up a 
direct debit mandate, I dont consider that to have been unreasonable. Ms W had been given 
the telephone number to call to discuss the mortgage being beyond the end of the term. 
Thats not the team she was spoke to when she set up the mandate and so I wouldnt expect 
the end of term to be discussed in any detail. Again, I cant find BoS did anything wrong in 
dealing with the issue that Ms W had asked to be dealt with at the time. As for BoS only 
writing to Ms W and having not done so consistently throughout, given the ongoing 
complaints and the holds that had put on communications, I dont think it was unreasonable 
that BoS didnt pursue the matter more vigorously. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Ms W to accept or reject my decision before 
11 November 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman