DRN-2287358
The complaint
Mrs and Mr M complain about how AXA Insurance UK Plc dealt with and settled a claim they 
made for storm damage.
What happened
Mrs and Mr M own a tenanted property. They took out a buildings policy to insure their 
property via a broker. But their policy is underwritten by AXA. 
On 7 May 2019 Mrs and Mr Ms tenant became aware that some lead flashing had fallen 
from the roof following recent storms. So, Mrs and Mr M contacted their insurance broker to 
report that their property had sustained damage. They told their broker that lead flashing 
from two of their rear roof dormer window coverings had detached and fallen from the roof. 
And they said they wanted to make a claim under their policy.
Mrs and Mr M told their broker that, as there had been stormy weather over a number of 
days, they were unaware of when the storm damage had occurred. Based on the information 
theyd received from their tenants, however, they believed their property had sustained 
damage between 2 and 6 May 2019.
Mrs and Mr M said they believed the fallen lead flashing needed to be replaced urgently to 
minimise the risk of water ingress and prevent possible injury. And they thought all the 
dormer windows needed to be checked and secured given what had happened. They 
therefore chased their broker on 13 May 2019 in order to ask that AXA prioritise their claim.
Mrs and Mr M said they still hadnt heard from AXA about their claim by 22 May 2019. So, 
they instructed a contractor to undertake repairs to their property. They said their contractor 
thought lead flashing from the front dormer rooves had blown off and come to rest in a 
gulley. So, the front dormer rooves were secured at the same time the repairs to the rear 
dormer rooves were undertaken.
Mrs and Mr M submitted their contractors invoice to AXA for reimbursement. But, when AXA 
consulted weather reports from around the date Mrs and Mr M said the damage had most 
likely occurred, it couldnt find evidence of weather that met its policy definition of a storm. 
AXA stated that the highest wind speed recorded had been 34 mph. It said this reading had 
come from a weather station less than a mile from Mrs and Mr Ms property and had been 
recorded on 4 May 2019. 
In line with AXAs policies, it appointed a buildings surveyor (B) to assess and determine 
whether the damage that had been reported was storm related.  But by the time B was 
appointed the repairs to Mrs and Mr Ms property had already been undertaken. So, any 
damage that had occurred was no longer visible. B therefore asked the contractor Mrs and 
Mr M had appointed to provide it with photographs of the roof and evidence of the repairs 
that were undertaken.
When B reviewed the images it had received it attributed the cause of the damage to wear 
and tear. It said it couldnt see any evidence of storm damage to the roof. And it disputed 
whether the extent of work that had been undertaken had been necessary. 
B also stated the images it had seen showed that the lead that had been dislodged had no 
holes from where it would have been fitted. Instead it was folded at the edges, which 
indicated the lead had been tucked under the slates or the roof covering on the dormer. 
Given Bs opinion, and the absence of storm related weather conditions recorded at around 
the time of the damage, AXA informed Mrs and Mr M that it hadnt been able to attribute the 
damage to a one-off insured storm event. So, it repudiated their claim. 
Mrs and Mr M were unhappy with AXAs decision to repudiate their claim and complained. 
They disputed Bs opinion that the damage had occurred as a result of wear and tear  they 
said their roof had been in perfect condition prior to the storm and the roof coverings had 
been replaced the previous year as part of a total renovation of the property. They also 
expressed concerns about the weather records AXA had consulted as they said the closest 
weather station was seven miles away. Mrs and Mr M provided information from a 
meteorologist who stated wind speeds could change considerably over a short period of 
time. And they said their property was very tall, which meant it was vulnerable to wind 
channelling and sudden changes of wind speed and gusts.
When AXA responded to Mrs and Mr Ms complaint it maintained its decision to repudiate 
their claim. It said there was no evidence that the damage had been storm related. And it 
stated damage due to wear and tear was excluded under their policy. It did, however, 
acknowledge that it hadnt responded to their complaint within a reasonable time frame. And 
it sent them a cheque for £100 to compensate them for that aspect of poor service.
Being dissatisfied with AXAs response to their complaint, Mrs and Mr M referred it to our 
service for an independent review. Our investigator looked into what happened. But they 
didnt recommend upholding Mrs and Mr Ms complaint. They thought AXA had acted fairly 
in repudiating their claim and they didnt think it needed to do anything more here. But Mrs 
and Mr M rejected our investigators view of their complaint and asked for it to be referred to 
an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs and Mr M have sent our investigator some very detailed submissions about their 
complaint. I want to assure them Ive read and considered everything that both they and 
AXA have said when reaching my decision. I havent referred to all the points Mrs and Mr M 
have raised as Ive focused on what I feel are the key issues of the case. I hope Mrs and Mr 
M wont take that as a discourtesy. My approach reflects the informal nature of our service.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
My role is to assess whether I think AXA made a mistake, or treated Mrs and Mr M unfairly, 
in how it decided to repudiate their claim. 
Mrs and Mr M would like AXA to reimburse them for the costs they incurred in undertaking 
repairs to their property because they believe those repairs were necessary as a result of their property sustaining storm damage. Theyve said they believe that damage most likely 
occurred between 2 and 6 May 2019.
Mrs and Mr Ms policy with AXA provides cover for damage caused by a range of perils that 
might happen. These are specific one-off events and include storm, for example. But, for a 
claim to be successful, Mrs and Mr M would have to show that the damage theyre claiming 
for was caused by one of the perils listed in their policy.
There are three conditions that need to be met before this service would say a claim for 
storm damage should succeed. Those are:  
1. Is there evidence that there was a storm around the date of the damage?
2. Is the damage consistent with what we would normally consider storm damage?
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
I have re-assessed Mrs and Mr Ms complaint and all the evidence with these three 
questions in mind. The answer to all three questions needs to be yes for this service to be 
able to recommend that a storm complaint is upheld.
In weighing up the first question, I can see that Mrs and Mr Ms policy defines the word 
storm to be wind speeds with gusts of at least 48 knots (55mph) or torrential rainfall at a 
rate of at least 25mm per hour or snow to a depth of at least one foot (30cm) in 24 hours or 
hail of such intensity that it causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass.
Like our investigator, Ive reviewed historical weather records of wind speed for the month 
immediately prior to when the damage was discovered. I can see that these weather records 
come from multiple weather stations within varying distances of Mrs and Mr Ms property.
Mrs and Mr M have argued that the weather records arent representative because the 
weather stations from which the reports are obtained arent close enough to their property. 
So, the records dont record localised storms. But Mrs and Mr M havent provided any 
cogent and reliable evidence of weather nearer to their property that I can consider. Ill 
therefore be relying on the weather records our investigator used here, which Im satisfied 
accurately reflect the weather in Mrs and Mr Ms locality.
Based on weather records from the weather station closest to Mrs and Mr Ms property I 
cant see any wind speeds recorded that meet AXAs storm definition. The highest wind 
speeds Ive seen recorded were on 27 April 2019 when the wind reach speeds of 41 mph.
Ive considered the meteorologists opinion provided by Mrs and Mr M. But I havent attached 
much weight to it. I say this because the information in the document Ive seen isnt specific 
to Mrs and Mr Ms locality. Its generalised information, which hasnt taken my assessment of 
this complaint any further forward.
Overall, there isnt enough evidence to satisfy me there was weather at the time the damage 
occurred which meets AXAs definition of a storm. And this means I dont need to go on to 
address questions two or three as outlined above. Im therefore persuaded AXA was correct 
to decline this claim under the storm peril.
In the interests of fairness, however, Ive considered whether it would have been fair for AXA 
to decline Mrs and Mr Ms claim had storm conditions been prevalent in their locality. But I 
should say that, even if I accepted the conditions constituted a storm, Im not persuaded they 
caused damage to Mrs and Mr Ms roof. Ill explain why,AXAs expert (B) assessed Mrs and Mr Ms claim from photographs their contractor had 
provided. And it stated the images showed that the lead flashing that had dislodged had no 
holes from where it would have been fitted. Instead it was folded at the edges, which 
indicated the lead flashing had been tucked under the slates or the roof covering on the 
dormer roof. It attributed this damage to wear and tear and stated there was no evidence of 
storm related damage. 
Im not persuaded theres evidence that shows the weather conditions caused the lead 
flashing to dislodge. Correctly applied and maintained lead flashing should be weather 
resistant and unaffected by storm related weather. And I cant see evidence that the fallen 
flashing had holes to indicate that it had been properly secured to the dormer roof. 
The evidence Ive seen supports Bs opinion about how the flashing came to be dislodged. I 
havent seen any evidence from Mrs and Mr M that shows their roof was damaged as a 
result of storm conditions. And their policy, in common with most insurance policies, 
excludes damage that is caused by wear and tear.   
As Ive already outlined, for me to direct AXA to settle Mrs and Mr Ms claim, there would 
need to have been storm conditions, the damage would have to be consistent with a storm 
event and the storm would have to be the main cause of damage. In the overall 
circumstances of this complaint, there isnt enough evidence to satisfy me that these 
conditions have been met. Im therefore satisfied AXA fairly and reasonably assessed Mrs 
and Mr Ms claim.
Ill turn now to the concerns Mrs and Mr M have about the delays they experienced in AXA 
dealing with their complaint.  
Strictly speaking, we dont have the power to look at how businesses deal with complaint 
handling  as its not a regulated activity under the legislation that governs our service. So, 
even if I did think AXA hadnt done things well in this regard, I wouldnt be able to uphold that 
element of Mrs and Mr Ms concerns or make an award. I cant act outside the law. So, I 
wont comment any further on this part of Mrs and Mr Ms complaint.
I appreciate that Mrs and Mr M will be disappointed with my decision. But, for the reasons 
outlined, I cant fairly ask AXA to cover this claim. This now brings to an end what we, in 
trying to resolve Mrs and Mr Ms dispute with AXA informally, can do for them. Im sorry we 
cant help Mrs and Mr M any further with this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 February 2021.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman