DRN-3442512
The complaint
Miss D is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) recorded a default 
on her credit file. She thinks this was unfair as despite updating her address she says 
Halifax wrote to her old address about the status of her account. She says had she received 
the letters about her account she could have rectified the situation. 
What happened
Miss D held a bank account with Halifax with an overdraft limit of £250. Miss D went over her 
overdraft limit and following letters asking her to get in touch about this in October 2021 
Halifax sent Miss D a final demand letter to her last known address giving her 30 days 
notice that is was going to close her account unless the outstanding balance of around £58 
was settled. It also sent text messages asking her to contact it. Following no response Miss 
Ds account was closed and a default was recorded on her credit file in November 2021 and 
the debt sold to a third party.
Miss D complained to Halifax that she received no notification or letters regarding the default 
despite updating her address with it in July 2021. Halifax said it had no record of Miss D 
updating her address until December 2021 and that the letters were sent to the last known 
address it had registered for her 
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Ds concerns and reached the conclusion that 
Halifax hadnt done anything wrong and had treated Miss D fairly and so didnt recommend 
the complaint be upheld. 
Miss D disagreed she says its unfair a default was recorded on her credit file when she 
didnt receive the letters about it after updating her address. So the complaint was passed to 
an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ds complaint. 
My role is to look at the problems Miss D has experienced and see if Halifax has done 
anything wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Miss D back in the position she 
wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award modest compensation 
that I think is fair and reasonable.
Miss Ds main complaint point is that it was unfair Halifax registered a default on her credit 
file. So the question I have to ask is whether Halifax did anything wrong in closing Miss Ds
account or in the processes it followed when doing this - in particular, closing her account 
and registering a default when she didnt pay back the outstanding balance of her overdraft 
in the required time.
Im in agreement with our adjudicator here, in that I dont think that Halifax acted unfairly 
when it closed Miss Ds account and registered a default. As prior to this happening I can 
see that Halifax sent at least two letters to the address it had registered for Miss D notifying 
her that her account was in arrears and what was to happen to her account if no action was 
taken. 
I understand Miss D says she never received these letters because Halifax had written to 
her old address and that she had updated her address through the banking app in July 2021. 
But having looked at the event log for the banking app though I can see in July she used the 
app and logged into her account, but Halifax records show that she only changed her 
address in the following December. Furthermore, I can see that at the same time Halifax 
sent numerous text messages about the status of her account which were recorded as 
delivered. So I think Miss D wouldve been aware of the status of her account and that she 
needed to get in touch with Halifax  which she didnt do.
So I cant say Halifax did anything wrong as it wrote to the address it had registered for her 
and as no payment was received and Miss D failed to get in touch her account was closed 
and a default registered for the outstanding balance. 
And I dont think Halifax did anything wrong in recording a default on Miss Ds credit file  
Halifax has a duty to make sure the information it reports on its customers affairs to the 
credit reference agencies it subscribes to is factually accurate and this is an accurate 
reflection about what happened. 
Ive noted Miss Ds concerns that Halifax also made an error by writing to her previous 
address after her records were updated in December 2021. But as this happened after the 
default was registered and her account closed (the subject matter of this complaint) I do not 
think it has any bearing on the outcome of this complaint. 
So overall and having considered everything I dont think Halifax treated Miss D unfairly or 
unreasonably which means that Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman