DRN-1986822
The complaint
Mrs S complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont refund her for a service she 
didnt receive. 
What happened
Mrs S has an account with NatWest.
Mrs S was looking to book a holiday home via an online platform, Ill call A, and on 
identifying a suitable property she made contact directly with the host. On the 31 May 2019 
Mrs S was persuaded to make a payment of £1,500, outside of A, to a money transfer 
service, Ill call S. 
After making the payment Mrs S didnt receive any contact from the third party host  and 
suspected unfortunately she may have been scammed. A few days after making the 
payment Mrs S contacted her bank, NatWest, and asked them to try to recover the funds. 
NatWest looked into Mrs Ss complaint but didnt uphold it. They considered both a Section 
75 claim and a chargeback, however didnt think either would be successful. NatWest 
explained because the payment was made to the host via a money transfer service, S, this 
broke the chain between Mrs S and the host. 
Mrs S wasnt happy with NatWests response so complained to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Ss complaint but didnt think NatWest needed to 
do anything more. She concluded that Mrs S had paid the scammers via S, the money 
transfer service. This meant that if S carried out its services Mrs S didnt have a valid claim. 
Our investigator also highlighted that A has warnings which explain to customers not to 
make payments outside of their platform.
Mrs S was disappointed with our investigators response. She said:
Shed tried to contact both A and S but neither have been able to help her
Shes paid £1,500 and not received any service, and believes shes been scammed
As Mrs S didnt accept our investigators outcome its been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything, Im sorry to disappoint Mrs S but I think NatWest have acted 
fairly here. Its clear that Mrs S has been the victim of a scam where she thought she was 
renting a property via A, when in fact this wasnt the case. But, what I need to consider is 
whether I think NatWest acted fairly in not raising either a Section 75 or chargeback claim. 
Our investigators provided a detailed explanation for how a Section 75 claim and 
chargeback work, so I wont repeat this. 
Ive considered the Section 75 claim first. Mrs S is arguing that she didnt receive the service 
from the host, the supplier, and therefore the contract was breached. However, for a 
Section 75 claim to be successful there needs to be no break in the chain between the 
debtor  Mrs S  and the supplier  the host. Mrs S unfortunately made payment via the 
money transfer service, S. What this means in practice is S effectively acts as the supplier  
but Mrs S doesnt have an contract with S, therefore she cant evidence that they failed in 
their responsibilities, and misrepresented the services they were supposed to offer. 
Ive moved on to think about whether the bank could have raised a chargeback on Mrs Ss 
behalf  but Im afraid I also dont think this would have been successful. A bank doesnt 
have to raise a chargeback on a customers behalf  if they think the claim would have little 
chance of success then theyre entitled to not do so.  
Ive thought about whether Mrs Ss claim had a reasonable chance of success, but I dont 
think it did. NatWest would only be able to submit a chargeback to S, rather than the hosts 
bank account. To likely defend this chargeback S would need to provide evidence theyd 
carried out their role as a money transfer service. Its understandable that Mrs S didnt 
identify the scam immediately but because of this delay, before any chargeback could be 
raised, its highly unlikely any funds remained with S. For this reason Im unable to conclude 
NatWest acted unfairly in not raising a chargeback. 
I understand that its been a very upsetting experience for Mrs S, but I cant say that 
NatWest should have done anything differently here. Therefore I wont be asking them to do 
anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman