DRN-3593116
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) have failed to refund over £18,000 
he lost as part of a cryptocurrency investment scam. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat all the details 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it for the following reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr S authorised the disputed payments he made to the Moonpay 
using his Barclays debit card (where his funds were subsequently transferred on to the 
scammer BTFintech from his crypto wallet). The payments were requested by him 
using his legitimate security credentials provided by Barclays, and the starting position is 
that banks ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate 
payments to be made as instructed.
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank has 
a duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams, so far as reasonably 
possible. If in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought 
reasonably to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be 
liable for losses incurred by its customer as a result. 
I appreciate that overall, Mr S has lost over £18,000 which is a significant amount of 
money. But this amount wasnt paid in one single large or out of character transaction. It 
was spread over 11 separate smaller increments which, in my judgment, would not have 
appeared particularly unusual, such that they ought to have been regarded as suspicious 
or indicating that he might have been at risk of falling victim to a scam. 
I accept theres an argument to say that Barclays could have potentially intervened when 
Mr S made a payment of £6,270.76 on 7 April 2021, as this was larger than the other 
transfers he had made (albeit not by a significant margin, as he had previously made 
transfers of £3867.29 to Moonpay, for example). However, even if Barclays had 
intervened at this point and asked further questions about the nature of the payments 
Mr S was making, Im not persuaded it would have likely stopped him from proceeding or 
have ultimately prevented his loss. 
Mr S said he had looked at BTFintenchs website, saw that they had various licenses 
and thought that they looked legitimate. Their website has since disappeared, but there 
is no other information about the merchant that I could find online. There is no warning 
on the FCA website about the broker for example, and neither have there been any 
alerts published on the IOSCO investor alerts portal either.
So, if Barclays had warned Mr S and asked him to carry out further checks, Im not 
persuaded that any checks or research he could have carried out would have revealed 
that he was falling for a scam. There doesnt even appear to be any other negative 
reviews from other individuals that have been scammed by the merchant either. 
Therefore, even if Barclays ought to have intervened, I dont think its failure to do so 
could have reasonably been considered the proximate cause of Mr Ss loss in these 
circumstances, as it seems likely he would have proceeded to make the payments to 
Moonpay irrespective of any intervention by the bank.
Ive also thought about whether Barclays could have done more to recover the funds 
after Mr S reported the fraud, as in some circumstances the money can be recovered via 
the bank raising a chargeback dispute. However, in these circumstances, Mr S used his 
debit card to pay legitimate crypto-exchange platform before the funds were 
subsequently transferred on to the scammer. So, he wouldnt be able to make a 
successful chargeback claim in these circumstances because the company he paid had 
provided the services as intended (i.e. the purchase of cryptocurrency). Therefore, I do 
not think Barclays were under any obligation to pursue a chargeback for Mr S any further 
after Moonpay defended the claim.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr S, and Im sorry to hear he has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, in the circumstances, I do not consider it would be 
fair and reasonable to hold Barclays liable for his loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman