DRN-2401864
The complaint and what happened
Mr Y complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt accept an offer he made in full and final 
settlement of a debt owed. 
In December 2002, the balance of the account equated to around £12,400 and Mr Y offered 
a reduced settlement of £5,000. This was accepted by Barclays in principle  however, Mr Y 
was ultimately unable to raise the funds to make payment. As such, Barclays reverted back 
to the existing repayment terms and the debt remained payable in full. 
Some years later, in 2019, Mr Y made the same offer again. That is, he offered Barclays 
£5,000 to clear the debt. At this point, due to the repayments to the account, the amount 
owed stood at approximately £10,680. Again, Barclays agreed to the proposed settlement, 
on the condition that payment be made by a set date; 21 September 2019. 
Mr Y did not make the payment before this date. He subsequently tried to negotiate the 
settlement once more with Barclays, in October 2019. However, Barclays said that it had 
since identified that there was a charging order on Mr Ys property, which it was previously 
unaware of. So, Barclays stated that it was in fact unable to accept the suggested £5,000 
offer. Rather, only full repayment of the outstanding balance would suffice. 
Mr Y paid the £10,680 in November 2019 and the debt is no longer owed. But hes unhappy 
that Barclays did not honour the proposal he made. In his opinion, this was unfairly 
withdrawn, and the bank should therefore reimburse him the difference, i.e. £5,680. 
In response, Barclays maintained that it was not liable for honouring the suggested 
settlement, as both proposals were not paid within the specified time. It reiterated that it was 
not previously aware of the charging order and declined to offer Mr Y any reimbursement of 
what he paid to settle the debt. Although, in light of the service it provided, Barclays put 
forward £175 in compensation to reflect the inconvenience caused. 
Mr Y remained unhappy, so he brought the complaint to our service. One of our investigators 
looked into it and didnt uphold the complaint, because she was satisfied that Barclays was 
entitled to reject Mr Ys offer. Having considered what happened, she agreed that 
compensation was due  and in her opinion £175 was fair and reasonable. 
Mr Y does not agree. He submits that Barclays should be bound to stick to the agreed 
£5,000 and he should therefore be entitled to a partial refund of what he paid. Because Mr Y 
does not agree, the complaint has been escalated to me to decide.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case, full and final settlement was the potential agreement between Mr Y and 
Barclays as a creditor of his. Upon Mr Y making a payment and satisfying certain conditions, 
Barclays mightve released him from further liability for the debt that is the subject of this 
dispute. In other words, Barclays would be agreeing to let Mr Y pay a reduced figure instead 
of the full balance owed. And because Mr Y was not offering to pay the entire outstanding 
sum, he required Barclays consent to waiver the remaining amount. 
Its ultimately down to a businesss discretion whether it gives such consent  and it can 
require certain conditions to be fulfilled, in order to relinquish liability to what would ordinarily 
be payable. Including, that payment be made by a stated date. Keeping this in mind, its my 
judgment that a proposed settlement was only sufficient to clear Mr Ys debt if Barclays 
agreed it viable; and strictly on Barclays payment terms. 
When Mr Y first offered the suggested settlement, Barclays gave him a fixed date to make 
the payment by. It sent him a letter which, amongst other things, said: As discussed we 
would be prepared, without prejudice, to accept a payment of £5,000 in Full and Final 
Settlement for this account providing the payment is made by 30 January 2003. Likewise, in 
2019, Barclays made Mr Y aware that: Having considered your offer we confirm that we are 
prepared without prejudice to accept a payment of £5,000 in full and final settlement of the 
debt providing that the payment is made by 21 September 2019.
So, both in 2003 and 2019, Barclays was willing to accept full and final settlement on the 
provision that it be paid by an agreed date. By his own admission, Mr Y was aware of these 
prescribed dates  but didnt manage to make the £5,000 payment in time. So, its not in 
dispute that Mr Y didnt satisfy the conditions that Barclays imposed. Consequently, Im not 
persuaded that Barclays was obliged to honour his intended settlement amount. 
Barclays says that it needed to consider whether a full and final settlement was still viable 
when Mr Y subsequently approached it again in late 2019. It says that this negotiation 
constituted a new request, because the conditions proposed earlier that year had been 
withdrawn upon not being met. 
However, by this point, it had been discovered that there was a relevant charging order in 
place. Because there was a court order that had secured a debt to Mr Ys property, Barclays 
decided that the reduced settlement would no longer be feasible. Barclays recognised that it 
ought to have spotted this sooner and had it, the two prior settlement offers Mr Y put forward 
wouldve been declined when first considered. 
I accept that, by consenting to the £5,000 full and final offer on two separate occasions, Mr Y 
couldve been led to believe that proposing this same amount again would be agreed once 
more by Barclays. And I can appreciate that Mr Y was therefore impacted by Barclays failing 
to realise there was a charging order sooner, because he had reason to believe it would 
show the same forbearance again. 
Taking this into account, I agree that Mr Y should be compensated, and I am satisfied that 
the £175 already offered by Barclays is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Indeed, I 
find the amount in keeping with what I would award, as a proportionate reflection of the 
impact that Barclays actions/in actions caused. 
Finally, I understand that Mr Y released the charging order when he paid off the outstanding 
debt in November 2019. Even so, it remains my opinion that Barclays was entitled to accept 
or reject Mr Ys request, based on its commercial judgment. It follows that I am still not 
persuaded that Barclays was obliged to honour the full and final settlement terms that it had 
said it was previously prepared to accommodate. To that end, I do not require Barclays to 
refund any of the £10,680 Mr Y paid.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
I understand Barclays Bank UK PLC has already offered Mr Y a total of £175 compensation, 
which I find fair and reasonable.
So, Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr Y a total of £175, if it hasnt already done so, 
within 28 days of receiving notice from us of his acceptance of this decision, failing which 
interest will start to accrue on this sum or on any unpaid proportion at the simple rate of 
8% a year (less any tax properly deductible) until the date of payment.
Mr Y should note that if he accepts my decision and Barclays offer, they will be legally
binding and he wouldnt be able to take further action over these matters. If, however, he
rejects the decision or doesnt reply on time, his legal rights will remain intact  but itll then
be strictly a matter for Barclays as to whether its offer remains open for acceptance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman