DRN-2364778
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N are unhappy at the conditions imposed by Legal & General Home Finance 
Limited (L&G) on porting (transferring) their equity release mortgage onto a new property. 
They say they were not told at the time they took out the mortgage in 2015 that they could 
only port the mortgage if their sale and purchase were simultaneous. Because their sale and 
purchase werent simultaneous Mr and Mrs N had to pay an early repayment charge (ERC) 
of approximately £42,000, which they want L&G to reimburse.
What happened
In 2015, on the advice of their mortgage broker, Mr and Mrs N took out an equity release 
mortgage with L&G. Clause 13 of the mortgage offer explains that the mortgage is intended 
to be repaid when Mr and Mrs N have died or because they need long-term residential care. 
There is an explanation of how the ERC is calculated, and a list of exceptions where an ERC 
will not be charged. The last one of these says:  
when you wish to downsize and transfer your lifetime mortgage to another 
acceptable property, as a result of which you have to repay some of the existing 
lifetime mortgage. Please see Section 7 (paragraphs k-n) for further details on 
porting your mortgage when moving house.
The relevant part of Section 7 is paragraph k, which says:
You can transfer your mortgage to your new house if you move as long as you and 
the property to which you move meet our lending criteria at the time  but you must 
tell us in advance. If you choose to repay the loan in full at this time you may incur an 
Early Repayment Charge.
In 2018 Mr and Mrs N were moving home. Their solicitors asked for a redemption statement 
from L&G. At this point, L&G contacted Mr and Mrs N and asked if they had considered 
porting their mortgage. An enquiry was submitted to L&Gs porting team and on 9 August 
2018 L&G confirmed in writing that it was a condition of porting that the sale and purchase 
had to be simultaneous.
Mr and Mrs N were buying a new-build property which was under construction and would not 
be ready until the autumn of 2019. Ultimately Mr and Mrs Ns purchasers were unable or 
unwilling to wait until then, and so Mr and Mrs N completed their sale of the property on 
12 June 2019. They paid an ERC to L&G of approximately £42,000. Mr and Mrs N 
completed the purchase of their new property on 31 October 2019.
Mr and Mrs N complained to L&G that the mortgage had been mis-sold, on the basis that 
they had asked about porting the mortgage in 2015, but hadnt been told that the sale and 
purchase had to be simultaneous.
L&G didnt uphold the complaint. It explained that it hadnt provided Mr and Mrs N with any 
advice at the point of sale, and that this was the responsibility of their mortgage broker. L&G 
drew to Mr and Mrs Ns attention the requirement in the mortgage conditions to tell L&G in 
advance of any request to port, so that it could inform them of the steps they needed to take.
Dissatisfied with L&Gs response, Mr and Mrs N referred their complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Two investigators looked at the complaint, but neither thought it 
should be upheld. Both were satisfied that porting was subject to meeting L&Gs criteria 
which, at the time of the request to port, was that sale and purchase had to be simultaneous. 
Given this, they didnt think L&G had done anything wrong. In particular, the second 
investigator explained that lending criteria can change and so lenders dont generally list 
these in a mortgage offer, in case they change over time.
Mr and Mrs N disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. Theyve made some further points, which I summarise below.
Mr and Mrs N have told us they asked their broker in 2015 if the mortgage was portable, and 
he confirmed that it was. But L&G didnt make their broker aware that completion needed to 
be simultaneous, and nor did the solicitors who acted for Mr and Mrs N at the time they took 
out the mortgage. Mr and Mrs N said that they are sure that if their solicitor had been aware 
of the need for simultaneous completion, it would have been brought to Mr and Mrs Ns 
attention as a potential problem in case they wanted to move house in the future. This would 
have allowed them to reconsider their decision to go ahead with it.
Mr and Mrs N do not find it acceptable that a lender can change its lending criteria without 
notice to borrowers, or that the lending criteria at the point of sale in 2015 wasnt relevant.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken note of all the points Mr and Mrs N have made. The crux of their complaint is that 
they say they should have been told in 2015 that if they wanted to move house, they would 
have to complete their sale and purchase simultaneously, and that this may well have led 
them to decide not to proceed with the equity release mortgage. They claim this important 
information was withheld from their broker and solicitors by L&G, as a result of which 
Mr and Mrs N werent able to make an informed decision about whether or not to proceed 
with the mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs N say that the question they asked was can we port this mortgage? and they 
say that the answer they were given was unequivocally yes, as was stated in all the 
available literature. But the answer was not unequivocally yes. It was stated throughout 
L&Gs literature that porting was subject to meeting L&Gs lending criteria at the time of the 
request.
Lenders generally dont publish their full lending criteria in mortgage documents. There are 
several reasons for this; for example, some of the criteria is commercially sensitive and if it is 
published, borrowers could manipulate their finances or circumstances in order to obtain a 
mortgage for which they would otherwise not be qualified (I would emphasise that this 
doesnt apply to Mr and Mrs N, but is an example of why lenders keep their criteria 
confidential). 
Another reason is that lenders change their lending criteria from time to time  and they are 
allowed to do this without needing to inform borrowers. Given this, a reference in the 
mortgage offer to borrowers needing to meeting lending criteria at the time ensures that 
borrowers are not making decisions relying on old, outdated criteria.Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ns argument that in 2015 they were given an unequivocal 
yes by L&G that the mortgage could be ported. It may well be that their broker gave them 
an unequivocal yes, but I think that if hed read the mortgage offer the broker would (or 
should) have been aware that this was subject to whatever lending criteria applied at the 
time of any request to port  because this is what the mortgage offer says. L&G gave no 
advice to, and had no direct contact with, Mr and Mrs N in 2015. 
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that L&G didnt misrepresent the terms of the mortgage in 
2015. Mr and Mrs N may have misunderstood that porting was subject to lending criteria at 
the time, but Im satisfied that the mortgage offer is clear on this. If Mr and Mrs N were told 
something different by their broker or solicitors, thats something theyll need to take up with 
those parties.
When Mr and Mrs N wanted to port their mortgage in 2019, L&Gs lending criteria was for a 
simultaneous exchange and purchase. Mr and Mrs N had been aware of this since August 
2018 when they enquired about porting. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs N had a buyer for their 
property who wasnt willing to wait until their new property was ready. But the decision to go 
ahead with their sale before their purchase was made in the knowledge that there would be 
an ERC payable to L&G. Given this, I can see no basis upon which it would be fair or 
reasonable to expect L&G to reimburse the ERC, as it has been fairly charged, in line with 
the mortgage terms and conditions.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs N were hoping for. They do not have to accept 
my final decision, and if they do not, they are free to pursue their grievances against L&G in 
court, should they wish to do so. I would suggest Mr and Mrs N take legal advice from a 
solicitor before embarking on any court proceedings.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman