DRN-2553853
The complaint
Mr H and the estate of Mrs H complain about how U K Insurance Limited dealt with a travel 
insurance policy.  Reference to UKI includes reference to its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr H and his late wife, Mrs H, had travel insurance as a benefit 
of a current account. In April 2018, they booked a cruise with an intended departure date 
in September 2019. 
In September and October 2018, Mrs H visited her GP in relation to minor symptoms. In 
November 2018, Mr H told UKI about the cruise and upgraded the policy in relation to 
age and geographical limits. In January 2019, Mrs H was diagnosed with a serious 
illness and had treatment between February 2019 and May 2019. 
In June 2019, Mr H contacted UKI to tell it about what was happening. It said that it 
couldnt cover Mrs Hs diagnosed illness. UKI said that one option open to Mr and Mrs H 
was to cancel the trip and claim against the insurance for the deposit. Mr and Mrs H 
cancelled their cruise. Unfortunately, Mrs H died in July 2019.  
Mr H wants UKI to waive the excess due under the policy and refund the amounts paid 
for upgrades to the policy. 
The background facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold the complaint and Ill explain why:
The terms and conditions of the policy provide that UKI may exclude cover for 
medical conditions following a notification about a change in health. Thats what UKI 
did here. Whilst I have considerable sympathy for the situation Mr and Mrs H found 
themselves in, I dont think that UKI acted unfairly in excluding cover for Mrs Hs new 
diagnosis, as thered been a significant change in her health.  
Mr H is right to point out that this services established approach in cases like this 
one is that we think its fair and reasonable for UKI to deal with a claim for 
cancellation against the policy. UKI has offered to deal with Mr Hs claim for 
cancellation of the trip. I think thats fair. 
There are no grounds on which I can fairly direct UKI to waive the excess due under 
the policy. Thats because the excess is due under the terms and conditions of the 
policy. I dont think its unfair for UKI to seek to rely on that part of the policy when 
dealing with the claim for cancellation. 
Similarly, there are no grounds on which I can fairly direct UKI to refund the premium 
Mr and Mrs H paid when they upgraded the policy. The policy terms and conditions 
provide that UKI will refund the premium if the upgrades are cancelled within 14 days 
of the start date or the date the policyholder received the documents, whichever is 
later, as long as theres been no claim. Here, Mr H didnt cancel the upgrades within 
14 days and theres a claim against the policy in relation to the cancelled trip. So, UKI 
isnt obliged to refund the premium.  
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and the 
estate of Mrs H to accept or reject my decision before 8 September 2021. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman