DRN-1883337
The complaint
Mr M complains that esure Insurance limited wrongly settled a claim against his motor 
insurance policy and provided poor service during the claims process.  
What happened
Mr M says his wife, Mrs M, was involved in an accident on 18 June 2019. He says during a 
parallel parking manoeuvre she stopped to check for hazards on the pavement. The car was 
partly in the parking space, with its drivers-side front corner at an angle in the road. Mrs Ms 
account is that another car drove past, and its side scraped across her cars front corner.
 
Mr M says esure said it sounded as though the other driver was at fault, but it then told him it 
had decided to settle the claim, as Mrs M was reversing when the accident happened. It 
clarified that the same applied even if her car was stationary when reversing. Later on, esure 
said the other driver had claimed that Mrs M caused the accident by starting to drive out of 
the parking space as she was driving past. Mr M said esure didnt know what it was 
accepting liability for. He also said it couldnt explain why the other insurer had better 
prospects of recovering its costs, given the lack of any independent evidence.
One of our investigators considered Mr Ms complaint. He noted that there was some 
confusion in the details esures advisors had given Mr M over the phone. But he said it had 
the right to settle any claim as it saw fit. He didnt think there was any evidence that esure 
hadnt investigated the incident properly. He said Mr M couldnt prove his version of events 
was correct. He thought it was reasonable for esure to settle the claim - without accepting 
liability on Mr Ms part  thereby leaving it open to him to take action against the other driver.
Mr M said neither of the parties had any independent evidence, so it would have been 
impossible for the other driver to succeed with a claim in court. He said esure had let him 
down and had emboldened the other driver to defraud the system, at his expense. Mr M 
asked for a review of his complain by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M accepts that the policy gave esure the right to decide how to deal with the claim. We 
dont interfere with the way insurers exercise that right, unless it appears theyve acted 
unreasonably in doing so.
Where theres no independent evidence to support either drivers account of events after an 
accident, insurers must base their decisions on whats most likely to have happened. They 
consider the way a court would deal with the issue, based on the balance of probabilities. 
We think thats a reasonable approach to take, and I think thats what esure did here.
Its very unfortunate that Mr M was initially given the impression by esures advisor that the 
other driver was likely to be at fault. I dont think it was possible to make any  judgement on 
that until the other drivers account had also been considered. 
I think its even more unfortunate that esures advisors didnt seem to be aware later on of 
the account provided by the other driver. That shouldnt have happened, and it must have 
been very frustrating for Mr M. But the facts were established before esure issued its final 
response letter to him on 12 July 2019. At that point, esure accepted that its claims 
department could have communicated its decision better before any letters about fault were 
issued. esure apologised for that and offered Mr M £50 as a gesture of goodwill. 
 
esures decision was based on the other driver claiming that Mrs M had started to drive 
forwards out of the parking space as she was passing. Although theres no independent 
evidence of that, Mr M cant show that isnt what happened. esure thought it was the most 
likely explanation, and it thought the damage to the cars fitted that account of events. I dont 
think that was an unreasonable conclusion, although I think its also plausible that Mrs M 
was part-way through reversing into a space when the accident happened. But theres no 
evidence of that either - or that her car was stationary at the point of impact. 
The other driver had the right of way, as she was driving along the main road. I think it was 
fair for esure to conclude that as Mrs M was manoeuvring, she had a greater duty of care 
than the other driver. I also think its fair to say that the duty would apply if Mrs M was 
reversing (even if stationary) or emerging forwards from a parking space. 
Had the case gone to court, in the absence of independent evidence either way, a judge 
would have had to consider what was most likely to have happened. The judge would have 
noted that Mrs M was making a manoeuvre and would also have considered the evidence 
Mr M put to esure. He provided drawings, photographs of the damage and an animation of 
the accident. esure didnt think any of that showed what happened on the day, and I think its 
fair to say that its likely a judge would have come to the same conclusion. 
 
I think it was reasonable for esure to decide it would have to settle the claim, as it thought 
the other drivers prospects of success in court were greater, so it wouldnt be able to 
recover its costs. I know Mr M feels very strongly that it made the wrong decision, but as 
esure didnt accept liability for the accident, he can take legal action against the other driver. 
esure says if he does that and is successful, it will amend his claims record.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2020. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman