DRN-2835091
The complaint
 Mr W complains that Creation Financial Services Limited refused to uphold his claim under 
Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect of a promotion which wasnt honoured. 
What happened
 In December 2019 Mr W bought a TV from a retailer I will call C at a cost of £4,499. It was 
funded by a conditional sale agreement. He says that he was approached by a 
representative of the manufacturer working at the store that day and told if he bought a 
larger model, he would qualify for a free mobile phone worth some £1,000. He was also 
offered a second promotion of £400 cashback if he bought a sound system as well. Cs sales 
people were party to this discussion.
He says he was told that since he could return the TV within 30 days not to claim the free 
phone until that period had elapsed. He was given no paperwork, but says he was told this 
would be in the box when the TV was delivered. When the TV was delivered and installed by 
an engineer he enquired about the phone. The engineer called C and was told that the 
details of the free phone were on the same page as for the £400 cashback, but not to claim 
until 30 days had elapsed.
Mr W tried to claim his free phone but was told that the claim should have been made within 
30 days. He was also told that he was only allowed one of either the free phone or the £400 
cashback.
He spoke to both the manufacturer and C, but was unable to resolve matters so he 
contacted Creation in pursuit of his claim. It took the view that as the offer came from a 
representative of the manufacturer then the required debtor-creditor-suppler chain was 
broken and so no claim could be made under Section 75.
Mr W brought his complaint where it was considered by one of our investigators who didnt 
recommend it be upheld. He asked Creation for clarification of the sales process and details 
of the offers. It said it had no doubt there was an offer, but it didnt have the details and there 
was no record of what had been said in the store.
Our investigator was satisfied that the sale was made by employees of C and they had been 
party to the discussion about the phone so he didnt consider the debtor-creditor-supplier 
chain to have been broken.
However, he had been able to see details of the promotion on the manufacturers website 
before it was removed and this said that the promotion is not redeemable with any other 
offer from the Promoter. He concluded that Mr W would not have been able to benefit from 
both offers.
He explained that Creation had been unable to let him have a witness statement from the 
store assistants or a copy of the call recording between the engineer and C. However, he 
thought that once the engineer had made Mr W aware of the link with the promotional details 
he would have been able to see what was required to obtain the phone.
Mr W didnt agree and said he had been advised the TV he bought was the best one since it 
came with a free phone. It was advertised as such, but despite asking for some paperwork 
about the offer none was provided. He said the engineer had referred him to the cashback 
leaflet and it was unreasonable to expect him to monitor every webpage of either C or the 
manufacturer. He had relied on the advice he had been given. He referred to the delivery 
note on which he had added a manuscript note which read: No detail of cashback or free 
phone offer. He said that the offers were confusing in that one had to be claimed within 30 
days and the other after 30 days so it wasnt surprising that the sales people had got it 
wrong. I issued a provisional decision as follows:
I explained I had given a great deal of thought to this complaint and I considered it should be 
upheld for the following reasons.
I said this complaint had been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
Creation initially argued that the chain was broken, but I was in agreement with the 
investigator that Cs sales people were party to the sale and any advice given by a third 
party working in Cs store could be regarded as made by C. 
I believed it was clear that Mr W was told he was entitled to a free phone worth some £1,000 
if he bought a more expensive TV. Creation didnt dispute there was an offer of a free phone 
and the manufacturer only rejected the claim because it was made outside 30 days. It didnt 
dispute the offer, just the timing of the claim. 
Our investigator concluded that the two offers were mutually exclusive, but I wasnt 
convinced this was the case. I hadnt seen the offer or the terms and conditions since they 
were no longer available on the web site, but the phone was a promotion linked to the sale of 
the TV and the cashback promotion was linked to the purchase of a sound system along 
with the TV. I suspected the terms and conditions may not have precluded both promotions 
being claimed given they were for separate items. However, I couldnt say for certain as I 
had not seen the details.
That led me to a second point, the lack of written material provided to Mr W, whose 
testimony I found both consistent and credible. He said the only written material was 
attached to the advertising material in the store. I found it odd that since this was a 
significant offer that some written material wasnt provided to ensure he was clear as to what 
he was acquiring. He had to rely on the verbal advice given by people in the store. I believed 
the onus was on C to ensure there was clarity about the price and the promotion.
Mr W was quite clear as to what he was told and this is borne out by his conversation with 
the engineer and the manuscript note on the delivery note. In addition, he called the 
manufacturer just after the 30 days had elapsed to make his claim for the phone. This all 
adds up to Mr W believing he was entitled to the free phone.
I was satisfied that the sale was misrepresented in that a false statement of fact was made and that induced him to buy the TV.  He has received the £400 cashback, but I considered 
he was also entitled to the free phone.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Mr W responded to my provisional decision, but Creation has not done so. Mr W accepts it, 
but has pointed out that since he acquired the television he has replaced his old phone and 
the one he had been offered is now outdated. In short, the circumstances have changed and 
I consider the outcome needs to reflect that. Therefore, I agree that it would seem 
unreasonable to expected Creation to supply him with an older phone and the better solution 
for both parties would be for Creation to recompense him financially. 
Mr W says the retail price of the old phone was £1,099. I note in his original complaint he 
said the phone was valued at circa £1,000 and I have checked historical prices for it and see 
that it could have been bought for £900. I believe that is the value Mr W lost by not receiving 
the phone as he expected. In the circumstances I consider an award of £900 to be fair.
Putting things right
 Creation should compensate Mr W
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Creation Financial Services 
Limited to pay Mr W £900.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman