DRN-3744353
The complaint
This complaint is about arrears on four buy-to-let mortgages Mr O holds with 
Santander UK Plc (Santander). Mr O says Santander has not applied the new interest 
rates he arranged for the accounts and this has increased his arrears.
What happened
Mr O says he had several phone calls lasting 30 to 40 hours in total to arrange new rates on 
four buy-to-let mortgages, saving him a significant amount of money. Mr O says he 
understood everything was finalised, but he later realised that his payments had not been 
adjusted. 
Santander looked into Mr Os complaint but said the documents he needed to sign were not 
received, so the changes to his accounts could not be applied. Santander said its not its 
policy to chase customers to sign and return applications  its up to the customer to decide 
if they want to proceed. 
Mr O was unhappy with Santanders response and said that he did not receive any 
documents  he believes Santander sent them to the wrong address. He also says he 
thought everything was finalised during the phone calls. 
Our investigator reviewed Mr Os concerns, but they didnt think that Santander had done 
anything wrong. As Mr O disagreed, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mr Os complaint should be upheld and Ill explain why.
The crux of Mr Os complaint is that he wasnt aware he had to sign documents and return 
them in order for the new rates to be applied to his accounts. And that Santander sent the 
documents to the wrong address, so he had no reason to know he had to return anything. 
Mr O asked us to request call recordings of his conversations with Santander to prove what 
hes said. 
Ive listened to a call that took place on 22 December 2020. Mr O said a number of times 
that he had signed and returned the relevant paperwork and that its not his fault if 
Santander didnt action the changes on his accounts. Mr O insisted, a number of times, that 
he had returned the documents.
Then, in a call on 11 January 2021, Mr O said that he hadnt received the documents and he 
felt boxed-in by Santander when this was initially discussed in the call Ive mentioned 
above. Mr O said the call handler had put pressure on him and this is why he said hed 
returned the documents. Mr O went on to say that he had checked his records, and he had 
signed and returned documents for a different business regarding rate changes, but he didnt 
receive any documents from Santander.
Ive also listened to the calls Mr O had with the mortgage adviser on 18 August 2020. Mr O 
was asked to confirm his address in order for Santander to complete its security checks and 
Mr O provided an address. The representative then said, would we have a different address 
down as your residential address, and Mr O said yes. Mr O proceeded to confirm what that 
address would be.
Looking at the documents that were sent to him, the address he gave as his residential 
address is the same address the letters were sent to. In the call, Mr O didnt ask the 
representative to correct the address at any stage.
Later on in the same call, the adviser specifically confirmed what address Mr O was living at 
in order to start the application process. Again, Mr O confirmed the address was correct  
the same address that shows on the documents Santander produced. 
I also understand Mr O has access to the other address he thinks the documents were 
incorrectly sent to. So, if the documents had been sent there, I would have expected Mr O to 
have come across them by now and to have provided them to support his complaint. But 
Mr O hasnt provided any copies of the documents showing an incorrect address.
So, Ive thought about everything carefully and Ive found that Mr O confirmed the correct 
address more than once in his call with the mortgage adviser. The copies of the documents 
Santanders provided show that they were addressed correctly, so Santander cant be held 
responsible if they werent received. 
I now have to think about whether Mr O should have had cause for concern if he didnt 
receive the documents. 
In the call Mr O had with the mortgage adviser on 18 August 2020, the adviser asked Mr O if 
he wanted the documents sent to him electronically or in the post. Mr O asked if he had to 
send them. The adviser then explained that Mr O would need to sign and return each 
document for each mortgage. Mr O was clearly told that he would need to do this within 
14 days. Mr O confirmed he would do this by post. So, Im also satisfied Mr O was aware 
that in order for the changes to be made to his accounts, he would need to sign and return 
documents for each of them.
Santander says it doesnt chase customers to return documents relating to applications. That 
its up to customers to decide whether they wish to proceed or not. This is a legitimate 
business decision of Santanders and I cant ask it to change that. In any case, I think what 
it's said about that is fair and reasonable. 
Mr O says he spent a lot of time arranging the new rates, so it wouldnt make sense for him 
not to return the documents unless he hadnt received them. But even if he didnt receive 
them, I think he ought to have got in touch with Santander, within a reasonable timeframe, to 
request the documents be resent. I say this because Mr O was made aware he had to return 
the documents within 14 days. He was also asked if he wanted to receive them 
electronically, so there were other options available to him if he had trouble receiving his 
post. In summary, Ive listened to the calls Mr O had with Santander to confirm exactly what was 
said and I havent found that Santander did anything wrong. Santander sent the documents 
to the address Mr O confirmed was correct at the time. Mr O was made aware he had to 
return the forms within 14 days for the new rates to be applied. So, if he didnt receive any 
documents, he should have informed Santander before the 14 days expired. That means 
Santander isnt responsible for the additional arrears on Mr Os accounts. 
Since bringing the complaint to this service, Mr O has complained hes still receiving letters 
to the wrong addresses. This is a separate complaint to the one that was originally brought 
to this service and as this didnt form part of Mr Os original complaint to Santander, I cant 
comment on his concerns about that in this decision. I say this because Santander hasnt 
had the opportunity to consider those points first and as an informal and impartial service, it 
wouldnt be right for me to reach a finding before the business has had an opportunity to look 
into those concerns itself.
If Mr O wants to avoid further problems, he may wish to get in touch with Santander to make 
sure his current address is recorded correctly and to make arrangements to clear his 
arrears.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr Os complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman