DRN-3693476
The complaint
Mr G complains that he wasnt able to reach HSBC UK Bank Plc over a prolonged period of 
time, to fix the rate on his buy to let (BTL) mortgages. He said the rates had gone up since, 
and he wanted HSBC to honour the rate offered when he first tried to get in touch.
What happened
Mr G said hed been trying to get in touch with HSBCs mortgages team since February 
2022, but he wasnt able to actually get through to the team until mid-May. By then rates had 
changed, and Mr G didnt think he should have to pay the new, higher interest rates. 
Mr G wanted HSBC to offer him the rates which were available in February 2022, and to 
make a gesture of goodwill to account for the distress and inconvenience he had faced.
HSBC said it would only offer historic rates if it could see an error had been made which 
prevented someone from accessing that rate at the time. But it didnt think that was the case 
here. Mr G called HSBC in February, but those calls were about something else. And 
although HSBC accepted there may at times have been a longer wait to get through to the 
right team, it didnt think that meant Mr G had been prevented from getting in touch 
throughout this time. HSBC said Mr G could also have changed rates using online banking. 
HSBC said it would pay Mr G £200 as a gesture of goodwill, and it would honour the rates 
which were available when Mr G made his complaint in May. But it wouldnt offer him the 
rates which were available in February.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said HSBC hadnt been 
able to find any call in February when Mr G discussed his mortgage rates, and Mr G hadnt 
been able to find evidence of this or the other calls hed told us about. Our investigator 
wasnt able to conclude that Mr G wasnt able to get through to HSBC throughout the time 
between February and May. Our investigator noted that Mr G couldve changed his rate 
online, and said he could also have visited a branch in this time, if he was concerned about 
changes to the base rate. 
Our investigator said HSBC had offered Mr G £200, but he couldnt really see that it had 
made any mistake. So our investigator said that was a generous offer that HSBC made as a 
gesture of goodwill. He wouldnt ask HSBC to do more than that.
Mr G wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
After our investigator set out his view of this case, Mr G indicated he might want to comment 
further, or perhaps supply some additional evidence, but he hasnt done that within the 
deadline our investigator set. I think its now appropriate to reach a decision in this case.
Like our investigator, I havent been able to see that Mr G did contact, or attempt to contact, 
HSBC to discuss his mortgage, either in February 2022 or after this and before he raised his 
complaint in May 2022. Without this evidence, Im not able to assume that wait times were 
unreasonable throughout this period, particularly as HSBC has said there wasnt a problem 
at the time. 
I also have to bear in mind that Mr G could have explored his mortgage options online, or 
called into a branch as our investigator suggested. For those reasons, I dont think HSBC 
has to offer Mr G the rates that were previously available in February.
I note that HSBC has offered Mr G a payment of £200, as a gesture of goodwill, and it has 
also offered to honour the rates which were available in May, when Mr G first complained. I 
expect that these offers remain open to Mr G. Because I havent been able to identify that 
HSBC has been unfair or unreasonable here, or that its let Mr G down, I dont think it had to 
make these offers. So Ill leave it Mr G to contact HSBC directly should he wish to accept 
this, if he hasnt done so already. But I dont think HSBC needs to do anything to settle the 
complaint. 
I know Mr G will be disappointed, but that means that this complaint wont be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman