DRN-4215653
The complaint
Miss R complains National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) restricted and then closed her 
accounts without explanation. Miss R adds that NatWests handling of the matter and related 
communication has been extremely poor.   
Miss R says NatWests actions have caused her significant distress and inconvenience for 
which it should pay her sufficient compensation. And the accounts should be re-opened.  
What happened
Miss R has appointed her father as her representative. But to keep things simple, I will 
mainly refer to Miss R in my decision. 
Miss R says she received a text message from NatWest on 9 June 2022 informing her that 
her accounts had been suspended. And that NatWest had decided to end its banking 
relationship with her.  
NatWest sent Miss R notice that it was closing her accounts within 14 days, and she will be 
unable to use the accounts from the date of that letter - dated 16 June 2022. Miss R says 
she went abroad on holiday on 17 June 2022 and was left without access to her money 
during the time she was away. 
Miss R, and her representative, say they called, attended branch, wrote, and emailed 
NatWest on many occasions to discuss the matter and get an explanation for its actions. On 
28 June 2023 NatWest sent a letter to Miss R informing her that it cant share information 
with an unauthorised third-party without her authority. Miss Rs father was later set-up as an 
authorised party.  
Miss R referred her complaint to this service. Her accounts were closed on 15 July 2022, 
and remaining funds moved to a NatWest holding account. 
NatWest sent Miss R forms to have her funds released. Miss R said she wouldnt do this 
until she could check the balances were correct. So, Miss R requested NatWest send her 
statements for her accounts as she couldnt check her balances online.  
Unhappy with NatWests actions, Miss R complained. NatWest sent Miss R two complaint 
responses, some of the key points it made were: 
23 July 2022 response
- The correct decision has been made to close the accounts and its been done so in 
line with the terms and conditions of the account. 
- NatWest cant provide further information for its reasons to do so
- Miss R will need to complete and return the funds release form before they can be 
released to her. NatWest should have an answer for her in 60 days about this 
7 August 2022
- NatWest sent a funds release form to Miss R in its last correspondence. The funds 
can be released 60 days from when it receives the form(s)
- Statements have been requested for Miss Rs accounts, and they will be sent to her 
in 10-15 working days
- NatWest are not able to arrange a face-to-face meeting with management members 
to discuss Miss Rs dissatisfaction 
Miss R says she received the statements on 13 August 2022. She then sent NatWest a 
cover letter attaching the release forms. The letter said she completed forms but only on the 
basis: 
-She doesnt admit the total on each statement is correct 
-Signed Without Prejudice to her rights and in particular to challenge the amount 
payable. If it later transpires that NatWest is incorrect with the balance to be 
transferred it will be liable for any account anomaly and interest  
Miss R is unhappy that it took NatWest around two months to send her the statements. 
NatWest received the release forms on 24 August 2022, and funds were released to Miss R 
the following day, 25 August 2022. 
One of our Investigators then looked into Miss Rs complaint. They recommended the 
complaint be upheld in part. Some of their key findings were: 
- NatWest should have provided Miss R with 60 days notice of their intention to close 
her accounts. Thats because the relevant terms and conditions for closing accounts 
with less notice havent been met 
- NatWest were entitled to block Miss Rs accounts in June 2022 while it conducted a 
review
- Miss Rs representative requested the account statements before she completed the 
funds release forms. She requested them on 28 June 2022, but they werent 
provided by NatWest until 13 August 2022. There was a delay here. 
But they considered that Miss R didnt have to wait for her statements before 
completing the funds release forms. Had Miss R done so around the time she 
returned from holiday, its likely she would have received them much sooner. 
Because of this they cant recommend compensation be awarded for the time taken 
for the funds to be returned.   
- Due to the delays, and the correct notice period not being given, NatWest should pay 
Miss R £150 compensation to put things right 
Miss R and her representative did not agree with what our Investigator said. Id like to assure 
both Miss R and her representative that I have carefully reviewed everything theyve said, 
even if I dont explicitly set it out here. Some of the key points they make are: 
- The compensation amount is paltry, abysmal, and totally unacceptable given:
The time it has taken to resolve the complaint The lack of response from NatWest with little customer care or 
ownership of the issue. NatWest failed to respond to over 50 emails, 
and they had to communicate with around 11 departments and 
numerous personnel 
No branch members were able to effectively provide any help or 
guidance  
The significant inconvenience caused to Miss R and her 
representative 
No explanation still given by NatWest 
The stress and anxiety caused to Miss R especially as she is 
vulnerable and had her mental health condition exacerbated by 
NatWests actions 
Their family holiday was ruined as Miss R couldnt use her own funds 
abroad 
No apology given by NatWest 
- NatWest refused to speak to Miss Rs representative saying it required a letter of 
authority to do so. Was this a delaying tactic? 
- Miss R received the funds release form from various departments, and she had no 
statements to check. This made Miss R nervous. A solicitor also advised Miss R not 
to sign the funds release forms until she had received the statements
- One of Miss Rs saving accounts, which was under the representatives sole control, 
wasnt taken down until a month later in late July 2022. Would this account have 
been included as part of the original funds release forms? No one was able to help 
with this query 
- Miss R and her representative would like to attend a meeting with a responsible 
person from NatWests customer care department    
Our Investigator responded to Miss R. Some of the key points they made were: 
- Theyre satisfied their recommendation of £150 is fair compensation
- They cannot award any compensation for any inconvenience Miss Rs representative 
says theyve suffered. Miss R is the eligible complainant here, so they can only look 
at how shes been impacted
- They have acknowledged the impact to Miss R in terms of any distress caused.  To 
recommend an increase in compensation, Miss R would need to provide evidence of 
a greater impact beyond the stress and anxiety mentioned 
- Miss R was still able to go on holiday and she was fortunate that she could rely on 
the representative  her father - for money. This isnt an ideal situation, but it was 
considered when recommending the compensation award 
- Financial businesses arent obliged to provide an explanation behind its decision to 
block or close accounts- Asking NatWest to make a formal apology doesnt put Miss R back into a position 
she would have been but for its errors 
- Its clear Miss R knew as early as 28 June 2022 that fund release forms were 
required to get them released to her. But she wasnt prepared to complete them until 
she had received the statements. Once completed NatWest acted in a timely way, so 
its likely Miss R couldve had the funds much sooner. 
- Miss Rs cover letter for the release forms shows that she reserved the right to 
challenge the amounts payable. If Miss R was going to reserve this right, she could 
have completed the forms in June 2022 with the same provision
- There could have been a delay caused by NatWest with setting up Miss Rs 
representatives authority. But this hasnt caused a detriment to her as the funds 
being released depended on the forms being completed     
- Its likely the representative was able to view Miss Rs savings account in up until 
July 2022 as the funds werent moved to a central holding account. Its not accurate 
to say this account was still active because Miss R would not have been able to 
access any funds 
- Miss R likely continued to receive generic emails and texts from NatWest that her 
statements were available online because its likely NatWests systems were still 
operational until the funds were released 
In response, and in summary, Miss Rs representative has made the following key points: 
- Miss R is classed as vulnerable and takes prescribed medication for her mental 
health. She is still not herself because of what has happened. The compensation 
award isnt fair and reasonable given the impact to her  
- Miss R was unable to relax on holiday, and became reclusive and distraught because 
of what NatWest did 
- NatWests communication was inconsistent, and they were passed from pillar to 
post. Miss R is unhappy with numerous staff members for their poor customer 
service 
- Miss R didnt know where her funds were, and this caused substantive distress 
NatWest did not agree with what our Investigator said but agreed to pay Miss R £150 in 
compensation. As both parties dont agree, this complaint has now been passed to me to 
decide. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. I know my decision is likely to 
disappoint Miss R, and I note that she feels strongly about it. So, Ill explain why. 
Im very aware that Ive summarised the events in this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking 
this approach. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to 
the courts. 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. I do stress however that Ive considered everything Miss R, her representative, 
and NatWest have said before reaching my decision.  
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains 
security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the information NatWest 
has provided is information we consider should be kept confidential.
Restrictions and closures 
Banks in the UK, like NatWest, are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to 
meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing 
monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to 
restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
NatWest has given me some information to explain why it placed Miss Rs accounts under 
review and restricted them. Having carefully considered this, Im satisfied NatWest had 
reason enough to review and restrict the accounts  and that this was done in line with the 
legal and regulatory obligations it must follow. 
NatWest is entitled to close accounts just as a customer may close an account with it. But 
before NatWest closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms 
and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of both the current and savings accounts, which NatWest and 
Miss R had to comply with, say that it could close the accounts by giving her at least 60 
days notice. And in certain circumstances it can close an account immediately or with less 
notice.
NatWest effectively closed Miss Rs accounts immediately given that it restricted them and 
gave her no access until closure some two weeks after notification was given. NatWest has 
given me some information as to why it decided to close the accounts, but Im not persuaded 
that it has shown me enough for it to have closed the accounts in the way it has. 
I would have expected NatWest to carry out a more extensive investigation to determine 
what course of action and importantly, what type of closure to affect. NatWest hasnt 
evidenced this enough. This means that Im persuaded NatWest should not have closed the 
accounts down immediately  or to be more accurate, by giving two weeks notice without 
access. 
But I do think NatWest had reason enough to close the accounts by giving Miss R 60 days 
notice. This would have alleviated some of the distress and inconvenience she suffered, as it 
would have given her reasonable time in which to make alternative banking arrangements.
I note that a key thread of Miss Rs complaint has been the lack of any explanation from 
NatWest as to why it took the actions it did. Ive already said that NatWest has important 
legal and regulatory obligations it must follow. And in doing so, and in taking the action it 
has, I am not aware of any obligation under which it must give an explanation. I note from the submissions Miss Rs representative makes that she was able to get a bank 
account elsewhere in a relative short space of time. So I think this mitigates against any 
award I make for distress and inconvenience. 
This finding means that I need to think about what loss, and distress and inconvenience 
Miss R suffered during a 60 days window that would otherwise not have occurred if the 
correct notice period was given. I do however think that even with a 60 days notice, Miss R 
wouldve suffered some distress and inconvenience. 
Fortunately, whilst on holiday, Miss R was able to get financial support from her close family. 
This of course is not ideal, and I imagine the situation caused her embarrassment as well as 
distress and inconvenience. Miss R says that not having access to her funds whilst abroad 
caused her to not enjoy her holiday. This is understandable. 
Release of funds and delays 
Miss R says that she was advised by a solicitor not to complete the release of funds forms 
that were sent to her as early as late June 2022. Miss R says that its not right that she 
should have done so before checking her balances. NatWest didnt send Miss R her 
statements until August 2022, a little over two months after they were requested. I think this 
is far too long. So I accept NatWest have caused delay here. 
But when Miss R received her statements, she wrote in her cover letter that she was doing 
so without prejudice to her rights and to challenge the amount payable if it later transpires 
the balance released isnt correct. Given this, I do question why Miss R didnt complete the 
funds release forms as soon as she received them. NatWest released the funds the very 
next day after it received the forms in Augusts 2022. So its likely Miss R could have had her 
funds released in late June or July 2022. 
In turn, this would have alleviated much of her anxiety and inconvenience. So, though 
NatWest caused significant delay in sending statements to Miss R, Im persuaded that had 
Miss R completed the forms when they were sent to her, she would have had the funds 
much sooner. That means Miss R has significantly contributed to the delay she otherwise 
couldve avoided. 
So any award I make for distress and inconvenience here will need to be mitigated against 
this. 
Miss R also says they didnt complete the release forms sooner as they were advised by a 
solicitor not to do so. I havent seen anything to show she was given this advice, but 
ultimately it is her prerogative with what advice she choses to act on. 
Customer service and communication 
Miss Rs representative says he has attempted to initiate meaningful dialogue with NatWest 
on more than 50 occasions through the medium of written correspondence, email, branch 
visits and telephone conversations. But he has been passed from department to department 
and not had any substantive explanation.
Its important to note that any award I make for poor customer service, communication, 
distress and inconvenience is for any heads of loss that Miss R likely suffered. She is the 
customer of NatWest for the accounts being complained about, and therefore constitutes the 
eligible customer here. That means any loss, inconvenience and distress her representative 
says he suffered isnt something I have the power to consider in my decision. Having said that, I do accept that not getting a meaningful explanation for why NatWest was 
taking the action it was must be incredibly frustrating. Especially as she would have felt like 
she wasnt getting anywhere with the numerous NatWest staff members they were speaking 
to or corresponding with. But as Ive said NatWest were not, and are not, under any 
obligation to disclose its reasons. 
Lastly, Miss Rs representative isnt happy NatWest needed authorisation from her to appoint 
him as her representative. They question whether NatWest was doing this to delay matters. 
Its common practice for financial businesses to want to see authorisation in this way to 
speak to a third-party  typically in durable medium. This ultimately stems from the various 
data protection legislation it must follow. So Im satisfied NatWest were acting properly here. 
Nor have I seen anything to suggest NatWest was maliciously or deliberately attempting to 
obstruct Miss R or her representative and cause delay. 
Fair compensation 
Miss R feels that the compensation award recommended by our Investigator of £150 is 
paltry and therefore unacceptable. Ive given this considerable thought given its a point 
Miss R clearly feels strongly about. 
NatWest should have given Miss R 60 days notice of closure. There were delays with the 
statements being sent to her, but she could have reclaimed her funds much sooner had she 
completed the release forms as soon as they were sent to her  and equally, added in the 
proviso she did at that point. Miss R was also able to get other banking services relatively 
quickly. 
Miss R was financially supported by her close family whilst on holiday, so she didnt suffer 
financial detriment. However I accept that she would have suffered embarrassment for 
having to accept money in this way, and some distress and inconvenience. 
Miss R says that the matter has weighed heavily on her mental health enough that she has 
had to see a doctor about it. Our Investigator has asked Miss R and her representative to 
send in evidence of this, and anything that shows the impact she says NatWests actions 
had. But other than testimony from her representative, nothing else has been sent in. 
Ultimately, Miss R would however have suffered distress and inconvenience had NatWest 
done what it should have, that is, given her 60 days notice. So I cant make an award for the 
full extent of what she has suffered. 
So after weighing everything up and given the parameters under which I think compensation 
should be awarded for embarrassment, distress and inconvenience as above, Im persuaded 
that £150 is a fair award.  
Other points 
Miss R wants NatWest to arrange a face-to-face meeting with management members and its 
customer care department to discuss the issues outlined in her complaint. Im not persuaded 
that compelling it to do so is a fair or reasonable outcome to this complaint. Miss R has had 
her complaint responded to by NatWest and then she referred it to this service. So I think 
she has had the matter looked into appropriately.  
Id also add that this verges on a complaint about how her complaint has been handled. This 
isnt an activity this service has the power to look into. Miss R says that one of her accounts which remained under the control of her representative 
wasnt taken down until much later in July 2022. So she questions whether the original 
funds release process would have covered this.  But I think this point is moot given she 
didnt send the forms until much later  and those funds were released. So I dont think I 
need to think about any detriment or loss here. 
There could be a myriad of reasons for this too which could include it being viewable due to 
the account being in control of the representative or the funds not being moved to a central 
NatWest account. None of which add further detriment for which I need to make a further 
award. 
Miss R also complains that she was sent text messages and generic emails that her 
statements were available online when she had no access. I agree this is unhelpful and 
probably created some distress. So Ive considered it in the award Ive made. 
Lastly, Miss R would like NatWest to send her a formal apology. NatWest has already 
apologised for and distress and inconvenience it may have caused her. And I have found 
that it has done some things wrong. Im not persuaded that such a letter will help put Miss R 
back in a better position. I leave it to NatWest to decide whether it wants to send such a 
letter but note it has maintained its position that it hasnt done anything wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint in part. National Westminster Bank Plc must 
now pay Miss R £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience its caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman