DRN-2853452
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that MBNA Limited defaulted his account.
What happened
Mr B fell into arrears on his MBNA credit. In June 2020, Mr B received a letter from MBNA 
advising that he had missed a payment towards his account and that the account was at risk 
of being defaulted. 
Mr B contacted MBNA and advised that he could clear the outstanding arrears over three 
instalments. However, his account was defaulted by MBNA shortly afterwards. Mr B wasnt 
happy about this and felt that MBNA had given him conflicting information on whether the 
default process could have been stopped by him making a payment toward the arrears. So, 
he made a complaint.
MBNA looked at Mr Bs complaint, but they were satisfied that they had offered Mr B a 
reasonable degree of forbearance and support with regard the arrears on his account, and 
that they had followed the default process appropriately. So, they didnt uphold Mr Bs 
complaint.
Mr B wasnt satisfied with MBNAs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also didnt feel that MBNA had 
acted unfairly in how theyd managed Mr Bs account, including the application of the default, 
and so they also didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr B remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where a business is aware that a customer is experiencing financial difficulties, it would be 
expected by this service that the business would act positively and sympathetically toward 
that customer to help them, if possible, overcome the difficult financial position that they find 
themselves in.
Having reviewed all the information available to me, Im satisfied that MBNA did that here. 
Its clear that Mr B informed MBNA that he was experiencing financial difficulties at least as 
far back as February 2019, and at that time MBNA offered Mr B a period of breathing space 
 where no interest would accrue on the account  to give him some time to get his financial 
position in better order.
Following this, MBNA agreed to a further period of breathing space in May 2019, and one 
month later, in June 2019, agreed a three-month repayment plan with Mr B to help him clear 
the arrears that had accrued on his account at that time.
Sometime later, in February 2020, Mr B contacted MBNA and explained that he had no 
income as he hadnt been working for some time. This meant that MBNA were unable to 
agree a repayment plan with Mr B, and this is because it would be considered irresponsible 
for a lender to arrange a payment plan with a customer who has confirmed that they have no 
income with which to fund the payment plan being arranged.
However, a lender isnt obliged to maintain an account that isnt receiving payment 
indefinitely, and so MBNA began recovery proceedings and sent a Notice of Default to Mr B 
later that month. MBNA then sent a Final Demand letter to Mr B several weeks later. 
MBNAs actions here appear fair and reasonable to me, and I can confirm that theyre 
commensurate with what this service would expect, given that Mr Bs account was in arrears 
and that Mr Bs financial position at that time was such that repayment toward the account 
was unlikely in the near term.
Mr B contacted MBNA in April 2020 and advised that while he still had no income at that 
time he was anticipating working again in the near future. Because of this, MBNA agreed a 
further period of breathing space for Mr B, which expired in May 2020.
The following month, in early June 2020, Mr B contacted MBNA and asked for the default 
process to be stopped. However, Mr B wasnt able to make any payment sufficient to 
prevent the account being defaulted, and the account was subsequently defaulted by MBNA 
approximately one week later.
Im aware that Mr B feels that when he called MBNA in early June, he was given conflicting 
information about whether the default process could be stopped if he made a payment 
toward the account. Having listened to a recording of that telephone call, Mr B informs 
MBNA that he can clear the outstanding arrears in three instalments, and its explained to Mr 
B by MBNA that there is no guarantee that if Mr B did make one of these instalment 
payments at that time that the default process would be stopped.
While I can sympathise with Mr Bs position here, given the difficult financial position that he 
was in, I find it difficult to criticise MBNA for not confirming to Mr B that the default process 
could be stopped as he would have liked. And I say this because the default process was by 
that time at such an advanced stage that the stated deadline to pay the full outstanding 
balance of the account had already passed, meaning that the defaulting of the account was 
imminent. 
Given that the defaulting of the account could only be avoided at that stage by Mr B making 
a payment larger than the payment he was immediately offering, its difficult to fault MBNAs 
representative for explaining to Mr B that there was no guarantee that his making the 
payment he was offering would halt the default process.
Mr B has stated to this service that had MBNA made it clear to him during the conversation 
in early June that only the full repayment of the account would avoid the possibility of the 
default being applied, that he would have made that payment. Mr B has also stated that the 
conflicting information that he received from MBNA on that phone call meant that he wasnt 
confident that making a payment in full would stop the default process, and it was for this 
reason that he didnt make such a payment.
Im not convinced by Mr Bs argument here, especially given that he appears to have been in 
no financial position to make minimum payments towards the account in the time leading up 
to the conversation in question, and because of this I find it difficult to accept that Mr B could 
have made a payment to clear the account in full at that time. Furhermore, if it had been the case that Mr B had made the payment to clear the account in 
full, but MBNA had applied the default to his account shortly afterwards regardless, its highly 
likely that my view on this matter would be different. 
But Mr B didnt make any payment, and his account was subsequently defaulted by MBNA. 
And, considering everything Ive explained above - including that Im satisfied that MBNA did 
treat Mr B positively and sympathetically when he informed them of his financial difficulties, 
and that MBNA gave Mr B clear and timely notification that the process to default his 
account had begun - I dont feel that I can fairly censure MBNA for applying the default to Mr 
Bs account when they did.
I realise this wont be the outcome that Mr B was wanting here, but it follows from this that I 
wont be upholding his complaint or asking MBNA to take any further action at this time. I 
hope that Mr B can understand, given everything Ive explained, why Ive made the final 
decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman