DRN-1514045
The complaint
Mr G complains about the end of term charges that hes been asked to pay for late collection 
and refurbishment to a car he was financing through an agreement with Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators view for the following reasons:
Mr G acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints 
about it.  
The terms of the finance agreement held Mr G responsible for keeping the car in 
good condition. He would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned in 
the correct condition.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are 
returned at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association (BVRLA). 
oIve considered the photographs of the damage that are provided in the 
inspection report completed at handover and compared the damage to the 
standard required under the BVRLA guidance. The lamp  the BVRLA 
guidance says that holes or cracks in the glass or plastic covers of lamp units 
are not acceptable. The image shows a crack and I think a charge is therefore 
merited.
oThe alloys  the BVRLA guidance says scuffs of 50mm on the total 
circumference are acceptable. The image shows quite extensive scuffing and 
whilst there is no ruler in the image I am persuaded that the scuffing is in 
excess of 50mm and a charge was therefore merited.
oThe missing key  theres no dispute the key was missing, and the guidance 
says a charge can be made in those circumstances. I understand the key has 
now been found but its been found too late and I dont think MBFS have been 
unreasonable making a charge for it.
So overall, I dont think the refurbishment charges MBFS have applied have been 
unreasonable as I think the damage is beyond what could be considered fair wear 
and tear.
Mr G is also disappointed to have been charged a late collection fee. I can see that 
Mr G wanted to arrange a more specific timeslot but that the collection company 
werent able to do that. Im persuaded that on both occasions the cancellations 
appear to have been because a more suitable time of arrival wasnt possible. The 
business have explained that collection agents will call about an hour before arrival 
but that their collection agents cant be more specific. I dont think thats 
unreasonable and I think Mr G should have expected to need to be more flexible with 
his availability in order to arrange a suitable collection time. I think the delay in the 
collection could therefore have been reasonably averted and I therefore dont think 
MBFS were wrong when applying the charge that they did.
So, I dont think MBFS need to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman