DRN-3087270
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) declined a claim they 
made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B had booked a holiday abroad  they were due to leave the UK on 21 March 
2020. On 14 March 2020 the government of the country that Mr and Mrs B were due to 
visit declared a state of emergency and imposed a nationwide lockdown. 
The following day the travel provider cancelled their holiday as a result of the restrictions 
which were in place and the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all 
but essential travel to the country Mr and Mrs B were due to visit. Mr and Mrs Bs flights 
were also cancelled.
Mr and Mrs B claimed on their insurance policy. URV declined the claim on the basis that 
there was no cover under the policy for cancellation of the holiday in such circumstances, 
particularly given the unprecedented impact of Covid-19. Unhappy, Mr and Mrs B 
complained to our service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld the complaint. He said that it 
wasnt fair that Mr and Mrs B werent covered if they cancelled, but also not covered if they 
travelled. So, he thought that URV should pay the claim. URV disagreed and asked an 
ombudsman to review the complaint. They said that the policy term was clear and 
Mr and Mrs B had 14 days to review the policy and decide if it was right for them. 
In September 2021 I issued a provisional decision. I set out the relevant policy terms and 
conditions and explained that I was intending to uphold the complaint. In summary, I said: 
Mr and Mrs Bs holiday was cancelled on 15 March 2020 and the FCO advised 
against all but essential travel to their destination on that date. The FCO advice 
remained in place up until their planned departure date. The travel provider also 
mentioned the impact of restrictions in their destination and the FCO advice when 
cancelling their trip 
Cancellation for a change in FCO advice wasnt a valid reason for a cancellation 
claim to be paid under the policy as it wasnt a listed, insured event for which cover 
is provided under the terms of the policy 
There are some limited situations where, if I considered that policy documentation 
wasnt clear in signposting a policyholder to certain policy exclusions, I might think 
its fair and reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside of the policy terms 
and conditions. But I didnt think that was the case in the circumstances of this 
complaint as I was satisfied that the relevant exclusions were clearly and 
transparently set out in the policy terms and conditions. And, had Mr and Mrs B 
wanted a policy that covered a change in FCO advice, then they could have found 
such a policy on the market.
I asked URV and Mr and Mrs B to let me know if they had anything else to add. Neither 
party made any further comments in response to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party made any further representations about the outcome of this complaint 
theres no reason for me to reach a different conclusion to that which I reached in my 
provisional decision. 
For the reasons Ive outlined above, and in my provisional decision, I remain satisfied that it 
wasnt unreasonable for URV to decline Mr and Mrs Bs claim. I also think that the relevant 
exclusions, relating to a lack of cover due to a change in FCO advice, were clearly and 
transparently set out in the policy terms and conditions. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman