DRN-1665082
 
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
The policy was sold by Marks & Spencer. But Allianz has taken responsibility for the sale 
and by extension this complaint. 
To keep things simple, Ive only referred to Allianz in my decision.
background
Mrs L took out a personal reserve account in January 1999. At the same time she took out a 
PPI policy. This would have covered her if she was off work because of accident, sickness or 
if she lost her job. The account and PPI ended in or before August 2006.
Mrs L says she is not 100% aware of PPI being added to this account. She said it was done 
so without her knowledge.
Our adjudicator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. Mrs L disagreed with this view 
and asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ls complaint and Ill explain why.
Unfortunately Allianz hasnt been able to show us a copy of the original application from the 
time. Thats understandable as it was so long ago. But it has sent us a sample of an 
application form it most likely would have used. This sample form shows PPI presented as 
optional with a box that would have needed to be ticked if PPI was required. Ive also 
thought about what both parties have told me and taken into account what we know about 
these types of sales at the time to make my decision. On balance, based on what i have 
seen and know, I think its more likely Mrs L would have been given a choice, would've been 
aware of PPI and could have declined it if she didnt want it.
I dont think Mrs L would have received advice about the PPI. So as Allianz didnt 
recommend PPI to Mrs L it didnt have to check if it was suitable for her. But it still needed to 
give Mrs L enough information to allow her to make an informed decision about whether or 
not to buy the policy. Its possible not all the information Allianz gave to Mrs L was as clear as it should have been. 
But even if she had been given clearer or better information I still think she would have 
bought the cover. 
I say this because Mrs L was eligible for the policy. And it doesnt seem she wouldve been 
affected by any of the exclusions or limitations of the policy which might have made it more 
difficult to make a successful claim, such as unusual employment circumstances or a       
pre-existing medical condition. 
Mrs L says she can't remember if she had sick pay at the time of sale. But the policy 
wouldve paid out until Mrs Ls outstanding balance at the time of the claim was repaid, or 
until she went back to work and would've been in addition of any provisions she had. So 
I think the policy couldve been useful to her if things went wrong as it would have paid out 
for an extended period. 
I also think the cover was affordable. So I cant see that clearer information about the costs 
and benefit wouldve put Mrs L off taking the policy.
So overall I dont think better information wouldve changed Mrs L's mind about the PPI. And 
I dont think she lost out because of anything Allianz did wrong. So I dont think it needs to do 
anything to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman