DRN-2628777
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy that Unum Ltd declined a claim made on a group income protection policy 
he had the benefit of.
What happened
Mr E has the benefit of an income protection policy (the policy) through his employer, which 
can pay out a portion of his income after hed been off work sick for 52 weeks (the deferred 
period). 
In mid-2018, Mr E was absent from work for several months with anxiety/depression (the 
first period of absence). He returned to work around the end of September 2018.
In June 2019, Mr E became absent from work for an extended period with stress and anxiety 
(the second period of absence).
A claim was made on the policy towards the end of 2019. 
Unum considered the claim and declined to pay the benefit under the policy. It concluded 
that there wasnt enough to establish that Mr E was incapacitated as defined by the policy. 
Mr E didnt think that was fair, so appealed Unums decision. Unum subsequently concluded 
that it had been right to decline the claim.
Unhappy, Mr E complained to our Service. Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. Mr E 
disagreed so his complaint has now been passed to me to look at everything afresh and 
make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold it. I know Mr E will be very disappointed, but hopefully, hell 
understand the reasons for my decision when I explain why. 
Unum has a duty to handle complaints promptly and fairly  and it mustnt unreasonably 
decline a claim. When making a claim, its for Mr E to demonstrate that he meets the 
definition of incapacity throughout the deferred period.
Unum has combined the first and second periods of absence, to calculate the start and end 
date of the deferred period as per the terms of the policy  which I think is reasonable here. 
The policy pays out a proportion of a members income if they become incapacitated and are 
unable to work. Under the policy:
a member is incapacitated if theyre unable, by reason of their illness to perform 
the material and substantial duties of the insured occupation and are not performing 
any occupation
Insured occupation means: the trade, profession or general role that the member 
was actively undertaking for (the policyholder) immediately prior to incapacity
Mr E was carrying out an administrative role.  
Im not a medical expert so Ive relied on the evidence available to me when considering 
whether Unum unfairly declined Mr Es claim.
When initially making a claim under the policy Mr E completed a claim form dated November 
2019. On it, he said that he was living with depression and anxiety as a result of work stress. 
Because of this he said he was finding it difficult to sleep, had a general feeling of fatigue, 
lacked energy and was unable to concentrate. 
However, theres very little reference to him feeling this way in the GP notes during the first 
period of absence  or for the first several months of the second period of absence  and, 
importantly in this case, the impact his anxiety and stress had on him. 
It looks like that Mr E utilised the services of a private psychiatric service in or around 
September 2019. Mr E completed a health questionnaire which indicated suicidal ideation, 
low energy, anhedonia, excess sleep, fatigue, low self-esteem, poor concentration, poor 
speech and restlessness.
The observations from Mr Es GP during the second period of absence reflect that in 
November 2019 he was alert, well dressed, good eye contact, well spoken, good insight 
and, although in December 2019, Mr E reported sleep disturbance, its reflected that his 
appetite was ok and he maintained good eye contact. 
I can see that a referral to a counsellor was mentioned  and so was medication. But Mr E 
initially didnt want to try counselling and was concerned about the side effects of taking 
medication - as reflected in occupational health reports from around the time, in December 
2019 and March 2020. That, of course, was a choice for Mr E after discussion with his GP. 
But its not unreasonable for Unum to take those things into account when considering 
whether Mr E was incapacitated under the policy.
Ive also considered the contents of various occupational health reports but many of these 
were prepared after telephone consultations with Mr E and are largely based on Mr E self-
reporting his symptoms and how he was feeling, without clinical observation or analysis. 
So, although Mr E had been signed off work by his GP, and not capable of working  which 
was supported by the opinion of occupational health  the medical evidence doesnt support 
that Mr E was unable, by reason of illness, to perform the material and substantial duties of 
the insured occupation throughout the entirely of deferred period (split over two periods of 
absence from work). 
When making this finding Ive also considered the more recent medical evidence 
Mr E has submitted including the results of a dyslexia assessment from early 2018. But I 
dont think thats relevant to whether he was incapacitated during the deferred period. 
He also provided letters from his GP dated early 2021, in support of his application for 
certain welfare benefits, showing that Mr E continues to live with anxiety and depression, is 
now taking medication, has been referred to a rheumatology clinic because of ongoing pain and he states that he has no energy or motivation to do anything. And a letter from his 
Consultant Psychiatrist from early 2021 confirming that they saw Mr E approximately 13 
years ago, and that at that time it was the Consultant Psychiatrists impression that Mr E was 
suffering from depression with health anxiety and panic attacks.
The letters dont provide much insight into how  and to what extent - his conditions were 
affecting him during the deferred period, relevant to the claim made under the policy. And 
Ive placed less weight on the medical evidence from after the deferred period. Im more 
persuaded by the medical evidence from around the time of the relevant deferred period.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Es complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman