DRN-1588827
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold him a fee-paying Platinum 
account.
Mr H believes it was mis-sold because the account products and services were no good for 
him and were a total waste of time and money.
What happened
Mr H upgraded his fee-free current account to a fee-paying Platinum account online on 13 
June 2019. Mr H then downgraded the account back to a fee-free account on 9 July 2019.
Lloyds didnt think it had mis-sold the account, essentially because Mr H applied for it himself 
online and so it was up to Mr H to have decide if it was worth having.
Our adjudicators considered what Mr H and Lloyds have said and provided and they agreed 
it was not mis-sold. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so it has been 
referred for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive used that to help me decide this case. And having considered everything, I dont 
think it was mis-sold.
I think it might help to explain, that for me to find that it was mis-sold, I would need to be 
satisfied that Lloyds did something wrong. And in this case Im struggling to see what it is Mr 
H thinks Lloyds did wrong as he has given very little detail about his complaint. 
Having looked through everything, as a far as I can see, it appears that Mr H applied for a 
packaged account, which he says he didnt need, online. He then removed the Platinum 
package from his account shortly afterwards, presumably because he realised that he didnt 
need it after all. And then he complained to Lloyds that it had mis-sold it to him.
As Mr H applied for the account himself online  I cant see that Lloyds staff had any 
involvement in the account upgrade. And as he already had a fee-free account and was able 
to downgrade the Platinum account back to a fee-free account, Ive no doubt that he was 
aware the Platinum account was optional and that he didnt have to have it if he didnt want 
it. 
Based on my understanding of the online application process, Mr H will have been given at 
least some information about the account benefits and cost of having the Platinum account, 
before agreeing to the upgrade. Therefore I think he had at least enough information to 
understand roughly what he was agreeing to i.e. that it was a fee-paying account that came 
with a range of benefits. 
Its possible that Mr H might not have been presented with all of the important information 
about the accounts features and benefits. But Mr H has not said, despite having had the 
opportunity to do so, what it is that made him initially apply for it, nor what it is that made him 
realise that it was, as he says, a total waste of time and money. 
So in the circumstances, Im unable to say that the account was mis-sold because Lloyds 
had somehow failed to provide Mr H with enough information about the account to make an 
informed decision. 
As such, I am unable to conclude that the account was mis-sold.
Finally, Mr H has said that he tried to downgrade the account multiple times but was unable 
to do so. Lloyds says it has no evidence of Mr H contacting it to downgrade the account  
apart from when it was downgraded. And Mr H hasnt provided any further information on 
when or even how he tried to downgrade it. So again, given the information I have, I cant 
reasonably conclude that Lloyds has acted incorrectly or unreasonably in this matter.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2020.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman