DRN-1535024
The complaint
Mr Hs unhappy Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) havent paid out for a claim made 
on his pet insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2019 Mr Hs dog needed treatment for a liver shunt. Mr H made a claim on his 
pet insurance policy, but this was turned down  so he complained about this.
RSA said the treatment dates were February to March 2019. And the medical history 
provided by the vet showed Mr Hs dog was showing clinical signs of being unwell in 
November 2017 which was later linked to his shunt. RSA say they know Mr Hs dog was not 
diagnosed until around a year later, but they could see he was being constantly treated for 
the same issues.
RSA added they got in touch with Mr Hs vet, to ask why the dogs clinical signs wouldnt be 
related to his shunt and say the vet couldnt give an explanation. And they say they can see, 
from the medical history, Mr Hs dog had treatment for diabetes which didnt improve things. 
But after the surgery for the shunt, all issues were resolved.
Mr H didnt agree with this. He said the possibility of a liver shunt was first mentioned in 
August 2018, when he took his dog to another vets. And his dog wasnt actually diagnosed 
with the condition until February 2019, so the claim should be met  so he asked us to look 
into things.
One of our investigators did so, and he felt RSA should uphold the claim. He said he 
understands RSA think clinical signs started in November 2017, but he didnt think there was 
any evidence to back that up. He said the first evidence of the condition of liver shunt was 
August 2018, so the 12-month period should start from then  meaning the claim date would 
be covered, and RSA should pay out the claim.
RSA didnt agree. They said if the treatment in November 2017 wasnt for the liver shunt, 
what was it for then? And said that after the operation, all the issues Mr Hs dog had been 
experiencing were resolved. They also reiterated that the policy terms mean they shouldnt 
meet the claim.
Because RSA didnt accept our investigators findings, the complaints been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSA have argued that the treatment in 2017 was for the liver shunt, and so this means thats 
when the 12-month time period started. So, Ive looked carefully at the information provided 
by the previous vet, who treated Mr Hs dog at this time.
The notes recorded at the time say theyre looking for renal dz, endocrine issue, diabetes 
insipidus. Theres no mention of any treatment for a liver shunt.
And in May 2019 the vets said I would like to confirm that the suspicion of portosystemic 
shunt was not mentioned or treated in the consultation the 27/11/2017. And they reiterate 
the information contained in the notes.
I think this is important, because this is the vet who actually treated Mr Hs dog. She would 
have known if there were any potential issues related to liver shunt  but said at the time, 
and remains of the opinion several years later, that this wasnt being looked for. This vet will 
have first-hand knowledge of Mr Hs dog  and unless theres really persuasive evidence to 
the contrary, I think its appropriate to rely on this.
RSA have said if it wasnt for a liver shunt, what was the treatment for  and I think the 
treating vet at the time has answered that, as per the notes recorded at the time. And while I 
can understand RSAs argument that the issues cleared up after the operation, this isnt 
persuasive evidence there were clinical signs of the liver shunt in November 2017. Because 
of this, I think its right for RSA to pay out on the claim.
Putting things right
RSA should:
Pay the claim under the terms of the policy.
Pay Mr H 8% interest on the amount they owe him, from the date he paid the vets 
bill, to the date they complete the settlement.
HM Revenue & Customs requires RSA to deduct tax from the interest payment referred to 
above. RSA must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax theyve deducted if he asks 
them for one.
My final decision
It follows I uphold this complaint and order Royal & Sun Alliance Plc to carry out the actions 
as explained in the Putting things right section of this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman