DRN-1440465
 
The complaint
Mr W's complaint is about how The Royal Bank of Scotland dealt with his claim raised under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75).
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I won't repeat them again 
here. Instead I'll focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
For a successful section 75 claim there must have been either a breach of contract or 
a misrepresentation. 
 
Mr W chose the holiday accommodation because it allowed dogs. He checked when 
he made the booking that he could bring his dog and was told this would be fine. He 
says that because he wasn't told about the dangerous dog breed policy at that time, 
the accommodation was misrepresented. I can see that the booking information did 
mention that dangerous dog breeds wouldn't be accepted and I have nothing to show 
that Mr W checked which breeds would be included. So I do not find that this issue 
was misrepresented to him. 
 
I appreciate that Mr W wasn't asked about the breed of his dog at the time of booking 
and so may not have been aware of any issue at that time. When he did identify that 
his breed of dog was included in the dangerous dog breeds list he contacted 
the accommodation provider to see if the dog was allowed. It was confirmed it would 
be and so I do not find I he was disadvantaged by this issue.
 
Mr W was concerned that as his breed of dog was listed in the accommodation's 
dangerous dog breeds it wouldn't be welcome at the accommodation. However the 
accommodation provider confirmed that Mr W could bring his dog. As the 
accommodation was available to Mr W and it was his choice not to stay there I do not 
find that a breach of contract occurred.
 
Mr W says he was worried that he might be turned away when he arrived at the 
accommodation or treated differently which would affect his ability to enjoy his 
holiday. I can only make a decision based on the facts of the case and in this case 
the accommodation was available to Mr W on the terms he booked it. Therefore I do 
not find that a breach of contract or a misrepresentation has occurred.
 
As I do not find that a breach of contract or misrepresentation occurred I do not find 
that The Royal Bank of Scotland has treated Mr W unfairly in regard to his Section 75 
claim.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman