DRN-2440458
The complaint
 Mr P complained that his car insurer, Covea Insurance plc provided poor service when he 
was involved in a car accident. He says they didnt obtain key CCTV evidence quickly 
enough, took too long to tell him his claim was a total loss and didnt pay him a fair value for 
his vehicle.  
What happened
 Mr P was in a carpark when his car was hit by another vehicle, Mr P says that at the time of 
the accident the driver of the other car accepted liability. However Covea say that when they 
contacted the other drivers insurance company the other driver had not admitted liability. 
Covea advised Mr P to make a claim against his own insurance policy and told him he could 
then be reimbursed by them when the case was closed in his favour.
Mr P had noticed the carpark was covered by CCTV cameras at the time of the accident and 
he referred to these in his initial statement in the hope the recordings would show he was not 
at fault. He spoke to the organisation responsible for the CCTV operation who advised him 
his insurance company would need to contact them.
Covea did contact the CCTV operator however by the time they did this the footage had 
been deleted as it is only retained for one week. 
As there was no independent evidence and neither party admitted fault both parties were 
held jointly liable. This meant Mr P was held partly liable for the claim which caused his 
premium to increase by £500.00.
Mr P also says Covea delayed assessing the damage to his car. Covea told him they would 
send someone to assess the damage, but he didnt hear anything for a long time and had to 
chase Covea multiple times after sending over estimates for repairs before Mr P was told his 
car was a total loss. 
Mr P was also unhappy with the amount Covea offered for his car. Mr P was offered 
£1300.00 for his car. Our investigator found trade values for the same make and model 
ranged between £1030.00 and £1425.00. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Ps complaint and recommended Covea pay him £100 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience the delays in the service had caused him. 
Mr P agreed with this however Covea did not agree the delays were unreasonable and 
requested the case be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ps complaint and Ill explain my reasons.
Mr P notified his Covea of the accident and damage to his vehicle the day it happened 
however Covea did not send an engineer out to assess the damage until six days later and it 
was four days after that Mr P was asked for a repair estimate. Mr P provided an estimate but 
Covea asked for it to be sent to them again five days later. 
Two weeks after this Mr P chased again and was told as the estimate included two instances 
of non-accident related damage the cost to repair his car meant it would cost more to repair 
and be a total loss. 
Covea had the engineers report and estimates for six days before they shared the 
information with Mr P but Mr P had called twice in that time asking for an update. It then took 
a further two weeks for Mr P to be contacted about the total loss payment. This is outside the 
five day timescale Covea refer to on their policy. I can see that this would have been 
frustrating for Mr P so I think the £100.00 compensation recommended by our investigator is 
fair and reasonable.
Mr P was also unhappy about the time taken for Covea to contact the CCTV operator and he 
says not having the CCTV footage meant the claim had to be settled as jointly liable as the 
third party was disputing liability. Due to settling the claim as jointly liable Mr Ps premiums 
increased to £500.00 and he thinks this is unfair.  
I have considered the timeframe and I can see Mr P told Covea about the CCTV three days 
after the accident. Covea contacted the CCTV operator the same day to request the footage. 
The CCTV operator replied to Coveas email four days later asking which carpark the 
accident had happened in. Covea contacted Mr P three days later and he replied the same 
day. Covea then got back in touch with the CCTV operator the same day but by this point 
the footage had been deleted as it was only kept for one week. 
I can understand this must be very frustrating for Mr P as he cannot use the footage to 
defend himself and show he was not liable however I dont think Covea acted any more 
slowly than they should have done here. I dont think it is their fault the footage was no 
longer available. 
Mr Ps insurance policy allows his insurer to settle claims on his behalf and the third party 
was now disputing liability and there were no witnesses to the accident. Taking that into 
consideration I think Coveas decision to accept joint liability was a fair one.  Our role is to 
consider whether the insurer handled the claim and made decisions in a fair and reasonable 
manner. It isnt to decide who was at fault for the accident.
If an insurer has assessed the evidence of a claim to conclude that it doesnt have 
reasonable prospects of success in court and so doesnt think it had a strong enough case to 
defend, it may take over its defence and settle it. Covea has a term in Mr Ps policy that 
allows it to take over and settle the claim how it chooses. It doesnt need the agreement or 
consent of Mr P to do this. We think insurers can rely on this term as long as its fair and 
reasonable to do so in the circumstances.
I have looked at how and why Covea reached its decision. I can see that Covea has looked 
at both versions of the events and the damage to both cars.
Mr P was also unhappy with the amount Covea has offered for his car. Mr Ps policy with 
Covea said in the event of a total loss claim he would only receive his cars trade value. 
Our investigator used a selection of trade guides to see if Covea had offered Mr P a 
reasonable and fair value. The values given in the trade guides ranged between £1,030 and 
£1,425. Covea offered Mr P £1300.00 in settlement which is within this range so I think this 
is a fair value to offer.Putting things right
I require Covea Insurance plc to pay Mr P £100.00 compensation in recognition of the 
inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I have outlined above it is my final decision that Mr Ps complaint is upheld.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Sarah Scott
Ombudsman