DRN-3579889
The complaint
Mrs L is unhappy that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) have not replaced her 
dishwasher with a similar model under her domestic appliance insurance policy.
What happened
In November 2021 Mrs Ls dishwasher broke down. She made a claim on her policy and 
D&G said that the dishwasher was beyond repair. They agreed to replace it under the policy 
with a new dishwasher of a similar specification from their chosen supplier. 
On 23 November 2021 Mrs L rang to discuss her replacement options with D&G. There was 
a model from one of Mrs Ls preferred brands with a £75 upgrade fee. D&G say they told 
Mrs L that it didnt have an LED display showing the time remaining on the programme. 
On 26 November 2021 Mrs L rang back to advise that she had tried to place an order for the 
dishwasher but that the upgrade fee had increased. It was also showing as out of stock. 
D&G suggested that Mrs L browse for alternative options on an online retailers website. Mrs 
L did this. She said she also checked the specifications for the model that was out of stock. 
The website wrongly said that the dishwasher had a time remaining feature, but Mrs L didnt 
know this was incorrect at the time. Mrs L placed an order for this dishwasher with D&G as 
soon as it came back in stock. 
When Mrs L first used the dishwasher, she realised that it didnt have the adjustable racks or 
the time remaining display that she thought it had. She complained to D&G that it wasnt a 
like for like replacement. She said that she had made it clear that the time remaining feature 
was important for her. She was also disappointed that it didnt have adjustable racks. D&G 
said that they advised Mrs L that the dishwasher didnt have the time remaining feature but 
accepted that the online retailers website wrongly said that it did. However, they said this 
was not their responsibility. As a gesture of goodwill, they offered to refund the upgrade fee 
of £75. Mrs L was not happy with this and brought her complaint to this service. She wants 
the dishwasher replaced with one that has the same features as her original dishwasher. 
D&G declined to do this as the dishwasher had been selected by Mrs L, installed and used.
Our investigator didnt think that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that D&G had 
correctly advised Mrs L and they were not responsible for information on an independent 
retailers website. She also thought that Mrs L had the opportunity to check the machines 
features before using it. Mrs L didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the policy and these say that D&G will arrange to 
replace your product with one of a same or similar make and technical specification.  D&G 
are not obliged to provide a replacement that is an exact match  only to provide one that is 
similar. I understand D&G offered Mrs L a number of replacements with different features for 
her to choose from.
Ive listened carefully to the two phone calls Mrs L made to D&G before placing her order. 
Its clear that Mrs L only wanted one of two named brands which she believed were equal to 
her existing dishwasher. Whilst this limited Mrs Ls options, she was offered one with a £75 
upgrade fee that she thought was suitable. Mrs L asked if the dishwasher had a time 
remaining feature and was clearly advised that it didnt. She didnt ask about adjustable 
racks or any other features. Despite knowing there was no time remaining feature, Mrs L 
said she would consider this option. If there had been other features she specifically wanted, 
I wouldve expected Mrs L to ask D&G about these.
When Mrs L rang back a few days later, she said she had tried to place the order the day 
before but hadnt because the upgrade fee had increased. Im therefore satisfied that Mrs L 
thought this dishwasher a suitable match even though she knew it didnt have the time 
remaining feature. 
During this second call D&G agreed the upgrade fee and Mrs L was happy to go ahead with 
the purchase. There was no further discussion about the time remaining feature or any other 
features that Mrs L wanted. However, the dishwasher was showing as out of stock so D&G 
directed Mrs L onto a particular online retailers website to search for alternatives. She did 
this whilst speaking to D&G but there was nothing suitable in stock. She confirmed she was 
happy to go ahead with the dishwasher that she had previously tried to buy once it came 
back into stock with D&Gs retailer. 
I understand that before Mrs L placed her order a couple of days later, she checked the 
independent online retailers website for the features of her chosen dishwasher. Its not in 
dispute that the information she found there was incorrect  and I understand why Mrs L is 
upset about this. However, Im satisfied that D&G advised Mrs L correctly that the time 
remaining feature was not included in the dishwasher, and if Mrs L was unsure about this 
she could have queried it with D&G before ordering. I dont think it fair to hold D&G 
responsible for the accuracy of information provided by someone else - particularly as they 
didnt specifically advise Mrs L during the telephone call to check the features on this 
website.  
When the dishwasher was delivered, I dont think Mrs L wouldve physically been able to see 
that it didnt have the time remaining feature before it was installed or used. However, as Ive 
said above, I think D&G had already correctly advised her that it didnt. D&G say that their 
returns policy says that once an appliance has been installed and used, its not possible for 
them to replace it. I dont think this is unreasonable as the machine will not be able to be 
returned to the supplier as new. I dont therefore think it fair to expect D&G to now replace it 
with an alternative model. 
I understand that Mrs L will be disappointed with my decision, but for the reasons stated 
above I dont think D&G have acted unfairly and dont require them to do anything differently.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Elizabeth MiddletonOmbudsman