DRN-1967250
The complaint
Mr H complains that he was mis-sold two packaged bank account called Ultimate Reward 
Current Accounts (URCAs) by Bank of Scotland Plc (Bank of Scotland) trading as Halifax.
What happened
Mr H took out a fee free Cash Card account with Bank of Scotland in April 2002.
Mr H then took out a fee free Current Account in addition to his Cash Card account in June 
2011.
In October 2011, he converted his Current Account to an URCA for which he paid a monthly 
fee.
In April 2012 he downgraded his URCA to a Current Account with no fee.
At the same time, he upgraded his Cash Card account to be an URCA, with a monthly fee. 
And he held this URCA account until he closed it in January 2020.
Mr H says he only chose to take out the URCAs because Bank of Scotland told him he 
needed an URCA with an overdraft facility in order to get a loan for a car.
Our adjudicator investigated Mr Hs complaint and decided that Bank of Scotland didnt mis-
sell the URCAs. Mr H disagrees so the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Hs complaint.
In this complaint I have two URCA sales to consider, one in October 2011 and one in April 
2012. I will consider them separately, as Mr Hs circumstances were different on the two 
occasions. In each case Ill consider whether Mr H was aware the URCA was optional, and 
then Ill consider whether Bank of Scotland did anything wrong in the sale.
October 2011 sale
Prior to this sale Mr H had had a fee free account with an overdraft of £100 for several 
months. So, I think its more likely than not that Mr H was aware that fee free accounts with 
overdrafts were widely available with Bank of Scotland and other banks and financial 
institutions. 
Mr H says he was pressurised into taking the account and that Bank of Scotland told him he 
had to take out the account to get a loan for a car. I think its likely there was an extensive 
discussion about the benefits of the account as the URCA is a substantial product and this 
may have felt like pressure. But I think Mr H was still aware at the end that there was an 
alternative account without a fee available for the reasons Ive given above. And I think that if 
he had been told that he had to pay a fee for an URCA in order to get a loan, I think he 
would have challenged this and sought alternative accounts elsewhere. Also, there is no 
evidence that Mr H took out a loan with Bank of Scotland shortly thereafter. Mr H says this 
was because his applications for a loan were declined. But if so, I think its more likely than 
not that he would have closed the account if hed only taken it out to get a loan. But he didnt 
and went on to take out another URCA a few months later.
So, I think Mr H was aware he had a choice and chose to take out the URCA.
Bank of Scotland says it didnt advise Mr H to take out the URCA. Mr H says it did.
Ive not seen any evidence such as an assessment of his needs or circumstances to show 
that Bank of Scotland did advise Mr H to take out the URCA. Again, Im sure the substantial 
explanation of the accounts benefits felt to Mr H as though Bank of Scotland was saying the 
URCA was a good idea. But this is not the same as advising him or making a personal 
recommendation. And based on this services knowledge of Bank of Scotlands sales in this 
period, I think its more likely than not that Bank of Scotland sold the URCA to Mr H on an 
information only basis.
So, Bank of Scotland only needed to provide Mr H with enough information about the URCA 
to make an informed choice.
The URCA contained a range of benefits including worldwide travel insurance, AA 
breakdown cover, home emergency cover and mobile phone insurance. And it offered better 
overdraft facilities including a fee free overdraft of up to £300. 
I dont know what Bank of Scotland said or what information it gave Mr H about the URCA. 
But, as Ive said above, I think its likely Bank of Scotland wouldve described the URCA to 
him at some length as it was trying to sell the account to him. And I think the URCA would 
have been of interest to Mr H. 
I say this because the URCA cost him £15 per month. And Bank of Scotland has provided 
evidence that he had run an overdraft prior to the sale and incurred fees much greater than 
£15 per month, so he immediately used and benefitted from the better overdraft facility. Mr H 
also says he travelled up to three times a year at the time and so in my view he could have 
used the travel insurance. Mr H says the travel insurance wouldnt have covered some 
sports and hobbies he followed. But I think its more likely than not that the travel insurance 
wouldve covered these either for free or for a small additional competitive premium.
Mr H says he was intending to purchase a car, so the breakdown cover wouldve been of 
interest, and Bank of Scotland has provided evidence that he had a mobile phone.
So, in my view I think Mr H knew he had a choice whether to take out the URCA in October 
2011 or not and he chose to do so. I think the URCA was of interest to him and there was no 
information that Mr H didnt receive from Bank of Scotland that would likely have put him off 
taking it out.
April 2012 saleBy April 2012 Mr H had not been able to take out a loan to buy a car with Bank of Scotland, 
so in my view he would have known that holding the URCA was not connected to being able 
to get a loan for a car.
As before he was aware of fee free accounts with overdrafts. And hed had the experience of 
holding and paying for an URCA.
So, in my view its more likely than not that Mr H was aware he had a choice in April 2012 
and chose to take out the URCA.
I think this was a non-advised sale for the same reasons I gave above for the previous sale.
When he took out the URCA in April 2012 he asked for and was given an overdraft of £1000. 
In using that overdraft, I would accept that the value of the fee free element was less than 
before, however the other aspects of his circumstances remained similar, so I think the 
URCA was of interest to him for the reasons I gave above relating to the previous sale.
So, in April 2012, in my view Mr H knew he had a choice whether to take out the URCA or 
not and he chose to do so. I think the URCA was of interest to him and there was no 
information that Mr H didnt receive from Bank of Scotland that would likely have put him off 
taking it out.
Overall
In summary, I think its more likely than not that Bank of Scotland didnt do anything wrong in 
the sale of the two URCAs to Mr H.
For completeness Mr H has referred to having to keep the URCA open in subsequent years 
due to his overdraft and that Bank of Scotland shouldnt have given him a large overdraft. I 
cant see any evidence that in his circumstances Bank of Scotland shouldnt have given him 
the £1000 overdraft in April 2012. His finances then appear to have been in reasonable 
order and this wouldve been a lending decision for the bank. And while hes said he 
struggled financially at times over the years, I cant see any evidence that he raised this with 
Bank of Scotland. And so, in my view I cant say that Bank of Scotland did anything wrong in 
this respect.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman