DRN-3613416
The complaint
Mrs M complains about Soteria Insurance Limited (Soteria) for the settlement it has offered 
on her claim. 
What happened
Mrs M previously held home contents insurance with Soteria.
In September 2021, whilst vacuuming, she knocked over a 3ft tall Betty Boop figurine and 
broke it beyond repair.  She submitted a claim to Soteria. 
Mrs M did not have proof of purchase or certificates of authenticity for the item. She believed 
it was worth around £1500 - £2000. 
Soteria researched replacement items and concluded that a like for like item was not 
available. They compared other Betty Boop figurines that were available and considered that 
these were available for a range of values between £50 and £350. 
Soteria therefore offered Mrs M a settlement of £200, minus her £50 excess. 
Mrs M was not happy with this and complained. She felt that the figurines used in reaching 
the offer included much smaller or damaged items. 
 Soteria responded not upholding Mrs Ms complaint. Soteria considered that the way it had 
reached the settlement offer was fair. 
Mrs M complained to us. 
Our investigator has looked into this matter and set out her view to the parties. This was that 
Soteria should increase its offer of settlement to reflect a value of £328. This was because 
the most comparable items available were new and of similar appearance. 
Soteria did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered my colleagues explanation of her view which is thorough and clear. She 
explains that the policy sets out that settlement will be based on the cost of replacement if 
the item cannot be repaired. 
The investigator further points to the fact that the policy does not provide for a reduction in 
value for wear and tear of this type of item. 
Soteria has not accepted that view and defends the way it has reached settlement in this 
matter. Soteria has not provided any explanation of why it disagrees with my colleagues 
assessment, beyond that it does not agree. 
I think that the way my colleague approached finding a comparable item, without comparing 
to smaller, used condition or otherwise damaged items, is consistent with the policy wording 
and is fair. 
I therefore endorse her approach and agree that Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. 
Soteria should settle Mrs Ms claim at a valuation of £328, from which it may deduct the 
policy excess.  
Putting things right
To put matters right, Soteria must settle Mrs Ms claim at a valuation of £328 minus the 
policy excess. 
Soteria must add interest to any outstanding amount at a rate of 8% per annum from the 
date it originally determined Mrs Ms claim up until it settles the remainder of the claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mrs Ms complaint and direct Soteria Insurance 
Limited to:
Settle Mrs Ms claim based on a valuation of £328, from which it may deduct the 
policy excess; and
Add to the payment due interest at a rate of 8% per annum from the date Soteria 
initially made its settlement offer for Mrs Ms claim, up until the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman