DRN-2031510
The complaint
Mrs L complains about problems she experienced when trying to cash in a bond with 
National Savings and Investments (NS&I). 
What happened
Mrs L completed as cash in form specifying a bond she wanted to withdraw. The form says 
NS&I arrange the cash in within eight working days. 
NS&I received Mrs Ls form on 6 September 2019 but wasnt able to match the signature 
with its records. NS&I wrote to Mrs L and asked her to send another, witnessed, signature 
back to complete the cash in. 
On 9 September 2019 Mrs L contacted NS&I and complained. During the call Mrs L 
explained that she urgently needed the funds in order to pay invoices and that she thought 
the timescale for completing a cash in was three working days. NS&I subsequently told 
Mrs L that a witnessed signature was required to complete the cash in via the postal request 
she made. 
Mrs L instructed a cash in of a different bond online, but because the request wasnt made 
by post she couldnt make a selection over which one to use. The process was completed 
within three working days. 
Mrs L complained about the service she received and asked for a transcript of her calls to be 
provided. NS&I responded and sent Mrs L a CD with the call recordings on it. NS&I 
responded to the complaint on 26 September 2019 but didnt agree an error had been made. 
NS&I said Mrs L had signed the postal cash in form that confirmed the eight working day 
time frame. 
Mrs L referred her complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought NS&I had dealt with Mrs Ls complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mrs 
L asked to appeal so her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs L has raised several concerns and Ill look at each in turn. Ill start by looking at the time 
frames given by NS&I for making withdrawals. Mrs L says she checked and found the time 
frame for cashing in was three working days. She expected her cash in request, received by 
NS&I on 6 September 2019, to be completed in line with that. But, the form Mrs L completed 
to request the cash in says it will take up to eight working days, not three. The information 
isnt buried in the fine print and Im satisfied it clearly sets out how long the process will take. 
Ive looked at the time calculator online, but as it says online and phone only within its 
heading, the time frames given werent applicable to the withdrawal Mrs L wanted to make. I 
think NS&I has provided clear guidance on how long withdrawals take. 
Mrs L says that she found herself in a difficult position as she needed the funds by a specific 
date, in order to pay large bills that became due. Mrs L has also told us about a remortgage 
that was happening around the time. But, as Ive said above, the postal cash in request she 
made was never going to be completed within the three days she expected. 
I understand Mrs L feels NS&I missed an opportunity to deal with the situation after it failed 
to call her on receipt of the form without a verifiable signature. I take Mrs Ls point, but NS&I 
needed a new signature that had been witnessed. That isnt something Mrs L could provide 
over the phone. Im not persuaded that it was unreasonable for NS&I to respond to Mrs L in 
writing. 
When the different time frames for cashing in were explained, Mrs L decided to make an 
online cash in request. That was completed in line with NS&Is three working day time frame. 
Im satisfied the withdrawal request was handled correctly by NS&I. 
When she called on 9 September 2019, Mrs L was initially told the contents of NS&Is letter 
couldnt be discussed. But after Mrs L spoke to a manager the information was provided. I 
agree the service here should have been better and NS&I has confirmed that feedback and 
training has been given to the staff involved. I think thats a fair way to deal with the issue. I 
accept it was frustrating for Mrs L, but later in the call the correct position was explained. 
Mrs L has also raised concerns that NS&I sent her a CD recording of telephone 
conversations she had and explained she wanted a transcript. I take Mrs Ls point, but as a 
service we dont generally have the powers to consider a complaint about complaint 
handling in its own right. Ive considered this point as part of the overall service Mrs L 
received. NS&I has explained that the call in question was around 36 minutes so it took the 
decision to send a recording. Im satisfied that was a reasonable approach for NS&I to take. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs L, but I havent found that NS&I treated her unfairly or delayed 
the cashing in of her premium bond. Im satisfied the information it provides about time 
frames for withdrawals is clear. Whilst there were some service issues, I think NS&I has 
addressed them and its decision to provide training and feedback to the staff involved was 
reasonable. As Im satisfied NS&I has dealt with this complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take 
any further action.  
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman