DRN-3098393
The complaint
Mr D says Loans 2 Go Limited lent to him irresponsibly.  
What happened
Mr D took out an 18-month instalment loan for £500 from Loans 2 Go on 10 January 2020. 
The monthly repayments were £114.28 and the total repayable was £2057.04.
Mr D says since taking the loan he hasnt been able to make his other repayments on time 
and is now more in debt. He says he applied online and gave his bank details but was 
declined. However by the next morning Loans 2 Go had credited his account with the £500. 
He hadnt signed a credit agreement and wasnt sent details of the repayments or interest 
rate until after the cooling-off period. He asks for compensation for the stress the lender has 
caused. 
Our adjudicator recommended Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. He said, in summary, 
Loans 2 Go carried out proportionate checks but didnt make a fair lending decision based 
on the information it gathered.
Loans 2 Go disagreed. It said its checks didnt show signs Mr D was struggling financially  
he was up-to-date on all repayments apart from one arrangement to pay. Whilst there was 
some adverse information this would be expected given the nature of the lending.
As an agreement wasnt reached the decision was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when Loans 2 Go lent to Mr D required it to carry out a reasonable
and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed in a
sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an
affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So Loans 2 Go had to think about whether
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for
Mr D. In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr D.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for. In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
- the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
- the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether Loans 2 Go did what it needed to before agreeing
to lend to Mr D. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
- did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing
Mr Ds loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in
a sustainable way?
- if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
- did Loans 2 Go make a fair lending decision?
- did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see Loans 2 Go asked for some information from Mr D before it approved the loan. It
asked for his monthly income (£1,900) and expenditure (£970). It completed an income 
verification check with a third party and adjusted it to £1530. It adjusted his declared 
expenditure to £1224.38 based on national statistics and added a 10% buffer for unplanned 
costs. It checked Mr Ds credit file to understand his existing monthly credit commitments 
and credit history. From these checks combined Loans 2 Go concluded the loan was 
affordable for Mr D.
I think these checks were proportionate, but I dont think Loans 2 Go made a fair lending
decision based on the information it gathered. Ill explain why.
Loans 2 Go knew from its credit check that Mr D was spending around £575 a month to
manage his existing credit commitments (£564 on a loan and assuming the minimum 
payment was made on his credit card). This was already a significant proportion of his 
income. And the repayment status of his existing loan (balance of £7988) had been reported 
as unknown for the two months prior to Mr Ds application. I cant see Loans 2 Go looked 
into this and checked he was still making the repayments successfully  and I can see from 
the bank statements Mr D supplied to the lender after making his complaint that the 
December 2019 direct debit payment failed. 
Giving this loan meant Mr D would need to commit around 45% of his income to meet all of 
his contractual credit repayments. I think the lender ought to have realised that this meant it 
was unlikely Mr D would be able to sustainably repay the loan over an 18-month time period. 
I think there was a risk he would need to borrow to repay it or suffer some other kind of 
financial harm. And as a responsible lender Loans 2 Go needed to consider this, not just the 
pounds and pence affordability. This obligation is set out in CONC 5.2A.12(R):
The firm must consider the customers ability to make repayments under the agreement:
(1) as they fall due over the life of the agreement and, where the agreement is an open-endagreement, within a reasonable period;
(2) out of, or using, one or more of the following:
(a) the customers income;
(b) income from savings or assets jointly held by the customer with another person, income
received by the customer jointly with another person or income received by another person in
so far as it is reasonable to expect such income to be available to the customer to make
repayments under the agreement; and/or
(c) savings or other assets where the customer has indicated clearly an intention to repay
(wholly or partly) using them;
(3) without the customer having to borrow to meet the repayments;
(4) without failing to make any other payment the customer has a contractual or statutory obligation to
make; and
(5) without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers financial situation. 
It follows I think Loans 2 Go was wrong to give the loan to Mr D.
I havent found that Loans 2 Go acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr D in any other
way. Ill explain why.
Mr D says he didnt sign a credit agreement or get any information on the cost of the loan 
until after the cooling-off period. But Loans 2 Go has supplied a copy of the pre-contract 
credit information and the loan agreement  both of which were signed electronically by Mr D 
on 10 January 2020. These documents set out the cost of the credit showing the interest 
rate, the APR, the monthly repayments and the total repayable. Mr D had to actively engage 
in the loan application process online, so I think its likely that he was aware of what he was 
agreeing to pay. But in any event, the interest and charges will be refunded as Ive 
concluded this loan shouldnt have been given. 
Mr D has asked for compensation for the stress he says the lender has caused. As I have 
found Loans 2 Go made an irresponsible lending decision I will set out below how it needs to 
compensate Mr D to put things right. But as I have found that the lender provided the 
appropriate documentation, and so Mr D ought to have been aware what he was agreeing 
to, I wont be awarding any further compensation.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr D to repay the capital that he borrowed, because he
had the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt
have been provided to him.
It seems Loans 2 Go hasnt sold the outstanding debt. But if it has it should buy it back if it is
able to do so and then take the following steps. If Loans 2 Go is not able to buy the debt
back, then it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan and treat all the payments Mr D
made as payments towards the capital.
As reworking Mr Ds loan account will result in him having effectively made payments 
above the original capital borrowed, then Loans 2 Go should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ds credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go shouldgive Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.  
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Ds complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited must put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman