DRN-3709154
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the allocation of units to his Growth Protection Plan (GPP) managed 
by Zurich Assurance Ltd (Zurich). 
What happened
Mr C took out his GPP in February 1973. The policy provisions explained that investment 
income would periodically be removed from the fund, and after deducting charges, the 
balance of the investment income (if any) would be added back to the fund. 
In December 2021 Mr C contacted Zurich as he was concerned that Zurich had deducted 
units to pay for the annual charge for his GPP. Zurich responded to Mr Cs complaint saying 
it was reviewing the income distribution process and would update Mr C once this review 
was completed. Mr C was also provided with additional information about some of the likely 
changes to the way in which the annual charge would be paid for going forward. 
In response to Mr Cs complaint Zurich sent a payment of £100 to him- £25 in recognition of 
the calls made by Mr C, and £75 for the trouble and upset caused by this process. Mr C 
wasnt happy with this response saying the policy provisions didnt allow for units to be 
deducted from the fund, and that this shouldnt have happened without informing him.  
Mr C brought his complaint to this service for investigation. During our process Zurich wrote 
to Mr C explaining it had carried out a review of the operation of Mr Cs GPP. In doing so 
Zurich had discovered a historical error which meant that the value of Mr Cs GPP was lower 
than it shouldve been because of the way the income distribution process had been 
working. 
To put things right Zurich added 174.64 units to Mr Cs GPP in April 2022. At the same time 
Mr C was informed that effective from December 2021 the income distribution as explained 
in the policy provisions for his GPP would no longer apply. He was told that any future 
investment income will remain reflected in the capital unit fund process, instead of being 
removed from the fund price and used to increase the number of units in your plan. 
The investigator found that Zurich had recognised what had gone wrong and had done 
enough to put things right by returning units to Mr Cs GPP.   
Mr C didnt agree with the investigators findings saying:
-The units were taken from my account in Dec 21 - without any warning and contrary 
to the published Terms and Conditions at that time (still extant)
-Only when I complained that units were 'missing' did Zurich tell me they had 
changed the way of taking their charge.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved it has been passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure the parties that although Ive only summarised the background to this 
complaint, so not everything thats happened or been argued is set out above, Ive read and 
considered everything that has been provided.
Units taken in December 2021
Mr C says units were taken from his GPP in December 2021 and he is still waiting for these 
to be returned. Zurich has explained that the units Mr C is referring to relate to the change in 
the way the annual charge is paid for. 
Zurich confirmed up until December 2021 the annual charge was applied as part of the 
income distribution process, in line with the policy provisions of Mr Cs GPP.
 
The difference from December 2021 is that the annual charge would no longer be applied as 
part of an income distribution. Instead investment income would remain in the fund and the 
annual charge would be taken directly from the fund. Zurich has provided a statement 
showing the annual charge was paid for by the deduction of 11.34 units in December 2021. 
Mr C feels strongly that these units should be returned to him. But having looked at the 
information provided to Mr C about the changes to the income distribution process, Im 
satisfied that the deduction of units is reasonable and that this change hasnt impacted the 
value of Mr Cs GPP. 
 
Under the income distribution process Mr Cs fund would remove investment income in order 
to deduct the annual charge. But it would also mean the value of the fund would temporality 
fall to reflect the removal of investment income. The investment income would then be 
returned to the fund resulting in the creation of further units in Mr Cs GPP. The value of Mr 
Cs fund would also return to the amount before the investment income was removed.  
Under the new operating process Zurich has explained that investment income would be no 
longer be removed and the annual charge would be taken as units. This explains why Mr Cs 
statement shows 11.34 units being deducted in December 2021. The value of Mr Cs GPP 
would not be impacted by the change because the unit value will no longer be reduced as 
part of the new operating process. 
Im satisfied that the units taken in December 2021 have been deducted in line with the 
changes to the income distribution process made by Zurich. Mr C has been informed that the 
income distribution part of his GPP will no longer apply. It is for Mr C to decide whether his 
GPP remains a suitable investment for him. So I wont be asking Zurich to do anything 
further in response to this complaint. 
Changes to income distribution process not explained 
Mr C says Zurichs new operating model is in direct conflict with the policy provisions 
explained when he took out his GPP, and it was only after he raised a complaint with Zurich 
that it explained the changes made to the income distribution process. 
Its not disputed that Zurich made changes to the income distribution process before 
informing Mr C. But Zurich has explained that it had recognised there was an issue with the 
income distribution process and that this was being reviewed. As soon as the review was 
complete Mr C was notified of the changes, and additional units were added to his GPP in recognition of the impact on his investment when the fund wasnt operated as it shouldve 
been. 
I think these actions were reasonable and in line with what wed expect. It wouldnt have 
been reasonable for Zurich to continue to operate a process it knew wasnt working 
correctly. So I wont be asking Zurich to do anything further in response to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons provided I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman