DRN-1619793
The complaint
Mr Ds complaint is about the car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement with BMW 
Financial Services(GB) Limited (trading as Alphera Financial Services) (Alphera). He says 
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
Mr D acquired a used car through a HPA with Alphera. Under the regulations, 
specifically the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015), Alphera can be held liable if 
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Satisfactory quality takes 
into account factors such as the age and mileage of the car and what a reasonable 
person would expect taking into account all the circumstances. In this case the car 
was over four years old and had been driven over 35,000 miles when supplied.
Given the age and mileage of the car at supply it would be reasonable to expect it to 
have suffered some wear and tear. I note Mr Ds comments about being told the car 
hadnt been involved in an accident and being provided with the HPI check. However, 
with a used car it is still possible that repairs could have taken place before the car 
was acquired. That said, Mr D noticed an issue with the paintwork on the bumper a 
few weeks after he acquired the car. He contacted the dealer to say the paint was 
peeling off. He then contacted Alphera about the issue. While it may be reasonable 
that a car would show signs of wear and tear, I do not find it reasonable that the 
paintwork started to peel off so soon after acquisition. 
Mr H has received quotes for repair work to the bumper from three garages one of 
which says that a poor repair had previously taken place. Based on this, I accept 
there is an issue with the paintwork on the bumper.
Alphera has said that Mr D viewed the car before acquisition and so he doesnt have 
the right to reject the car. Mr D has confirmed that he looked round the car on the day 
he acquired it however, he didnt notice any issues at that time. Photographs of the 
car at the point of acquisition have been provided and the issue isnt visible. 
Therefore, I do not find it fair to say that Mr D was reasonably aware of an issue with 
the bumper paintwork at the point of supply and accepted this. Instead, I find it more 
likely than not that there was an underlying issue with the paintwork at acquisition 
that wasnt able to be identified until a few weeks later when Mr D raised his 
concerns. I also accept, given Mr Ds subsequent actions, that had the issue been 
visible when he viewed the car, he would have raised his concerns at that time.  
Alphera has challenged whether Mr D damaged the car or used any chemicals that 
could have caused the issue. I have looked at the photographs Mr D has provided, 
and these do not show any damage to the bumper but instead the paint peeling. 
Mr D has confirmed he didnt use any chemicals on the car before the issue arose 
and without evidence to the contrary, I accept this.
Given the issue that arose, and when this arose, I find it more likely than not that 
there was an issue with the paintwork on the bumper that was developing at the point 
of supply. I find that this meant the car wasnt of satisfactory quality.
The dealer offered to pay an amount towards repair, however Mr D said this wasnt 
enough. I find it reasonable that repairs are undertaken to ensure the paintwork on 
the bumper is brought to a reasonable standard (in a way that is appropriately 
matched with the rest of the car). Mr D received quotes for this work in January 2020 
however I accept that new quotes may now be needed. Once a quote has been 
agreed the repair work should take place at no cost to Mr D.
Mr D has been caused distress and inconvenience due to the issue with his car. He 
had the upset of not receiving a car of the standard he had expected and then 
needed to obtain quotes for work. Given this I agree with our investigators 
recommendation that he be paid £100 compensation.
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require BMW Financial Services(GB) 
Limited to:
cover the cost of repairing the bumper (repairer to be agreed with Mr D). If Mr D has 
to pay the cost upfront, BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited should reimburse him 
his cost along with 8% simple interest calculated from the date the payment was 
made until the date its refunded; and
pay £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mr D has been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman