DRN-4181601
The complaint
Mr H complains that he received the wrong policy terms and conditions when he purchased 
a travel insurance policy from Rock Insurance Services Limited.
What happened
Mr H took out a travel insurance policy when he purchased flights. He took out the insurance 
via a website Ill refer to as N. 
N is an appointed representative of Rock Insurance Services Limited. N sent Mr H an email 
with three PDF attachments, including one labelled as Insurance Policy. When Mr H 
needed emergency assistance in September 2022, he says he discovered that the policy 
terms were an old version. So, he then had to contact a different emergency assistance 
company and hes not been able to identify which insurer he needs to contact to make his 
claim. 
Mr H asked the Financial Ombudsman Service to look into his complaint as he didnt get a 
response from Rock. Our investigator looked into what had happened and was unable to get 
any more information from Rock. He upheld the complaint because he thought Mr H had 
been provided with the wrong policy documents. He awarded £200 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
Rock provided Mr H with a copy of the correct policy terms. Mr H accepted the investigators 
findings in relation to being given the wrong information by Rock. But, Rock didnt agree. 
They said Mr H had been sent a copy of the right policy terms. And, they questioned the 
strength of the evidence Mr H had provided to show the wrong terms have sent. This didnt 
change our investigators thoughts about the outcome of the complaint. On balance, he 
thought it was most likely Mr H had received the wrong policy terms from N, even if Rock 
had sent him the correct version as well. 
Rock asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. They said the Financial Ombudsman 
Service hadnt questioned the veracity of evidence from their systems before. And, theyd 
completed a secondary check to ensure that the right policy documents were provided. They 
said the investigator had relied on a screen dump and they hadnt been provided with the 
original email, despite several requests. Rock said it was trying to obtain a copy of the email 
sent from N directly. Furthermore, Rock said the issue in relation to emergency assistance 
was resolved within 48 hours and £200 redress wasnt appropriate. They said they were 
willing to offer £50 by way of an apology for not responding to the complaint which was more 
appropriate compensation. So, I need to make a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Rock, and N as its appointed 
representative, had a responsibility to give Mr H enough information to decide if the policy 
was right for him. That includes giving him clear, fair and non-misleading information. 
Im upholding Mr Hs complaint and awarding him £200 compensation because:
I think its most likely that Mr H was provided with the wrong policy terms when he 
received the email from N. That email contained an invoice, a voucher and a 
document labelled Insurance Policy. 
Mr H has provided the three documents he says were attached to the email from 
N. They are a voucher, an invoice and an insurance policy which has the 
incorrect policy terms. I dont have any compelling reason to doubt Mr Hs 
testimony that was the document that he received. The email is dated the same 
date that he took out the policy.
Rock says its not seen the original email from N and attachments. It was 
provided with copies of the email and the attachments in February 2023. So, I 
think Rock has had ample time to look into this, and provide further evidence 
from N, if it doubted the validity of this email or its attachments. 
Based on the evidence available to me Im persuaded it is most likely Mr H has 
provided a copy of the policy he was sent from N, which were an older version of 
the policy terms. As our investigator said, it seems unlikely Mr H would have 
been able to locate a copy of policy terms from a number of years ago if they 
hadnt been attached in error. It seems more likely that he was provided with an 
outdated copy by N.   
Ive taken into account what Rock has said about the email sent from their own 
systems, and the secondary checks theyve done. But, even if I accept this 
evidence, it doesnt change my thoughts about the overall outcome of this 
complaint. Thats because Im satisfied its most likely he was sent a copy of the 
wrong terms by N. Rock says theres no reason why Mr H would place more 
weight on the documents provided by N, as opposed to the details provided via 
links in the email sent from Rock direct. I dont find that argument persuasive  
its Rocks responsibility to provide clear, fair and non-misleading information. Its 
not for Mr H to have to cross reference and spot that there are subtle differences 
in the information provided by Rock and N.   
I think £200 compensation is fair and reasonable. Mr H was in a position where 
he needed to seek medical assistance for an adult travelling companion and a 
child who had experienced a head injury. He had to start the process again which 
I think would have caused him distress and inconvenience in the circumstances 
as he discovered he had the wrong policy information at an already worrying 
time. I also note that he has been unable to submit his claim to the correct insurer 
until he recently received clarification of who the insurer was in June 2023.      
Putting things right
Rock needs to put things right by paying Mr H £200 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. This is for the distress and inconvenience caused by confusion and 
delays in the claims process, particularly because Mr H needed to claim for emergency 
assistance and had to start the process again with the correct company. My final decision
Im upholding Mr Hs complaint about Rock Insurance Services Limited and direct it to put 
things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman