DRN-3376605
The complaint
Mr S complains that an adviser from Eunisure Limited mis-advised him when changing his 
protection policy to a new insurer in March 2017. Mr S says this meant he received a lower 
sum assured paid to him for a valid critical illness claim when he later became unwell.  
To resolve his complaint, Mr S wants Eunisure to make up the difference in lost critical 
illness benefit.  
What happened
In March 2017, Mr S met with Eunisures adviser at his home to discuss term assurance, set 
up to protect his mortgage lending. 
At the time, Mr S held an existing policy with L&G, which began in 2012 and provided life 
and critical illness cover on a decreasing term basis. It had an original sum assured which 
matched his 2012 mortgage (£154,000) and the same 25 year term for a premium of £20.59. 
However, Mr Ss mortgage wasnt on a capital repayment basis  it was interest only. That 
meant his mortgage liability was still £154,000.  
The Eunisure adviser instead proposed a level term assurance policy, so the sum assured 
did not decrease. Mr S agreed to take out a policy with Vitality which had a £22 monthly 
premium, £150,000 life cover and a 20 year term to match the remaining mortgage duration. 
It had less critical illness cover; this was set at 20% of the level sum assured, so £30,000.  
In 2018, Mr S was sadly diagnosed with a type of cancer. He later made a claim to Vitality 
for critical illness benefit which was met in full. He says it was at this time that he discovered 
his policy had a lower sum assured. So he complained to Eunisure.  
Mr S explained that he was told to switch policies as the new one would offer better value for 
money. However, he said that at no point during the advice was he informed that this policy 
with Vitality only insured him for £30,000 in the event of critical illness, which was a reduction 
of £124,000 when compared to his L&G policy. 
Mr S then referred his complaint to this service. He said he had asked other advisers about 
the situation and had been told that it was known within the industry that Eunisure employs 
unqualified people that undertake mis-selling of life insurance as a second income.
He also said that at no point during the sales process was it made clear that a reduction in 
monthly premium meant a reduction in his overall cover. It was instead advised that Vitality 
had lower rates of insurance cover based on lifestyle choices. Mr S said it was an appealing 
choice on the basis he was a healthy, physically active, non-smoking younger man. 
Mr S said the correct outcome to the complaint was to treat his policy as if it had never been 
sold to him. 
Eunisure rejected the complaint in November 2021. It said Mr S had noted he had existing 
cover, but L&G had indicated this was never in force. 
Mr S said that the cover he told the adviser about was in force, but it was on a decreasing 
term basis  which was why the adviser suggested that level term cover was more 
appropriate. But the adviser didnt tell Mr S that his critical illness cover wasnt like for like.  
An investigator reviewed the complaint but he did not think it should succeed. He understood 
why Mr S said he wouldve have stayed with the original L&G policy rather than change to 
the Vitality policy. But he felt this statement was made with the benefit of hindsight because 
Mr S sadly needed to make a critical illness claim. The L&G policy wasnt sufficient in later 
years of the mortgage to protect it and there could have been a notable shortfall of life cover. 
The investigator also said Mr S should reasonably have known what the new policy 
provided, as it was different and it had been told to him in writing by Vitality and Eunisure. 
Mr S disagreed. He noted how the investigator had said that a policy offering level cover 
critical illness benefit of £150,000 would have had a premium of £68.46. Mr S said it was an 
assumption to presume he wouldnt have paid a premium that high. And even if he wouldnt, 
if Eunisures adviser had told him about that, then he would have been alerted to the loss of 
valuable critical illness cover.  
Though Eunisure said otherwise, Mr S explained that he was told to cancel the L&G policy. 
But he shouldnt have been advised to do so as it had worse critical illness cover. His view 
was that the adviser merely sold him the policy to earn commission on a quick sale and it 
failed to undertake any form of due diligence.  
Mr S also said the adviser ought to be asked for his account of events.  
Our investigator wasnt able to change his view. He said that in the circumstances he felt the 
recommendation wasnt unreasonable. And, there wasnt clear evidence to suggest the 
adviser had told Mr S to cancel the policy. He also noted that the adviser no longer worked 
for Eunisure so it could not obtain his version of events.  
Mr S said he didnt accept the adviser wasnt available as he said the adviser had family ties 
to Eunisure. He asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to learn of Mr Ss diagnosis and I can see how strongly he feels about the 
complaint. While I realise my decision will not be what he has hoped for, I do not believe it 
should succeed. 
I have to be fair to both parties in a complaint. Neither party could have known in 2017 that 
Mr S would go on to become seriously unwell a short time later. Its for that reason I need to 
look at what happened at the time rather than use hindsight to determine the complaint. 
Eunisure has now provided the documentation recorded and signed by Mr S from the time of 
the sale, as well as the recommendations letter the adviser issued to Mr S in March 2017. 
The documentation is very basic  it records a summary of Mr Ss circumstances and goes 
on to explain that the recommendation was merely for the circumstances recorded, but not 
why. However, a further generic life insurance and assurance demands and needs 
recommendation was also undertaken at the meeting, and supplied to Mr S. This document does set out broad reasons why the cover was suitable to propose.   
The adviser also undertook a client needs analysis where it was handwritten that Mr S 
required cover for mortgage protection, and the type of cover Mr S said he had with L&G 
was accurately recorded. The analysis questions also asked Mr S what amount of money he 
would need in the event of a critical illness for either paying off debt or providing an income. 
In response to this, £30,000 was recorded. 
When recommending a term assurance policy as cover for a mortgage liability, the correct 
position is to check that the term, amount and type of cover matches the mortgage lending. 
Mr S didnt provide mortgage documentation to the adviser, but it is noted that he had an 
interest only mortgage of £154,000 and this was not going to change.  
Where a mortgage is a capital and interest repayment mortgage, we would expect an 
adviser to sell a decreasing term policy as the sum assured would decrease at around the 
same rate as the amount outstanding. If the mortgage is interest only, then wed expect to 
see a level term policy sold as the amount outstanding on the debt is the same throughout.
So, though the policy was slightly less at a set £150,000 of life cover, the recommendation 
itself wasnt unsuitable as the L&G cover Mr S held would have already decreased in the first 
five years (it had a policy interest rate of 9%) to around £142,000 and it was continuing to 
reduce year on year, despite the mortgage liability remaining unchanged. 
Level cover is, on general grounds, more costly than decreasing term cover where a valid 
claim payment will be significantly lower in later years. The new policy was just over £1 per 
month more expensive than the old one but it did provide the correct level of life cover for the 
remainder of the mortgage term should Mr S have passed away. 
What Mr S disputes is the critical illness recommendation. I accept and understand that Mr 
Ss existing cover had more critical illness benefit, reducing year on year as Ive said above. 
But, at the time of the recommendation the advice was centred on mortgage protection  
and a reducing decreasing term policy is not appropriate cover for an interest only mortgage.  
Further, Mr S was not only asked about the cover he wanted for critical illness in the event 
he became seriously unwell but this was set out to him in writing by Eunisure in its letter of 
27 March 2017, referencing the client needs analysis information. It confirmed that:
Please find enclosed your new policy details summary. Below are the reasons and 
recommendations for your policy.
A level term joint life/critical illness policy that will ensure the benefit does not 
decrease over the course of the [mortgage] term.
A sum assured of £150,000 Life / £30,000 Critical illness.
The letter then goes on to explain how:
You may wish to cancel any existing cover you have it is your responsibility to 
cancel any existing cover you have in its entirety should you so choose. Of course, 
you may decide to continue with both policies and again this is your choice. You may 
wish to consider this on actual receipt of your new policy documents, when the new 
policy is live and once the direct debit for the new policy has been taken.
I realise Mr S says he was told in clear terms that one policy was a like for like replacement 
for the other. But aside from the recollections of Mr S and the documentation from the time 
of the sale, there is no confirmation of exactly what was discussed verbally between Mr S 
and the adviser. Ive seen no objective evidence that a like for like replacement was discussed. And I wouldnt expect it, as the two policies were set up on a different basis to 
account for decreasing and level terms. 
Where theres an absence of information, I will decide what I think is most likely on the 
balance of probabilities. In this case, I accept that the Vitality cover was principally proposed 
to set up correct life cover on the term matching the mortgage type, as the L&G policy 
currently fell short of that. 
While Mr S now says that critical illness cover had the same priority for him (and therefore 
he required £150,000/£154,000 of critical illness cover), I dont believe the evidence shows 
that. Mr S was told by the adviser in the correspondence clearly what the level of critical 
illness cover was in the new policy, and Eunisure could not have cancelled the existing cover 
on his behalf. Further, Vitalitys policy acceptance letter of 21 March 2017 also told Mr S that 
he had a policy which provided £150,000 level term life cover and £30,000 level term serious 
illness cover. The letter was issued to Mr Ss correct address. I do not consider it likely that 
Mr S would have failed to review the documentation. 
I realise it must have been particularly frustrating and upsetting for Mr S to have to make a 
claim at such a young age for critical illness, and then to realise he had less cover than he 
expected. But, I cannot hold Eunisure liable for this loss of expectation in the circumstances.  
Thats firstly because its recommendation wasnt principally unreasonable as the focus of the 
advice was on life assurance for mortgage protection. And secondly, Mr S was given 
sufficient information by both Eunisure and Vitality which clearly told him what the new policy 
offered in terms of critical illness cover. If he had been unhappy about that, he could have 
brought that issue up in 2017 by returning to Eunisure and/or retaining the other policy. 
My final decision
Despite my sympathy for Mr Ss circumstances, I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman