DRN-2497999
The complaint
Mrs C says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy sold to Mrs C in 1995 when she applied for a credit 
card.
Our adjudicator didnt think the policy was mis-sold. Mrs C disagrees, so the complaint has 
been passed to me for a final decision. 
Briefly summarising her concerns about the PPI, Mrs C mainly says:
she didn't know she had been sold this PPI 
she believes that the tick on the application form for PPI looks different to the other 
ticks on the form
there were some errors made in the original adjudicators summing up of her 
complaint - specifically her employers name was incomplete and the amount of her 
sick pay was wrong
she never attempted to claim on the policy even though she was unemployed for a 
short time while the policy was running because she didnt know she had PPI
the policy was unsuitable for her as she could rely on getting 3 months full sick pay 
from her employer and she had no health issues
the fact Lloyds paid her some compensation is an admission that the policy itself was 
mis-sold to her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Im sorry Mrs C feels our adjudicator didnt properly take into account everything she said. Id 
like to reassure Mrs C that Ive looked at the complaint afresh  and Ive independently 
reached the same conclusions as our adjudicator.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why. 
I dont know what mightve been discussed about the PPI. But the application form Mrs C 
completed made it clear that it was up to her to say if she wanted PPI and its ticked and 
shes signed the form to indicate that she required it. 
I accept its possible that some parts of this form may have been completed for Mrs C by a 
Lloyds representative. But I think its likely that the information on the form probably reflected 
discussions the representative had with Mrs C. I think its reasonable to expect that Mrs C 
wouldve looked carefully over the completed application before signing to make sure it 
reflected her wishes. 
I dont think the evidence is strong enough for me to say that someone else ticked the form 
after shed signed it to say Mrs C wanted PPI without her knowing about it or agreeing to it, 
just based on what Mrs C says. 
I can completely understand why Mrs C told us she couldnt remember all the circumstances 
of this sale as this was a long time ago. But I think its likely that Mrs C wouldve been able to 
see at the time that the application form showed that having the PPI was optional - and it 
was added to her account when she chose to take it. 
Mrs C wouldve been able to see from her monthly card statements if she was being charged 
for PPI. If PPI hadnt been something she had requested or she wanted to pay for, I think its 
likely that Mrs C wouldve taken this up with Lloyds at the time. I havent seen anything to 
make me think that happened. So overall, what she says about the way she was sold the 
PPI isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold her complaint. 
As Lloyds wasnt sure how it sold the PPI to Mrs C, and she couldnt remember, in fairness 
to her it treated this as an advised sale  so, as if it had personally recommended PPI to her. 
I think thats the fairest way to look at this complaint as it imposes an extra obligation on 
Lloyds - giving Mrs Cs complaint the best chance of success. So I've looked at it this way 
too. 
This means Lloyds not only shouldve given Mrs C important policy information in a clear 
way. It also shouldve taken reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommended was 
suitable for her. And if Lloyds didn't do those things, Ive thought about whether this makes 
any overall difference.  
Ive checked the policy document that was in use when Mrs C took out this PPI. It looks to 
me as if the policy was suitable for Mrs C based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at 
the time. 
Mrs C was eligible for the PPI.
She had some sick pay entitlement through work  she mentioned shed have got up to 
3 months sick pay from her employer. 
The policy couldve paid more than her minimum credit card repayments for significantly 
longer than Mrs C couldve depended on sick pay from work - up to 12 months per claim in 
the event of accident or sickness. And the policy wouldve paid out on top of any work 
benefits. As Mrs C mightve also had some additional costs if she was too unwell to go back 
to work, or disabled, I think this couldve been a useful benefit at a difficult time. 
The policy couldve also protected Mrs Cs credit card repayments if she lost her job 
unexpectedly and was out of work. 
Repeat claims were possible under the policy. And if Mrs C had claimed successfully for 
12 months in a row, the policy would've cleared her card balance. 
So I think PPI was worthwhile for Mrs C. It gave her useful protection, taking into account 
what shes told us about her situation when she took out this PPI. I find that the policy was 
suitable for her.Its possible some of the information Lloyds gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.
I dont know if Lloyds properly explained what the policy would cost, or what it might pay out 
if Mrs C made a claim. But Mrs C chose to take out the policy when she didnt have to  so 
she seems to have wanted this type of cover. 
The cost was shown on her monthly statements and Mrs C couldve queried this or 
cancelled the policy at any time if her circumstances changed and she no longer wanted to 
pay for it. 
The policy didnt cover some things. But it doesnt look as if that wouldve affected Mrs C. 
So, I dont think having more information about the policy exclusions and limitations wouldve 
made any difference to her decision to take out PPI.
Looked at overall, I think its unlikely that having clearer policy information wouldve put 
Mrs C off taking out the policy. This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of 
the PPI to Mrs C.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs C about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mrs C, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
In coming to my decision Ive taken into account everything that Mrs C has said, including 
her comments in response to the adjudicators view. But she hasnt said anything that would 
be a reason for me to uphold her complaint. 
I accept that Mrs C is certain that she wasnt aware that she had PPI. But, for the reasons 
I've explained, I think Lloyds did enough to make her aware of the policy. 
And I havent been able to identify any other reasons that support upholding her mis-selling 
complaint. The policy was intended to provide dependable cover in the event of unplanned 
and unforeseeable events. The fact that Mrs J was in good health when she took out PPI 
and she didnt make a claim when she was between jobs doesnt mean it was mis-sold.
I appreciate Mrs C feels strongly about this complaint. I understand that what Ive said will 
come as a disappointment. 
In my decision Ive dealt with all the main points raised that have an impact on the outcome 
of this complaint and I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how 
Ive reached my decision.
My final decisionThe PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs C.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mrs C any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman