DRN-2864668
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited declined her critical 
illness benefit claim and avoided her policy. 
Mrs T has been helped in bringing this complaint by her husband, Mr T, but for ease of 
reference Ill mainly refer to Mrs T. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In 2016 Mrs T applied for life and critical illness assurance with Legal and General. And, in 
2020, Mrs T made a claim under the policy as shed been diagnosed with multiple sclerosis. 
Legal and General declined the claim. They said, when applying for the policy, Mrs T failed 
to disclose that at age 19 she was diagnosed with optic neuritis and suffered visual 
impairment for several months which left her with residual colour vision in one eye. And that, 
while they didnt think there was any deliberate intention not to disclose this medical history, 
they felt she had taken a reckless approach to the application by allowing her husband to 
complete it for her. And by also signing the checking your details form to confirm the 
answers in the application were correct without having checked them. Legal and General 
explained had they known about the optic neuritis, they wouldnt have been able to offer Mrs 
T critical illness cover. And, as they considered she acted without care as to whether the 
answers provided in the application were correct, they cancelled the policy and refunded the 
premiums to Mrs T. 
Mrs T complained about the decision to decline her claim and cancel the policy. She felt the 
decision was unduly harsh and said the paperwork from 1996 says optic neuritis was only 
spoken about in general terms and wasnt confirmed. Mrs T added that there wasnt a full 
investigation or monitoring plan, nor was she recommended any medication or a follow up 
review. Mrs T said she hadnt had any signs or symptoms relating to multiple sclerosis prior 
to 2019 and asked Legal and General to reassess the claim.
Legal and General said their decision to decline the claim and cancel the policy was correct. 
In short, they explained:
When Mrs T applied for cover she was asked about any visual disturbance, including 
optic neuritis, so they needed to be aware of this. They understood Mrs Ts husband 
completed the application and wasnt aware of these symptoms from 1996. But they 
gave Mrs T the opportunity to check the application answers before the policy started 
(which she signed to say the information was true and complete). And by presuming 
Mr T knew her medical history she showed a lack of care for completing the 
application.
Their underwriting team reviewed the claim and advised, if theyd known about the 
optic neuritis, they wouldve been able to offer critical illness cover but with an 
exclusion for multiple sclerosis. This therefore wouldnt have affected the outcome of 
the claim. 
Medical records evidence blurred vision in the May 1996 followed by loss of vision in 
the left eye in June of that year. And the doctor mentioned possible optic neuritis and 
this was discussed in general terms with Mrs T. The records show a recommendation 
for steroids but it states as Mrs Ts vision had improved, the consultant didnt think 
she was planning to use them. 
They classified the misrepresentation as deliberate or reckless, not careless. And, 
under the relevant legislation, they are entitled to avoid the policy and decline the 
claim but they refunded the premiums. 
The complaint was referred to our service. One of our investigators looked in to it and 
agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation. However, she thought it ought to be 
considered as careless, rather than deliberate or reckless. So, while she thought the claim 
had been fairly declined, she recommended Legal and General provide Mrs T with the option 
of the policy being reinstated but with the multiple sclerosis exclusion attached. Our 
investigator also recommended Legal and General pay Mrs T £200 compensation for the 
trouble and upset she experienced. 
Legal and General disagreed with our investigator that the misrepresentation was careless. 
They remained of the view that the misrepresentation went beyond careless given Mrs T 
allowed Mr T to complete the application on her behalf without knowing her full medical 
history. And by also not checking the answers when signing the checking your details 
declaration. But Legal and General noted the symptoms occurred some 20 years prior, with 
 as they understood - Mrs T suffering loss of colour vision which was never fully restored 
(so the visual defect was still current when she applied). And Legal and General appreciated 
Mrs T may not have thought it relevant given shed lived with it and so didnt consider it to be 
an issue, but they felt it was careless by not ensuring it was disclosed. In view of this, they 
agreed to our investigators recommendation to allow the policy to be reinstated with the 
multiple sclerosis exclusion and to pay £200 compensation. 
Mrs T asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint and so the matter has been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has 
certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying 
misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it 
would have offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.Legal and General thinks Mrs T failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation by failing to disclose shed suffered a visual disturbance (optic neuritis) in 
1996.
Ive looked at the question Mrs T was asked in the application form:
Health  ever
When answering the following questions, if youre unsure whether to tell us about a 
medical condition, please tell us anyway. Theres no need to tell us about the same 
condition more than once in this application. 
Have you ever:

had any neurological condition or visual disturbance, for example epilepsy, multiple 
sclerosis, muscular dystrophy, cerebral palsy, motor neurone disease, Parkinsons 
disease, optic neuritis?
Im satisfied Mrs T was asked a clear question by Legal and General to which she answered 
no. 
It isnt in dispute that Mrs T suffered from loss of vision in 1996. The medical records show 
the treating consultant spoke to Mrs T in general terms about optic neuritis along with the 
pros and cons of steroid treatment. Mrs Ts medical records also say she has residual 
reduced colour vision in her eye. I understand Mrs T has argued that there was no confirmed 
diagnosis of optic neuritis in 1996. But, while the consultants letter doesnt definitively state 
optic neuritis as the cause of the loss of vision, it seems most likely to have been the 
diagnosis at the time given it was discussed in general terms. In any event, the question 
asked Mrs T whether shed ever suffered from any neurological condition or visual 
disturbance. So, although it gave optic neuritis as an example, I think loss of vision and 
residual reduced colour vision would reasonably be considered as a visual disturbance 
(irrespective of whether Mrs T knew it was optic neuritis or not). I therefore think the question 
ought to have been answered differently.
I understand Mrs T allowed her husband to complete the application on her behalf. But, 
while I dont doubt he did so to the best of his knowledge, I dont think it can be said Mrs T 
took reasonable care in answering the application questions as Mr T wasnt fully aware of 
her medical history. Mrs T also had the opportunity to correct this non-disclosure as she was 
given the chance to check the answers were accurate before the policy was set up, but 
didnt do so. I therefore dont think Mrs T took reasonable care when answering the above 
question. 
Legal and General has provided their underwriting criteria which shows if Mrs T had told 
them about her visual disturbance (optic neuritis) they wouldve been able to offer critical 
illness cover, but with an exclusion for multiple sclerosis. This means Im satisfied Mrs Ts 
misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Legal and General considered Mrs Ts misrepresentation as deliberate or reckless. This 
means, under CIDRA, they would be entitled to avoid the policy, refuse the claim and retain 
the premiums (although they chose to refund them). But, while they remain of the view that 
the misrepresentation went beyond careless, Legal and General has since agreed to our 
investigators recommendation to treat it as such. Given that a careless misrepresentation 
provides the most favourable outcome to Mrs T under CIDRA, I think this is fair. Where a careless misrepresentation has occurred, CIDRA says an insurer ought to provide 
the policy on the terms they wouldve offered had the disclosure been made. In this case, 
Legal and General wouldve offered cover but with an exclusion attached for multiple 
sclerosis. So, Mrs Ts claim wouldve been declined in any event. 
Legal and General has agreed for the policy to be reinstated  subject to the payment of 
missed premiums (including those that were returned). If Mrs T wishes to take up this option 
she should contact Legal and General directly.
Ive considered our investigators recommendation of £200 compensation. Having done so, I 
think this is a fair amount to recognise the trouble and upset Mrs T experienced due to being 
initially misinformed that no cover wouldve been provided had she disclosed the visual 
disturbance in her application. I therefore dont intend to increase this any further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct Legal and General Assurance Society Limited to pay Mrs T £200 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman