DRN-2194366
The complaint
Mr P has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc unreasonably delayed switching his current 
account. 
What happened
Mr P applied online for a new current account with HSBC on 20 November 2019. HSBC 
processed the application and sent Mr P confirmation of the account. But when Mr P tried to 
access it he was unable to do so. He was unable to resolve the problem over the phone and 
so visited a branch on 13 December 2019. While in branch a member of staff made a call to 
another department and Mr P was asked to leave the room.  
Mr P complained about the service hed received. Specifically, he said hed felt humiliated by 
the process in branch. He also complained he hadnt been told the switch hadnt been 
completed and that hed been left without access to his funds as a result. 
HSBC responded to the complaint. It explained that it hadnt been able to verify Mr Ps 
identity following his online application. It explained it blocked the account due to concerns 
that a third party was impersonating Mr P. On receipt of Mr Ps photographic ID, provided in 
branch, it was able to confirm his identity and the account was activated. The switch was 
completed on 16 December 2019. Mr P was then credited with the advertised bonus for 
switching his account. 
Mr P remained unhappy and referred the matter to our service. One of our investigators 
considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He was satisfied that HSBC 
was entitled to take the steps it deemed necessary to confirm Mr Ps identity. He was 
satisfied that this was in line with its regulatory obligations and was for the purpose of fraud 
prevention. 
Mr P disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans review. He believed that the block was 
caused by an administrative error. He maintained that hed been seriously troubled and 
embarrassed by the error. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and for essentially the 
same reasons. Ill explain why. 
Ive seen no evidence to suggest Mr Ps account was blocked due to an administrative error. 
So Ive considered if HSBC was entitled to block the account as part of its security checks.   
HSBC have obligations to verify the identity of those opening accounts with them. It is for 
HSBC to determine what will be acceptable as proof of identity. 
Unfortunately, HSBC was unable to verify Mr P electronically and it had cause to believe 
someone may have been attempting to fraudulently open an account in his name. To protect 
the bank and Mr P, HSBC required further ID. HSBC has explained that it did not contact 
Mr P directly to explain this, as it couldnt guarantee that it would in fact be contacting him 
and not someone impersonating him. To do so may also have tipped-off someone seeking 
to open the account fraudulently.  It said the purpose of blocking an account is to prompt a 
genuine customer to make contact with the bank, as Mr P did. Im satisfied with this 
explanation and consider it was reasonable in the circumstances. 
HSBC has shown that Mr Ps account was first credited with a balance on 
27 December 2019, after the block was removed and the switch was completed. A direct 
debit was then paid from the account on 30 December 2019. As such I cant see that Mr P 
was left without access to his funds as there was no balance on the account when the block 
was in place. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest that HSBC treated Mr P unfairly or that it needs to do more. It is 
entitled to put processes in place to ensure it meets its regulatory obligations and duties to 
its customers. 
My final decision
For the reasons outline above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman