DRN-3879610
The complaint
Ms C complains Santander UK Plc (Santander) have made mistakes when she told them 
her credit Card was lost. 
What happened
On 29 July 2022 Ms C reported to Santander that her card had been lost the previous day. A 
replacement was organised. But the lost card remained active and, Ms C later found out, 
was used for 26 unrecognized transactions.
Ms C contacted Santander after some of these appeared on her monthly statement and 
asked for a refund. It appeared the lost card remained active. Ms C was unhappy about this 
and also about the way shed been dealt with when she called to report this. Ms C asked 
Santander to return the money to her. 
Santander sent a final response to her complaint. They apologised and told Ms C the 
disputed card payments had been refunded in full. They also offered to credit her account 
with £75 as compensation for the poor customer service shed received. 
Ms C referred her complaint to us as she remained unhappy and of the view that not all the 
money taken from her account had been refunded or credited to her account.
Our investigator issued two views. He initially upheld the complaint as he could only see 11 
of the 26 disputed transactions refunded on Ms Cs statements. He thought as Santander 
had acknowledged all 26 disputed transactions - and said it had refunded them - it should do 
so now. He also thought the £75 paid to Ms C for the customer service failings was a fair 
response. After receiving more information from Santander, he no longer required them to 
take any action. The new information showed the remaining 15 of the disputed transactions 
had been removed - rather than charged and then refunded - from the account. 
Ms S didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to look at the matter. Her main concern was 
that she couldnt reconcile the balance on her account with the movements she knew of so 
still thought some of the refunds for the transactions remained outstanding.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Ms C has strong feelings about this complaint. Shes provided detailed 
submissions and calculations in support of her view which I can confirm Ive read and 
considered in their entirety. However, I trust Ms C will not take the fact that my findings focus 
on what I consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less 
detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every point raised, but 
to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
I also appreciate that Ms C feels our adjudicator hasnt properly understood aspects of her 
complaint and thinks hes shown bias towards the bank. Ive looked at everything afresh 
before reaching an independent view. But Im not persuaded this is a complaint I can fairly 
and reasonably uphold. Ill explain why I think that.
Ive seen the monthly statements for Ms Cs account from August to December 2022. Its 
correct that they only show refunds for 11 of the 26 transactions shes disputed. But thats 
because the remaining 15 transactions have been dealt with differently by Santander. 
Although all 26 transactions were logged as disputed - and detailed across three letters Ms 
C received from Santander - 15 of the transactions have simply been removed from the 
account. So, although I appreciate Ms Cs concern that she cant see a refund for all the 
transactions they dont show at all on her statements. Either as being charged or repaid to 
her account. 
I know Ms Cs main concern is she is now out of pocket as she hasnt received a refund for 
the remaining 15 transactions. But I dont agree. Shes never been charged for those 15 
transactions because theyve been removed and never appeared on her statements. So, it 
follows, she shouldnt be refunded for them. 
Like our investigator I do think it would have been helpful if Santander had explained it had 
treated the disputed transactions in two different ways  some debited then refunded and 
some removed before they showed on the monthly statement. It could have avoided some 
confusion. In respect of the customer service failing its acknowledged I think the £75 
Santander have already paid to Ms C is a reasonable response and the sort of award Id 
have made had it not been offered. So, for these reasons I dont require Santander to so 
anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman