DRN-3928515
The complaint
Mr L has complained about Amtrust Europe Limiteds decision to turn down his claim under
his Hire and Repair Costs (HRC) insurance policy.
What happened
Mr L was involved in an accident and called his motor insurer to make a claim under his
policy for the damage to his car. They referred him to an accident management company,
who Ill refer to as A, who asked Mr L about the accident and offered to arrange a hire car for
him, as his car wasnt drivable.
Mr L had a hire car while his was in for repair and it was intended that the hire charges
would be recovered from the other driver or their insurance company on the basis Mr L 
wasnt at fault. At the same time A also provided him with a HRC policy with Amtrust to cover 
the hire car charges if they couldnt be recovered from the other driver or their insurance 
company.
A was unable to recover the hire car charges of £4,385.54 and so Mr L claimed on his HRC
policy with Amtrust through A. Amtrust turned down Mr Ls claim on the basis he misled
them about the circumstances of the accident.
Mr L complained to A, but they said Amtrust wouldnt alter their position. So Mr L asked us to
consider his complaint. 
One of our investigators did this. She said Amtrust was wrong to turn down Mr Ls claim and 
that they should consider it.
Amtrust wouldnt agree to do this. They maintained Mr L misled A when he spoke to them 
about the accident and that this means they were entitled to turn down his claim. So the 
complaint came to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 11 January 2023 in which I set out what Id provisionally 
decided as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules say that insurers must handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably
reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding what I think is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs Ss complaint.
Unfortunately, Amtrust have not provided us with a copy of Mr Ls policy document. They
have provided a document entitled Group Policy Summary Document  Hire and Repair
Costs. But this policy is in the name of A and does not appear to be a summary of the HRC
policy taken out in Mr Ls name. This document refers to a Customer Agreement, but
Amtrust havent provided a copy of this either. They have provided a copy of a Vehicle Hire
Agreement in Mr Ls name, but this doesnt seem to be the Customer Agreement referred to.
Amtrust issued a final response letter to Mr L. In this they quoted some policy conditions, but
none of these appear in the summary document Ive referred to and it looks like there is a
word missing in one of the conditions theyve quoted.
The fact Amtrust havent provided the right documents and seem to have misquoted the
terms and conditions of the policy is extremely unhelpful and makes it much more difficult for
me to determine what has happened. So, I invite them to provide all the correct documents
as evidence in response to this provisional decision. However, Ive decided to issue a
provisional decision without these documents, as I still think I can determine the fair and
reasonable outcome to this complaint based on the evidence I do have.
As I understand it, Mr Ls HRC policy provides cover for any amount he becomes liable to
pay if A cant recover the hire charges from the other drivers insurance company. Mr L has
told us he is being chased for over £4,000 and the final response letter provided by Amtrust
on Mr Ls complaint says he owes £4,385.54. As Ive already mentioned, this letter also
refers to what I assume are the terms and conditions of Mr Ls HRC policy, although I cannot
be sure of this because of Amtrusts failure to send us a copy of these. And the letter
suggests they think Mr L breached the following condition:
You must at all times(ii) Ensure that neither you nor the driver of your vehicle misled us
about how the accident in any important way (sic). There is clearly a word missing which I
have assumed is happened and I have also assumed the accident this refers to is the one
that led to the damage to Mr Ls vehicle. The reference to us must mean Amtrust, but as Mr
L didnt actually speak to them before taking out the policy, I assume by us Amtrust also
mean their agent, which in Mr Ls case is A.
I think that in order for Amtrust to rely on a breach of this condition they would need to show
Mr L deliberately misled A when he spoke to them about the accident. This is because a
breach of this condition has very serious consequences for Mr L and leaves him liable for a
great deal of money. And he could only be expected to provide information about the
accident based on what he could recall of it from his point of view. And the fact he was doing
so in the aftermath of an accident also needs to be taken into account.
Amtrust have provided dashcam footage obtained from the other driver of the accident Mr L
was involved in. And it can be seen from this that the other driver proceeded through a green
light and then Mr L came across in front of him and he hit Mr L. Ive spoken to Mr L and he
has told me that he was entering a roundabout and as he approached the entry to it the
traffic light in front of him was green. He explained how as he went through the light it
changed to Amber and that he was going quite slowly. Hes described how there was a fairly
long distance between where he entered the roundabout and the road through the
roundabout the other driver emerged from. And he thinks this meant he was able to drive
through an amber light and still be in the path of the other driver when he went through the
green light. Hes described how the other drivers car hit the drivers side of his vehicle near
the back of it, which he thinks shows he was nearly past the junction when the other driver
hit him. Hes also explained to me that he told A this is what happened when he spoke to
them, including about the traffic lights.
Amtrust has said they cant provide a recording of the telephone conversation Mr L had with
A. And theyve not provided a contemporaneous note of it. As notes do refer to the fact
someone listened to this call and that Mr L didnt mention the traffic lights in it, which is
contrary to what Mr L said to me. And, even if Mr L didnt mention the traffic lights, it doesnt
mean he intentionally misled A.
Without contemporaneous evidence from Amtrust to show Mr L deliberately misled A, I dont
think Amtrust have provided sufficient evidence to show they were entitled to rely on abreach of the abovementioned condition to reject Mr Ls claim.
In view of what I have said, I think as part of the fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Ls
complaint I should require Amtrust to settle his claim under his HRC policy in full. I also think
Amtrust should cover any late payment fees or interest incurred by Mr L as result of him not
paying the amount he owes for the hire charges sooner. This is because Mr L wouldnt have
incurred these costs if Amtrust had settled his claim when they should have done.
In addition to this, I think Amtrust should pay Mr L £250 in compensation for the distress and
inconvenience he has experienced as a result of what I consider to be Amtrusts unfair
decision to turn down his claim. This is because  as a result of it  he has had the worry of
a large debt hanging over him and the concern of being pursued by a debt collector for it.
I gave both parties until 25 January 2023 to provide further comments and evidence. And 
neither party has provided further comments or evidence.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided comments or evidence in response to my provisional decision, 
I see no reason to depart from what I provisionally decided. And  in view of Amtrusts failure 
to provide the full policy terms, which means I cant check what is actually due to be paid in 
settlement of Mr Ls claim, I think it is fair and reasonable to make Amtrust settle it by paying 
any hire charges Mr L is liable for in full. 
Putting things right
It therefore follows that for the reasons set out in my provisional decision dated 11 January 
2023 and above, I consider it is fair and reasonable to uphold Mr Ls complaint and make 
Amtrust do the following:
Pay any hire charges Mr L is liable for in full. 
Cover any late payment fees or interest incurred by Mr L as a result of him not paying 
the amount he owes for the hire charges sooner.
Pay Mr L £250 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision I uphold Mr Ls complaint and 
order Amtrust Europe Limited to do what Ive set out above in the Putting things right 
section.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman