DRN-2283118
The complaint
Its agreed that AXA France IARD (as the insurer) should accept responsibility for the 
complaint. To keep things simpler, Ill just refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
Ms M says AXA mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy Ms M took out at the same time as she applied for a 
store card in September 1998 whilst shopping in the store. 
The policy covered Ms M in the event she was off work sick or she lost her job unexpectedly 
and became unemployed. It cost 1p per £1 of the amount owed on her card each month. It 
paid 15% of the outstanding monthly card balance while Ms M was off work until she either 
returned to work or the card balance was cleared. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Ms M mainly told us that the policy terms and conditions werent ever explained and it wasnt 
clear to her that having PPI was optional  she felt Santander had added it on without her 
permission. Ms M told us that she would never have wanted to pay an extra monthly charge 
and she wouldnt have agreed to the PPI if shed been able to make her own informed 
decision. 
Ms M also told us she had no need for the policy as she was completely covered for all 
aspects of the PPI premium by her employer and she also had extra employee benefits for 
healthcare through work at the time too. Ms M said that meant she would have never 
needed to make a claim on the policy.
Ms M asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint so it comes to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ms case.
After looking carefully at the complaint, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain my reasons.
Ive no doubt that Ms M feels certain about everything shes told us. 
But what Ms M says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold this complaint just 
based on the way she says she was sold PPI. I have to look at all the available information 
and decide what I think is most likely. 
AXA has given us a copy of Ms Ms store card application.
At the top of the application form that Ms M signed when she took out her store card theres 
a section in bold type and block capitals headed ACCOUNT COVER. Theres a brief 
description of the benefits this offers and it says: it costs just a penny in the pound on your 
monthly balance. In this section it also says: if you dont think it is excellent value you can 
cancel within the first 30 days and have a no quibble refund of any monthly premium already 
paid.
Ms M has signed in the PPI part of the form, next to where it says Yes, I would like to protect 
my Account with Account CoverPlease debit my Account with the relevant monthly 
premium until further notice. 
I've taken into account that Ms M mentioned that if the box for PPI wasnt already pre-ticked 
on the application form, she would have only ticked this at the instruction of the sales 
assistant. And I dont know what (if anything) mightve been said to Ms M about the PPI. But 
I think it wouldve been clear from the paperwork that it was up to Ms M to say if she wanted to 
have PPI added on. 
Ms M signed the completed application next to where it says: Sign it only if you want to be 
legally bound by its terms. I think its reasonable to expect Ms M wouldve first read through 
anything she was asked to sign when entering into a new financial commitment. So it seems to 
me that by signing the form Ms M was indicating that she agreed with the information on the 
form at the time  even if, understandably, she has forgotten this now.  
I havent seen enough information overall to be able to say that AXA didnt make Ms M aware 
that the policy was optional or that it was added to her account without her consent. On 
balance, I think AXA did enough to make Ms M aware that she had a choice about buying the 
PPI and that she chose to take it. 
No PPI recommendation was made by AXA. This means that AXA didnt have to check if the 
policy was suitable for Ms M. But it still needed to make sure it gave Ms M enough clear 
information to decide if the policy was right for her, taking into account her personal 
circumstances.
Its possible the information AXA gave Ms M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. So I need to consider if Ms M wouldve acted differently, and not bought the policy, if 
better information had been provided. 
Ms M was entitled to 6 months full sick pay followed by 6 months on half pay from her 
employer. 
This policy couldve paid a benefit for as long as Ms M was off work sick or disabled. So it 
couldve paid out for longer than Ms M was entitled to sick pay through work  and cleared 
her card balance if she wasnt well enough to go back to work. 
The policy wouldve paid out on top of sick pay providing Ms M with a useful benefit at a 
difficult time  especially bearing in mind that she mightve had some extra costs as a result 
of being sick or disabled.
This benefit was also available to Ms M in the event that she lost her job unexpectedly and 
was out of work. 
So its fair to say that PPI offered Ms M better protection than she couldve relied on getting 
through her employer. Being entitled to redundancy benefits wouldnt have helped Ms M if she was off work sick. 
And PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any redundancy money she mightve got if shed 
lost her job, giving her some additional financial security in those circumstances.
Ms M told us she also had extra healthcare benefits through work and sickness and illness 
cover with a bank account. 
But I havent seen any details about this. 
And based on what shes told us, it doesnt look to me like that cover wouldve been likely to 
provide the same benefits and protection as the policy Ms M took out alongside her store 
card to protect those monthly repayments. 
So this information doesnt affect the outcome of her complaint. 
For all these reasons, I think the policy offered Ms M useful benefits in her particular 
situation. 
There were some things the policy didnt cover. 
But this didnt affect Ms M. She couldve taken advantage of all the main policy benefits. 
So I dont think its likely that having more information about what the policy didnt cover 
wouldve put Ms M off taking out the PPI.
I dont think its likely that AXA gave Ms M clear enough information about the costs of the 
PPI policy. But the information Ive seen suggests that she chose to take out the policy when 
she didnt have to. The policy provided the cover briefly described on the application form 
and there was an indication of how the cost would be worked out each month. 
So it looks like Ms M was happy to pay for the PPI at the time as she agreed to pay the 
monthly premium when she filled in the application form.
It seems to have been affordable for her when she took it out so thats not a reason for me 
to uphold the complaint. Ms M couldve cancelled the policy at no cost at all within the first 
30 days  and she couldve cancelled it at any time afterwards at no extra cost if she 
decided it wasnt something she wanted to pay for each month.
Looked at overall, given the useful benefits PPI offered Ms M, I think it unlikely she wouldve 
made a different decision if better information had been provided. 
On balance I think she still wouldve taken out the policy. 
So I dont find that Ms M has lost out as a result of anything that AXA did wrong  and 
theres nothing it needs to do to put things right.
I appreciate that what I've said will disappoint Ms M but I hope that setting out the reasons 
as I've done will help her understand how I've reached my decision. 
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman