DRN-4410305
The complaint
Ms Y complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has discriminated against her 
because of her disability
What happened
In 2020 Ms Y said she told Halifax that she had been diagnosed with dyslexia and dyspraxia 
and has mobility restrictions. She said that Halifax agreed to put notes on its system that she 
may require extra support including clarifications, information repeated and numbers read 
out.
Halifax wrote to Ms Y to say that she could repay her mortgage by making a payment online, 
by phone or by going into a branch.
In April 2023, Ms Y spoke to Halifax about redeeming her mortgage. Halifax said she could 
pay over the phone by speaking to its high value payments team. It confirmed that it would 
be able to take a payment despite it being a bank holiday on 1 May, when Ms Y was 
planning to make the payment.
On 1 May 2023, Ms Y said she tried and was unable to make the payment online. So she 
phoned Halifax. She asked to be put through to the high value payments team but was told it 
was closed. She said Halifax put the phone down on her  and that happened five times 
when she phoned.
Ms Y said that she felt humiliated, unworthy and embarrassed. She said that her disability 
causes severe emotional distress if she is treated poorly and that she had a panic attack. 
She was worried because she would be charged an additional amount because her 
mortgage product had expired.
Ms Y said she got through to Halifax again and it said she should try again the following day.
On 2 May 2023, Ms Y spoke to the high value payment team at Halifax. It said it was unable 
to take the payment as it was internal, it pointed out she was being charged £10 a day 
because her product had expired. It said that she should go to her local branch to make the 
payment. Ms Y did so and settled her mortgage. But she said the trip caused her a great 
deal of pain because of her mobility issues and that she was emotionally unstable for the 
following week and suffered panic attacks.
Ms Y complains that Halifax had discriminated against her because of her disability and that
it had not adjusted its communication in line with the Equality Act 2010. She wants £15,000
to reflect her emotional and mental health stress, panic attacks and suicidal thoughts that
were brought on by Halifaxs treatment of her.
I issued a provisional decision. My provisional findings, which form part of this complaint 
were:
Did Halifax know about Ms Ys disability?
Ms Y brought a complaint to us about Halifax in 2020. That complaint was that she told
Halifax about her disability and the adjustments she needed to help her. I am satisfied that
Halifax was aware of Ms Ys disability and it ought to have had a record of the adjustments
she needed.
There is no evidence that Halifax ought to have been aware that Ms Y had mobility issues
until 2 May 2023.
Did Halifax give Ms Y incorrect information?
On 28 April 2023, Ms Y spoke to Halifax. It told her that she could not repay her mortgage
online but she would be able to do so by speaking to its high value payment department by
phone. It confirmed that team would be available on 1 May 2023.
I dont consider that Halifax was responsible for Ms Y being unable to make the payment
online - it gave her correct information about that. But it did give her incorrect information
about being able to contact the high value payment team on 1 May 2023. And in fact, the
high value payment team was not able to process the payment when she did speak to it the
following day.
Ms Y said she also received letters telling her she could make the payment online or by
phone.
Halifax had a duty to communicate with Ms Y in a way that was clear fair and not misleading.
I dont consider it did so. It ought to have been straightforward to tell Ms Y what she needed
to do to repay her mortgage. Ms Y had been trying for a few months to find out what she
needed to do to repay her mortgage  it was clearly very important to her to repay her
mortgage as soon as she could. I dont think Halifax has shown that it communicated with
her clearly or fairly.
Did Halifax treat Ms Y fairly in the phone calls of 1 and 2 May 2023?
Ive listened to the recordings of the phone calls between Ms Y and Halifax on 1 and 2 May
2023. I dont consider the evidence I have supports that Halifax hung up on Ms Y. It isnt
clear from the recordings how the calls were disconnected. Halifaxs notes of the phone calls
said that Ms Y hung up and that the line disconnected. Im not persuaded on balance that
Halifax was responsible for the phone calls being disconnected. So I cant make any award
to reflect any distress or inconvenience that in itself caused to Ms Y.
I consider that Halifax treated Ms Y professionally during those phone calls. But of course, if
Halifax had given Ms Y the correct information, she would not have had to phone Halifax at
all on that day  there was no way she could do what she wanted.
On 2 May 2023, after being told that she could not make the payment by phone, she phoned
Halifax to complain. She told Halifax about her mobility issues and her disability. There is a
clear difference in Ms Ys voice from the previous day  I think she sounds upset. She said
that she felt she was exhausted after her experience the previous day and was anxious and
stressed.
Ms Y explained the difficulty she will have going to the branch to make the payment  she
will need support from two people to get to the branch and was worried about what she
would need to do to make the payment and the whole experience. She also explained that
she couldnt use the automated phone payments system because of her disability. I consider
that Halifax ought reasonably to have offered to make an adjustment by that point at thelatest so that Ms Y could make a non-automated payment over the phone.
Putting things right
Ive found that:
Halifax was aware of Ms Ys disability and what adjustments she needed. But its not
clear if that was properly recorded at the time in question.
Ms Y was incorrectly told what she needed to do to make the payment on 1 May 2023.
Its not clear that Halifax gave Ms Y the information she needed to achieve her objective
to repay the mortgage on 1 May 2023. It appears that the online and phone options it
told her about were never available. And it did not take account of her disability or the
adjustments she needed.
Ms Y wasted her time in phoning Halifax at least six times on 1 May 2023  it could not
process her payment.
When she spoke to Halifax on 2 May 2023 it ought to have made an adjustment so that
Ms Y could make payment over the phone.
Its not clear that Ms Y could ever have made the payment on 1 May as it was a bank
holiday. Although I think that Halifax could have done more to give her accurate information
and to make adjustments, that would not necessarily include offering a service that it would
not offer on a bank holiday to anyone. So Im not proposing that Halifax should refund the
additional interest of around £10 that Ms Y had to pay because her mortgage wasnt repaid
on 1 May 2023.
I consider that Ms Y has been caused stress and inconvenience in having to phone Halifax
unnecessarily on 1 May 2023. I understand the effects of dyspraxia can include frustration
and difficulty regulating emotions following stress, which is what Ms Y has told us she
experienced.
Ive already found she sounded upset during the phone call on 2 May 2023. Yet despite
being told directly of her disabilities, mobility problems and the difficulties attending a branch
would cause her, Halifax did not offer her any alternative. I think it should l have. And I cant
see how a mortgage lender could not find a way to put a mechanism in place for Ms Y to
make the payment by phone, not using an automated system.
Ms Y has explained the considerable impact on her of going to the branch. That includes,
pain and suffering lasting around a week as set out in the background above. That was
entirely avoidable.
I dont consider that Halifax has treated Ms Y fairly in view of her disability. I consider that
has caused her considerable distress and inconvenience with a serious short-term impact. I
consider that it would be fair for Halifax to pay her £400 to reflect that.
Halifax should also apologise to Ms Y and make sure that it has a record of Ms Ys disability
and the adjustments she needs on its systems. It should check with Ms Y that it accurately
reflects her situation.
Both Halifax and Ms Y accepted my provisional decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both sides have accepted my provisional findings, I have nothing to add to my findings 
set out above.
My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax should pay Ms Y £400.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman