DRN-3674290
Complaint
Mrs C has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) irresponsibly provided her with an 
overdraft which it unfairly continued to applying charges even when she had a persistently 
overdrawn balance. 
Background
When it initially investigated Mrs Cs complaint, Lloyds agreed that it didnt manage Mrs Cs 
account correctly from 2018 and so it refunded all the interest fees and charges added to the 
account from September 2018 onwards. 
Mrs C remained dissatisfied as she didnt think this went far enough and asked our service 
to review her complaint.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and thought that what Lloyds had already 
agreed to do for Mrs C was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. In her 
view, we couldnt look at the initial decision to provide the overdraft or increase the limit. And 
the charges Lloyds had refunded were fair and reasonable. Mrs C disagreed with the 
investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision.   
My provisional decision of 15 August 2022
I issued a provisional decision  on 15 August 2022 - setting out why I thought that Lloyds 
needed to do a bit more to put things right for Mrs C. I wont copy that decision in full, but I 
will instead provide a summary of my findings. 
I started out by explaining, in some detail, why I couldnt look at Mrs Cs complaint about 
what happened on her account before January 2016 as she complained too late. I then went 
on to consider whether Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs C from January 2016 
onwards.
I started this section of my provisional decision by setting out that Lloyds is familiar with all 
the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider when looking at whether a 
bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying overdraft charges. And having 
carefully considered everything provided, I didnt agree that what Lloyds had already done in 
relation to this part of Mrs Cs complaint was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
I thought that this was the case because while Lloyds had refunded all the interest, fees and 
charges added to Mrs Cs account from September 2018 onwards, Lloyds actually acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after it renewed 
Mrs Cs overdraft in February 2016. 
By that point, it seemed evident to me that Mrs Cs use of her overdraft was unsustainable. A 
look at her statements in the period around the renewal showed that not only did she never 
have a credit balance on her account but she was right at her overdraft limit. Furthermore, 
there was a clear mismatch between the overdraft limit and the credits going into her 
account too.
In these circumstances, it ought to have been apparent that Mrs C was unlikely to be able to 
repay what she owed within a reasonable period of time with overdraft interest, fees and 
associated charges being added. So I thought that Lloyds ought to have stopped providing 
the overdraft on the same terms and treated Mrs C with forbearance rather than adding even 
more fees and charges on the overdraft. I didnt think that only refunding the charges from 
when Mrs C never returned under her £3,000.00 limit went far enough as I dont think it was 
fair and reasonable for Lloyds to wait until this point to take corrective action.
All of this meant that it was my view that Lloyds should have realised that Mrs C was 
experiencing financial difficulty, wasnt using her overdraft as intended and shouldnt have 
continued offering it on the same terms by February 2016 at the latest. As Lloyds didnt react 
to Mrs Cs overdraft usage and instead continued charging in the same way, I thought that it 
failed to act fairly and reasonably towards her. 
Mrs C ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft at a time when 
she was already experiencing difficulty. So it was my intention to conclude that Mrs C had 
lost out because of what Lloyds did wrong and that it needed to do more to put things right in 
this case.
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither Lloyds nor Mrs C responded to my provisional decision, or ask for any further time to 
do so.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in 
order to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case.
I set out in some detail why I thought Lloyds needed to refunded the interest, fees and 
charges it added to Mrs Cs overdraft from February 2016 onwards. And as neither party has 
provided any further arguments for me to consider, Ive not been persuaded to alter my 
conclusions. So Im still upholding Mrs Cs complaint and Lloyds needs to put things right. 
Fair compensation  what Lloyds needs to do to put things right for Mrs C
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs Cs complaint for Lloyds to put things right by:
Reworking Mrs Cs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it from February 2016 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Lloyds should contact Mrs C to arrange a suitable repayment plan 
Mrs C is encouraged to continue cooperating with Lloyds to reach a suitable 
agreement for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on 
Mrs Cs credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started 
the process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in February 2016.OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mrs C along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Lloyds 
should remove any adverse information from Mrs Cs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Cs complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC needs to 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman