DRN-3441046
The complaint
Mr B complains that Everyday Lending Limited, trading as Everyday Loans, lent to him 
irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mr B was approved for two loans and using the information Everyday Lending has provided, 
here is a brief table of the approved loans. 
Date taken Amount 
receivedTerm Monthly 
repaymentAmount 
payableDate repaid
Loan one 04/10/2017 £3,000 24
months£243.73 £5,849.52 29/05/2019
Loan two 29/05/2019 £1,432.92 60
months£93.04 £5,582.40 outstanding
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Everyday Lending should 
put things right for Mr B in relation to both of the loans. Everyday Lending agreed with our 
adjudicators view on loan 2, but disputed some of her findings in relation to loan 2. 
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think the 
overarching questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint are:
oDid Everyday Lending, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate 
checks to satisfy itself that Mr B would be able to repay in a sustainable way?
oIf not, would those checks have shown that Mr B would have been able to do so?
oDid Everyday Lending act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday Lending to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Bs ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday Lending had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr B undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday Lending to simply think about the likelihood of 
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr B. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
I have not reviewed the issues surrounding loan 2 as Everyday Lending has agreed that it 
ought not to have lent to Mr B for loan 2.
In relation to Loan 1, I have reviewed all the documents supplied by Mr B and Everyday 
Lending and I appreciate that Mr B was going to use the £3,000 from Everyday Lending to 
pay off some of his other high cost short term and other high cost credit as well as pay down 
some regular revolving credit. And I have seen his bank statements for October 2017 which 
shows that he did do that. 
However, Everyday Lending has presented notes of the interviews with Mr B, carried out 
before lending and they state that Mr B assured them his rent was £350 whereas a note 
recorded by Everyday Lending demonstrates that the person reviewing Mr Bs bank 
statements had seen that he paid £700 a month for rent. The true rental figure was not 
verified and recorded in their income and expenditure calculations as £350. This made a 
fundamental difference to the financial picture for Mr B and was incorrect. Everyday Lending 
got that wrong.
In addition to this, I have seen that as recently as September 2017 two other high cost short 
term lenders deposited significant sums into Mr Bs bank account. Yet soon after that Mr B 
approached Everyday Lending for £4,000. Everyday Lending did actually lend £3,000 but 
had not appreciated that Mr B seemed to be in a cycle of constantly borrowing and repaying 
high cost credit. It had the information available to it as it had reviewed Mr Bs bank 
statements and other details. The term for loan 2 was for 24 months at £244 a month (almost) and that, with the debt that 
Mr B did not pay off with the £3,000 loan, plus the £700 a month, together with his usual 
expenses, leads me to think that Everyday Lending had not assessed his finances suitably 
well, and in reality Mr B was not likely to be able to afford this loan even if he had 
consolidated the other loans. 
I uphold Mr Bs complaint for loan 1 and I endorse Everyday Lendings plan to put things 
right for loan 2. 
Putting things right
Everyday Lending should:
remove all interest, fees and charges applied to Loans 1 and 2,
treat any payments made by Mr B in respect of the two loan as payments towards the 
capital amounts,
If Mr B has paid more than the capital then any overpayments should be refunded to him 
with 8% simple interest* from the date they were paid to the date of settlement,
But if theres still an outstanding balance, Everyday Lending should come to a 
reasonable repayment plan with Mr B.
remove any adverse information about Loans 1 and 2 from Mr Bs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Lending to take off tax from this interest. It 
must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint and I direct that Everyday Lending Limited 
does as I have outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman