DRN-2628003
The complaint
 X complains about Santander UK Plc restricting his account due to a court order and not 
unrestricting it when they received further notification from the courts. X is also unhappy 
about the information Santander has shared with the Credit Reference Agencies in relation 
to two of his credit cards.
To put things right, X would like Santander to remove the restriction from his personal 
account, update his credit file to reflect his two credit cards as settled, and £66,500 
compensation.
What happened
 In December 2013, a freezing order was issued against X. Santander received a copy of 
this in January 2014 and restricted Xs account as theyd been instructed. 
In April 2014, Santander received a consent order in relation to X. This order continued the 
restraint element of Xs assets and therefore Santander had a legal obligation to keep Xs 
accounts restricted. 
In July 2015, X returned to the court for reconsideration of the order. Following the hearing, 
X provided Santander with a copy of the court order which he believes overturns the 
previous orders. X wanted Santander to remove the restrictions and allow him access to his 
account  and the monies held in it. X also thought Santander should have allowed him 
access to a certain amount of funds for living expenses  but they didnt.
Santander refused to give X access. They said the updated order confirms the 2013 freezing 
order can be set aside  but they dont think it removes the 2014 order in relation to Xs 
assets. Santander asked X to provide them with a freezing injunction order to confirm both 
the 2013 and 2014 orders could be removed. 
While Xs account was blocked, he was unable to use any of the banks facilities including 
any direct debits or standing orders which were set up. X held two credit cards and had a 
direct debit set up to make the monthly payments. Due to the direct debits not being paid, 
Santander referred Xs credit card debt to a debt collection agency.
In March 2015, X proposed to pay a set amount towards the credit cards in full and final 
settlement. The debt collection agency asked Santander if theyd be willing to accept Xs 
offer  and they did. X received a letter in April 2015 confirming the acceptance and was told 
his credit file would be updated to reflect the settlement agreed.
In 2019, X noticed his credit file was recording the information incorrectly  it showed one 
account was still open with outstanding debt rather than settled. X said this caused him 
difficulty when applying for other credit and had an impact with his employment. So, he 
complained to Santander. Santander confirmed incorrect information had been recorded and 
offered X £50 compensation which X didnt accept.
X brought his complaint to our service. In summary, the investigator thought:
Santander were correct in keeping Xs accounts blocked based on the order from the 
court.
She believed the updated order overturns the order issued in 2013  but she didnt 
think it released the assets restraint of the order.
She was satisfied, based on the terms of the court order, the living expenses should 
have formed part of a separate account arranged by Xs solicitors. And as she hadnt 
seen any evidence of a living expenses account, she referred X back to his 
solicitors.
The investigator recognised the impact the incorrect credit file entries had on X.
While the investigator hadnt seen any direct loss as a result of these entries (such as 
a specific application being rejected), she thought more compensation was 
warranted.
She asked Santander to pay a further £200 compensation to X.
X remained unhappy. He said the orders all form part of the same order  and therefore the 
order in 2015 should terminate all proceedings.  X also said he contacted his solicitor and 
they have confirmed Xs understanding is correct and the investigators interpretation of the 
order is wrong. In relation to the credit file information  X didnt agree that £250 
compensation fairly reflects the amount of damage that Santander have caused.
As an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, Im upholding Xs complaint in part. Ive explained further below.
Firstly, I appreciate X doesnt think the matters should be separated as they are one and the 
same. However, Ive presented my decision in two sections for ease of explanation. I hope X 
wont find this discourteous.
The restriction and court orders
When Santander received a copy of the 2013 freezing order in January 2014, Im satisfied 
they should have restricted and inhibited Xs account as they did. The further consent order 
in 2014, relating to the restraint element of Xs assets, meant that Santander had a duty to 
keep the account, and the monies in it, restricted.
X returned to the court for reconsideration of the order in 2015. The 2015 order which 
followed, does appear to set aside the 2013 order but not the 2014 consent order which 
continues the restraint element of Xs assets. 
I appreciate X feels very strongly that both the 2013 and 2014 order are one of the same  
and therefore the 2015 order should release all orders.  I recognise the crux of this part of 
the complaint is whether Santander should release the account and the monies in it based 
on the 2015 order. But, its not for the Ombudsman Service to interpret a court order and 
therefore its not appropriate for me to say for certain what I think the court order means. 
However, based on the arguments Ive received from both parties, I think its reasonable 
Santander have asked for further clarification from X in relation to the 2014 restraint element 
 as this isnt directly covered in the 2015 order. Santander are under a lot of pressure to 
make sure they get the terms of any restraint order right. I cant fairly hold them responsible 
for being too cautious as they could be subject to proceedings for contempt of court and held liable to a fine, seizure of their own assets or imprisonment if they can be said to have 
knowingly assisted in the disposal of any assets subject to freezing order. So while its not 
appropriate for me to say whether I think Santander are in contempt of court, I think their 
decision to keep the account restricted until they have further clarification is reasonable 
based on the evidence Ive seen.
Ive also reviewed the court order in regard to the living expenses which X thinks he should 
have had access to. I agree with the investigator that a separate living expenses account 
should have been set up and this should have been administered between Xs solicitors and 
the solicitors who provided the court order. I say that because the 2014 order states;
B. Living Expenses Account
the Defendants are each permitted to maintain accounts located within the State 
(the Living Expenses Account), 
.
C. Drawdown of Living Expenses
 the Defendants are permitted to lodge the balance of the monies to the Living 
Expenses Account and to withdraw the monies from the account in the following way:
.
(iv) The Defendants solicitors will furnish the Plaintiffs solicitors with weekly 
statements from the Living Expenses Account once set up.
I havent seen any evidence that a separate account was set up  or that weekly statements 
were shared and therefore I cant fairly agree that Santander should have given X access to 
any money for his living expenses because the rules of the order havent been followed.
Overall, I dont consider Santander have acted unfairly in taking the stance they have by 
asking X for further clarification of the freezing order injunction. And as Ive seen no 
evidence that the instructions for the Living Expenses Account has been followed, I cant 
reasonably say Santander have done anything wrong by not giving X access to his money 
for his day to day living.
Credit file information
X held two credit cards with Santander and usually paid the monthly amount through direct 
debit. However, when Xs account was inhibited  no further direct debits were taken. X had 
a responsibility to keep up to date with his payments despite the account restriction  and 
when his credit cards hadnt been paid, Santander made the decision to refer the debt to a 
recovery agent.
In 2015, X proposed an offer in full and final settlement of the credit cards which Santander 
accepted. Santander assured X his credit file would be updated to reflect the agreement.
When X noticed the incorrect information on his credit file in 2019, Santander offered him 
£50 in compensation and corrected the information. X says the incorrect information caused 
him difficulties in applying for credit with other financial institutions. As Santander have 
admitted they recorded the incorrect information, its left for me to decide the appropriate 
level of compensation. 
Ive thought carefully about what X has said in relation to having applications declined. While 
Ive seen searches carried out by other financial businesses, I havent seen any evidence of applications being declined for the sole reason of how Santander recorded Xs credit card 
debt. Because of that, I cant fairly hold Santander responsible. All lenders have their own 
eligibility criteria and there could be a number of factors why X has had credit declined. For 
me to uphold Xs complaint on this point, Id need to be satisfied any decline was due to 
Santanders recording  and I cant.
I do however recognise that Santander did make an error - and the time it took for them to 
put things right. Because of that, like the investigator, I dont agree that £50 compensation is 
enough. Im aware that it usually takes around six to eight weeks to update information on a 
credit file  and one credit card was updated successfully in June 2015. So taking into 
account the time it would have taken for Santander to inform the credit reference agencies, 
Im satisfied that the credit card debts should have both shown as settled no later than June 
2015. 
Based on what Ive seen, it took approximately four years for the information to be corrected. 
This was due to X raising it to Santander in 2019. I would have thought X would have raised 
this issue sooner if it was causing him considerable distress and therefore, Ive factored this 
into my decision. Once Santander became aware of the error, they did put things right. I 
recognise they offered £50 compensation, but I dont think this is a fair reflection of an 
incorrect recording on a credit file for almost four years. Therefore, I think more 
compensation should be paid to X. 
Putting things right
 Overall, I appreciate how strongly X feels about things. And Im sorry I cant uphold his 
complaint in the way hed like me to. But having considered the full circumstances of whats 
happened, I think Santander are right to be cautious about what the court order actually 
means. And Im pleased to see theyve asked X to get further clarity from the courts. Id 
expect them to consider any further information X sends to them from the court. I do, 
however recognise that Santander incorrectly recorded information on Xs credit file. I think 
this have an overall impact on X and I consider a total award of £250 is the fair and 
reasonable way to resolve Santanders error. 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Santander UK Plc should pay X a total of 
£250 compensation. Im aware Santander previously offered X £50 compensation and 
therefore if they have already paid this amount to X  then they should pay him an additional 
£200. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman