DRN-3025364
The complaint
Miss D has complained about Watford Insurance Company Europe Limiteds actions after 
she claimed on her motor insurance policy.
Reference to Watford includes its agents.
What happened
Miss D was in an accident when she was driving home from work. She claimed on her 
policy. Watford said her policy didn't cover her for commuting. So it refused to pay her claim 
and cancelled the policy.
Miss D brought her complaint about that to us. She said she didn't realise her policy didn't 
cover her for using her car to travel to and from work, as thats her usual method of doing so. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He didn't think Watford had dealt with 
Miss D fairly. Watford didn't agree so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 3 August 2021. For ease I've copied the relevant extract 
below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss D applied for her policy through a comparison website. When doing so the comparison 
site asked her what she used her car for. Of relevance to this complaint two of the options 
she was given were:
Social, domestic and pleasure only
Social, domestic, pleasure and commuting
Miss D selected social, domestic and pleasure only. But, as she used her car to go to and 
from work, she should have chosen the option which included commuting. And, as she didn't 
do that, Watford said that, as she was on a journey home from work at the time, her policy 
didn't cover her for the accident. So it refused to pay her claim. It also said that as Miss D 
was using her car outside of the policy terms it was cancelling it. I've thought very carefully 
about whether Watford's actions were fair and reasonable.
Miss D is required to take reasonable care to answer an insurers questions when applying 
for a policy. And its not in dispute that Miss D wanted to use her car for commuting. So I 
don't think she took reasonable care when answering the comparison sites question about 
what she used her car for. And such a mistake is usually known in the insurance industry as 
a misrepresentation.
It might help if I explain that theres specific law - the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) - which sets out what insurers may do when a 
consumers made a misrepresentation. But, in order for an insurer to have a remedy under 
CIDRA the misrepresentation must be a qualifying one. And to be a qualifying 
misrepresentation the insurer needs to show that, but for the misrepresentation, it wouldn't 
have entered into the contract (the policy) at all or only done so on different terms.
We asked Watford what its position would have been if Miss D had answered the 
comparison sites website accurately and said she also used her car for commuting. Watford 
told us it would have still offered Miss D the policy and for the same premium. In other 
words, without the misrepresentation Watford would have offered the same contract on 
precisely the same terms. And, in those circumstances, I don't think Miss Ds mistake when 
applying for the policy was a qualifying misrepresentation. So I don't think Watford has a 
remedy under CIDRA.
Watford has argued that CIDRA doesn't apply at all. It said the reasons for its actions were 
because Miss D was in breach of the policy's terms (at the time of the accident, whereas 
CIDRA focuses on the policys sale). But I don't think that approach is fair. CIDRA was 
designed to cover situations such as this, where a consumer doesn't answer a question with 
reasonable care. And it sets out what remedies are available. So I think CIDRA applies to 
this situation. It follows that I don't think it's fair for it to rely on the terms of the policy when 
the situation is covered by CIDRA. But in this case Watford doesn't have a remedy under 
CIDRA.
Further, given that if Miss D hadn't made a mistake, and included commuting on her cover, 
Watford would have offered the same cover for the same premium. So, the premium Miss D 
had actually paid to Watford would have covered the risk for her using her car to travel to 
and from work. And in those circumstances I don't think Watford has been placed into a 
worse position because of Miss Ds mistake when applying for the policy. And its position in 
respect of the claim is no different either. So any concern Watford has about any breach of 
policy terms is irrelevant because the breach is not material to the loss and hasnt prejudiced 
its position in any way.
It follows that I don't think it was fair for Watford to refuse to pay Miss Ds claim and to cancel 
her policy. As such I think Watford should take the action set out below:
Putting things right
Watford should reinstate Miss Ds policy to cover her for the accident. it should remove the 
record of the cancellation from any internal and external databases and write to Miss D to 
confirm it has done so. It should then reassess Miss Ds claim for the accident as if Miss D 
had selected cover for commuting, under the remaining terms and conditions of her policy 
(including the relevant excesses).
I'm aware that Miss D paid herself to have her car repaired; this was something that her 
policy would usually have covered. So, if her claim is covered under the remaining terms of 
her policy, on receipt of appropriate evidence, Watford should reimburse the sums Miss D 
paid to repair the accident damage to her car and any reasonable associated costs. It should 
add simple interest, at a rate of 8% a year, to that amount, from the date Miss D paid for the 
repairs to the date Watford reimburses her.
Because Watford cancelled her policy, without providing any refund of premium, Miss D had 
to take out another policy. She wouldn't have had to do that if Watford hadn't unfairly 
cancelled it. So I think its reasonable that Watford reimburse Miss D for the cost of her 
replacement policy from the date Watford cancelled its policy to the date it was due to 
expire.
Also, as Miss D has had to declare that Watford cancelled her policy, its likely that has 
affected her premiums since then  that is beyond the date that her Watford policy was due to lapse. Thats because many insurers think consumers who've had a policy cancelled by 
an insurer are a higher risk and so reflect that in the premiums they charge.
So as Miss D wouldnt have had to declare a cancellation of this policy had it not been for 
Watfords actions, its likely the cost of her replacement policy, and any policy she's taken 
out since then, would have been higher than she could have otherwise expected to pay. So, 
on receipt of the appropriate evidence from Miss D I think Watford should refund any 
additional sums Miss D has paid for her subsequent insurance policies. Watford should 
calculate this amount based on the amounts Miss D actually paid for her premiums 
compared to what Watford would have charged her for its policies, from the date Miss Ds 
Watford policy was due to expire. Watford will also need to add simple interest to any 
amount refunded. Further, as Watfords decision to refuse to pay the claim and cancel her 
policy has clearly been a source of distress and inconvenience for Miss D, I think Watford 
should pay her £100 compensation.
Watford objected to my provisional decision. It repeated that it didn't think CIDRA applied 
and that it didn't need to cover Miss Ds claim. Miss D didn't make any further comments. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm going to uphold it. 
In response to my provisional decision Watford simply repeated that it didn't think CIDRA 
applied. But this was information which Id considered before arriving at my provisional 
decision. And in that I set out why I thought that CIDRA did apply. As Watford hasn't put 
forward any new arguments or evidence to counter my provisional findings I see no reason 
to change them.    
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Watford Insurance 
Company Europe Limited to:
Remove the cancellation of Miss Ds policy from any internal and external databases 
and write to her to confirm the cancellation was done in error.
Reconsider the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, as 
if Miss D had selected cover for commuting from the outset.
If Miss Ds claim is covered then Watford should reimburse the amount she paid to 
have her car repaired and any reasonable associated costs. It should add simple 
interest, at a rate of 8% a year, to the amount reimbursed, from the date Miss D paid 
those sums to the date Watford reimburses her.
Reimburse Miss D for the cost of her replacement policy, on a pro rata basis, from 
the date Watford cancelled its policy to the date it was due to expire.
Provide Miss D with a refund for the difference in premiums shes had to pay 
because obtaining a premium with a declared cancellation was more expensive, as 
described above. Watford should also add 8% simple interest to the refund, from the 
dates Miss D paid the increased premiums, to the date of settlement.
Pay Miss D £100 compensation to address her distress and inconvenience.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept or reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman