DRN-3249836
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that Vanquis Bank Limited approved him for a credit account which he feels 
wasnt affordable for him at that time.
What happened
Mr F applied for a Vanquis credit account in November 2016. Mr Fs application was 
successful, and Vanquis provided hum with a credit account with a credit limit of £150.
In 2021, Mr F raised a complaint with Vanquis on the basis that he felt that he hadnt been 
able to afford the credit account that Vanquis approved him for in 2016, and that this should 
have been evident to Vanquis, had they undertaken checks into his financial position before 
approving his application.
Vanquis looked at Mr Fs complaint. They confirmed they had undertaken checks into Mr Fs 
financial position before approving his application, and they felt thered been nothing 
resulting from those checks that should have reasonably given them cause to suspect that 
Mr F might not have been able to afford the credit account he was applying for. So, they 
didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Mr F wasnt satisfied with Vanquis response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also didnt feel that Vanquis had 
acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr F by approving his credit account application in 
2016, and so they also didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Mr F remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its for a business to decide whether it will offer credit to a customer, and if so, how much 
and on what terms. What this service would expect would be, that before approving a 
customer for a new line of credit, the business would undertake reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure that any credit being offered to a customer is affordable for 
that customer at that time.
Vanquis appear to have done that here. One reason I say this because during the 
application process Vanquis gathered information about Mr Fs annual income at that time, 
which F declared as being £47,000. Additionally, Vanquis also obtained information about   
Mr F from a credit reference agency, and this information included that Mr F had a low 
amount of other existing credit at that time. 
As such, given the relatively low credit limit of £150 which Vanquis provided to Mr F, it does 
seem reasonable to me that Vanquis would have concluded from the information that they 
gathered that Mr F would in all likelihood have been able to afford the monthly repayments 
which might have become due on the credit account, had Mr F used the full £150 of credit 
available to him.
I note that Mr Fs credit file also showed both a defaulted account and a County Court 
Judgement (CCJ), but the default had taken place just over a year before the Vanquis 
application, and the CCJ approximately three and a half years before. Given the apparent 
affordability of the credit account, as explained above, as well as how Mr M had managed 
his credit commitments in the twelve months since the default, and Vanquis own market 
position as a provider of second chance credit, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for 
Vanquis to offer a credit account to Mr F with a relatively low credit limit such as they did.
Mr F has explained to this service that he was struggling with a gambling addiction at the 
time of the application, and Im aware that Mr F feels that Vanquis should have undertaken 
more detailed checks into his circumstances which would have highlighted this fact  such 
as Vanquis undertaking a review of his current account statements, which would have 
shown a large number of gambling transactions.
I can appreciate Mr Fs position here, but Mr F didnt make Vanquis aware of his issues with 
gambling at the time of the application, and I dont feel there was any obligation on Vanquis 
to have undertaken more detailed checks as Mr F contends. 
I say this because credit providers have an obligation to undertake reasonable and 
proportionate checks, in consideration of the amount of credit being provided. And while it 
would be expected that more detailed checks would be undertaken where the amount of 
credit being provided was considerably high, such further checks wouldnt be expected for 
applications where the amount of credit being provided is relatively low  such as was the 
case in this instance.
Finally, Mr F has stated that his credit file at the time of the application would have shown 
that he was using payday loans which he feels should have been an indicator of potential 
financial difficulty. Having reviewed Mr Fs credit file, I do note several payday loans, but the 
majority of these were taken after Mr Fs Vanquis account had been opened. It may have 
been the case that two of these payday loans would have been visible to Vanquis at that 
time of the application, although Vanquis themselves only record one such loan. 
However, the use of payday loans by a consumer doesnt necessarily mean that the 
consumer is struggling financially, and given that both of the loans that may have been 
visible to Vanquis were repaid by Mr F without incident, I dont feel that the presence of 
these loans should have given Vanquis reasonable cause to suspect that Mr F might have 
been struggling financially at that time of the application such that the provision of a credit 
account to Mr F with a credit limit of £150 shouldnt have taken place.
Ultimately, having assessed the circumstances surrounding Mr Fs application for credit in 
2016 with Vanquis, Im satisfied that Vanquis did undertake reasonable and proportionate 
checks into Mr Fs financial position at that time, and that there was nothing resulting from 
those checks that should have given Vanquis fair cause to suspect that Mr F might not be 
able to afford the credit account he was subsequently approved for.
I realise that this wont be the outcome Mr F was wanting, but it follows from the above that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Vanquis to take any further action at this 
time. I hope Mr F will understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final 
decision that I have.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman