DRN-2429231
The complaint
Mr D complains that CIGNA Europe Insurance Company SA-NV (CIGNA) have unfairly 
declined to indemnify a claim made by his previous employer. 
What happened
Mr D was awarded £79,731.90 on 24 September 2018 by the employment tribunal for unfair 
dismissal by his previous employer (Company A) after it terminated his employment. 
However, Company A entered into liquidation on 18 September 2018 before the judgment 
was issued. It failed to pay the compensation awarded and remains indebted to Mr D.
Company A held an employers liability policy with CIGNA, which covered it for employment 
disputes  including indemnity for compensatory awards issued against it as a result of an 
unfair dismissal. Following Company As liquidation, Mr D sought to recover the judgment 
debt owed to him under the insurance policy by virtue of the Third Parties (Rights of 
Insurers) Act 2010, which effectively allows his to step into the position of the insolvent 
policyholder with devolved rights under the contract of insurance. He said that the policy 
should indemnify Company A against the judgment in order for him to receive his 
compensation.
CIGNA said that cover was denied to Company A as the claim did not have reasonable 
prospects of success. They also said that it was a condition of cover that any disciplinary 
action must be specifically authorised by the insurers HR/legal advisors (whom Ill refer to as 
EW) but that Company A failed to follow EWs advice in breach of the policy. CIGNA 
therefore refused to indemnify the judgment amount awarded against Company A.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as she was satisfied it had been declined fairly 
and in line with the policy terms and conditions. Mr D disagreed, so the matter has been 
escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it.
First, it isnt in dispute that Mr D is considered an eligible complainant for the purposes of 
this complaint, as he is a person on whom the legal right to benefit from a claim against the 
respondent under a contract of insurance has been devolved by contract, assignment, 
subrogation or legislation (DISP 2.7.7(6) of the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook).
The policy terms and conditions state that CIGNA will cover basic and compensatory awards 
in a dispute under employment legislation over unfair dismissal. However, it is subject to the 
following conditions:
Employment disputes
Employment disputes cover is subject to the following risk management provisions. 
Under Insuring clause A  Employment you are required to seek the advice of [EWs] 
Advisory Service as to the procedure to be adopted and to follow and act expressly 
on the advice given with due diligence:
(i) Prior to taking any disciplinary action that might or does result in termination 
of employment or variation of contract terms such action being specifically 
authorised by [EWs] Advisory Service;
(ii) Prior to the dismissal of an employee such dismissal being specifically 
authorised by [EWs] Advisory Service;

You should carefully read the Insuring Clause A  Employment of your policy to 
make sure that you are in no doubt as to when you need to call EWs Advisory 
Service.
If you are in any doubt, then phone the EW Advisory Service as taking the wrong 
action can jeopardise any chance of defending an employment action which may 
arise in the future. It can also jeopardise your entitlement to cover under your policy 
as your action (or inaction) could have contributed to the claim against you.
CIGNA say that Company A failed to follow EWs advice in breach of the above term. They 
also said that the defence of the claim didnt have any prospects of success as a result. I 
note that Mr D is not fully aware of the reasons why Company A was said to have failed to 
follow EWs advice  and why the claim was reported as having insufficient prospects  
because the correspondence and discussions had in this regard are privileged between 
Company A and EW.
I am also not at liberty to disclose or detail the nature of the discussions or correspondence 
sent between Company A and its HR/legal advisors for the same reasons. But I can assure 
Mr D that I have considered all the evidence carefully in this regard, including the nature of 
the advice provided by EW, the subsequent action taken by Company A, and the reasons 
why the claim was not deemed to have sufficient prospects. Having done so, Im satisfied 
that CIGNA has declined the claim fairly and in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
Therefore, I do not consider theyre liable to indemnify Company A for the judgment amount 
awarded against it, or that they are now responsible for paying this sum to Mr D.
I understand it was also disputed as to whether CIGNA would be liable to cover the claim in 
any event given that Company A entered into liquidation before the tribunal made its award 
and the judgment handed down, as there is a policy term stating that cover will cease in the 
event of liquidation. But seeing as I do not think the claim was wrongly declined on the basis 
already outlined above, I do not find it necessary to explore this point any further.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr D. But in the circumstances, and based 
on the evidence I have seen, Im not persuaded that CIGNA has unfairly declined the claim 
and I will not be directing them to take any further action.
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman