DRN-3711031
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs O have complained about how Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Birmingham 
Midshires (Birmingham Midshires) handled arrears and other administration issues with 
their main residential mortgage account as well as their buy-to-let mortgage.
What happened
Mr H says that he and Mrs O separated in 2015 and the cost of the divorce forced him to sell 
the property he had a buy-to-let mortgage on in 2017. 
After the event, Birmingham Midshires informed Mr H that it had discharged the title deeds 
for the wrong property  the residential property instead of the buy-to-let property. Mr H says 
he had to speak to Birmingham Midshires several times over many months to sort out the 
error.
Mr H says Birmingham Midshires asked him, and Mrs O, to sign a confirmatory charge to 
replace the deed of consent on the property and he believes there was a section of that 
charge missing which allowed a second charge to be applied to his residential property later 
on. Mr H says Birmingham Midshires is responsible for the problems that arose from this 
mistake.
Mr H has raised other concerns as follows:
He doesnt think Birmingham Midshires treated him fairly during the coronavirus, 
Covid-19 pandemic (the pandemic). Specifically, because it refused to offer him any 
payment deferrals during this time.
Hes asked a number of times for Mrs O to be removed from the mortgage and for 
the term to be extended, but Birmingham Midshires has not helped him with this.
He has received conflicting information by letter. For example, he was invited to 
capitalise the arrears on the residential mortgage, while at the same time being told 
Birmingham Midshires was starting legal proceedings. And when he attempted to 
capitalise the arrears he was turned down. 
Birmingham Midshires looked into Mr H and Mrs Os complaint and confirmed it had made 
an error when the buy-to-let property was sold. As the addresses were very similar it 
accidently discharged the wrong property. But it said the second charge was a result of Mr H 
applying for lending through a third party and so it cant be held responsible for that.
Birmingham Midshires said despite the impact of the pandemic, Mr H and Mrs O had 
longstanding arrears dating back to 2015, so it considered Mr Hs request for payment 
deferrals, but Mr H didnt meet the criteria it was applying at the time. This was because 
Mr H was in nine months arrears and needed to be under six months arrears to qualify. 
Birmingham Midshires said it felt a payment deferral might have been a temporary fix but 
would mean the monthly instalments would go up and it was not persuaded this was 
sustainable for Mr H.
Birmingham Midshires understood Mr H wished to remove Mrs O from the mortgage, but 
said it told him he needed to arrange this through a broker and complete the relevant 
application. 
Our investigator looked into Mr H and Mrs Os concerns and suggested Birmingham 
Midshires rework the account as though six months of payment deferrals had been granted. 
They said this should be reflected on Mr H and Mrs Os credit files. That Birmingham 
Midshires should consider capitalising any remaining arrears and award compensation of 
£350 to Mr H and £150 to Mrs O for the stress and inconvenience caused by this and the 
incorrect discharge of title deeds. Finally, Birmingham Midshires should consider capitalising 
any remaining arrears. And Mr H and Mrs O should submit an application for changes to be 
made to the mortgage if they want to  Birmingham Midshires can then assess whether its 
prepared to make those changes.
Birmingham Midshires accepted the investigators suggested settlement, but Mr H felt this 
wasnt enough, so the complaint was referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to start by acknowledging that Mr H has provided a considerable amount of 
information and has raised a number of additional complaint points since first approaching 
this service. Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill only comment on what I 
think is relevant to this complaint and necessary to explain my findings. I say this because 
any further detail could reduce Mr H and Mrs Os anonymity when the decision is published. 
Its also not within my remit to include complaint points that Birmingham Midshires has not 
had the opportunity to investigate itself.
In relation to the points I have considered, I think Mr H and Mrs Os complaint should be 
upheld. Ill explain why.
Discharge of the wrong property
Birmingham Midshires has accepted that it accidently discharged the title deeds of the wrong 
property and it has corrected this. Mr H says he wouldnt have had a second charge against 
the property if it werent for this mistake  a second charge that resulted in him temporarily 
losing possession of his property. Ive thought about this carefully, and I think Mr H and 
Mrs O should be compensated for the stress and inconvenience this caused. But I dont 
think Birmingham Midshires is responsible for the problems that followed.It has transpired that Mr Hs sister owned the freehold to both properties and decided to 
extend the lease on Mr Hs residential property, having previously already extended the buy-
to-let. Mr H told us he was unaware the lease had been extended on the residential property 
and ended up entering into a monetary loan to pay for the lease extension. He says he 
thought he was communicating with Birmingham Midshires through its solicitor. 
Birmingham Midshires has confirmed it is not involved in anyway and did not hire the 
solicitor Mr H was in discussion with. As the complaint Mr H is making concerns a third party 
and not Birmingham Midshires, it wouldnt be appropriate for us to look into this further. If 
Mr H wishes to pursue a complaint about this he would need to take that up with the relevant 
business, which appears to be connected to the loan he took out.
Mr H says he spent several months trying to resolve these issues with Birmingham 
Midshires and I do think both he and Mrs O should be compensated for the stress and 
inconvenience caused to them. It does appear though that a significant amount of the 
confusion stemmed from third parties involvement in Mr H and Mrs Os property and so I 
must make it clear that the compensation reflects the errors Birmingham Midshires was 
responsible for only. Its also fair to say that these events would have had a greater impact 
on Mr H than Mrs O as he was the one residing in the property and dealing with much of the 
correspondence involved.
Payment holidays 
Mr H asked for a payment deferral in March 2020 and again in February 2021. 
Birmingham Midshires initially agreed to the payment deferral, but later declined it for the 
reasons explained above. Instead, in April 2020, Mr H was offered a three-month nil 
payment arrangement. Birmingham Midshires says this meant it would not be chasing him 
for payments or move to legal action, but it would also not recalculate the payment after this. 
And in February 2021, when Mr H asked for a payment deferral again, as the account was 
still in arrears of more than six months, Birmingham Midshires did not grant a payment 
deferral and he was not offered any other arrangement.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance to businesses in relation to the 
pandemic in March 2020. It said the guidance applied to all customers regardless of whether 
they were in a payment shortfall and that customers in this situation should not be treated 
less favourably than other customers. So, while Birmingham Midshires may have relied on 
the guidance set out in its own policy  I dont think its decision in terms of Mr H and Mrs Os 
particular circumstances was in keeping with the recommended approach from the FCA. 
While Mr H had been struggling to keep up with his contractual monthly payments (CMPs) 
for some time prior, he did give valid reasons for his inability to meet his CMPs during the 
pandemic. Mr H was self-employed, and his work was directly linked to the industry he 
worked in, so its understandable that his income suffered significantly during this time. Mr H 
confirmed that he had to make significant changes to his business during this time and prior 
to this, he had been making efforts to reduce his arrears. 
For these reasons, I think Mr H should have been granted payment deferrals starting from 
his first request in March 2020. The payment holiday should then have continued for six 
months up to August 2020. As I think this should have happened, but didnt, I think 
Birmingham Midshires should rework the mortgage to reflect this. It should then capitalise 
the arrears which accrued during that period if Mr H and Mrs O agree. Mr H and Mrs Os 
credit files should also be updated to reflect that they had a payment deferral for this six-
month period.Again, I think Mr H and Mrs O should be compensated for the stress and inconvenience 
caused to them, but that the impact on them would have been different. Mrs O was affected 
in terms of her credit file, but Mr H was affected in terms of both his credit file and his 
exchanges with Birmingham Midshires while trying to arrange the payment deferrals. I say 
this because to my knowledge, Mrs O had not been contributing to the mortgage for some 
time.
Changes to the residential mortgage
I have seen evidence that confirms Mr H informed Birmingham Midshires he wished to 
remove Mrs O from the mortgage and extend the term. On each occasion, Mr H was 
informed that he would need to apply for any changes through a broker and his application 
would be reviewed. 
While I appreciate Mr H may have expected Birmingham Midshires to be able to do this 
more easily for him  I dont think Birmingham Midshires has done anything wrong here. It 
cannot make those changes to the mortgage without assessing the circumstances properly 
and relevant forms would need to be submitted in order for it to do this. 
Birmingham Midshires recommended Mr H do this through a broker and it was then up to 
him to decide what to do next. From what Ive seen, Mr H chose not to submit any 
applications for changes, so Birmingham Midshires is not responsible for the property 
remaining in Mr H and Mrs Os names or for the term remaining as originally agreed. But it 
should consider Mr H and Mrs Os application/s should they chose to submit any.
Conflicting information
I understand Mr H was receiving letters with conflicting information and that this would have 
been confusing to him at the time. But Ive seen call records where Birmingham Midshires 
explained the letters were auto generated and advised him to ignore the content of letters 
that conflicted with the information he had been given over the phone. 
So, Mr H was encouraged not to place too much weight on the letters and considering the 
length of time his mortgage has been in arrears and he remains in the property  it seems 
the advice he was given over the phone was correct. I appreciate this would have caused 
some stress though and I think that is reflected in the overall compensation for the stress 
and inconvenience caused which I have set out below.
Putting things right
Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Birmingham Midshires should:
Reconstruct Mr H and Mrs Os account as though payment deferrals were granted for 
six months from March 2020 onwards. It should then capitalise the arrears which 
accrued during that period, if Mr H and Mrs O agree.
Correct Mr H and Mrs Os credit files for the period where they should have been on 
a payment deferral.
Compensate Mr H with £350 for stress and inconvenience the above errors have 
caused him.
Compensate Mrs O with £150 for the stress and inconvenience caused to her.Consider capitalising any remaining arrears once the above changes have taken 
place, and it should inform Mr H and Mrs O of any new CMP amounts before it 
makes any changes.
It should consider Mr H and Mrs Os application to change the ownership and term of the 
mortgage should they submit an application.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Bank of 
Scotland plc, trading as Birmingham Midshires to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 November 2022.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman