DRN-1831488
 
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) unfairly charged 
him an increased amount for his motor insurance policy after it had renewed.              
What happened
Mr Ss motor insurance policy was due to renew on 10 June 2019. He had previously agreed 
a price for his renewal with Admiral that he was happy to pay.
On 7 June 2019, before Mr Ss policy renewed, he was involved in an accident. Neither party 
made a claim, but he reported the circumstances to Admiral. At the time Mr S reported the 
circumstances he wasnt told the cost of his insurance would change.
On 12 June after taking the initial agreed payment from Mr Ss account, Admiral took a 
further payment of £231.37. Admiral said it emailed Mr S explaining the further payment.
Admiral has also explained that the department Mr S told about the accident would not have 
been the same department that dealt with the cost of his policy. So it would not have been 
able to tell him about the increase at the time.
Admiral has offered Mr S the option of cancelling his policy and waiving its cancellation fee.
Our Investigator considered Mr Ss complaint and thought the offer made by Admiral was 
fair, so didnt ask it to do anything further.
Mr S has told us he didnt receive the email and if he was told of the increase, he may not 
have renewed his policy. Mr S feels Admiral took the additional payment without his authority 
and should therefore refund it to him.
As Mr S didnt agree his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances of this complaint arent disputed by either side. What is in dispute is 
whether it was fair of Admiral to hold Mr S responsible for paying the additional amount for 
his policy.
I understand Mr S did not receive the email advising him of the increase in the cost of his 
policy, but I can see from the evidence provided by Admiral that this was sent.
While its unfortunate that Mr S was involved in an accident so close to the renewal of his 
policy, and after a price had already been agreed, the accident does still form part of his driving history before the next years insurance was in force. It' was therefore reasonable for 
Admiral to consider this information when priced Mr Ss policy.
As a service we cannot get involved in the method insurers use to set their premiums as we 
are not the regulator. So I cannot ask Admiral to charge Mr S less for his insurance. Admiral 
has shown that the additional amount it has charged Mr S is correct, and the amount it would 
have charged any other customer in the same position.
Mr Ss motor insurance contract also includes the following section:
/ authorise Admiral until further notice in writing to charge the payment details held on 
record for any amounts due, including the renewal of my policy (which is separate from any 
intermediary charges charged by EUl Limited which are described in Your Agreement with 
EUl Limited). If I am not the account holder, I agree to advise the account holder of this 
arrangement.
With the above in mind I dont think Admiral has taken the additional payment without Mr S's 
authority. Although I think Mr Ss argument is fair, if he had been told about the increase in 
his premium, he would have had the option to go elsewhere for his insurance.
Admiral has offered to cancel Mr Ss insurance policy and waive its cancellation fee. So, it is 
now giving him this same option he should have had when his policy renewed, without any 
negative financial impact. I think this offer is fair.
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2020.
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman