DRN-3667356
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc sent post to an incorrect address and with the 
service he received from HSBC when he raised a complaint about the issue.
What happened
Mr T applied for a new HSBC account online to take advantage of promotional incentives 
that HSBC were offering at that time. His application was successful, but HSBC sent Mr Ts 
new account documents to an incorrect address. Mr T wasnt happy about this, or about the 
fact that his not receiving the documents in a timely manner meant that he missed out on the 
incentives hed opened the account to take advantage of. So, he raised a complaint. 
HSBC looked at Mr Ts complaint. They explained that theyd sent the documents by mail to 
the address provided by Mr T in his application, and that as such they didnt feel that they 
should bear the accountability for the mail going to the incorrect address. Mr T wasnt 
satisfied with HSBCs response, so, he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that HSBC had acted 
unfairly towards Mr T by sending the mail to the address that theyd been provided with by 
Mr T, and so they also didnt uphold the complaint. Mr T remained dissatisfied, so the matter 
was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T has explained that during his online application to HSBC, when he entered his address 
into HSBCs website, the address he entered was automatically changed by HSBCs website 
from his correct address to an incorrect address. 
Its clear that the reason the address was changed in this manner was because HSBC 
employed an address finder which sought to automatically populate the address with a 
known address as Mr T typed in his address details.
Unfortunately, Mr Ts actual address wasnt included within the list of known addresses in 
the address finder system, which resulted in the address finder automatically populating an 
incorrect address. But there was an option for Mr T to enter his address manually if his 
actual address wasnt recognised by the address finder, as was the case in this instance. 
But Mr T didnt correct the incorrectly suggested address inputted by the address finder by 
inputting his correct address manually, but instead confirmed the incorrectly suggested 
address as being his address, thereby providing that incorrect address to HSBC within his 
application.
Mr T has stated that he doesnt feel that it was his responsibility to have ensured that HSBC 
didnt change the correct address details that hed submitted to them. But it wasnt the case 
that Mr T submitted his correct address information to HSBC, which was then changed to an 
incorrect address by HSBC, as Mr T feels took place here. 
This is because Mr Ts address wasnt submitted to HSBC until Mr T confirmed the 
submission of that address  which took place after the address that Mr T had initially 
inputted was amended to an incorrectly suggested address by the address finder, and 
notably also after Mr T was presented with a further prompt within the application process 
asking him to ensure that the address being submitted to HSBC was correct. 
Accordingly, Im satisfied that by submitting his application with the incorrectly amended 
address, rather than manually correcting it, Mr T did provide HSBC with an incorrect 
address. Im therefore also satisfied that HSBC did send the account documents to the 
address that Mr T had given to them. And for these reasons I dont feel that HSBC should be 
fairly or reasonably held accountable for the letter containing Mr Ts account documents 
being sent to the incorrect address.
It follows then that I wont be upholding this complaint, including the aspects of this complaint 
that resulted from Mr T not receiving his documents from HSBC in a timely manner  such 
as his not receiving his account information in time to take advantage of the incentives being 
offered by HSBC at that time. And this is because, ultimately, I feel that by submitting his 
application to HSBC with an incorrect address, as explained above, Mr T should be 
considered responsible for HSBC posting his documents to that incorrect address.
Mr T is also unhappy with aspects of how HSBC have handled his complaint, including that 
they wouldnt reconsider his complaint after issuing their complaint response, which Mr T 
feels is in contradiction to the following statement on HSBCs website: If you are not happy 
with the way we resolved your complaint, please let us know as soon as possible. We will 
conduct a review and look to get it sorted. 
It isnt generally within the remit of this service to consider complaints about how a business 
had handled a complaint  even a complaint about a regulated financial activity  and I feel 
that this remains the case in this instance. However, I do feel that the response that HSBC 
issued to Mr Ts complaint, dated 24 January 2022, was a fair and reasonable response. 
And I also note that my final decision here includes that I arent instructing HSBC to take any 
further action after that response. As such, I dont feel that HSBC would or should have 
changed their position regarding Mr Ts complaint, even had they reconsidered it.
I realise this wont be the outcome that Mr T was wanting, but I can confirm that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing HSBC to take any further action. I hope that Mr T will 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman