DRN-3679369
The complaint
Mr B complains that his Halifax credit card was declined on two occasions. On the first 
occasion, in April 2021, he was asked to enter a PIN, even though he has a chip and 
signature card. On the second occasion, in May 2021, his signature was not recognised by 
the retailers digital screen. 
Mr B also complained about the way in which Halifax dealt with his concerns. He says too 
that it altered his personal details without his consent. 
Halifax is a trading name of Bank of Scotland plc.  
What happened
Mr B has difficulty remembering PINs and has therefore used chip and signature payment 
cards for a number of years. Those cards include his Halifax credit card. That means that he 
can, in theory at least, use the card to make contactless payments where the transaction is 
below the relevant limit; he can verify higher value transactions with a signature. 
Mr B has explained that, in April 2021, he tried to make a contactless card purchase. The 
contactless payment was not accepted, and he was asked to enter a PIN. He was not asked 
to provide a signature and so was unable to make payment using his Halifax card. 
The following month Mr B says that a contactless transaction was again declined. This time, 
however, he was asked to insert his card into the card reader and to sign the digital screen. 
That did not work and so he had to make payment in cash. Mr B says this cost him more 
because the charity shop where he was making the purchase could not provide him with 
change. 
Mr B complained to Halifax. It said, in summary, that the payments had not been declined 
because of any issue with its systems or the card. Indeed, it had no record of them, and that 
indicated that the retailers had declined the payments. 
Mr B was unhappy with the way in which Halifax had handled his concerns, as well as with 
its conclusions. Specifically, he said that he had indicated he did not want to deal with 
Halifax by telephone, but that Halifax had not respected that wish.
Finally, when Mr B received a replacement card in May 2021, he was concerned that the 
name on it had been changed to include a middle initial. He had not requested this and 
suspected it was a result of information supplied by another provider within the Lloyds 
Banking Group  which includes Bank of Scotland. 
Mr B referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. The investigator issued a provisional assessment in which he concluded, in 
summary:
It was likely that the payments were declined by the retailers, not because of the actions 
of Halifax.    
The handling of complaints is not an activity which this service can consider.
Halifax had noted what Mr B had said about the name on the card and had taken 
appropriate steps to remedy the situation. 
Mr B did not accept the investigators assessment and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Banks and other card issuers generally recognise that not all customers are able to use chip 
and PIN cards and so will issue chip and signature cards instead. Mr B is such a customer 
and has had chip and signature cards for several years. 
I accept what Mr B has said about the transactions he could not complete in April and May 
2021. That is, I believe he is telling the truth when he says that he was unable to make 
payments and why. It does not however follow that Halifax was at fault or that there was 
anything wrong with Mr Bs credit card.
Whilst payments below a certain limit can be made using a contactless card, it does not 
follow that all payments below that limit can be made without additional verification. A 
merchant might decide to seek additional verification, because they generally bear the risk of 
accepting a contactless payment which is not genuine. In addition, security systems are 
generally set up to require PIN or signature verification from time to time  even for low value 
transactions. I think it likely that this is what happened on these occasions. I do not believe 
that the request for additional verification was an error or that it was unfair. 
As far as the transaction in April 2021 is concerned , I think it likely that it was the retailers 
decision to ask for PIN verification, not the banks. Its records show that the card was a chip 
and signature card and so there was no reason for its systems to ask for a PIN. It may be 
that the retailer was simply not familiar with chip and signature verification or that they had 
decided to ask for a PIN for security reasons. Either way, the banks lack of any record of an 
attempt to make a payment indicates that it was not given the opportunity to make or to 
decline to make the payment. That decision was most likely taken by the retailer. 
I have reached a similar conclusion about the attempted payment in May 2021. Mr B says, 
and I accept, that he was unable to sign the screen when asked to. It may be that there was 
a fault with the screen or that the retailer was not satisfied with the signature. But Halifax 
was not responsible for the operation of the retailers card reader or for the retailers actions 
in accepting or not accepting Mr Bs signature. As with the earlier transaction, the fact that it 
does not show in the banks records indicates that it was not processed by the retailer, not 
that Halifax declined it. 
I turn next to the banks handling of the complaint. As the investigator noted, the handling of 
a complaint is not of itself an activity which this service can consider. So, whilst I understand 
Mr Bs concern that Halifax sought to communicate by telephone when he had expressly 
asked it not to, I do not intend to comment further on that point. 
Finally, I have considered the change of Mr Bs details on the card. Until about April 2018, the credit card statements for Mr Bs account show that he used a 
different title and no middle initial. His card had been issued in 2017 and was valid until 
2021. The name on the card matched that on the account statements at that time. 
From about April 2018, however, the statements use a different title (which Mr B uses now) 
and include a middle initial. When his card expired in 2021, the replacement card included 
his name as it was on his account statements. When Mr B drew this to the attention of 
Halifax and said that he did not want his middle initial included, it changed its records. Mr Bs 
account statements from August 2021 show that his details are recorded as he has 
requested. 
I am satisfied that Halifaxs response to this concern was reasonable; it changed its records 
as requested. I note that Mr B has provided evidence indicating that the other bank within 
the group still uses his middle initial. I am concerned here however only with his complaint 
about Bank of Scotland plc (using its Halifax brand). I make no comment on the actions of 
any other bank within the Lloyds Banking Group.       
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Bank of Scotland plc to take any 
further action to resolve Mr Bs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman