DRN-1601272
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the liability outcome and impact following a claim made under 
his car insurance policy with U K Insurance Limited trading as Privilege Insurance. 
What happened
In November 2018 Mr M was involved in an incident with another car. Mr M said the other 
driver caused the incident. The other driver said Mr M caused the incident. The other drivers 
insurer initiated court proceedings as they disputed liability. So UKI instructed solicitors to 
act on their behalf. 
In September 2019 Mr M complained to UKI. Mr M said UKI provided a poor service. Hes 
unhappy that UKI failed to recover his excess from the third party and the impact the claim 
had on his premium and No Claims Discount (NCD).
In October 2019 UKI said the solicitors dealing with the liability part of Mr Ms complaint 
would deal with that separately. It said that the excess was correctly due as Mr M had made 
a claim and UKI had paid the market value for his car as it was written off. It said that unless 
the other driver was found to be at fault for the incident, his NCD would correctly reduce 
because of the claim.
Mr M remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. He wanted a full refund of 
the premium hed paid along with a refund of the excess. He wanted redress to cover the 
increase in premium hed need to pay by having to declare the claim over the following five 
years.
Liability was settled in court in the third partys favour.
Our investigator thought UKI had deducted the excess correctly and that Mr Ms NCD had 
been reduced in line with the policy as a result of the claim.
Mr M didnt agree. He wants an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide liability as that is the role of the courts. Mr Ms complaint about the outcome 
of the liability case doesnt form part of my decision as this is separate to the actions of the 
insurer, UKI. Our investigator has explained the options to Mr M if he remains unhappy with 
the actions of the solicitors involved in the liability case.
Mr Ms policy says that the excess is payable in the event of a claim. This is irrespective of 
the outcome. I appreciate that Mr M is unhappy that the excess hasnt been recovered from 
the third party. But I dont think UKI is responsible for that. In cases where the third party 
accepts liability at the beginning, an insurer may waive the excess. But that didnt apply in 
this case. 
As the claim was settled as a fault claim, this means Mr Ms NCD will reduce. His policy 
with UKI provides a table to show the impact a claim would have on his NCD. 
I understand Mr M will be disappointed with my decision. Being involved in an incident can 
cause worry and upset. And when liability is disputed, it can mean the claim will take longer 
to settle especially if it leads to court action. But from what Ive seen, I think UKI dealt with 
his claim reasonably and in line with the policy. So I dont think it needs to do any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman