DRN-3240216
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
May 2003. The estate of Mr B says Bank of Scotland Plc mis-sold the late Mr B the PPI.
I am sorry to see Mr B has passed away. In the hope that the estate of the late Mr B wont 
mind, I will refer to him as Mr B in my decision.
The PPI aspect of the policy sold to Mr B cost around £10.42 a month and wouldve provided 
Mr B with a benefit of £174.46 a month if he was unable to work due to sickness, accident or 
unemployment. The policy wouldve paid out for up to 24 months. 
The estate of Mr B says the policy was not right for Mr B and it was not properly explained to 
him. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. The estate of Mr B disagreed, 
so the case was passed to me  an ombudsman  to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs case.
Having done this, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why
BoS shouldve taken reasonable steps to make it clear the policy was optional. It also 
shouldve got Mr Bs agreement to take it out. The PPI was arranged during a meeting when 
Mr B was arranging his mortgage. BoS isnt able to provide any paperwork from the time of 
sale  the estate of Mr B says it cant be assumed BoS has been thorough with its due 
diligence checks on the relevant paperwork. I think it is unfortunate the exact paperwork isnt 
available, but this is unsurprising for a sale that took place so long ago and businesses 
arent required to keep records indefinitely. BoS has however provided sample 
documentation which it says would be the same, or similar to the paperwork that wouldve 
been completed for the sale to Mr B. Ive considered this alongside what we know in general 
about how BoS sold PPI at the time. 
Looking at the sample paperwork it seems Mr B wouldve had to select the level of cover he 
wanted, and it seems Mr B wouldve had to sign some paperwork. I cant say for certain what 
was discussed at the time, but I wouldve expected the discussion with the advisor to reflect 
the main elements of this paperwork. BoS has also said Mr B wouldve been sent policy 
information. Taking everything into account, I think its more likely that Mr B knew the policy 
was optional and he agreed to take it out without undue pressure.
BoS recommended the policy to Mr B so it had to check that it was right for him. Looking at 
Mr Bs circumstances I think the policy was suitable for him. Ill explain why. 
Based on the policy terms Mr B was eligible for the policy and is benefits.
The information we have about Mr Bs employment circumstances at the time of sale 
show he wouldnt have been affected by the employment related exclusions  such 
as unusual employment arrangements. This means there was nothing to stop him 
claiming the full benefit if hed needed to.
The estate of Mr B says Mr B had a medical condition at the time of sale, which 
means he wouldnt have been able to claim under the disability aspect of the policy. 
Ive considered this in light of the policy terms, and it seems Mr B would still have 
been able to benefit from the disability terms under the policy, despite his pre-existing 
condition. This is because the exclusion did not apply to applicants who purchased 
the PPI at the same time as taking out a mortgage, which is what Mr B did. I can see 
the estate of Mr B is in the process of making a back dated claim for the periods Mr B 
was off work due to illness. 
Mr B wouldve received sick pay and redundancy pay from his employer at the time. 
The estate of Mr B says this shows Mr B had no need for the policy. The policy 
wouldve paid out alongside any employee benefits Mr B may have received at the 
time, and for up to 24 months, which is significantly longer than his employee 
benefits wouldve paid out for. Mr B couldve used his employee benefits to cover 
other financial commitments, at what may have been a financially difficult time.  
Mr B was taking on a significant and long-term financial commitment, which was 
secured on his home. The effects of not keeping up with the repayments couldve 
been serious for him. I think having the security that his repayments wouldve been 
made if he was unable to work wouldve been important to him.
As well as checking if the policy was suitable for Mr B, BoS also shouldve given him clear 
information about it so that he could make a proper choice about whether or not to take them 
out. I dont know what steps BoS took to do this and its possible some things werent 
explained as clearly as they shouldve been. But I dont think clearer information wouldve 
changed Mr Bs decision. I think hed still have bought the policy. I say this for the same 
reasons I think the policies was suitable for him.
Ive thought about everything the estate of Mr B has said, including the points about Mr B not 
claiming on the policy when he was off work, which shows he didnt know he had it. 
However, my review has focused on the sale of the PPI, and although Mr B may not have 
claimed when a need arose, this doesnt mean that at the time of sale Mr B didnt know he 
was being sold PPI and that the policy was mis-sold to him. I have also considered the 
estate of Mr Bs comments about other complaints with similar circumstances to Mr Bs 
which have been successful. Each case is considered on its individual merits, and in this 
particular case there is not enough evidence to say the PPI was mis-sold to Mr B. I know this 
will be disappointing for the estate of Mr B, but I hope my decision clearly sets out my 
reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc trading 
as Halifax. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr B 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman