DRN-1942884
The complaint
Mr G complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) has sought repayment of the 
shortfall that arose after his property was taken into possession and sold.
Mr G says he doesnt think Halifax is entitled to pursue him for the outstanding debt.
What happened
Mr G held a mortgage with Halifax. He has explained that in April 2013 he voluntarily 
surrendered the keys to his property to branch staff at Halifax. He says he completed a form 
he was given when the handed in the keys and amended that form by way of crossing out 
a sentence of which I did not agree with stating that Halifax or Debt collectors would pursue 
me for any loss on the sale of the property, initialled this, and signed and dated the form 
which was handed back to a staff member, and accepted along with the keys to the 
property.
Mr G says he didnt receive any response from Halifax. However, Halifax says it wrote to 
Mr G on 30 April 2013 to say that it wasnt able to accept the Surrender of Keys form due to 
the amendments Mr G had made to the form. It says that as it did not have a forwarding 
address for Mr G it sent the letter to the mortgaged property in the hope that he had 
arranged for his post to be re-directed.
As it wasnt willing to accept the voluntary surrender on the terms Mr G has set Halifax then 
obtained a possession order. It says it tried to contact Mr G before the property was taken 
into possession on 1 November 2013. 
I understand that the property was sold in April 2014. The sale price did not cover the 
outstanding mortgage balance and costs. 
Mr G says he then received a letter from Halifaxs solicitors in July 2014. The letter explained 
that there was still a debt outstanding following the sale of the property. 
Mr G says he replied to Halifaxs solicitors saying that their letter was directly 
contravening the form I completed and was accepted by the Halifax 16 months earlier.
Mr G says he didnt hear anything further until 2018 when he received a letter from a debt 
recovery agency asking for repayment of the outstanding debt. Mr G says he replied to the 
debt recovery agency explaining the situation.
Mr G says Halifax then contacted him again in June 2019, again asking for the outstanding 
balance to be repaid. Mr G complained to Halifax. He said he didnt think it was entitled to 
pursue him for the outstanding balance. Halifax responded reiterating that the debt was still 
outstanding. 
It explained that there was a shortfall following the sale of the mortgaged property in 2014.It 
said that as it wasnt able to contact Mr G it first instructed its solicitors and then a debt 
recovery agency to help it to recover the outstanding debt. It asked Mr G to contact the debt 
recovery agency to discuss a way forward.
Mr G then said that his credit file showed that the mortgage has been paid off with no default 
balance. 
Halifax noted that Mr G had said his credit file showed his mortgage as having been satisfied 
with no default balance. It explained that this was because the amount outstanding is no 
longer a mortgage commitment as the property the mortgage was secured against has been 
sold. As this is the case the shortfall is now an unsecured debt.
Mr G wasnt satisfied with Halifaxs response and brought his complaint to this service. He 
said he believes Halifax is legally in the wrong. He said the timing of Halifaxs request for 
payment had caused him worry and concern as he thought that in November 2019 his credit 
file would be updated and the information relating to his Halifax mortgage would be 
removed.
Mr Gs complaint was considered by two investigators. They didnt recommend that the 
complaint should be upheld. They explained, in summary, that a court order was granted in 
2013 for Mr Gs property to be taken into possession. Halifax then took possession of the 
property. They explained that Halifax had obtained a possession order as the Surrender of 
Keys form hadnt been accepted and it hadnt received any response from Mr G following 
the letter it sent him in April 2013 explaining that it couldnt accept the surrender of keys as 
he had amended the form.
As the amended Surrender of Keys form hadnt been accepted  and Halifax had taken 
steps to contact Mr G to tell him this was the case - our investigators said they didnt think 
Halifax had done anything wrong and was entitled to pursue the outstanding debt.
Mr G wasnt satisfied with the responses he received from our investigators. He said:
The original form was a bound contract as it was accepted by the Halifax. It matters not one 
ounce who accepted it without question or hesitation. There were no terms or conditions 
written on that form to say or imply anything other.
He also said that Halifax hadnt told him about the possession order or that it hadnt 
accepted the Return of Keys form. He said that in any of the correspondence since, it 
had always been referred to as the voluntary surrender.
Mr G said this situation has had an adverse impact on his mental health and he has been 
severely affected for the past 7 years by way of a poor credit rating.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully considered everything Mr G has said and provided. 
I note he says he believes Halifax is legally in the wrong. This service doesnt determine 
complaints on their strict legal merits  that is the role of the courts. We are required to 
determine complaints based on what we think is fair and reasonable taking account of any 
regulatory or legal requirements that might apply.Mr G says he doesnt think Halifax is entitled to pursue him for the shortfall that arose when 
his property was sold after it was taken into possession. I dont agree with Mr Gs position. Ill 
explain why.
Mr G handed in the keys to his property with the amended Return of Keys form at a branch 
of Halifax in April 2013. He says:
The original form was a bound contract as it was accepted by the Halifax. It matters not one 
ounce who accepted it without question or hesitation. There were no terms or conditions 
written on that form to say or imply anything other.
I dont agree. I dont think the branch staff could reasonably have been expected to know 
whether the amendments Mr G had made to the form were acceptable when he handed it in. 
Mr G says he made clear on the form that he didnt accept the terms on which Halifax was 
prepared to accept a voluntary surrender. I dont think it is fair or reasonable for Mr G to say 
that Halifax was required to accept the amendments he made to the terms on which he 
wanted to voluntarily surrender his property to Halifax. This is particularly the case as Mr G 
was seeking to amend the terms so that he could avoid having to repay any shortfall. I think 
Halifax was entitled to consider the amendments Mr G had made and I dont think it was 
under any obligation to accept them.
Mr G says he didnt receive the letter Halifax sent on 30 April 2013 explaining that it didnt 
accept the amendments he had made. It is very unfortunate that, for whatever reason, Mr G 
did not receive this letter. But I cant reasonably hold Halifax responsible for any failings in 
the postal system. Mr G also says he did not receive the letters Halifax sent before it took 
possession of the property in November 2013. Again, I cant reasonably hold Halifax 
responsible for this.
When Mr G took out his mortgage with Halifax he agreed to make the contractual monthly 
payments and to repay the mortgage by the end of the mortgage term. I dont think it is fair 
for Mr G to say he should be entitled to walk away from the shortfall that arose when Halifax 
sold the property simply because he amended the Return of Keys form and handed it to a 
member of Halifaxs branch staff.
However, if Mr G would like this the matter to be determined on its legal merits he is free to 
pursue this matter in the courts.
I note Mr G says that in in any of the correspondence since, it had always been referred 
to as the voluntary surrender. The letters I have seen from Halifax to Mr G make clear that 
the property was taken into possession.
I note Mr G also says his credit rating has been adversely affected and: If I had gone down 
the repossession route in 2013, or even 2014, my credit file would today be looking a lot 
healthier. As both Halifax and our investigators explained, Halifax obtained a possession 
order before taking possession of the property and this should be reflected on Mr Gs credit 
file. 
All lenders are required to ensure that any information they provide to credit reference 
agencies is correct and up-to-date. If Mr G wishes his credit file to better reflect the 
circumstances that led to his property being taken into possession, he may wish to add a 
notice of correction to his credit file.
Having carefully considered this matter I dont think Halifax acted unfairly in instructing its 
agents to contact Mr G about the outstanding shortfall. I would encourage Mr G to engage with either the debt collection agency or Halifax to reach an agreement regarding the 
shortfall.
I do understand that this is not the decision Mr G was hoping for, but I dont think Halifax has 
acted incorrectly in this matter.
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2020.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman