DRN-3106784
The complaint
Miss H complains that Nationwide Building Society (NBS) couldnt answer questions about 
her account when she asked them, and also dealt with her subsequent complaint incorrectly.
What happened
Miss H has a mortgage with NBS. Shes in the habit of overpaying whenever she can. 
Theres a fixed amount Miss H can overpay each year without incurring a penalty. The year 
runs from 1 December to 30 November. On 2 November 2020 Miss H contacted NBS via 
their webchat service to ask about the amount of overpayment allowance left on her 
mortgage account for that allowance year. She was dismayed to find there was a 
discrepancy in the amount shed already paid and the apparent remaining allowance  it was 
£300 out.
The member of staff on the webchat couldnt say why this was the case, and suggested Miss 
H call the mortgage advisor team. Miss H said shed done that but they wouldnt provide an 
answer in writing  and she wanted this in case of any query further down the line.
Miss H asked that a complaint be raised, and said she wanted to be contacted by email.
NBS wrote shortly after to explain that the £300 discrepancy had appeared because this 
amount had been paid on 3 November 2019  just before the current allowance year started. 
So Miss H wasnt disadvantaged and her payment hadnt gone missing.
Miss H responded to say the crux of her complaint was that the webchat member of staff 
couldnt explain the discrepancy and that shed accrued interest unnecessarily because she 
hadnt known how much she could overpay without penalties.
There was then a prolonged exchange of emails and calls. Im not going to go into all of 
them, but in summary, Miss H was annoyed to be called when shed asked for email 
communication, and repeatedly said NBS hadnt bothered to read her communications 
properly, so was making matters worse. She was also unhappy that when she suggested 
another member of staff take over her complaint that didnt happen  and she says that left 
the staff member dealing with a complaint about themselves, which isnt right. She also 
thought NBS expected her to respond to contact very quickly  but that this didnt work the 
other way round.
NBS responded again, explaining that the webchat staff member wasnt trained to answer 
more complex questions but that they had suggested a way for Miss H to get the answer she 
was seeking. And it said it had checked her account and refunded any extra interest shed 
paid. NBS also said it had made some mistakes  like not including an email address on its 
correspondence when it knew that was Miss Hs preferred method of communication. And 
that it had called her when shed asked for written contact. It apologised for this. NBS did 
explain that although the same member of staff was trying to resolve the complaint anything 
they sent was being checked by a manager. Miss H says she didnt get this letter.
Miss H asked us to review her complaint.
Our investigator concentrated initially on whether Miss H been left out of pocket by what had 
happened. But he thought, as NBS has refunded some extra interest shed paid, that this 
wasnt the case. He also went through the figures provided by NBS to ensure these were 
correct. Overall he didnt think NBS need do more than it had.
He didnt look in detail at how NBS had handled the complaint, so I asked him to do that. He 
then went through all the exchanges in depth, and concluded that NBS had handled the 
complaint politely and in a timely manner, even if that wasnt as quickly as Miss H wanted. 
And hed seen that NBS had sent the second final response letter (by email), and didnt think 
it was responsible for its non-delivery. 
Miss H remains unhappy about this. She says shes still unhappy that NBS took a long time 
to respond to anything she sent in  but felt unfairly chased when she hadnt responded 
within a couple of days. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold this complaint, and Ill explain how Ive reached this conclusion. I 
may not refer to everything thats happened, as Ive concentrated on the main issues Miss H 
raised. But I have considered all the information sent to us by both parties.
There are two parts to the complaint  firstly that NBS couldnt answer the questions Miss H 
initially asked and that this meant she paid extra interest. The second part is about how NBS 
handled the subsequent complaint.
Ill comment on these separately. 
The initial query
I agree with Miss H that NBS, on its webchat service, couldnt answer the original question 
that Miss H had, which was about her remaining overpayment allowance. It did suggest 
another way of Miss H getting her question answered  but as that wouldnt be in writing 
Miss H didnt think this was good enough. The end result of this was that Miss H paid some 
additional interest  but NBS refunded that, so she isnt any worse off financially. Thats what 
Id expect NBS to do in these circumstances. It also explained why the webchat member of 
staff couldnt answer her particular question  which is that the webchat service is for fairly 
basic queries.
I think this is a reasonable explanation, and how NBS chooses to segregate the support it 
offers its customers is for it to decide. Miss H was given options to find out what she wanted.
Handling the subsequent complaint
I can see from the email exchanges between Miss H and NBS that shes irritated by the way 
the complaint was handled. In particular she felt NBS didnt read all of her communications 
properly. That may have been so, but I cant see that the member of staff did anything other 
than try to help Miss H resolve the problem. He apologised for not including an email 
address for her to use and explained why hed contacted her two days after emailing her. 
Miss H may not believe this, but I havent seen anything that suggests he was doing 
anything other than explaining his actions. Ive also noted that as soon as Miss H said she 
hadnt got the email from early December. Thats what Id expect if, as sometimes happens, 
an email went missing.I can see the member of staff thought hed interpreted one of her messages correctly 
although Miss H says he hadnt. But things like this do happen and he did put matters right, 
so I dont think that was mis-handled.
Miss H doesnt think a member of staff should deal with complaints about themselves. Im 
afraid thats a decision NBS is entitled to make. If its decided this can happen with 
responses being checked with a manager, then I dont think its appropriate for me to 
interfere, unless I thought this was unreasonable or unfair. I dont think it is, for fairly 
straightforward situations like this one.
Taking everything into account Im not going to uphold this complaint, as I think NBS has 
responded fairly.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman