DRN-2135397
The complaint
Ms S feels that Etika Finance UK Limited has treated her unfairly in relation some cosmetic 
goods and services she purchased from a salon with a finance agreement.
What happened
In October 2018 Ms S entered into a contract for some cosmetic goods and cosmetic 
services. These goods and services were supplied by a salon and paid for through credit 
provided by Etika. This credit was a fixed sum loan agreement for a total repayable amount 
of £2500 to be repaid over twenty-four monthly repayments. She signed the agreement 
electronically.
Ms S says that she attended the salon on three occasions in November and December 2018 
for treatments and during the last treatment her skin was damaged. So she wanted to get 
out of the agreement. But she soon discovered the salon which she got them from had 
closed. So she spoke to Etika who acknowledged there had been a breach of contract 
offered her a financial settlement. Ms S feels not only should she pay nothing further but also 
that she should be refunded what she has paid. So she complained to this service.
Our investigator felt that the settlement should be calculated differently to Etikas method, 
but that Ms S should still pay a significant reduced amount bearing in mind the goods and 
services she has received. But Ms S doesnt agree. So, this complaint comes to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ms S raised her complaint under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 is also relevant in this complaint as it covers contracts where 
goods and/or services are provided. However it must be remembered that although this 
legislation places obligations on Etika, it is a different entity to the salon. And my decision 
here is whether or not Etika has treated Ms S fairly in relation to those obligations and duties 
Etika must adhere to. It is not a decision about what the salon did or didnt do, as I cannot 
decide on that as the salon isnt in existence anymore or within my remit. I hope this key 
issue is clear.
The general effect of Section 75 is that if Ms S has a claim for material misrepresentation or 
breach of contract against a supplier of goods or services, she can also bring that claim 
against the credit provider (Etika here) provided certain conditions are met. Etika says Ms S 
should receive a significant reduction in what she owes in light of the acknowledged breach 
of contract.
To gain protection under Section 75 there are certain conditions that have to be met before 
even considering whether there has been a breach of contract or material misrepresentation. 
I think it likely this transaction falls within the financial limits required by the Act. There also 
needs to be the required three-party contractual relationship-debtor, creditor and supplier; 
often referred to as the DCS relationship. I think this is made out here also. 
Bearing in mind Etika has acknowledged that the entire course of treatments hasnt been 
provided and thus a breach of contract has occurred, I need to consider how this matter 
should be resolved fairly between the parties.
Ive considered the invoice from the salon dated October 2018. I can see its personalised 
with Ms Ss name and it says Client signed invoice and collected products and device. I 
can see it sets out that the agreement is for nine treatments, three diagnostics and three 
product areas for a total cost of £2800. It notes that £300 has been paid direct by Ms S and 
that £2500 is being paid for through Etika. 
Ms S has described how she had three of the nine treatments (in November and December) 
and I can see from the invoice she left with some of the products but then the salon ceased 
trading before she could complete the course of treatments. So I think Etikas approach of 
accepting that there has been a breach of contract and offering a settlement is broadly fair, 
albeit I think the calculation should be done differently.
Ms S has made the point that this was a course of treatments and without completing the 
course the full benefit of the course isnt achieved. But clearly some benefit must be 
achieved by each treatment otherwise there wouldnt be a need for a course of treatment. 
Similarly the amount of benefit received from treatments, products and diagnostics differs 
not only between them but in their respective impacts on different customers. And as Ms S 
points out there are a number of people who find themselves in similar positions to Ms S in 
not having received their whole course of treatment. 
Accordingly it is important that this service not only tries to fulfil its duty to be fast, fair and 
impartial but also that it applies a consistent approach. In this instance the Investigator has 
chosen to see the contract as being for fifteen items (as Ive described) and to treat them 
equally. I consider this to be fair. Furthermore I think it fair that Ms S pays for the goods and 
services she did receive and doesnt pay for those that she didnt receive. 
The total price was £2,800 (including the deposit Ms S paid). This divided by the fifteen 
equal parts of the contract means the value of each element is £186.66. Ms S has confirmed 
what she didnt and didnt receive and Ive no persuasive reason to doubt her comments on 
this. I therefore feel Ms S should receive a price reduction of £1,679.94 (9 x £186.66). The 
total price was £2,800 and this therefore means the total amount Ms S is liable for on this 
agreement is £1,120.06. Ms S paid up front £300 deposit and then two payments of £104.17 
toward the loan repayment. So I think those amounts should be removed from the total 
amount Ms S is liable for, leaving £611.72 for her to pay.
Ms S has said that the treatment affected her skin negatively. Both Etika and this service has 
asked Ms S to provide any medical evidence to support what she says, and she has 
provided photographs of her skin, but no medical evidence.
The Consumer Rights Act states that goods provided must be of a satisfactory quality. It also 
says services must be provided with reasonable skill and care. It is clear Ms S received both 
goods and services here in relation to her skin. It is also clear that Ms S had two treatments before having the third treatment which is when she says there was pain and damage 
suffered. The photos shes provided support what Ms S says is her current skin condition. 
However they dont demonstrate her skin before the treatments and its clear she took the 
treatments and products in order to improve her skin. So without medical evidence to the 
contrary I dont think I can say Etika has treated Ms S unfairly on this issue. I should add for 
clarity that even if Ms Ss arguments had been made out here this service cannot award for 
loss of amenity. So if she feels she has suffered such a loss then she should get 
independent medical evidence of it and take independent legal advice on that specific 
matter.
Ms S has made many arguments as to why she shouldnt have to pay for anything received 
from the salon and I shall now address those key outstanding arguments here.
She says Etika didnt do enough with regard to the salon and should have known it was a 
scam. But this service hasnt seen persuasive evidence that this salon was a scam. After all 
it is clear that goods and services were provided over a period of time by the salon. 
Furthermore it must be remembered that although the law does place Etika in the same 
shoes as the salon for the purposes of the Act in situations such as these, Etika is not one 
and the same as the salon. It had a relationship with the salon and provided finance to its 
customers, but they are separate legal entities. So Etikas liability here isnt endless.
Ms S points to licencing issues between the salon and some of the products used here. But 
Ive seen no persuasive evidence that the products used werent genuine. So there is no 
misrepresentation about that. And Ive not seen persuasive evidence that there was failings 
in the treatments Ms S received in this case. So Im not persuaded the training level of those 
administering the treatments makes a difference here.
Ms S has argued that she was forced, bullied under pressure of hard sales techniques, 
didnt have opportunity to read the documentation and other arguments about not having a 
free choice at the time of entering the agreement. In situations where I see these aggressive 
techniques in other cases, consumers are very aware of it at the time and normally react 
strongly at or near the time in order to complain and get out of what theyve agreed under 
duress. 
In this case Ms S signed the agreement, and it and the invoice clearly state the significant 
sums involved here. She didnt complain to Etika but rather returned to the salon two weeks 
later and had her first treatment, she then returned a further two weeks later for her second 
treatment and then went almost a month before attending for her third treatment. 
She also provided significant details about herself which are evidenced on the fixed sum 
loan agreement. She also provided her bank details and direct debits paid on a monthly 
basis were taken on two occasions. She also signed an invoice to say shed taken 
possession of the products listed. Taking all we know into account Im not persuaded Ms S 
didnt have free choice in agreeing to what she agreed to here. So I dont think Etika has 
treated her unfairly in expecting her to pay a fair amount under the agreement for the goods 
and services she did receive.
Ms S has also provided comment on the Consumer Protection (Amendment) Regulations 
2014. Firstly I should add that these regulations set out consumer rights on misleading or 
aggressive selling. It also provides guidance on what action consumers may be able to take 
against businesses through their own private actions in the civil courts. And if Ms S wishes to 
take this matter to Court she can reject my decision and investigate that option for herself. 
Secondly the rules under which I operate mean that although I am bound to consider the law 
Im not bound to follow it as my overarching obligation is to come to a fair and reasonable outcome. And thirdly for the reasons given Im not persuaded Ms S suffered aggressive 
selling here.
Ms S also points to other instances where people in similar situations have managed to 
extricate themselves fully from obligations under similar loan agreements. This may be so. 
But I am obliged to come to a fair and reasonable decision on the facts of this particular 
case. And I think it fair Ms S pays for the goods and services she received here. Just 
because other businesses may have done something different doesnt make Etikas position 
unfair.
Summary
In short, Ive considered everything that Ms S has said. I appreciate how Ms S feels about 
the whole situation. However, I dont think what Etika has done with regard to the Section 75 
claim has meant that Ms S has been treated unfairly by it. I think Etikas decision to 
acknowledge the breach of contract and offer a financial solution is broadly fair, except for 
our approach to methodology which has led to a broadly similar net position. And on balance 
Im not persuaded that the goods supplied were of an unsatisfactory quality or that the 
services provided were not carried out without reasonable skill and care. So Etika can ask 
Ms S to repay the outstanding £611.72 as Ive described above. Accordingly I do not uphold 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint 
about Etika Finance UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman