DRN-3401421
The complaint
Mr C has complained that West Bay Insurance Plc trading as Zenith Insurance (Zenith) have 
avoided (treated it as if it had never existed) his van insurance policy and declined his claim 
following the theft of his van because of this. 
What happened
Mr Cs van was stolen in December 2021. He put in a claim straight away and was asked to 
provide various details and documents. He chased Zenith on the progress and hes said he 
was given the impression the claim would be paid. However, Zenith eventually told him they 
had avoided his policy because hed said he was the registered keeper of the insured van 
when the V5 showed it was actually his father. 
Mr C complained to Zenith about how theyd handled the claim, their decision to avoid his 
policy and the fact theyd put a fraud marker against his name. They accepted their 
communication on his claim could have been better and paid Mr C £150 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience hed experienced because of their poor communication. 
However, they said they were entitled to avoid his policy and refuse his claim. 
Mr C asked us to consider his complaint. One of our investigators did this. She didnt think it 
should be upheld and wrote to Mr C to explain this. She said that Zenith were entitled to 
avoid his policy because if hed answered the question about the registered keeper of his 
van correctly they wouldnt have insured him. 
Mr C has asked for an ombudsmans decision. Hes said he feels he has been honest and 
his policy should not have been cancelled.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And, if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show they would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Zenith think Mr C failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
took out his policy. This is because he said he was the owner and registered keeper of the 
van he insured and he wasnt. 
Mr C took out his policy via a comparison site through an insurance broker. Ive looked at the 
statement of fact provided by Zenith and Im satisfied this shows the answers to the 
questions Mr C was asked when he took out the policy. I can see he answered yes to the 
question asking if he was the owner of the van he was insuring and yes to the question 
asking whether he was the registered keeper. Ive also seen an entry on Zeniths system 
notes which says they listened to a recording of Mr Cs telephone call with the broker when 
they spoke to him to validate the policy. And he said yes when he was asked if he was the 
registered keeper, owner and main user of the vehicle. And Mr C hasnt disputed the fact 
that he provided these answers.  
Mr C has said that he was the owner because he used the van, had it serviced and MOTd it. 
Mr C has explained that his father bought the van for him in 2016 whilst he was on holiday, 
because he wasnt able to get finance for it at the time. And I think if Mr C did use the van 
exclusively, have it serviced and MOTd, then it could be argued he was the owner, even if 
his father did pay for it. However, he clearly wasnt the registered keeper, because the 
registration document shows this was his father. Mr C has said this was because his father 
bought the van. And Mr C didnt see anything wrong with insuring it in his name. But, Mr C 
was asked a clear question on whether he was the registered keeper and he answered this 
yes, when he knew he was not the registered keeper. And I think in giving this answer he 
did fail to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. 
This means provided Zenith can show they wouldnt have offered Mr C the policy if hed 
correctly stated he wasnt the registered keeper, they will have shown Mr Cs 
misrepresentation was a qualifying one. And that they were entitled to avoid his policy and 
refuse his claim, irrespective of whether the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate or 
careless. 
Zenith have provided a screen shot to show that their application system would have 
declined Mr Cs application in August 2021 if he had answered the question asking whether 
he was the registered keeper correctly, that is no. Because of this, Im satisfied Zenith 
wouldnt have offered Mr C the policy if hed answered this question correctly. And this 
means I think they were entitled to avoid his policy. This means the policy  in effect  never 
existed and Zenith were also entitled to reject Mr Cs claim. 
I can see Zenith did take too long to provide a decision on Mr Cs claim and their 
communication was confused at times and generally quite poor. But Im satisfied the £150 
theyve paid is sufficient compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mr C experienced 
as a result of this. 
Im also satisfied Zenith were entitled to note the avoidance of Mr Cs policy on a fraud 
database. This is because he provided the wrong answer to a very clear question. And, 
while I appreciate Mr C feels this was justified, what he said simply wasnt true.  
In view of what Ive said, it follows that I do not think its appropriate for me to uphold Mr Cs 
complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint about 
West Bay Insurance Plc trading as Zenith Insurance. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman