DRN-3396090
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) treated them unfairly 
when it declined their request for a new fixed interest rate product on their Buy-to-Let (BTL) 
mortgage.
Mr G has led the complaint throughout.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G took out an interest only BTL mortgage with NatWest in 2007 for around 
£212,500, over a term of 15 years. 
The mortgage was on a fixed interest rate product which ended on 30 November 2020. 
Mr and Mrs G received a letter from NatWest letting them know that the end of the fixed rate 
product was approaching and so contacted the bank on 29 October 2020. 
In this call Mr G asked if he could take out a new fixed interest rate product as the current 
one was due to expire. 
He asked about extending the term and fixing the rate for five years to provide security given 
the uncertain times during the pandemic. NatWest explained that it was only able to lend up 
to the age of 70 and so said that he did not qualify for a five-year fixed interest rate deal. 
It was suggested that he could apply for a two-year fixed rate deal instead and an 
appointment with a mortgage adviser was made. Following this, an application for further 
borrowing, a term extension and a fixed interest rate deal was applied for.
Ultimately, NatWest rejected all of these requests. Mr and Mrs G complained, and it offered 
£300 in compensation in recognition of the poor service provided throughout the application 
process. 
Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs G referred the complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He thought 
that NatWest had applied its lending criteria fairly and offered appropriate compensation for 
the poor service provided. Mr and Mrs G disagreed and so the matter has been passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will begin by explaining that NatWest is entitled to set its own lending criteria. Decisions 
that NatWest makes in respect of what those criteria are, its attitude to risk involved in this 
request and on what terms are discretionary matters for NatWests own commercial 
judgement that I would not interfere with. But here, I need to decide if applying the criteria 
has resulted in unfair treatment. 
Ive listened to the call from October 2020 between Mr G and NatWest. I can understand 
why Mr G asked for a five-year fixed rate deal to provide certainty given the uncertain times. 
But I think NatWest made it clear that it does not lend past the age of 70. I dont think theres 
anything wrong with that decision. As Ive explained, its for NatWest to set its own lending 
criteria. 
Mr G then asked for a fixed interest rate product until he turned 70  which at the time would 
have been less than five years. NatWest explained it only offered two or five-year fixed rate 
deals and so was unable to agree to one on a term of four years and some months. I dont 
think that NatWest acted unfairly here as it can set the terms of the deals it offers and I dont 
think it has to make an exception to offer a rate over a different term for one borrower.
Unfortunately, Mr Gs request for a two-year fixed rate deal was also declined. Whilst there 
were two calendar years (24 months) left at the time that Mr G applied, NatWest has 
explained that this was an insufficient term for a two-year fixed rate deal. Its explained that 
these generally require a 27-month term. I accept that this is confusing, but this is common 
practice in the industry. Lenders are allowed to offer fixed interest rate deals on the terms it 
sets, and I dont think that NatWest has acted unfairly by requiring a slightly longer term for a 
two year deal here. 
Its provided evidence to show that the two year rates available require a 27-month term 
and I can see that Mr and Mrs Gs previous two-year fixed rate deals were arranged over a 
similar period. 
Ive noted that Mr G has told our investigator that he started asking for a fixed rate in June 
2020, and so would have had enough time left on the term of his mortgage for this to have 
been arranged. Having considered all the information provided but I havent seen an earlier 
record of this. Ive noted there are earlier calls, but these were in relation to other matters 
than the mortgage. 
I can also see that a letter was sent to Mr and Mrs G in August 2020 which let them know 
that their fixed rate was due to expire in November 2020 and that a new rate would not be 
possible due to the length of the remaining term. 
As part of the application, it was also suggested that Mr and Mrs G extend the term so they 
could secure a two-year deal and apply for additional borrowing. 
Ultimately, NatWest didnt accept this as it said that the income declared did not meet its 
lending criteria for at least one borrower to earn more than £25,000 a year. NatWest has not 
been able to provide information of the income declared to support the application at the 
time as it did not progress further. But it has stated that this was not deemed sufficient when 
discussed in the meetings.
And whilst Ive taken note of what Mr G has said about their assets, previous holdings with 
NatWest, good track record and credit rating, Im afraid I dont consider that this means that 
NatWest had to agree to any part of the application. It needs to consider how affordable it 
would be to maintain in the future, and whether the change would be in their best interests. 
It's explained that the income criteria that it applies depends on a borrowers individual 
circumstances and whether income is derived from self-employment or PAYE income. Based on the information provided, Im not persuaded that NatWest acted unfairly in 
applying its lending criteria here. 
Considering all of this, I dont think that NatWest treated Mr and Mrs G unfairly when it 
declined their requests to fix the interest rate on their mortgage, extend the term or provide 
additional borrowing. 
But I do think NatWest failed in the service it provided Mr and Mrs G. Mr G says that 
appointments were cancelled or rescheduled at late notice and, whilst NatWest has not been 
able to provide all the information  I have no reason to doubt this. 
NatWest offered Mr and Mrs G £300 in total in recognition of the poor service it provided. 
Taking everything into account and having regard for the general awards this service makes, 
I think this sum is fair in all the circumstances - and so I wont be asking it to do anything 
further here. I understand that Mr and Mrs G have already received this. 
I appreciate that this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs G, but having considered 
everything, I dont think I can fairly uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Camilla Finnigan
Ombudsman