DRN-1474496
 
The complaint
Mr G says he was mis-sold a regular premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy by 
Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds).
What happened
Mr G applied for a credit card in 1998 and bought a regular premium PPI policy at or in the 
two years following the opening of his credit card account. I cant say exactly how much this 
policy cost Mr G but from what we know of the policies that Lloyds sold at the time I think it 
wouldnt have cost more than 79p per every £100 of the outstanding monthly balance on his 
credit card. 
This policy covered Mr G in the event of accident, sickness or unemployment, and in the 
event of a successful claim wouldve paid 10% of the outstanding last statement balance. 
And it would have done so for up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Gs complaint should be upheld because he didnt think there 
was enough information to show Lloyds had mis-sold the policy.
Mr G disagreed. He says he didnt need or want PPI and that it was added without his 
knowledge. 
So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint.
The sale took place over 20 years ago so unsurprisingly there is very little information 
available from the time of the sale. So Ive had to proceed on the basis of what information 
I have and what I think is most likely to have happened.
Mr G thinks he took his credit card out during a meeting but doesnt recall agreeing to PPI. 
And Lloyds havent been able to provide us with any of the documents from the time of the 
sale or confirm how or when the policy was sold. So I dont know exactly what was 
discussed about PPI or how it was presented. 
But from what I know about all the different ways Lloyds sold PPI during the period Mr G was 
sold the policy  such as having to select to take PPI on an application form - I think its likely 
that Lloyds wouldve made Mr G aware that PPI was optional and I think Mr G wouldve had 
PPI added to his account because he chose to take it. I understand Mr G might not 
remember this, but Ive not seen enough to say that he wasnt given a choice or that he 
didnt agree to buy it.
To be fair to Mr G I am treating the sale of PPI as if it was an advised sale. What this means 
is that Lloyds not only had to provide information about PPI in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way so that Mr G could make an informed choice about buying PPI. It also had to 
make sure that if it were to recommend PPI that the policy was suitable to his needs and 
circumstances.
I dont know if Lloyds did take all the steps it shouldve. But from what I know about the 
policies Lloyds sold at the time I think the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr G for 
the following reasons:
He was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like he wouldve been caught by any of 
the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made it 
difficult to make a successful claim. 
Mr G says he was entitled to some sick pay and his parents couldve helped make his 
credit card payments if he couldnt work. But there is no guarantee his parents could 
help and a successful claim on the policy wouldve covered his credit card payments for 
up to 12 months if he was unable to work due to accident or sickness and covered him if 
he lost his job. So I think the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mr G in his 
circumstances. 
There was nothing to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to him at the time and if 
he decided he no longer wanted the policy he couldve cancelled it.
I also need to consider whether Lloyds gave Mr G information in a way which was clear, fair 
and not misleading so that he could make a proper choice about whether or not he wanted 
to take the policy out. 
I dont know if Lloyds did give all of the information as it shouldve. But for the same reasons 
that the policy was suitable and based on what Mr G has told us about his circumstances at 
the time, I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI policy if hed been given all the proper 
information on the policy.  
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr G because: 
When the policy was sold, Lloyds expected to get a high level of commission and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr G about that. 
Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr G, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mr G any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2020.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman