DRN-3654116
The complaint
Mr H complains about Lloyds Bank PLC and their failure to provide him with the PIN to his 
current account on an audio CD.
What happened
In April 2021, Mr H opened a current account with Lloyds. Mr H has said when opening the 
account, he asked for his PIN to be sent to him via audio CD as he is registered blind and 
other banks had actioned this request.
But Lloyds didnt send Mr Hs PIN on an audio CD and so, Mr H raised a complaint. Mr H 
thought Lloyds had failed to make reasonable adjustments when they failed to send his PIN 
by audio CD. So, he wanted to be compensated for the upset and inconvenience this 
caused, as well as a PIN to be sent in this format.
Lloyds responded and upheld Mr Hs complaint. They recognised they had failed to explain 
the options available to Mr H clearly and paid £80 to recognise this. But they didnt think they 
had failed to make reasonable adjustments and felt as though they had provided Mr H with 
reasonable options, that fell within their own security processes. Mr H remained unhappy 
with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
While the complaint has been with our service, Lloyds have offered to pay Mr H a further 
£200 to recognise any trouble and upset hes been caused by not having a PIN for his 
account.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They thought Lloyds had made 
reasonable adjustments. But they accepted it wasnt disputed that this couldve been made 
clearer to Mr H. Considering this, they thought the total compensatory offer of £280 made by 
Lloyds was a fair one. They felt the £280 was enough to recognise any distress and 
inconvenience Mr H had suffered throughout the time hed been in conversation with Lloyds 
about receipt of the PIN, whilst recognising Lloyds have provided Mr H with reasonable 
options on how to receive it.
Mr H didnt agree. He maintained his view that Lloyds had failed to make reasonable 
adjustments and he felt they had broken the law because of this. And he didnt think our 
investigator had taken the Equality Act 2010 into consideration fairly. As Mr H didnt agree, 
the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr H. I appreciate Mr H has 
been seeking his PIN in a format that is accessible to him. And I can understand why, as 
other banks have actioned this request, Mr H believes his PIN should be sent to him by 
audio CD. So, I can appreciate the inconvenience this has caused Mr H when Lloyds have 
failed to do so. I can also appreciate why Mr H feels as though he has been unfairly treated 
and why he would want to be compensated for this.
But for me to say Lloyds should do something more than the £280 theyve already offered, 
Id need to be satisfied that they have made an error and that this error has impacted Mr H to 
such an extent that the offer already made isnt fair and adequate compensation. And in this 
situation, I dont think thats the case.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful to explain exactly 
what Im able to consider, and how. Its not my role to say whether I think a business has 
acted unlawfully or not as thats a matter for courts. Instead, Ive decided on what I think is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
When deciding that, Ive taken into account the Equality Act 2010. But I wont be determining 
whether I think Lloyds have breached this act, as this falls under the remit of the courts. 
Banks such as Lloyds have a duty under this act to make reasonable adjustments to allow 
customers access to their services. But these adjustments must be practical, and this means 
that even if one bank is able to do something, it doesnt necessarily follow that every other 
bank should do the same.
In this situation, Lloyds have confirmed that all PINs are sent to customers by post, including 
those customers who are blind and/or deaf. And that they dont have a separate process that 
allows PINs to be sent out initially in a different way. 
But I can see Lloyds confirmed Mr Hs PIN could be sent to a local branch, where it could 
then be transcribed onto an audio CD, but this would require a temporary change to Mr Hs 
listed address. Or, Lloyds have confirmed they could send the PIN to Mr H and he could post 
it back, to allow for the same transcription process. They have explained this is to ensure the 
safety of Mr Hs pin, and so the security of Mr Hs account.
So, Ive thought about whether I think these options were reasonable to Mr H, and his 
individual circumstances. Mr H has confirmed he has no support for his daily activities and 
that actions such as his shopping are done by phone. And Mr H has said he rarely goes out 
but that he is able to on occasion and that he holds onto a friend for support when he does. 
Mr H and Lloyds have also both confirmed that Mr H has attended a branch previously.
So, from this, I think its reasonable for me to assume that Mr H, albeit with some 
inconvenience, was able to attend his local branch. And I can see he did attend in August. 
From what Im able to understand, it seems as though Mr H attended branch without 
agreeing for his address to be changed so when he did attend, his PIN wasnt there to be 
transcribed onto a CD. And I can appreciate the upset and frustration this wouldve caused. 
But as I cant see Mr H agreed to this temporary address change, I dont think I can say 
Lloyds acted unfairly as I wouldnt expect them to send the PIN to branch without this. 
But as Mr H did attend branch, Im satisfied this option is a reasonable alternative to Mr H, 
which will allow him to receive his PIN. While I appreciate it isnt Mr Hs desired method of 
receiving his PIN, I dont think this means the option presented is evidence of Lloyds failing 
to make reasonable adjustments. Lloyds have confirmed that they want to ensure Mr H is in 
branch before transcribing the PIN in order to allow them to confirm Mr Hs identity, to keep 
his account secure. As Lloyds have a duty to safeguard the security of Mr Hs account, I cant say this logic is unfair. And so, I dont think I can say theyve done anything wrong for 
this aspect of the complaint.
But as Ive referenced above, I the options would cause Mr H some inconvenience. And it 
isnt disputed by Lloyds that initially, they couldve made these options clearer to Mr H. So, I 
think Lloyds acting unfairly in the way they initially communicated these options. And 
because of this, Ive then thought about what I think Lloyds should do to put things right.
Putting things right
When deciding what Lloyds should do to put things right, any award or direction I make is 
intended to place Mr H back in the position he wouldve been, had Lloyds acted fairly in the 
first instance.
As Ive explained above, I think Lloyds have made reasonable adjustments to their process 
to try and aide Mr H receiving his PIN in a format that is accessible to him. So, even if Lloyds 
had acted fairly, Mr H wouldve found himself in the same position of needing to attend his 
local branch for his PIN to be transcribed.
But had Lloyds acted fairly, I think this process, and Lloyds reasoning wouldve been 
explained more clearly. And I think this wouldve prevented Mr H from attending branch 
unnecessarily, which I appreciate wouldve been inconvenient. I also think this wouldve 
resulted in Mr H receiving the PIN sooner, so I think any compensation I award should take 
into account the length of time Mr H has been without a PIN for his account.
But I also need to take into account the fact Mr H hasnt ever attempted to provide 
authorisation for the PIN to be sent into branch. And that Mr H has other bank accounts and 
so, he hasnt been financially impacted by his inability to withdraw cash from an ATM as he 
has no PIN.
Lloyds initially offered Mr H £80. But since the complaint has been with our service, theyve 
offered to pay Mr H a further £200, bringing the total compensatory amount to £280. I think 
this total compensation amount is a fair one, that falls in line with our services approach and 
what I wouldve directed had it not already been made. So, I think Lloyds should pay Mr H 
this amount.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr H was hoping for. And I appreciate he has strong 
feelings regarding Lloyds actions and how they align with the Equality Act 2010, especially 
when the adjustments put in place by other banks are taken into consideration. 
But as explained at the beginning of my decision, it doesnt necessarily follow that all banks 
need to make the same adjustments, or follow the same process, as their internal systems 
are likely to differ. And so, I dont think an increased payment needs to be made on this 
occasion. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC and I 
direct them to take the following action:
Pay Mr H £280 to recognise the inconvenience hes been caused during the process 
of trying to obtain his pin. If part of this payment has already been made, ensure the 
remaining amount is paid so Mr H received the total compensation amount.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman