DRN-1307906
The complaint
Mrs M complains that PSA Finance UK Limited terminated her finance agreement by 
voluntary surrender (VS) and didnt explain her option to voluntary terminate (VT) it.
What happened
In March 2015 Mrs M acquired a car funded by a Conditional Sale agreement with monthly 
instalments of £235.50 to be repaid over a period of five years. Mrs M says she thought she 
was acting as a guarantor for her brother and he made use of the car. In 2016 it was 
impounded by the police when being driven by a third party allegedly being used for criminal 
purposes.
Mrs M continued to make payments, but in February she contacted PSA to say she was 
unable to continue and explained what had happened. She was told that a VS would be the 
best option, but she wasnt given the opportunity to VT. She signed a VS form on 25 April 
2018. PSA says she didnt ask about other options.
PSA explained that the account was in arrears and that a VS can only be accepted when the 
account is in default. The default must then be applied to her account early upon the arrears 
being present, and the default must expire before it can take any action to repossess the car. 
PSA also informed Mrs M that under the terms and conditions of the agreement she was 
obliged to keep the vehicle in your possession and under your control
Mrs M says she wasnt aware she could have VTd the car and as her payments were up to 
date when she contacted PSA she thought she couldve given the car back with nothing 
further to pay. She accepts she would have to pay for recovery costs, but she wasnt aware 
shed need to pay for the full amount outstanding under the agreement.
While the matter was dealt with PSA sought to take further payments from February 
onwards and Mrs M had ended up with five months arrears. In September 2018 PSA issued 
an arrears notice £5,610.47. This included the amount outstanding under her agreement 
including any missed payments and recovery costs. Later further sums were sought for 
auction costs of £758.36 and £384.00 for repossession and tracing costs.
PSA rejected Mrs Ms complaint and so she brought the matter to this service where it was 
considered by one of our investigators who recommended it be upheld.
She said that PSA confirmed that Mrs M wouldve had the option to VT as detailed on page 
2 of her contract. However, it had also stated that the agreement was terminated under a VS 
as she was four months in arrears and due to the circumstances, this was the only option as 
the vehicle had been seized. 
Mrs M had signed the VS form and she had done so having been informed of the 
consequences. However, our investigator said that the agreement had not yet been 
terminated, and she was therefore in a position to VT or VS the agreement depending on 
what option was more suitable for her given her circumstances.
She didnt think PSA had provided Mrs M with the option to VT and made it seem like a VS 
was her only option going. She noted PSA had confirmed that regardless of which route had 
been taken Mrs M been liable for the additional charges. Apparently, the car was SORNd 
and had no MOT when it was collected. It also said that although she had paid over 50% of 
the agreement she was liable for arrears.
She noted that PSA had stated that when the police are involved theyre required to go down the VS route rather than offer the VT but explained they are happy to do a VT request if 
requested and the customer doesnt want to VS the agreement.
PSA didnt agree and said it was obliged to follow the VS route in this particular case and it 
said the advice from its recoveries team that VT was an option had been incorrect.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I appreciate that I have the benefit of hindsight in considering this complaint and I can 
understand that the circumstances are a little unusual. As I see it Mrs M thought she was 
guarantor for her brother, but that isnt the case. That makes me wonder what she was told 
by the dealer who acted as agent in providing the finance. Even though she signed the forms 
I gather the car was acquired for her brother and I am not aware it was brought to her 
attention that she was to keep it in her possession. In that regard I think it unnecessary for 
PSA to rely on that condition.
Mrs M kept up payments for some considerable time after the car was impounded by the 
police, but eventually her circumstances were such that she was finding it difficult to maintain 
them. She acted responsibly and contacted PSA and explained her circumstances. At that 
point she wasnt in arrears and it seems that the issue which caused PSA to ignore VT was 
the fact the car wasnt in her possession and was held by the police.  However, it seems that 
it was available for release not long after that.
I have seen nothing to suggest that VT was properly explored as an option or Mrs M was 
told what she would have to do to go down that route. Given the release of the car was 
expected soon it might have been worth exploring the option of her maintaining payments for 
a couple of months and then opting for VT. Finance companies are obliged to communicate 
clearly the possible options a customer has and to help them obtain the best outcome. I am 
not sure that is what happened here.
Putting things right
My role is to decide what is fair and reasonable and, in this complaint, I dont think that would 
be achieved by leaving matters in the manner suggested by PSA. I appreciate PSA has said 
its recoveries team were wrong in saying the agreement could be VTd, but I think more 
could have been done to find an equitable solution.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct PSA Finance UK Limited to 
Remove the liability for the outstanding balance and charge Mrs M for any arrears 
due between February 2018 up until the agreement was terminated including any 
charges and fees incurred as a result of the police seizure, storage and auction costs
Amend her credit file to reflect a voluntary termination and not a voluntary surrender
Given Mrs M's circumstances, I'm recommending PSA goes through an Income and 
Expenditure form to come to a suitable repayment plan for the outstanding arrears
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2020.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman