DRN-2535915
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Nationwide Building Society failed to switch their joint account 
as instructed, which caused them to be charged a fee of £13.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B had a joint FlexPlus account with Nationwide. That kind of account has a 
monthly fee, which is charged on the last day of the month, except in a month in which the 
account is switched to another account or closed.
In March 2020 Mr and Mrs B decided to switch their account to a Flex Direct account. They 
say that they tried several times to phone Nationwide to ask for that to be done, starting on 
23 March, but they could not get through to anyone. They could not visit a branch due to 
Covid-19 (they are elderly and one of them was shielding). So on 28 March they sent their 
request in a secure online message.
However, Nationwides policy is to only accept instructions to switch a FlexPlus account 
either in person in a branch, or in a phone call. It therefore did not accept the secure 
message as a sufficient instruction. The account was switched in April as a result of a phone 
call in that month, but by then the fee for March had already been incurred. Mr and Mrs B 
complained about the fee, but Nationwide declined to refund it, so they brought this 
complaint to our Service. Mrs B represents her husband in this complaint.
Mrs B drew attention to a clause in the account terms and conditions which said that an 
account can be closed by sending a secure message, and she argued that this should also 
apply to switching an account. She provided emails from Nationwide which encouraged its 
customers not to call unless it was necessary, due to Covid-19. She also said that the 
secure message had been sent before the last day of the month.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She said that Nationwide had given clear 
instructions on its website about how to switch a FlexPlus account, and that it had not acted 
unreasonably by requiring these instructions to be followed. She thought Nationwide would 
have accepted that a phone call was necessary in order to switch the account. There was no 
evidence of any phone calls being made earlier than April. She did not agree that the clause 
about closing an account applied to switching an account. She concluded that the fee had 
been correctly applied.
Mrs B asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Although there is no record of any phone calls being made in March, I will nevertheless 
accept that these calls were made. Nevertheless, March 2020 was early on in the Covid-19 
crisis, and not every business had yet fully adapted to the new situation. I dont think it is 
Nationwides fault if not all of its customers were able to get through to call handlers before 
eventually giving up. Nationwide tried to reduce the volume of calls it was receiving by 
sending out the emails I have described, in an effort to mitigate the problem, but it wasnt 
obliged to change its policy of only accepting a phone call or a branch visit to switch the 
account.
The clause Mrs B quoted is from paragraph 74 and it reads as follows:
You can end this agreement at any time by sending us a secure message
It is important to note that this agreement means Nationwides General Current Account 
Terms and Conditions, which apply to all current accounts. A current account which is 
switched to a different kind of current account remains subject to the same agreement. 
There are additional terms and conditions for specific types of current account; the FlexPlus 
account conditions begin on page 12, but the clause I have quoted above is on page 11, so 
it certainly cannot apply to the situation where a FlexPlus account is switched to another 
kind. The FlexPlus conditions begin with this sentence: These additional conditions 
supplement and amend the current account agreement. So they are separate to, and not 
just part of, the current account agreement. As such I think they fall out of the scope of 
paragraph 74, and so I conclude that paragraph 74 does not support the argument that a 
FlexPlus account can be switched by sending a secure message.
The secure message which was sent on 28 March read, in part, as follows:
As we no longer wish to avail of the extras on the FlexPlus account we wish to 
transfer to the Flex Direct account from the 1st April 2020 please.
Since the £13 monthly fee for March was incurred on the last day of March, this secure 
message would have been too late even if Nationwide had accepted it. I think the clause 
which says no fee will be charged in the month when an account is switched means the 
month in which the switch is effective, rather than the month in which the request to switch is 
made. There is support for that interpretation in Nationwides acknowledgement of the 
message, which reads:
Note! Until the Switch has completed, then all your payments will still debit your old 
Bank Account up to the date of the switch completing (Day 7).
So the switch, which is expected to take seven days, is not complete until the seventh day. It 
seems from their message that Mr and Mrs B expected it to take four days, but since the 
fourth day was still in April it makes no difference. So while I think Nationwide was entitled to 
insist on a phone call, that point is moot; even if Nationwide had accepted the secure 
message and had acted on it, the fee would still have been correctly charged. It would have 
been too late to avoid it.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 March 2021. Mrs B may reply for both of them.
 Richard Wood
Ombudsman