DRN-3405316
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (LBGI) unfairly declined 
their claim on their home insurance policy. They also complain about the poor service when 
making their claim. 
References to Mr W or Mrs W, will include the other.
There are several parties and representatives of LBGI involved throughout the claim but for 
the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to LBGI.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W contacted LBGI to make the claim on their home insurance policy when they 
noticed water coming in through the ceiling of the kitchen extension, near the skylight, after a 
period of heavy rain.
LBGI said it would consider the claim under the storm section of their home buildings policy
and sent out a contractor to look at the damage. 
LBGIs contractor reported there was no sign of storm damage to the roof. Cause of damage 
was not able to be confirmed. The claim was declined in full. 
 
LBGI initially declined all Mr and Mrs Ws claim. It later reviewed its findings. It did not accept 
the claim for damage to the outside as there were no visible signs of storm damage. 
However it agreed to accept the claim for the internal damage and made an offer. The offer 
was rejected by Mr W.
LBGI said it would review the internal damage settlement amount and asked for Mr and Mrs 
W to send their own quote so that it could look into it further.
LBGI said its claims process could have run smoother than it did and made a compensation 
payment of £150 for the poor service received.
As Mr and Mrs W were not happy with LBGI, they brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. She looked into the case and said there is 
nothing to suggest the leak was a result of damage caused by a storm so LBGI acted 
reasonably in declining the claim for the external damage. She said although there was a 
failing in LBGIs service it had compensated them appropriately for this.
As Mr and Mrs W are unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought 
to me for a final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Storm Damage
When we consider complaints about claims as a result of storm damage we approach them 
in a similar manner. There are three conditions that need to be met before we can say that a
business should deal with a claim for storm damage. The conditions are:
1) Was there a storm?
2) Is the damage typical of that caused by a storm?
3) Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I have considered all the information presented and I am reassured that after looking at all 
the evidence that there was no wind or rain that would be considered as a storm around the 
time of the incident in July 2021. I am confident that the weather reports are of a reliable 
source.
Therefore I accept that the storm claim was declined fairly by LBGI. As there was no storm 
identified the second and third questions do not need to be considered.
When Mr W initially contacted LBGI to make the claim on his home insurance policy, LBGI 
said there was a tornado recorded in the area around this time and it would consider the 
claim under the storm section of their buildings policy.  LBGI sent out its contractor to assess 
the roof and the internal damage.
The LBGI contractors report said the internal damage was from water ingress from the failed 
flat roof. It said there was no visible damage to this external area or to the skylight which the 
water had come through. It reported there was no sign of storm damage to the roof and the 
cause of damage was not able to be confirmed. The claim was declined in full. 
Mr W contested this. He said the LBGI contractor had told Mrs W to obtain quotes if LBGI 
had accepted it was storm damage. He also said the contractor had not looked at the 
damage in an effective way to be able to decline the claim. 
LBGI looked into the claim again. It said it re-checked the weather reports and found 
although there was heavy rain, there were no storm conditions recorded around the time of 
the claim.  LBGI confirmed the external damage was not covered and it should never have 
said it was. It maintained its decision to decline the claim for external damage.
Mr W said although he made his claim at the start of August 2021 when he noticed the 
internal damage, he did not know when the actual damage had occurred. He said the 
damage could have been caused by high winds or a storm previously on any number of 
occasions.
  
I reviewed the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ws policy to see if their claim could be 
considered under any other causes. I found the only place the damage reported in this case 
could be considered was storm. 
LBGI offered for a contractor to conduct a further inspection, which was declined by Mr W. 
LBGI said it would consider any further evidence provided by Mr W to support this part of his 
claim.
Internal damageAfter review of Mr Ws claim LBGI eventually accepted the claim for the internal damage. It 
agreed the internal water damage should have been considered and accepted from the start.
LBGI made a settlement offer of £600 for the internal damage, but Mr W said he would not 
accept it as he needed the outside repairing before the inside. He also was not happy with 
the amount offered. He said he had obtained a separate quote for the internal repairs only 
and this was in excess of £2000 due to the need to replaster and paint the entire ceiling. 
LBGI told Mr W if he submits his own quote it will review it. Mr W has not yet done this as he 
doesn't see the value of settling this part of the claim until the issue with the external 
damage claim has been reviewed by our service.
As the £600 offered was an estimate from LBGIs contractor, I think the offer from LBGI to 
review the quote obtained by Mr W for the internal work is fair. 
Handling of claim
LBGI agreed it had not handled Mr and Mrs Ws claim efficiently. It agreed it had caused 
confusion to them as to what direction the claim was taking. It agreed it had initially said the 
external damage was covered as there had been a tornado and then at a later date said it 
couldnt cover it because windspeeds had not been met. 
LBGI was unable to comment on the conduct of its contractors as the visits and calls were 
not recorded. It said it did take this complaint seriously and would feed this back through its 
supplier manager.
A payment of £150 was made in compensation for this poor service and I think this is an 
appropriate amount in these circumstances.
I agree the storm claim was declined fairly by LBGI. And as there was no storm identified. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs W will be disappointed, but I have reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator and I do not uphold their complaint.
Mr and Mrs W should now either submit their quotes for the internal damage repairs as 
requested by LBGI for this part of their claim, or accept the offer of £600 already provided.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman