DRN-4224465
The complaint
R, a limited company, has complained that it was mis-sold a business insurance policy by 
Aon UK Limited.
Mr P, a director of R, has brought this complaint on its behalf. 
What happened
R runs two separate leisure businesses. It took out a commercial insurance policy through its 
broker Aon for the first business in January 2017. In August 2018 it asked Aon to arrange 
separate cover for the second business on the same basis as the existing cover for the first 
business.
In 2020, R made a claim to the insurer for its business interruption losses after its 
businesses were required to close during the lockdown restrictions. Initially the insurer 
declined both claims. It later accepted the claim for the first business under the Non-Damage 
Denial of Access (NDDA) section of the policy. It didnt accept the claim made in respect of 
the second business on the basis that this policy didnt include NDDA cover.
R complained that Aon had mis-sold it the policy for the second business as it hadnt told it 
that the policy didnt include NDDA cover. Aon said that the renewal report it had sent R in 
August 2019 showed that the cover didnt include the NDDA extension. Aon said R didnt 
specifically request this extension and was happy to proceed on the basis of the terms set 
out in the renewal report.
R brought a complaint to this service. Our Investigator recommended the complaint be 
upheld. He didnt think Aon had acted fairly. He thought Aon should have identified that the 
policy didnt include NDDA cover and either have raised this with the insurer or advised R of 
this difference in cover. He recommended that Aon should pay R £50,000 being the likely 
amount which the insurer would have paid out in settling a claim if NDDA cover had been in 
place.
Aon said it seemed the insurer was changing the availability of NDDA cover for different 
clients and didnt highlight the change to it at the time. It said R was not concerned with 
NDDA cover which was an add-on provided by certain insurers. 
As Aon didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the Insurance Conduct of Business rules when selling an insurance policy, a firm 
should specify its customers demands and needs. It should also propose a policy which is 
consistent with those demands and needs. Aon sold R a policy on an advised basis. That 
means it had to take reasonable steps to ensure the suitability of its advice. It also had a 
general duty to provide advice that was clear, fair and not misleading.
In this decision Im going to focus on the August 2019 renewal of the policy for the second 
business as that was the policy in force at the time of the claim. I have taken the previous 
events into account to the extent they form part of all the circumstances of the complaint. 
The policy that was due to expire in August 2019 did not have any NDDA cover. Aon sent R 
a report on the renewal terms. On page 27 of the report under the heading Business 
Interruption it said that there was cover for:
Loss resulting from an interruption to the business following loss of or damage to the 
insured property arising out of the Insured Risks as defined below. 
R asked Aon to renew the policy on the basis of the terms set out in the report. The policy 
renewed on 19 August 2019.
The policy covering the first business provided cover for business interruption as a result of:
Denial of access (non-damage) cover
We will cover you for any loss insured by this section resulting from interruption of or 
interference with the business where access to your premises is restricted or hindered for 
more than the franchise period shown in your schedule arising directly from:
The actions taken by the police or any other statutory body in response to a danger or 
disturbance at your premises or within a 1 mile radius of your premises
Provided that
1.The insurance provided by this cover shall only apply for the period starting with the 
restriction or hinderance and ending after 12 weeks during which time the results of 
the business are affected
This provides much broader coverage than the policy for the second business and its likely 
that Rs claim for business interruption losses arising due to Covid-19 would have been met 
under this policy.
We asked Aon why the insurer didnt include the NDDA cover in the policy for the second 
business. Aon said according to the insurer this extension was optional and chargeable. It 
wasnt included because it wasnt requested at the time of quotation. We also asked why 
Aon didnt identify that the two policies werent the same and tell R that the cover wasnt like 
for like. Aon said it had requested cover on a like for like basis and the insurer didnt highlight 
the difference in cover to it. It said:
Prior to Covid and the March 2020 lockdown this element of cover was deemed to be a 
relatively minor extension, with the benefit of hindsight this position is now very different. At 
the time, NDDA cover was not something that was of particular importance to clients, 
brokers or insurers, and not something that would have been given specific attention.
I agree with Aon that it is right to consider what would have been in the minds of the parties 
at the time the cover was taken out and not look at this with the benefit of hindsight. But the 
fact remains that R wanted cover that was like for like with the policy for its first business and 
thats not what it got.Having considered all the evidence, I think that Aon did mis-sell the policy to R as it was 
evident that at the outset R wanted the same cover as it already had for the first business. I 
havent seen anything to suggest that Rs demands and needs in this respect had changed 
by the time of the 2019 renewal. Aon did not identify or give R clear information about how 
the new policy differed from the policy in place for the first business.
Having decided that the policy was mis-sold, I need to consider what would have happened 
if Aon had drawn Rs attention to the lack of NDDA cover in August 2019. Aon has told us 
that the same insurer would have agreed to add the NDDA extension if it had been 
requested at that time and that would have led to an increase in the premium. It would have 
expected the insurer to apply a sub-limit of £50,000 for that cover. 
The insurer has not been able to tell Aon how much it would have charged for the NDDA 
extension if that had been requested at the August 2019 renewal. From what I have seen, 
the extra premium would likely have been modest and since R was already paying for the 
first business to have this cover, I think it would probably have wanted to have it added for its 
second business too.
The next thing I need to look at is what financial loss R has suffered by not being able to 
bring a NDDA claim in respect of its second business. I have done so by considering the 
terms of the policy for the first business. The sum insured under that policy was 100% of the 
sum insured (£535,000) or £50,000 whichever is less. So the maximum claim payment 
would have been £50,000.
In the event of business interruption covered under this section the policy provides for loss of 
gross profit. The term Gross Profit is defined as:
The amount by which the sum of the turnover, closing stock and work in progress exceeds 
the sum of the opening stock, work in progress and uninsured working expenses.
The amounts of the opening and closing stocks (including work in progress) will be arrived at 
in accordance with your usual accounting methods with provision being made for 
depreciation.
Our Investigator calculated that Rs loss of gross profit for the indemnity period was over 
£230,000. He sent a copy of his calculations to both parties. Neither party disagreed with 
them. So I think its reasonable to conclude that Rs loss exceeded the policy limit of £50,000 
and that if it had not been mis-sold the policy by Aon, it would have had cover in place that 
would have paid it £50,000 for the losses it suffered during the first lockdown. To put things 
right I think Aon should pay this amount to R.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Aon UK Limited to pay R 
£50,000.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman