DRN-4088851
The complaint
This complaints about a mortgage that Miss B and Mr D applied for, and eventually 
obtained, through a mortgage broker who is part of Advance Mortgage Funding Ltd (AMF). 
There are several strands to the complaint, chief amongst which is that the mortgage advisor 
recommended Miss B and Mr D take out a loan for the deposit, thus narrowing their choice 
of lenders to obtain the mortgage from.
The mortgage application was ultimately successful and Miss B and Mr D were able to 
complete on their intended house purchase. Miss B and Mr D are seeking compensation for 
the stress they experienced, and also believe they shouldnt have to pay the broker fee of 
£499.
What Ive decided  and why
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Miss B and Mr D and AMF. Im also 
aware that the investigator issued a comprehensive response to the complaint, which has 
been shared with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Miss B and Mr D being identified. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. Ill address each strand of the complaint in turn, using broadly the same headings 
the investigator used in her view. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive 
ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, Im required to reach my decision on 
the basis of what I consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. 
Thats broadly the same test used by the courts in civil cases.
The application
If Im to order AMF to pay Miss B and Mr D the compensation theyre seeking, I have to be 
satisfied that AMF made specific errors or omissions in the handling of the application, and 
that those errors or omissions were the sole or over-riding cause of loss, financial or 
non-financial, to Miss B and Mr D. 
Arranging a mortgage isnt an exact science; nor is it a mechanical process. There may be 
anticipated timescales for how long an application might take, but occasionally things take 
longer than expected. Also, queries and issues might arise that couldnt have been predicted 
at the outset, and which either delay the application or take it in an unexpected direction. For 
the most part, I think the latter is what happened here.
The starting point here is the point-of-sale documentation. The value of such documents is 
that theyre contemporaneous; so they should reflect what was said and agreed at the 
relevant time. Theyre not fool-proof, of course; its always possible information might be 
recorded incorrectly; but its typically more reliable than peoples individual recollections at a 
distance of time which, although given in good faith, can sometimes be inaccurate or 
contradictory, or more generally influenced by hindsight. 
So unless theres a compelling reason to believe the information is inaccurate, well 
generally attach some weight to it. For the most part, Im satisfied I can do that here. Thats 
important because the conversations and discussions that preceded the point-of-sale 
documentation being completed werent recorded. 
It seems to me that Miss B and Mr Ds biggest grievance is about how the deposit for their 
purchase was to be funded. They had money available, in the form of savings and 
investments, which Im persuaded they told the broker they preferred not to use. The nature 
of the investments prevented the broker from giving advice on whether to use them for the 
deposit. All she could do instead was accept their position and advise they borrow the 
deposit. That meant the choice of mortgage lender would be narrowed to those that would 
accept borrowed money as a source of deposit. In practice, that meant one lender, which Ill 
refer to here as S.
This wasnt a straightforward mortgage for AMF to arrange; there were some anomalies in 
the information given about Miss Bs employment situation and her existing credit 
commitments that slowed things up, and resulted in S initially declining the application. By 
this time, Miss B and Mr D had taken out the deposit loan, so they were excluded from going 
to other lenders (unless they repaid the loan). Fortunately, Mr D received a promotion at 
work, and the increase in his income allowed S to offer the mortgage after all.
Our investigator recommended AMF pay Miss B and Mr D £300 compensation. This was for 
what she perceived as a lack of clarity on the brokers part about the impact taking the 
deposit for the loan would have on the choice of lender. AMF doesnt agree, pointing to a 
message from the broker on 5 May 2022 asking if Miss B and Mr D preferred that she get 
started the checks to make sure youre eligible before you apply for the loan. 
In my view, this didnt meet Miss B and Mr Ds information needs. Keeping in mind they were 
first-time buyers and therefore novices, the broker ideally needed to have said, more 
emphatically, that they should wait until shed checked they were eligible for the mortgage 
with S, because taking the loan would remove every other lender from the equation. 
In the end, I dont think it changed the eventual outcome. In my view, it was always more 
likely than not that Miss B and Mr D would borrow the deposit rather than disturb the 
investments, so realistically, their choice of lender would always have been restricted to S. 
But I can understand why, as first-time buyers who were experiencing the pressure and 
stress of house-buying for the first time, they felt the sense of grievance theyve expressed. 
That stress and sense of grievance would have been exacerbated if new circumstances 
hadnt resulted in S changing its mind and agreeing to lend after all in the wake of Mr Ds 
promotion. But I cant award compensation for something that might have happened but 
ultimately did not. 
The broker fee
This was a non-refundable fee charged by AMF for sourcing a mortgage for Miss B and 
Mr D. Im satisfied they were informed at the start of the process what the fee was for, and 
that it was non-refundable. Miss B and Mr D have the mortgage, so theyve received the 
service for which the fee is due. AMF is reasonably entitled to expect to receive payment of 
the fee, which I understand remains outstanding.Unauthorised referral to a solicitor
Miss B and Mr D argue that what happened here was a breach of the General Data 
Protection Regulation (GDPR) in that AMF had passed details of their application to a firm of 
solicitors that they ultimately preferred not to use. Miss B and Mr D also say that in 
conversation with the estate agent selling the property they were buying, AMF described 
their preferred firm of solicitor in negative terms, which caused them embarrassment.
Some context may help here. S required the mortgage application to include a firm of 
solicitors that Miss B and Mr D would use for the house purchase transaction. Thats 
because generally speaking, a lender will use the same firm of solicitors to act on its behalf 
in the transaction as well. That being the case, the lender will want the firm in question to be 
on its approved list, or panel.
Im persuaded on the balance of probabilities that Miss B and Mr D initially agreed to AMF 
submitting the application to S with details of a firm of solicitors the broker had suggested 
using. This was because AMF knew this firm to be on S panel, and it would enable the 
application to get going. At the same time, it was on the understanding that Miss B and Mr D 
would subsequently choose their own preferred firm of solicitors and inform AMF 
accordingly. 
That being the case, I cant fairly conclude that AMF then breached Miss B and Mr Ds 
GDPR rights by passing their details to the first firm of solicitors. I appreciate they may think 
differently, in which case they have the option of referring the matter to the Information 
Commissioners Office for an opinion.
Miss B and Mr D were perfectly entitled to choose a different firm from the one AMF had 
suggested, but whichever firm they did choose would need to be on S panel if it was to act 
for both parties in the transaction. 
I cant know what was said between AMF and the estate agent during the conversation 
about the firm of solicitors Miss B and Mr D were proposing to use instead. But it seems to 
me that any question AMF raised would more likely than not have been about whether the 
new firm of solicitors was on S panel. If so, that was perfectly reasonable and sensible. If 
something more disparaging than that was said, that wouldnt be Miss B or Mr Ds complaint 
to make however embarrassed they might have felt. It would be a matter for the firm of 
solicitors to raise with AMF. 
That brings me to compensation for time, trouble and upset. Even in the best-ordered 
situation, some things can or will go wrong in such a complex transaction as a house 
purchase, and some degree of stress and inconvenience is to be expected. Taking into 
consideration everything that both parties have said and provided, and mindful of our 
general approach. I consider that £300 for failing to meet Miss B and Mr Ds information 
needs over the deposit loan represents fair and reasonable compensation.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a material effect on 
the outcome. I can see from their submissions how important this is to Miss B and Mr D. 
Thats a natural reaction, and entirely understandable when youre as close to a situation as 
they have been here. This is very much a subjective area; everyone reacts to and perceives 
things differently, especially in the moment, when subject to the stresses that are inherent 
in a house transaction. But I have a different remit. I have to be objective, and impartial, and sometimes that means 
stepping back from the fine detail, taking an overview and deciding what is fair, reasonable 
and pragmatic in all the overall circumstances of the case. It also means that Im not 
required to provide answers to every specific question that comes up if I dont consider doing 
so will affect the overall outcome. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part only. In full and final settlement, I 
direct Advance Mortgage Funding Ltd to pay Miss B and Mr D £300. I make no other order 
or award.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr D 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 June 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman