DRN-4032685
The complaint
Mrs F complains that a branch agent of National Westminster Bank Plc, who Ill call Nat 
West, told her that a loan application would be successful despite her limited Visa status. As 
her application was unsuccessful because of her Visa status, Mrs F says that credit checks 
were unnecessary and she says they have damaged her credit file and made it more difficult 
to obtain credit elsewhere.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs F, but I think Nat West have been reasonable in their response 
to her complaint. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
In their final response to Mrs F Nat West accepted it was likely their staff had made a 
mistake and the inference was that their staff had suggested Mrs Fs application for credit 
was likely to be successful. Mrs F says they should have considered her limited Visa status 
before completing credit checks and as Nat West agree her loan application was 
unsuccessful because of her Visa status and not because of anything contained on her 
credit file, that the credit checks were unnecessary. She says its the presence of those 
credit checks on her credit file that prevented her obtaining credit elsewhere to fund a 
kitchen.
I think Nat West should have realised Mrs Fs Visa status would mean that they were 
unlikely to be able to offer a loan and as they accept it was likely they made a mistake in that 
regard they should compensate Mrs F for the distress and inconvenience caused.
The credit searches were completed in mid-November 2022 and Nat Wests final response 
only a couple of months later, explains that they have removed the searches from Mrs Fs 
file. It therefore seems the impact, if any, of those searches being on Mrs Fs file would have 
been minimal, and while I understand Mrs F thinks other credit was denied purely on the 
basis of those checks, I dont think I have sufficient evidence that was the case and the 
application wasnt impacted by other issues, such as the amount of credit on file, her 
repayment history, or the lenders own criteria for advancing credit.
And, even if Nat West hadnt removed those searches as their final response suggested, I 
dont think it was unreasonable to complete the searches before considering Mrs Fs Visa 
status. 
Nat West offered Mrs F £200 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by their misleading advice and taking all of the circumstances into account, I think that was 
reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman