DRN-3505563
The complaint
Mr J complains Zurich Insurance Plc (Zurich) unfairly settled his claim on his car hire excess 
insurance policy. 
There are several parties and representatives of Zurich involved throughout the complaint 
but for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to Zurich.
What happened
In July 2019 Mr J took out a car hire excess insurance policy with Zurich to cover him whilst 
driving a hired car in Spain.
During the time the car was on hire to Mr J, it was damaged by a third party. The car hire 
company charged £2,947.37 to Mr Js credit card.
Mr J made a claim on his policy with Zurich in February 2020. He posted all the documents 
and supporting evidence for his claim by registered post. Although Mr J has a receipt to 
show it was delivered and signed for, Zurich said it never received the documents.
Zurich made an offer of £1,681.64. An email was sent to Mr J to confirm this amount, but he 
said he did not receive it. Zurich paid this amount to Mr J in July 2021.
After receipt of the settlement amount Mr J made a complaint to Zurich as it had not paid the 
full amount. Zurich said the amount it had paid was for the policy excess and towing costs, 
but not the additional costs charged by the rental company for repairs to the vehicle as this 
was not covered by the policy. Zurich offered £75 compensation for the delay in Mr Js claim 
being paid.
As Mr J was not happy with Zurich, he brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He looked into the case and said the policy wording 
indicates it covers the cost of any damage related to the insured vehicle, including repair 
costs charged by the rental company. He said Zurich should cover the whole cost of Mr Js 
claim and increase the compensation offer to £200.
As Zurich is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
decision to be made.
What I provisionally decided and why
In this case Mr J made a complaint to Zurich about his car hire excess policy. This specific 
insurance policy is a separate policy that only covers his excess. The main insurance is 
covered by the hire company as is normal practice.
I looked at the car hire company terms and conditions documentation and it confirms car hire 
includes collision damage waiver insurance.
Mr J has made a main insurance complaint about a separate policy that only protects his 
excess. The following explains in detail about the two separate policies.
I looked at the documentation that Mr J signed when he hired the car. Mr J confirmed he was 
asked to leave a 1200 euros deposit on his credit card with the car hire company. I have 
seen the evidence that shows this amount being pre-authorised on his credit card.
At the same time as hiring the car, Mr J took out the excess waiver policy with Zurich. This 
policy was bought through the car hire company.
A confirmation email from the car hire company confirms the insurance as a Platinum 
Excess Waiver Policy. The wording on the certificate of insurance confirms this. The terms 
and conditions document confirm on each page the policy is Car Hire Excess Insurance.
Zurich said the policy is designed only to cover the vehicle excess costs. It said the costs 
which are covered under the policy is the excess and roadside assistance to recover the 
vehicle.
After the accident the car hire company told Mr J they were entitled to claim the full amount 
of the cost of damage from him. They said his insurance policy with Zurich would reimburse 
him. Mr J said the policy with Zurich should therefore cover all the costs charged by the car 
hire company for the damage to the car.
Mr J refers to the information within the policy that says;
What is Insured
Excess Insurance
Up to £6,000 for any single incident or series of incidents during any single vehicle rental
agreement. This includes 
Accidental damage including any caused by fire, theft or vandalism.
Accidental damage to windscreens, tyres, roof and undercarriage.
Up to £1,000 for any single incident or series of incidents during any single vehicle rental
agreement. This includes:
Rental fees charged by the rental company for which you are liable during a period for 
which you are unable to use the rental vehicle.
Related towing costs to travel home or to your destination, including any additional costs 
incurred by you arising from the breakdown of the rental vehicle, as long as those fees or 
costs are the result of accidental damage or theft.
I checked and agree this detail is written into the policy however the policy is cover for Car 
Hire Excess. In this case the excess to the car hire company was 1200 Euros. 
After the incident the car was towed away and assessed for damage. The car hire company 
charged 1300 Euros and 1900 Euros in two payments on the same day to Mr Js credit card 
in July 2019. A total of £2946.37 sterling. 
I have seen Mr J disputed these two amounts with his bank. The bank initially refunded the 
two amounts, but the car hire company resubmitted them and said they were entitled to 
charge the amounts against his card. The bank told him if he still disputed the charge 
through the bank to explain his reasons and this may allow the bank to return the charges to 
the car hire company again. 
Mr J also phoned the car hire company for an explanation.  The car hire company told Mr J 
they were entitled to claim the full amount of damage under the terms of the hire agreement and he would have to claim that amount from the insurance company. They assured him he 
was fully covered, with the Zurich Platinum excess policy.
I have seen no evidence to show this is correct. The evidence in the terms and conditions in 
the Zurich policy confirm it is the excess only that is covered.
As there was damage to the car during the term of hire, the policy Mr J had with Zurich 
covered the excess charged and towing costs. Zurich have paid the excess, plus the car 
recovery costs, as is required under the terms of the policy. It has not paid the additional 
amount as there is no evidence that Mr J is liable to pay this to the rental company. 
Zurich said Mr J has been charged more than the excess amount by the car hire company 
and he should contact the car hire company to discuss this further, as its not usual for 
customers to be charged the full claim costs, as these are covered by the motor insurance 
provider used by the car hire company.
Mr J has been unable to provide any evidence from the car hire company that the additional 
amount charged to him for damage should be considered under his policy with Zurich in 
addition to the full excess and recovery costs already paid. 
I can assure Mr J that I have taken his complaint very seriously and I believe he genuinely 
thought the policy with Zurich covered more than the car hire excess. I also realise this 
matter has caused him a great deal of distress and a significant financial loss. 
However there is no evidence to support that Zurich are liable to cover the additional amount 
charged by the car hire company. I think Zurich has settled this claim fairly and within the 
terms of the car hire excess insurance policy.  
I do agree there were delays caused by Zurich in responding to Mr Js claim.  Zurich offered 
him £75 compensation to recognise delays when the settlement was made. I think this 
should be increased to £200 to take into account the long delays caused by documents sent 
by registered mail, not being received into Zurichs claim process. Zurich were unable to 
confirm the documents were received and I do not think Mr J could have done anything any 
differently to track these items. 
I am unable to comment on the car hire company or bank responses as this does not form 
part of this complaint. However Mr J can bring a separate complaint against the main insurer 
if he wants.
Therefore, I intend to partially uphold Mr Js complaint and require Zurich to pay a total of 
£200 compensation for the delays in settling his claim.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr J responded to say:
He is out of pocket because either the car rental broker sold him a policy that didnt fully 
cover him, the car rental company have taken money from his bank of which they were 
not entitled, or Zurich are lying by saying the policy only covered the excess.
Zurich responded to say: 
Mr Js claim was reviewed and accepted within a month of it being reported. It said it 
sent numerous chasers to obtain BACS details to make the claim payment. The claim 
was re-opened in April 2021 and at the end of June 2021 the claim payment was 
authorised and paid to Mr J after approximately five working days. It felt the 
compensation of £75 it had offered for delay was fair and reasonable.This complaint decision means there has been no increase to the settlement amount 
paid. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to Mr J:
The evidence in the terms and conditions in the Zurich policy confirm it is the excess only 
that is covered. I am unable to respond to comments made regarding the car hire broker 
and hire company as this does not form part of this complaint.
In response to Zurich:
The compensation of £200 is for the delay between March 2020 and June 2021. 
Although Zurich said it chased Mr J numerous times, in the same email it says it only 
sent two emails in April 2020. I think contact should have been attempted by other 
methods and more than twice. I have also seen evidence of Mr J contacting Zurich in 
May 2020 to pursue his claim and submit a complaint, in which it says it cannot find the 
documents he has submitted by post. I therefore maintain that £200 is a fair and 
reasonable amount to take in to account the inconvenience and frustration caused to Mr 
J by the long delay.   
Based on the evidence Ive reviewed I maintain my provisional decision and I partially uphold 
Mr Js complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I intend to partially uphold this complaint.
I intend to require Zurich Insurance Plc to pay Mr J a total of £200 in compensation, less any 
amount already paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman