DRN-3276115
The complaint
Mr E has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) acted unfairly by continuing to apply 
charges to his accounts when he was in financial difficulty. 
What happened
Mr E complained to BOS about overdraft charges applied on two accounts he held with it. 
He is also unhappy BOS failed to amend his credit file when BOS carried out a review of his 
accounts and refunded fees. BOS said it applied all charges in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account and that it made the necessary amendments to Mr Es credit file 
and compensated him £200 for the distress and inconvenience this caused.  
Mr E was dis-satisfied with this and bought his complaint to this service. 
An adjudicator looked at this complaint and thought that BOS should have stopped charging 
overdraft fees from 22 April 2018 on one account and 8 June 2018 on the other as by this 
point it was clear Mr E was in financial difficulty as he hadnt seen or maintained a credit 
balance for an extended period of time. 
BOS initially disagreed with our adjudicators view but after further review agreed to refund 
all interest, fees and charges applied to the accounts in line with our adjudicators view. 
These amounts total £792.41 and £105.05. BOS advised that as Mr Es accounts were in 
credit it would make payment directly to Mr E and apply 8% interest calculated once Mr E 
accepts the offer. 
Mr E didnt wish to accept this offer - he would like to receive £7,367.63 which he says 
represents the valuables he had to sell to pay back the bank and compensation for the 
mental distress he has suffered. Mr E has asked for an ombudsman decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, to be clear my decision only addresses the charges applied to Mr Es two bank 
accounts. 
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what BOS has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mr E is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this
complaint. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been charged the fees and given the 
credit they shouldnt have and we may award modest compensation.
So where a business continues to allow a consumer to use a credit facility which it should 
have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the position 
theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that credit. This 
means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any credit 
from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. 
And in this case after a detailed review of Mr Es statements, Im in agreement with our 
adjudicator that by the renewal dates of 22 April 2018 on one account and 8 June 2018 on 
the other it was clear Mr Es overdrafts were unsustainable as his accounts hadnt seen or 
maintained a credit balance over a significant period of time. 
BOS has accepted this view and agreed to refund all the interest, fees and charges from 
these dates and as Mr E now has a credit balance on both accounts BOS will also calculate 
and add 8% interest to this. BOS has also already amended his credit file and compensated 
Mr E £200 for the inconvenience. So while Mr E may well have had to find ways to pay back 
his overdrafts  including selling personal items and is unhappy with this - BOS has offered 
to do what Id normally expect it to do here. Mr E used and benefitted from his overdrafts and 
I dont think that the interest, fees and charges left him with a debt that he wouldnt otherwise 
have been left with.
So bearing all this in mind Im satisfied that what BOS has already agreed to do to put things 
right for Mr E is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case and Im not requiring 
it to do anything more. As this is the case, its up to Mr E to decide whether he wishes to 
accept BOSs offer.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Bank of Scotland plc has already 
agreed to do to put things right for Mr E is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
case. So Im not requiring it to do anything more.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman