DRN-2335587
The complaint
Mr G complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) caused him embarrassment by 
declining a credit card payment.
What happened
In February 2020, Mr G told Halifax hed shortly be making two overseas trips. He asked 
Halifax to put a note on his account to that effect, in case he wanted to use his credit card 
while he was away. The call handler told Mr G there was no longer a need to let Halifax 
know when travelling abroad  her explanation being that fraudulent transactions can 
happen in England or overseas. Mr G asked if thered be a problem in him using his card 
and the call handler replied that there shouldnt be. But if Halifax thought there was 
potentially suspicious activity on the account theyd send Mr G a text message to let him 
know. Whilst the call handler agreed to put a note on the account, she told Mr G she couldnt 
guarantee Halifax wouldnt raise a concern if it thought there was suspicious activity.
While Mr G was away, Halifax declined a transaction he attempted for goods totalling over 
£300. And it sent Mr G a text message to let him know. While Mr G accepts Halifax sent him 
a text message some time later, he said the damage had been done by then. 
Mr G complained to Halifax. It responded in early March 2020. It said it had listened to 
Mr Gs call the previous month and was satisfied the call handler told him they couldnt 
guarantee thered be no issue with his card. And that its systems might still pick up a 
transaction that it thinks is suspicious. Halifax told him that if this happened, it would send a 
text message to alert him. Whilst Halifax acknowledged Mr Gs frustration when his 
transaction was declined, it said it acted to safeguard customers, so it didnt think it had done 
anything wrong.
Mr G wasnt happy with Halifaxs response, so he got in touch again. Halifax replied and said 
it was sorry Mr G felt its fraud checks were over-zealous. It explained it uses an automated 
fraud detection system due to the large volume of transactions it has to monitor. And it said 
the things that can lead to a concern being raised are more than just the card holders 
location or the amount of the transaction. It said the systems were designed to protect 
customers accounts. 
Mr G complained to us. Our investigator looked into Mr Gs complaint but didnt uphold it. 
She felt Halifaxs call handler made it clear that even though Mr G told Halifax hed be 
abroad, it may still need to check and hold transactions for potential fraud. The investigator 
was satisfied Halifax tried to get in touch with Mr G once it declined the transaction, but 
wasnt able to reach him. So, she thought it did what it needed to do when alerting him to a 
potential problem. And she was satisfied it acted within the terms and conditions of the 
account and hadnt treated Mr G unfairly. 
Mr G didnt agree and made a number of points in response to the investigators 
assessment. The investigator considered Mr Gs comments. She said banks try to ensure 
theres no fraudulent activity on customers accounts (not least to prevent losses that it may 
later have to cover) so all banks have automated credit security systems in place. The 
investigator also pointed out that Halifaxs terms and conditions made clear it can stop 
certain transactions where it thinks it necessary. And Mr G signed up to those terms and 
conditions. Whilst the investigator accepted the incident caused Mr G embarrassment, she 
was satisfied Halifax acted within the terms and conditions of the account. Mr G said Halifax 
had no right or reason to decline his transaction. 
As Mr G didnt accept the investigators assessment, the matters been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G took the time and trouble to tell Halifax hed be going abroad. And, from what hes said, 
it appears hed had previous problems with Halifax declining overseas transactions. So, I 
can see why he might have thought it helpful to contact Halifax this time around. But Halifax 
did decline a transaction, and Mr G says he felt embarrassed by that. And he told Halifax 
that he thought it acted in an over-zealous way. 
Having carefully considered Mr Gs complaint, Im not going to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Mr G told us hed been assured thered be no repetition of his card being blocked.  
Ive listened to the call between Mr G and Halifax in early February 2020. And I can hear the 
call handler telling Mr G there was no longer a need to let Halifax know when travelling 
abroad. Thats because, according to Halifax, fraudulent activity can happen in England or 
overseas. However, Mr G asked for a note to be put on Halifaxs system and the call 
handler agreed to do that. In response to Mr Gs question about whether hed be ok using 
his card abroad, the call handler said she couldnt guarantee thered be no issues, but theyd 
contact Mr G if anything happened. So, based on what Ive heard, I dont agree with Mr G 
that Halifax assured him thered be no repetition of his card being blocked again. 
Im satisfied the call handler tried to manage Mr Gs expectations and Mr G appeared to 
acknowledge the explanation he was given. 
Mr G thinks Halifax had no reason to suspect fraudulent activity on his account. Not least 
because hed used his PIN when attempting the transaction, and hed made previous 
transactions at the same shop. Mr G added that hed been visiting the same overseas 
location several times a year for many years. So, he thought these factors should have 
removed any doubts about whether the transaction was genuine. And he wondered if 
whoever declined the transaction hadnt paid attention to the note on Halifaxs system saying 
he was abroad.
I appreciate the points Mr G makes. But like many financial businesses, Halifax uses an 
automated system to monitor transactions. So, I dont think its a case of an individual 
deciding whether to approve a transaction or not. And whilst I can see why Mr G felt things 
like having a note on file might have made a difference, I think its unlikely that would be 
picked up by an automated system. I can see Halifax told Mr G its system might flag a 
transaction for many different reasons, beyond just the customers location and the amount 
of the transaction. So, the fact that Mr G had visited the location fairly regularly wouldn't 
necessarily prevent Halifaxs system from flagging up an issue. And as its system did flag up 
a potential problem, I think Halifax was allowed to decline the transaction as part of 
protecting itself and Mr G from possible fraud. Mr G told Halifax it was condescending of it to suggest the fraud checks were for his benefit. 
While I appreciate thats Mr Gs opinion, its not one that I share. Im aware that credit card 
fraud can have a considerable impact on anyone affected by it. And if Halifax had allowed a 
payment to go through on Mr Gs account that later turned out to be fraudulent, I think it 
could have been a source of significant inconvenience for him. So, I don't agree that Halifax 
was being condescending when it said that fraud checks were for his benefit.
Further, its not for me to tell Halifax what sort of fraud checks it should put in place. But it 
does seem to me that its system was designed to ensure that any potential inconvenience 
caused by declining transactions was temporary. I say that because Halifax says it will 
contact customers by text message to alert them to a potential problem. And if its satisfied 
(having been in touch with the customer) that the transaction is genuine, it will approve it. 
Assuming its able to reach customers fairly quickly, it seems any inconvenience caused 
should be minimal.
Mr G doesnt think there should be an obligation on him to carry a mobile phone everywhere. 
Halifax makes clear in its terms and conditions that it can stop transactions where a potential 
issue is flagged. And it says it will contact customers by text message to let them know. 
Im also satisfied the call handler in February explained that too. Mr G may not agree with 
those procedures, but it seems the text message system was introduced for customers 
benefit and so any issues could be resolved quickly. Im satisfied Mr G was aware of the 
process and the reasons behind it. So, although he was under no obligation to carry a 
mobile phone with him all the time, it did mean there could be a delay if Halifax needed to 
make him aware of a potential problem. But it was up to Mr G to decide whether he wanted 
to carry his phone with him or not when he used his card.
Im satisfied Halifax acted in a fair and reasonable way and in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of Mr Gs account. I appreciate Mr G felt embarrassed by what happened, but I 
dont think that means Halifax did anything wrong.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman