DRN-1231033
 
The complaint
Mr C and Mr C1 complain that they were mis-sold a life insurance policy by The National 
Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited as they didnt need the policy.
What happened
In 2002 Mr C and Mr C1 took out a joint term assurance that provided life cover over a term 
of 30 years with £43,350 of cover payable on the death of either of them. This was to cover a 
mortgage.
According to NFU Mr C wrote to cancel the policy around two years later, in 2004. Mr C 
complained they didnt need the policy because savings and death in service benefits were 
available to pay off the mortgage. 
NFU didnt uphold the complaint. It said it recommended the policy and this was accepted. It 
said that when it had warned of a possible delay Mr C responded and said the policy needed 
to be in force for when the mortgage started. It also said that it wouldnt take into account 
death in service benefits when considering life cover as this is variable.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He 
thought the policy was a suitable recommendation based on the documents he had seen. He 
explained that death in service benefits didnt make the policy unsuitable as the employer 
could change or could change the benefit. He also said he had been given no evidence to 
show that savings couldve paid off the mortgage and if there had been sufficient for this he 
wouldnt have expected the mortgage to be taken out in the first place.
Mr C didnt agree with the investigator. He said at the time it was believed the policy was 
necessary for the mortgage due to the sales strategy. The investigator said this wasnt 
something raised before but he thought it was most likely that Mr C was told the policy was 
optional anyway.
Mr C then said the policy was unsuitable because there was a large portfolio of buy to let 
properties owned through a partnership arrangement with four equal shares. So if one 
person died there would still be three people who could pay the mortgage. He also said the 
business account had sufficient funds to pay the interest payments even if all four partners 
were unemployed. And the mortgage payments were covered by the monthly rental that was 
received. 
The investigator provided a further opinion dealing with the further points Mr C had raised 
and explaining why he still wasnt upholding the complaint. He said the fact that the property 
was owned by a trust in the name of four people didnt mean the life cover was unsuitable 
because if he died that would be an additional burden on the remaining parties. He also 
noted there was no evidence NFU was even made aware of the trust in the first place.
The investigator said the fact that there were properties generating income from tenancies 
also didnt make the life policy unsuitable as the rental payments werent guaranteed.As Mr C didnt agree with the investigator the matter has been referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I am not going to uphold 
this complaint for reasons I will explain.
Mr C and Mr C1 took out the policy in May 2002. It provided cover of £43,350 over a term of 
30 years in line with the mortgage they had taken out. The policy was paid for by way of a 
monthly premium of £7.65.
The adviser recommended the policy after a full financial review in which he identified 
various needs of Mr C and Mr C1. In his letter of 29 April 2002 he set out all the areas that 
had been considered but the only one he identified that Mr C and Mr C1 wanted advice on 
was life cover for a mortgage, for which he recommended the policy. 
Life cover for a mortgage is generally considered to be a sensible and suitable thing to have 
in place. It has not been suggested by Mr C or Mr C1 that the amount of cover and term 
were not in line with the mortgage itself. And I have seen no other evidence to indicate this 
so I have no reason for thinking the policy wasnt in line with the amount and term of the 
mortgage.
In the initial complaint Mr C suggested that the policy wasnt needed because there were 
death in service benefits available. No details of these have been provided, but even if they 
were sufficient to pay the mortgage off such benefits dont make life cover unsuitable 
anyway. As the investigator pointed out, there is no guarantee that a person is going to 
remain in the same employment or that the employer is not going to change the benefit.
Mr C and Mr C1 may have had savings but no details of these have been provided. If the 
savings were sufficient to pay off the mortgage then there would seem no reason to take a 
mortgage in the first place. But even if they had been sufficient in 2002 the mortgage term 
was 30 years so there was no way of knowing if there wouldve been enough savings 
throughout the term. So the existence of savings didnt make the policy unsuitable.
Mr C has provided evidence of rental payment received which he suggests couldve paid the 
mortgage. I have seen no evidence that the adviser was made aware of these payments, 
and he could only advise on the information provided. And even if he had been made aware 
of the payments I am not satisfied this means he shouldnt have recommended the policy as 
the payments were again not guaranteed. I also have no information to show these were 
available for payment of the mortgage in any event.
Mr C has also provided a Trust Deed naming four family members in relation to two 
properties where each person would get a 25% share of the proceeds on agreeing to pay 
25% of the mortgage. I note the document provided by Mr C isnt dated. But if it was in 
existence at the time of the advice there is nothing to show that the adviser was made aware 
of this. And even if he had been I dont think it means that life cover was unsuitable  rather I 
think it may be a basis for him actually recommending life cover for all four members of the 
family.
Mr C has said that they thought they had to take out the cover for the mortgage. I dont know 
if it was a condition or not as I dont have the mortgage documents. If it was then Mr C and 
Mr C1 had to have the policy at the time so it hasnt been mis-sold. If it wasnt a condition 
there is no evidence to show the adviser misled them about this. His letter of 29 April 2002 
makes it clear it is a recommendation not a requirementMy final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mr C1 to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 March 2020.
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman