DRN-2508537
The complaint
Mrs P complained that she was mis-sold a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. AXA France IARD (AXA) has taken responsibility for this complaint.
What happened
Mrs P took out the PPI in April 2001. AXA said that the sale took place by phone, and that 
Mrs P wasnt advised to take the PPI. Mrs P thought the sale had taken place in store, but 
agreed she wasnt given advice about the policy. She said she wasnt aware she was paying 
for PPI, and didnt need it as she had good employee benefits.
The policy cost £1.00 for each £100 Mrs P owed on her store card, and provided accident, 
sickness and unemployment cover. If shed successfully claimed on the policy, each month it 
wouldve paid out 15% of what she owed on the card when she stopped working. This 
wouldve carried on until she returned to work or the balance was cleared. The policy also 
included life cover and price and purchase protection cover.
Our adjudicator didnt think there was enough evidence to say that the policy was mis-sold. 
So he didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs P disagreed and asked that an ombudsman review 
her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ps case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
I have a copy of Mrs Ps store card application, and I can see that she took out the card in 
April 2000, but at that point did not choose to take PPI. AXA said the sale took place over 
the phone, about a year afterwards, and Ive no reason to doubt their records.
From what we know about other, similar, PPI sales by AXA at around this time, I think Mrs P 
most likely was given a choice about taking the PPI  and as shed had the store card for 
about a year at that point, I think it wouldve been clear that the policy wasnt a condition of 
having the card. Given that this was nearly 20 years ago, and memories fade with time, I 
think she probably just doesnt remember agreeing to take the PPI.
AXA didnt advise Mrs P to take out the PPI. But it should still have given her enough 
information for her to decide if the policy was right for her. I cant say for certain what was 
discussed during the phone call, so its possible AXA didnt explain the cost and benefits as 
clearly as it should have.
The cost of the policy was shown very briefly on the original application form as a penny in 
the pound of the monthly balance, but I dont know how it was described over the phone. I 
also cant say whether the salesperson clearly pointed out the main things the policy didnt 
cover, but while Mrs P said she had had a medical condition since childhood, she also said 
that it didnt affect her ability to work, so I dont think shed have considered it likely that 
shed need to claim on the policy because of it. 
Mrs P told us that, when she took out the policy, she wouldve been entitled to sick pay from 
her employer of six months full pay and then six months half pay. And she said she could 
have sold her car if necessary. She also said that her partner or family couldve helped out if 
she was in difficulties. But their circumstances couldve changed so I dont think their help 
couldve been guaranteed. On balance, I think Mrs P couldve found it difficult to make the 
card repayments once her sick pay reduced or if she lost her job. So I think the PPI couldve 
provided a useful benefit, also avoiding her having to sell an asset (her car) she may have 
needed. 
Overall, although I cant say that AXA fully explained the policy, Im not satisfied that Mrs P 
would have acted differently  and not taken out the PPI  if it had. It couldve provided 
useful protection for her if she couldnt work. This means Mrs P isnt worse off as a result of 
what AXA may have done wrong, so theres nothing it needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman