DRN-2373450
The complaint
C complains that Society of Lloyds handled their landlord insurance claim unfairly. For ease 
of reading, reference to Lloyds will include those who acted on their behalf.
What happened
C owns a property which they let to someone Ill call Mr J, the letting was for two years. Rent 
had been paid upfront for the first six months but wasnt forthcoming after that. C attempted 
to secure the rent but was unsuccessful and they eventually had to obtain a repossession 
order to reclaim the premises.
Lloyds was informed of these difficulties and added an exclusion for malicious damage 
caused by tenants, going forward. C submitted a claim for theft of, and damage to, various 
items throughout the premises. The claim was initially declined on the basis that the damage 
had not been caused by the tenants but by those who were residing in the property.
Lloyds said the perpetrator is important because C is only covered for damage caused by 
the tenants and, according to their policy wording, those residing in the property werent 
paying rent, and therefore wouldnt count as tenants. Lloyds also said C shouldve informed 
them of their suspicions the premises was being sub-let earlier.
A review of the claim was taken on and Lloyds maintained that the claim wasnt covered. 
They didnt believe Mr J had ever lived at the premises and had instead been sub-letting to 
those residing there.
A second review of the claim then took place, at which point it was noted that C had 
accidental damage cover. And Lloyds felt some of the damage could be considered 
accidental, so a payment of £1,619.99 was made to C, along with £75 compensation.
C wasnt happy with the amount paid, they say much of the damage has been deemed to be 
wear and tear, but they think its more than that. C also maintained that those residing at the 
property could have been guests of the tenant.
An investigator here looked into Cs concerns. They felt Lloyds were reasonable in their 
belief that the premises were being sub-let and that they had been reasonable in their view 
that some items were damaged through wear and tear rather than by accidents.
C didnt agree, they felt Lloyds had been unfair in applying a clause which meant they 
couldnt claim for theft and malicious damage by tenants. And that items had been 
unreasonably deemed to be damaged by wear and tear. C requested an ombudsman review 
the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like first of all to say how sorry I am to have seen whats happened here. It seems 
most likely to me that C has fallen victim to a scam, carried out by Mr J. I say this because it 
has been evidenced that another property owner fell victim to a very similar scam in which 
seemingly the same Mr J paid some of the rent upfront and then sub-let the premises.
I do appreciate what C have said about people saying they were guests of Mr J and one 
even said he was his son  and used the same email address. But given the evidence just 
mentioned I think its more likely than not that that was all part of the scam too, and that Mr J 
never took up residence. And these people werent his guests, but were people likely paying 
him rent.
I also appreciate what C have said about them making a claim for damage and losses in 
general, and not specifically theft and malicious damage. But the reason those terms have 
been used are because thats what the insurance policy covers. It isnt in place to cover all 
damage that may occur while a property is let.
And the insurance isnt intended to be a substitute for a deposit  which a landlord may be 
able to retain to cover the cost of things like redecoration or replacement of items lost or 
damaged. I understand that wouldnt have been an option here but that doesnt mean the 
insurance has to step in and cover everything.
Nevertheless, Ive looked very carefully at what C has said and what their policy says:
This insurance covers the contents for loss or damage directly caused by

Theft or attempted theft

Malicious damage caused by your tenant(s)

Theft or attempted theft by your tenant(s)

Accidental damage to the contents
The policy covers a number of other perils but the above are those which I consider relevant 
to this matter. The first theft section contains an exclusion under the heading We will not 
pay. And that says for loss or damage unless caused by forcible and/or violent entry to or 
exit from the premises  essentially a burglary. And Ive seen nothing to make me think 
thats what happened here, so I dont think theres any cover for C under that section.
Malicious damage caused by your tenant(s) doesnt have an exclusion in the same way, but 
the word tenant(s) is defined in the policy. It says, any person(s) paying rent to you or who 
is/are allowed to occupy the premises as a guest(s), or any leaseholder that occupies the 
premises when you own the freehold.
While Mr J had paid some rent to C, I dont think he was living at the premises or that it 
would have been him who caused any damage. Given that the property appears to have 
been sub-let, I think its likely any damage which could be considered malicious wouldve 
been caused by the people who were living there.
And I dont think they would count as being allowed to occupy the premises, because sub-
letting wasnt allowed for according to the tenancy agreement. Id consider guests to capture 
family members or friends staying over. Which Ive said I dont think is the case.
For similar reasons, I dont believe the theft or attempted theft by your tenant(s) section 
applies here. Any theft would seem more likely to me to have been carried out by those who were living at the property, not Mr J. And as those living at the property werent Cs tenants, I 
dont think theyre covered for this.
I now turn to the accidental damage section. The policy definition of accidental damage is 
physical damage caused suddenly and accidentally, and not through wear and tear, 
breakdown or malfunction. That section has several exclusions too, but Lloyds hasnt 
sought to rely on any of them in this case. So, the issue for me to consider here is whether 
Lloyds has been reasonable in their consideration of whats covered under this part of the 
policy. 
I appreciate the points made by C, that no tenant would reasonably make a record or inform 
their landlord each and every time they spill something on a chair. I agree with that notion, 
but Cs policy isnt really intended to provide cover for each and every time something is 
damaged or broken. For example, if a dinner plate is accidentally broken you wouldnt claim 
for it unless it was particularly expensive, like an antique.
The insurance isnt intended to collectively cover each and every accident that may occur 
over the course of a tenancy. As explained, that would be the purpose of the inventory and 
deposit. And unless all of the accidents happened at once, many excesses could be applied, 
there would be many claims being made and that would lead to premiums becoming very 
expensive.
Further, accidental damage isnt the same as neglect  which I would say is the tenant failing 
to take care of the premises, and furniture etc within. Having carefully studied the photos, I 
think most of what has been claimed for could be reasonably described as neglect. On 
reading the checkout report and inventory I think thats the picture it is painting, the people 
who were living at the premises didnt look after it. Damage caused through neglect wouldnt 
generally be deemed accidental, or malicious.
There has been a brief mention of loss of rent. That section of the policy says, If the 
premises become uninhabitable following loss or damage which is covered by an Insured 
Event for the amount of rent due to be paid to you which is lost, but only in respect of the 
period necessary to repair the premises.
I dont think that section of the policy would cover C, because while an insured event 
occurred  accidental damage  the insured event didnt make the premises uninhabitable 
and wasnt the cause of the loss of rent.
As Ive said, I have a great deal of sympathy for C. I just dont think their insurance policy 
covers them for the losses theyve incurred. I appreciate it took quite some time for even the 
accidental damage claim to be considered, and while it isnt much  certainly not compared 
to Cs losses  I think the £75 compensation for delays was reasonable.
I understand why C thinks it was unfair for Lloyds to add a clause which meant they couldnt 
claim for theft and malicious damage by tenants, especially as they knew a claim for such 
was going to be forthcoming. But that clause was introduced because the risk had changed, 
the property wasnt being lived in by the person on the tenancy agreement.
Lloyds was entitled to revise the policy terms in the event of a change of risk, and I note that 
they only did so moving forward  confirming that prior losses would still be covered. 
Although that would always be subject to the terms and conditions.
C mentions Lloyds promise to consider any damage or theft prior to the clause being 
applied, and thats what theyve done. Indeed, its entirely possible some of the damage happened after the clause was applied  but Lloyds hasnt sought to rely on that, so I think 
theyve been reasonable in that respect.
My final decision
It is my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman