DRN-1991892
The complaint
This complaints about a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold in 2004. 
AXA France IARD (AXA), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for this sale. So, in my 
decision Ill just refer to AXA as the PPI seller. Ms S says AXA mis-sold her the PPI.
What happened
The adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. They believed AXA hadnt made it 
clear to Ms S what the costs and benefits of the PPI were at the time of the sale. And that 
she likely wouldnt have bought the PPI had she known those things given the employer 
benefits she was entitled to.
AXA didnt agree with the adjudicator, so the case was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive 
taken this into account in deciding Ms S case.
Having done so, I consider that the PPI was mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Ms S has told us that she was entitled to full sick pay from her employer for at least 6 months but 
less than 12 months.
Taking into account the likely cost of the PPI (£1 for every £100 Ms S owed on her card) and the 
benefits it offered (10% of the relevant outstanding balance), I think Ms S would probably have 
decided against taking it had that information been made clear to her at the time of the sale. 
AXA hasnt disputed that this information wasnt conveyed to Ms S in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way. Instead, its argued that Ms S hasnt detailed exactly how long her enhanced sick 
pay would have been paid for. As such, it says it hasnt been able to ascertain the plausibility of her 
testimony.
I agree that Ms S hasnt provided detail beyond the fact that her entitled lasted for somewhere 
between 6 and 12 months. But, given her job role, her employer, and length of service Im satisfied 
I can safely rely on her recollections.
Im also satisfied that her entitlement meant the PPI was of less use to her than, for example, if she 
was only entitled to statutory sick pay. I dont believe its necessary for me to look further into 
exactly how long Ms S would have received full sick pay since I think the usefulness of the PPI was 
significantly undermined even if shed received full pay for no more than six months.
Taking everything into account, I find that Ms S has lost out because of how AXA sold her 
the PPI. That being the case, I believe it should put things right for her as explained below.
Putting things right
AXA should put Ms S in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
A. AXA should find out how much Ms S would have owed when she closed his store card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Ms S owed when she closed her 
account and what shed have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Ms S made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Ms S would have owed 
when her closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when AXA works out what Ms S would have owed each month without PPI  Ms S 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Ms S paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Ms S would 
have owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
AXA should tell Ms S what its done to work out A, B and C.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Im upholding this complaint. I require AXA France IARD to put things 
right for Ms S as explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman