DRN-1026567
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
November 2000. Mrs R says Canada Square Operations Limited, previously Egg, mis-sold 
her the PPI.
background
Mrs R bought the policy in November 2000 at the same time as taking out a credit card. The 
sale took place online.
For ease of reference, Ill refer to Egg as Canada Square Operations throughout this 
decision.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
I think Canada Square Operations made it clear that Mrs R didnt have to take out the PPI 
and that she chose to take it. I say this because Ive seen screen shots of Canada Square 
Operations online credit card application process, which sets out what Mrs R would have 
seen at the time she took out the PPI.
These show that Mrs R would have had to select yes or no for the PPI, before completing 
the online credit card application. Based on the screen shots provided, I think both options 
were given equal prominence. Overall, I think its more likely than not Mrs R would have 
understood that the PPI was optional. And I dont think she would have selected the PPI if 
she didnt want to take it out.
Canada Square Operations didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs R so it didnt have to check if it 
was right for her. But it did have to make sure Mrs R got the information she needed to 
decide if it was right for her. 
 
 
Its possible the information Canada Square Operations gave Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it should have been  particularly about the things it didnt cover. But Mrs R chose to 
take out the PPI, so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions 
to or limits on the PPI cover, such as pre-existing medical conditions  so it would have been 
useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. 
Mrs R has told us she would have received at least six months pay from her employer if she 
was too unwell to work. Shes also told us that she had life cover, a death in service benefit 
and a private healthcare policy which she could have used to cover her credit card 
repayments. Mrs R says this shows she didnt need the PPI. 
Having thought about what Mrs R has said about her sick pay, I dont think this means she 
wouldnt have found the policy useful. I say this because the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay Mrs R would have received from her employer and would have 
potentially paid out for up to 12 months. The PPI also would have paid a benefit if Mrs R was 
made redundant. 
Ive also thought about what Mrs R has said about her life cover and death in service benefit, 
but these points dont change my decision. I say this because the main benefits of PPI were 
accident, sickness and unemployment cover, which are different to the cover provided by life 
cover and death in service benefits. So, I dont think this would have meant the policy wasnt 
useful for her.
Finally, Ive considered what Mrs R has said about the fact that she had a private healthcare 
policy, which she could have used to help cover her repayments. Ive already concluded that 
Canada Square Operations didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs R, so it was up to her to decide 
if she wanted any additional cover, bearing in mind what she knew she already had in place.
So overall, I think Mrs R could have found the policy useful if she ever fell on hard times and 
I dont think that any better information would have put her off from taking out the policy.
Based on what Ive said above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
Ombudsman