DRN-1783064
 
The complaint
Mr F complains about HSBC UK Bank Plc and their decision to block card transactions on 
multiple occasions.
What happened 
Mr F has held an account with HSBC for a number of years. During this time, Mr F feels 
HSBC have blocked transactions on his account unfairly on a number of occasions. 
Most recently, HSBC blocked two transactions totalling £528.76 in November 2019 before 
blocking 4 transactions totalling £20,000.00 in February 2020. Mr F called HSBC on both 
occasions to authorise the transaction and they were then processed.
But, Mr F was unhappy that theyd been blocked in the first place as it made him feel as 
though he was being prevented from using his own account as he wished. Mr F felt as 
though HSBC were unfairly singling him out and werent providing reasons for this. So, he 
raised a complaint.
HSBC didnt uphold it. They explained they had measures put in place to help protect their 
customers against fraudulent activity so didnt think theyd acted unfairly. They explained that 
each transaction has triggered their fraud prevention system. For the transaction totalling 
£20,000.00, they explained this was due to the amount that he was trying to pay. For the 
transactions made in November 2019, they suggested the transactions were blocked due to 
the website that Mr F was attempting to pay. 
As Mr F had followed the correct procedure and confirmed the payments to be genuine, they 
were then authorised so HSBC didnt think they needed to do anything further. Mr F was 
unhappy with this response so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigation looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He recognised the 
inconvenience Mr F experienced by having to call HSBC to authorise the payments. But, he 
thought HSBC acted fairly by following the measures they had in place to prevent customers 
from being affected by fraudulent activity. So, he didnt think HSBC needed to do anything 
further. 
Mr F didnt agree. He didnt feel he was a high risk customer. He explained that hed 
transferred money into his ISA for the previous five years so didnt understand why a 
payment was now being blocked. He maintained he felt HSBC were preventing him from 
spending his own money as he wished and didnt think this was fair. As Mr F didnt agree, 
the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as the investigator. First, I want to recognise the inconvenience that Mr F has been caused by the blocked 
transactions. Ive no doubt that needing to call HSBC and complete the authorisation 
process wouldve been time consuming and frustrating when the payments he tried to make 
were genuine.
But, for me to agree that HSBC have acted unfairly, Id have to be satisfied that HSBC 
wouldnt have blocked the transactions for any other customer and had done so 
unnecessarily. And unfortunately in this situation I dont think thats the case.
I understand Mr F had previous issues with HSBC and his account in 2015 and this may 
have contributed to the frustration he now feels. But, those issues fall outside of our 
jurisdiction due to the time thats passed since HSBC responded to them. So this decision 
has focused solely on the blocked transactions in November 2019 and February 2020. 
Its not the role of our service to comment on or enforce changes to the processes 
businesses such as HSBC have set in place to prevent fraudulent activity. Instead, we look 
at whether theyve used these processes in a fair and reasonable manner, operating in the 
line with terms and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of Mr Fs account explain that HSBC may not be able to make a 
payment when we reasonably believe theres been fraudulent activity of any kind. So, 
HSBC were able to block transactions if they thought that may be the cause.
On the occasion in November 2019, HSBC have suggested the transactions triggered the 
fraud prevention system due to the website that Mr F was using. Im unable to speculate as 
to why HSBCs internal systems decided that. But, after Mr F authorised the transactions, 
the payment was made and the purchases were completed. So I cant agree that HSBC 
unfairly singled Mr F out on this occasion.
In February 2020, the transactions were blocked due to the amount Mr F was trying to pay. 
Again, Mr F spoke to HSBC to authorise the payments and they were completed. Mr F 
explained that hes paid large amounts to the same investment company each year, so didnt 
understand why this time HSBC blocked the transaction. And I do understand the point he 
raises. 
But crucially, it wasnt Mr Fs banking habits that were being scrutinised. HSBC have 
confirmed that the transaction flagged the fraud prevention system due to the amount being 
over the limit theyd usually process without authorisation. This amount limit applies to any 
customer that uses HSBC. So I again, I dont think theyve acted unfairly by requesting to 
authorise the transaction before processing it.
HSBC have confirmed that there are no markers or blocks on Mr Fs account. So, every 
transaction Mr F has made would be processed as it would for any other customer. Although 
frustrating, I think the measures HSBC have in placed are designed to protect their 
customers and so protect Mr F. Because of this, cant agree that HSBC have been either 
unfair or unreasonable when blocking the transactions Mr F has complained about. So, I 
dont think they need to do anything further.
I also dont think it would be fair for me to ask HSBC to put in place a separate process for 
Mr F to prevent similar situations arising. They are in place to protect Mr Fs best interests 
and by asking them to be removed; it would leave Mr F open to potential fraudulent activity. 
So this is not something I am able or willing to do.
My final decisionFor the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2020.
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman