DRN-4321446
The complaint
Miss D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard lent irresponsibly when 
it approved a credit card in her name. 
What happened
Miss D has explained that she already held a credit card with Barclaycard when she applied 
for another. In the application, Miss D said she was employed with an income of £59,750 
and a homeowner with mortgage costs of £411 a month. Barclaycard recorded regular 
outgoings like Council Tax, utilities and living costs. In addition, Barclaycard carried out a 
credit check and found Miss D had credit cards that were costing around £70 a month and 
loans with payments of £221. 
Barclaycard says it applied its lending criteria to Miss Ds application and approved a credit 
limit of £6,600. 
Miss Ds told us that in that in the years that followed, she entered into a spiral of debt. 
Earlier this year, Miss D complained that Barclaycard had lent irresponsibly when it 
approved her credit card application in 2018. Miss D said that Barclaycard shouldve seen 
she was overdrawn, near the limits on her credit cards and struggling. Barclaycard issued a 
final response but didnt agree it had lent irresponsibly and didnt uphold Miss Ds complaint. 
An investigator at this service looked at Miss Ds case. They thought Barclaycard had carried 
out reasonable and proportionate checks when completing Miss Ds credit card application in 
2018 and didnt uphold her complaint. Miss D asked to appeal and said she already had a 
credit card with Barclaycard when she applied again in 2018. Miss D explained she was only 
making minimum payments for her commitments and was frequently overdrawn. Miss D 
added that her bank statements wouldve shown gambling. Miss D explained that the second 
credit card had worsened her financial situation and led to additional borrowing. Miss D also 
said the Financial Ombudsman Service had already upheld irresponsible lending complaints 
shed made about other lenders. 
As Miss D asked to appeal, her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, the rules say Barclaycard had to complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure Miss D could afford to repay the debt in a sustainable way. 
These affordability checks needed to be focused on the borrowers circumstances. The 
nature of whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on various 
factors like: 
- The amount of credit;
- The total sum repayable and the size of regular repayments;
- The duration of the agreement
- The costs of the credit; and 
- The consumers individual circumstances. 
That means theres no set list of checks a lender must complete. But lenders are required to 
consider the above points when deciding whats reasonable and proportionate. More 
information about how we consider irresponsible lending complaints can be found on our 
website. 
In this case, when Miss D applied to Barclaycard she provided information about her 
circumstances. The application recorded that Miss D was employed and her income. In 
addition, Barclaycard took details of regular outgoings like Miss Ds mortgage costs, regular 
bills and living expenses. Ive reviewed the application and Im satisfied the information 
included was reasonable for Barclaycard to use in its lending assessment. 
Barclaycard also carried out a full credit search to get a picture of Miss Ds commitments. I 
understand Miss D already had a credit card with Barclaycard. Further credit cards were 
found and Barclaycard used the regular monthly payments in its affordability assessment. 
Loans and other commitments were also found by Barclaycard and the monthly costs taken 
into account. Ive looked at the credit file information Barclaycard obtained and Im satisfied it 
was aware of how much Miss D owed as well as the status of those accounts, none of which 
showed regular missed payments. I also note no adverse information like defaults or County 
Court Judgements were found by Barclaycard. 
In response to the investigator, Miss D said added that shed used her existing credit card 
with Barclaycard for gambling. Miss D recently provided copies of credit card statements up 
to March 2018. And whilst I can see the credit card was used for gambling during 2015 and 
2016, I think its fair to say that from the start of 2017 the number of transactions reduced. 
The last payment I saw that was gambling related was from July 2017, a little over a year 
before Miss D applied for the second credit card. I havent seen a level of gambling 
payments in the period before Miss D applied for a second credit card that wouldve led 
Barclaycard to request further information.   
Barclaycard says that based on the information Miss D provided and what it found on her 
credit file, the application met its lending criteria and was correctly approved with a credit 
limit of £6,600. I understand Miss D feels Barclaycard shouldve asked for additional 
information like copies of her bank statements. Miss Ds told us Barclaycard wouldve found 
evidence of gambling if it had. But we havent been sent copies of Miss Ds bank statements 
from the time. And whilst I note Miss Ds comments, I think the questions asked in the 
application and information Barclaycard obtained was proportionate to the credit card 
application she made. I havent seen anything that wouldve caused Barclaycard to consider 
carrying out more comprehensive checks or decline Miss Ds credit card application. Im 
sorry to disappoint Miss D but I havent been persuaded that Barclaycard lent irresponsibly 
when it approved her credit card in 2018.
When Barclaycard responded to Miss Ds complaint it apologised for the delay in dealing 
with her case. Barclaycard paid Miss D £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused. Im 
satisfied thats a fair settlement in recognition of the delay in dealing with Miss Ds concerns. 
Im sorry to disappoint Miss D but as I havent found that Barclaycard lent irresponsibly and 
Im satisfied it dealt with her complaint fairly Im not telling it to take any further action. My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman