DRN-2783793
The complaint
Miss T complains that Santander UK plc (trading as Abbey National) mis-sold her a regular 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2001.
What happened
In November 2001 Miss T took out a personal loan with Santander to buy a car, and the 
bank recommended she take out PPI to protect the loan repayments. Miss T says she did 
not need the PPI because she was fit and healthy and she could get sick pay from her 
employer  but no-one explained PPI to her, so she concludes it was mis-sold.
The loan was for £6,000.00 and was to be repaid over 36 months. The policy provided cover 
in the event that Miss T wasnt working due to accident, sickness or unemployment. It cost
£25.40 per month and in the event of a successful claim it could have provided a monthly 
benefit of £217.02 per month up to 12 months on a successful claim.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Miss T disagreed so the 
complaint comes to me to decide. Miss T wanted to reconfirm she was fit and healthy at the 
time of the sale and she was employed, so she could get full pay for six months if she was 
sick, followed by six months discretionary pay and then statutory sick pay.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have to tell Miss T that I think the adjudicator has reached the right 
outcome here. And I think they set out the position clearly so theres very little I can 
usefully add to what theyve already said.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely to have happened in light of 
the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ts case. And, as Ive said above, Ive decided 
not to uphold Miss Ts complaint, and Ill explain why.
Santander hasnt been able to provide copies of all the documents completed when Miss T 
applied for the loan, but its provided samples of the loan application she would have had to 
complete to get it. On balance, I think its unlikely that Miss T could have got the loan without 
completing that form.
The application form had a section relating to PPI. And it gave customers a choice about 
taking it; they could select the Yes box or the No box  each was equally prominent. And 
the form required Miss T to either select or decline the cover. And details of the PPI were 
also set out on the loan agreement that Miss T actually signed in November 2001. So Im 
satisfied the PPI was shown as optional because Miss T had a choice about whether to 
take PPI.
Santander says it advised Miss T to take out the policy and it doesnt look as if it was
unsuitable based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. I say this because:
- Miss T was eligible for the policy given her circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions. And it doesnt look like she would have been caught by any of the conditions 
that limited the policys main benefits such as those affecting self-employed people or 
people with pre-existing medical conditions  she told us she was employed and in good 
health. So she could have benefited from the full extent of the policy.
- Miss T says she could get sick pay from her employer and she also told us she 
had no other means to pay her loan payments if she wasnt working  as she had no 
savings. But, the policy could have paid out for longer than and in addition to her sick pay. 
I also noted she was taking on a significant new financial liability, so I dont think 
Santander did anything wrong by recommending this policy to Miss T.
- The loan agreement set out what the policy would cost each month  and Miss T 
would have signed her loan agreement. So I think Miss T would have known how much 
she was paying for it. And as it was a regular monthly policy, it could be cancelled without 
charge or penalty if Miss T decided she no longer wanted the policy or could no longer 
afford it.
Its possible the information Santander gave Miss T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
could have been. But she chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this 
type of cover. Miss T wasnt affected by any of the policy exclusions or limitations and it 
was affordable. So, I think its unlikely Miss T would have made a different decision if better 
information had been provided  overall, I think she would still have taken out the policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman