DRN-4377603
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with the service she received from Great Lakes Insurance SE when trying
to extend the period of cover under her travel insurance policy.
All reference to Great Lakes includes its medical assistance team.
What happened
Mrs B bought a single trip travel insurance policy, underwritten by Great Lakes, which
covered a trip abroad for her and her young son for the period end of June to the beginning
of August 2022.
Shortly before Mrs B and her son were due to return to the UK, Mrs Bs husband, who Ill
refer to as Mr B, contacted Great Lakes to say that Mrs B had decided to stay abroad longer
due to health reasons. He enquired whether Mrs B could take out another travel insurance
policy to cover the extended trip. Mr B confirmed that Mrs B wasnt in hospital, but she
needed rest and recuperation and she had planned to extend her trip until the end of
November 2022.
Mr B was informed that theres a 90-day limit on the policy so the latest the policy could be
extended to would be a date towards the end of September 2022 and the issue would need
to be referred to the underwriter. The representative said shed revert to Mr B once shed
heard back from the underwriter.
Subsequently Mr B was told that Mrs B would need to contact the medical assistance team
to see whether it was medically necessary for Mrs Bs trip to be extended. And if so, she
wouldnt need to pay an additional premium.
Mrs B says after the medical assistance team was contacted; she was advised to obtain a
medical report to determine whether it was medically necessary to extend the trip beyond
the original return date.
Mrs B obtained a medical report from a doctor in the UK which reflects given Mrs Bs pre-
existing medical condition (declared when taking out the policy), her health had improved,
and shed been advised to remain in the country she was staying for some
monthsdepending on her clinical progress before considering any return to the UK.
Mrs B says she only wanted to stay abroad until the end of November 2022 because she
wanted to spend Christmas in the UK.
After several days, Great Lakes asked Mrs B to undergo an assessment in the country she
was visiting, which she agreed to. The assessment took place in mid-August 2022 and the
report reflected that Mrs B wasnt fit to fly until the end of November 2022 with assistance.
Upon arrival, Mrs B had fainted and almost collapsed.
A few days later, Great Lakes informed Mrs B that the decision had been taken to decline
extending the policy because from the medical assessment she was fit to fly and couldve
returned home.
Mrs B says she required further medical care whilst she was away, and she didnt return
back to the UK until early 2023. She would like to be compensated for the medical expenses 
she incurred whilst abroad and for the distress and inconvenience experienced. So, she
complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator looked into what happened and upheld Mrs Bs complaint. She
recommended Great Lakes pay the medical expenses Mrs B occurred whilst abroad
together with simple interest at 8% per year and £750 compensation for distress and
inconvenience.
Great Lakes disagreed but did accept it caused some unnecessary delays and offered Mrs B
£250 compensation, which was declined by her. So, the complaint was passed to me to 
decide. 
I issued my provisional decision in September 2023, explaining in a bit more detail why I 
intended to uphold this complaint. An extract of my provisional decision is set out below.
.
Great Lakes has a regulatory obligation to treat customers fairly. It must also handle
insurance claims fairly and promptly. And it mustnt unreasonably decline a claim.
For the reasons set out below, I dont think Great Lakes has acted fairly and reasonably in
the way in which it handled Mrs Bs query about whether she could extend coverage under
the policy or whether shed need to buy a new travel insurance policy. And I uphold
the complaint. Ill explain why below.
From listening to the call recordings between Great Lakes representative and Mr B
shortly before and after the date Mrs B was due to return home, Im satisfied that Mrs
B wasnt  at that point  saying she wasnt fit to fly back to the UK on the date
originally planned. Im satisfied she wanted to know whether she needed to take out
another travel insurance policy to cover her trip being extended or whether her
current policy could be extended until the end of November 2022. Mr B made clear
that Mrs B wanted to remain abroad for rest and recuperation. And thats supported
by the UK doctors letter dated 4 August 2022 which was promptly forwarded to
Great Lakes by Mr B. So, whilst Mr B did mention the trip being extended due to
health reasons this was in the context of Mrs B wanting to remain abroad for rest and
recouperation.
Its not clear to me therefore why she was referred to the medical assistance team.
Mrs B didnt require emergency medical assistance and wasnt seeking to make a
claim on the policy for medical costs at that stage. Im satisfied being referred to the
medical assistance team confused matters and resulted in unreasonable and
unnecessary delays, to Mrs Bs (and her sons) detriment.
Mrs B says  and I accept - she was finding it difficult to get through to the number
given for the medical assistance team. I find her submissions credible and
persuasive and is supported by a call recording from around the time between Great
Lakes representative and Mr B, where he relays the difficulties Mrs B was having.
The representative says shell pass on Mrs Bs details to the medical assistance
team to contact her. Im persuaded from the email correspondence Ive seen and a
recording of a call between Mr B and Great Lakes representative dated 10 August
2022, that it took over a week for the medical assistance team to contact her. Given
the circumstances and Mrs Bs cover was meant to end on 3 August 2022, I dontthink thats reasonable. And I can understand why she was worried and upset.
I also accept that her upset wouldve been further exacerbated by being told by Great
Lakes on 19 August 2022 that the medical assessment hadnt confirmed she wasnt
fit to fly. The medical report she received a couple of days before reflected that she
wasnt fit to fly and listed a tentative return date of the end of November 2022. Its
also noted in the correspondence Ive seen from the time that an assessment of
generalised anxiety disorder was made.
Given that this was the date Mrs B initially said she wanted to extend her trip to and
the lack of detail around why she wasnt fit to fly, I can understand why Great Lakes
internal correspondence reflects that a psychiatrist assessment was necessary to
confirm the diagnosis. And why Great Lakes suggested choosing the psychiatrist.
However, it doesnt look like the option of attending a psychiatry appointment was put
to Mrs B before she was informed by Great Lakes that she was fit to fly, there was no
reason for her not to return to the UK on her original return date and it wouldnt be
extending cover to the end of November 2022.
Given Great Lakes conclusion that Mrs B was fit to fly back to the UK as originally
planned on 3 August 2022, and the decision was taken not to extend coverage under
the policy over two weeks later, it also concluded that it wouldnt now offer to extend
coverage under the policy to the 90-day maximum total trip allowance.
As such, Mrs B was left with no cover in place at that stage and couldnt access the
medical assistance she subsequently required under the policy. In the circumstances
of this case, and for the reasons set out above, I dont think that was fair.
Ive thought very carefully about what couldve happened if Great Lakes had
considered Mrs Bs initial request to extend the policy before it was due to expire - as
it reasonably ought to have done  and that includes not referring Mrs B to its
medical assistance team. There are many variables. For example, Great Lakes
couldve offered to extend the policy up to the date towards the end of September
2022. That was one of the options available as confirmed in initial conversations Ive
listened to between Mr B and Great Lakes representative. Great Lakes has also said
to our Service that there were other specialist insurers available who can offer travel
insurance whilst someone is abroad  and Mr or Mrs B may have been told about
this if the matter hadnt been referred to the medical assistance team. And if Mrs B
did want to extend her trip to the end of November 2022 rather than return towards
the end of September 2022, she may have opted for that.
However, on the balance of probabilities, Im satisfied that its more likely than not
that she wouldve extended the policy until the end of September 2022. She wouldve
still had the benefit of another two months before having to return home.
So, Ive thought about whether Mrs B wouldve been fit to fly at this time. Theres
limited medical information available, and I dont think it would be fair and reasonable
to hold Mrs B responsible for this. As the policy had ended by mid-August 2022,
there was no reason for her to obtain regular medical reports regarding her fitness to
fly.
However, there is a letter from a treating hospital dated October 2022, which reflects
that Mrs B was admitted to hospital for three nights with constipation and
commenced treatment with a multidisciplinary medical team including psychiatrist,
rheumatologist, dietician and clinical psychologist. She was admitted to hospitaltowards the end of September 2022 and around the time the policy couldve been
extended to. So, I think its unlikely that she wouldve been fit to fly home then and its
likely that it wouldve been medically necessary to extend the policy past the date
towards the end of September 2022.
If everything proceeded as it ought to have done when Great Lakes was first
contacted about extending the policy, its unlikely that Mrs B wouldve attended the
medical assessment in mid-August 2022 at the request of the medical assistance
team and wouldnt have felt faint immediately beforehand. But I dont think it would
be fair to totally disregard the medical evidence from mid-August 2022 as I think its
still relevant and gives some insight into Mrs B general state of health.
The fit to fly certificate issued in August 2022 said that Mrs B wouldnt be fit to fly until
the end of November 2022. Im not a medical expert but in the absence of medical
evidence to the contrary at that time, I dont think I can fairly conclude that Great
Lakes was reasonable to discount that medical opinion, particularly given it didnt
appoint a psychiatrist to further assess Mrs B (although this was recommended in the
internal communications Ive seen at the time). A psychiatrist is likely to have
provided further insight into Mrs Bs anxiety disorder and whether she was fit to fly
before 30 November 2022 as advised by the treating hospital.
Mrs B says she continued to be unwell and has required further treatment abroad
including in December 2022 and January 2023, which she has personally paid for.
Im currently satisfied that Great Lakes should pay the medical costs personally
incurred by Mrs B since the policy ended. Thats on the basis that its likely that the
policy wouldve been extended to the date towards the of September 2022 if Mrs B
had been offered and taken that option. And its likely that it wouldve been medically
necessary to further extend the policy beyond that date for reasons set out above.
I also think Mrs B has been put to unnecessary distress and inconvenience. In
response to our investigators view, Great Lakes accepts that there were
unreasonable delays in having the medical assistance team contact her and offered
£250 compensation to reflect that.
However, Im satisfied that Mrs B had to travel many miles to attend an unnecessary
medical assessment to see whether she was fit to fly in mid-August 2022. Im also
satisfied that Mrs B has been left in an upsetting and worrying situation after mid-
August 2022, when cover ended, whereby shed been left with no travel insurance for
her and her young son whilst abroad, during a time when shes been unwell and
needed medical treatment (the costs of which shes been personally responsible for).
She hasnt had the support of the medical assistance team which I think wouldve still
been in place if everything had progressed as it ought to have from the outset. Im
persuaded that compensation in the sum of £750 more fairly reflects the distress and
inconvenience she experienced because of Great Lakes errors in this case.
Putting things right
When responding to this provisional decision I request:
Great Lakes to provide documentary evidence to our Service confirming the premium
Mrs B wouldve been charged had the policy been extended to a date towards the
end of September 2022; and
Mrs B to provide documentary evidence to our Service of the medical expenses sheincurred whilst abroad and documentary evidence that these have been paid by her,
and when.
Thats because within 28 days from the date on which our Service notifies Great Lakes that
Mrs B accepts my final decision, Im intending to direct Great Lakes to:
A. pay, in full, Mrs Bs medical expenses incurred after the policy ended in mid-August
2022.
B. pay Mrs B an amount to reflect simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum from the
date on which she made payment of each of those medical expenses to the date on
which those expenses are settled by Great Lakes.
C. deduct from the total sum of A. and B. above the premium Great Lakes wouldve
charged Mrs B had the policy been extended to late September 2022.
If Great Lakes considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from
any interest paid in respect of B above, it should tell Mrs B how much its taken off. It should
also give her a certificate showing this if she asks for one. That way Mrs B can reclaim the
tax from HM Revenue & Customs, if appropriate.
I also intend to direct Great Lakes to pay Mrs B £750 compensation for distress and
inconvenience.

The response to my provisional decision
Mrs B replied to my provisional decision, providing receipts of cash payments she said she 
made before she set up a bank account in the country she was staying. She also provided 
bank statements showing payments made to medical facilities/hospitals and pharmacies at 
various times during the period September 2022 to January 2023. Mrs B was unable to 
provide many medical reports or receipts in support of the payments made. 
Mrs B says the hospitals didnt provide invoices; she was required to pay before receiving 
treatments. And she didnt keep copies of prescriptions. She says that she and her son 
needed hospital treatment and medication for various medical conditions including malaria, 
typhoid fever, and conditions shed declared when taking out the policy as reflected on the 
medical declaration certificate. 
Our investigator sent the bank statements and receipts sent to Great Lakes for comment. 
Great Lakes responded. It said without the invoices or medical reports, its unable to validate 
the medical expenses incurred or what they relate to. The requirement of the policy terms 
and conditions would be to contact the assistance company whilst abroad to notify it of the 
medical treatment needed, which didnt happen. And many of the medical costs were from 
after late September 2022, which wouldve been after the maximum 90-day trip limit 
provided by the policy.
It also said, even if Mrs B was admitted to hospital around the last day of potential cover, its 
unlikely that it wouldve suggested Mrs B significantly extend her trip and incur further 
medical costs for several months after the maximum trip limit had been exceeded and 
without medical evidence in support of the extension. Medical reports wouldve been 
required to verify why Mrs B wasnt medically fit to return to the UK to continue treatment there. And the medical assistance team wouldve worked with the treating hospital and Mrs 
B to safely repatriate her to the UK once she was deemed fit to fly. 
However, it agreed that it would be reasonable to consider the costs being claimed subject 
to receiving medical reports and invoices to confirm diagnosis and treatment received. 
Great Lakes also said it wouldve cost around £402 to extend the policy on the basis that 
Mrs B paid around £297 for the policy to cover her and her son, covering the original dates 
of their trip (40 days). And around £699 for a policy with a start date of 16 September 2023 
and ending on 15 December 2023. 
I asked whether there was anything from the time in early August 2022 rather than a quote 
covering a three-month trip, around a year after Mrs Bs request to the extend the policy. 
Great Lakes says its unable to provide a retrospective quote. Its provided another quote 
covering a 50-day trip for the period 18 October 2023 to 6 December 2023, costing £365.27.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
That includes everything Ive received since I issued my provisional decision. Having done 
so, I uphold Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs B says she wasnt provided with invoices or detailed medical reports for many of 
her and her young sons hospital visits. She has provided details of the reasons for 
her hospital visits, and I find her submissions persuasive. What she says isnt 
inconsistent with the limited medical information I have been provided from around 
the time. 
Ive thought very carefully about what Great Lakes says about Mrs B being unable to 
evidence the reasons for the medical expenses incurred. However, given that some 
of the hospital treatment took place over a year ago, I think its unlikely shell now be 
able to get any further information from the hospital/medical facilities. 
Im satisfied from the limited medical evidence I have seen, that had the policy been 
extended to late September 2022, Mrs B and her son wouldnt have been able to fly 
home at that point. From what Ive seen, Im persuaded she was in hospital for a 
number of days. I cant be sure what wouldve happened after she left hospital. There 
are many possibilities including Mrs B being well enough to be repatriated back to the 
UK shortly after leaving hospital or not  in which case she wouldve remained in the 
country she was staying in for a period until it was determined that she was medically 
fit to return. 
For reasons set out in my provisional decision, I think its Great Lakes error which 
led to Mrs B not being able to extend the policy - although enquiries were made by 
her husband to do so the day before the policy was due to end. And if she was given 
the option to extend the policy to the end of September 2022, for reasons set out in 
my provisional decision, I still think she wouldve done so. Ive received nothing from 
Great Lakes in response to my provisional decision which changes my mind on this 
point. 
I think the medical evidence about whether Mrs B is likely to have been fit to fly 
shortly after her hospital admission is very limited. I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case, to hold Mrs B responsible for that. As there wasnt a policy in place, I dont think its reasonable to expect Mrs B to be 
thinking whether she was fit to fly back to the UK at the time or to seek medical 
option on this issue. I think its reasonable to expect her to have focused on her 
health and welfare and caring for her son. On the balance of probabilities, I dont 
have enough to say that she wouldve been fit to fly or be repatriated home (or if so, 
what support she wouldve required and at what financial cost to Great Lakes) at the 
time.
I appreciate Great Lakes points that Mrs B may have been fit to fly at some point 
after the end of September 2022 and before she eventually returned to the UK in 
early 2023. However, again, due to the lack of medical evidence and on the balance 
of probabilities, theres nothing to persuade me that she was  or if she was, when. 
There were frequent hospital visits and pharmacy costs incurred, which I accept were 
for medication. And Ive seen nothing to persuade me that the medical visits and 
medications werent for her and her son or werent genuinely incurred. 
So, for the reasons explained (and those contained in my provisional decision which 
forms part of this final decision) and in the very specific circumstances of this case, I 
think it would be fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to pay Mrs B for the medical 
expenses she incurred paying medical facilities/hospitals for treatment and the 
pharmacy costs incurred until she returned home in early 2023. Thats based on the 
receipts shes been able to provide for cash payments from before September 2022 
and the sums itemised on her bank statements, which were provided to Great Lakes 
after my provisional decision was issued. I understand the total amount is around 
£3,100. 
I think it would be fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to deduct from this amount any 
policy excess Mrs B wouldve been required to pay under the policy if it had been in 
place at the time and the premium, she wouldve needed to pay to extend the policy 
to a date towards the end of September 2022 (which wouldve been the maximum 90 
day period the policy provided cover for under a single trip policy).
Great Lakes hasnt been able to provide documentary evidence of the additional 
premium which Mrs B wouldve paid to extend the policy in early August 2022 for 
another 50 days. Its provided a quote covering Mrs B and her son for a 50-day trip 
starting October 2023 in the sum of £365.27. Im persuaded that it would be fair and 
reasonable to use that amount in the circumstances of this case because the daily 
rate works out to be similar the daily rate for the policy she originally purchased, 
covering a 40-day trip.
I know Mrs B has requested that I direct Great Lakes to make payment to her within 
14 days from the date the Financial Ombudsman tells Great Lakes that she accepts 
my final decision. However, Im satisfied that 28 days is fair and reasonable. This 
allows Great Lakes a reasonable timeframe to arrange payment. Great Lakes might 
be able to make payment before that.  
Putting things right
Within 28 days from the date on which the Financial Ombudsman Service notifies Great 
Lakes that Mrs B accepts my final decision, I direct Great Lakes to:
A. pay, in full, Mrs Bs medical expenses incurred after the policy ended in mid- 
August 2022 (less the policy excess, if applicable) using the applicable 
currency exchange rates in place at the time each payment was made.B. pay Mrs B an amount to reflect simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum from 
the date on which she made payment of each of those medical expenses to 
the date on which those expenses are settled by Great Lakes.
C. deduct from the total sum of A. and B. above the sum of £365.27 representing 
a fair reflection of the likely premium Great Lakes wouldve charged Mrs B 
had the policy been extended to late September 2022.
D. pay Mrs B £750 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
If Great Lakes considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from
any interest paid in respect of B above, it should tell Mrs B how much its taken off. It should
also give her a certificate showing this if she asks for one. That way Mrs B can reclaim the
tax from HM Revenue & Customs, if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Bs complaint and direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman