DRN-3306083
The complaint
Miss F and Mr H feel they were misled by Tesco Underwriting Ltd when purchasing their 
home insurance policy.
What happened
Miss F and Mr H purchased home insurance through an online comparison site with the 
policy commencing in May 2021. They opted to add personal possessions cover to ensure 
mobile phones were covered.
Miss F says Tesco advertised cover for personal possessions up to £2,000 and it referred to 
mobile phones as an example. This is what prompted her to take the extra cover.
In June 2021 Miss Fs mobile phone was damaged beyond repair after it fell from her bag 
and was run over by a vehicle. She submitted a claim on her home insurance policy so she 
could replace the phone.
Tesco accepted the claim and advised the maximum claim value for mobile phones was 
£600. Miss F was unhappy about this as she wasnt aware of it, to replace her phone it 
would cost £900 and she believed she was covered up to £2,000. She was also unhappy 
with the service Tescos representative provided.
Tesco explained that personal possessions provides cover for up to £2,000 but there were 
some limitations to specific items such as mobile phones. They explained the policy booklet 
was available to view prior to purchase and after, along with the policy documents. 
After purchase they sent those documents by email and asked Miss F to register her online 
account and read all the policy documents. These documents further detailed the limitations 
to cover, specifically the mobile phone limit of £600. So they would pay the claim up to the 
limit of cover.
They also accepted their representative could have handled things better and awarded £25 
compensation in recognition of this.
Miss F and Mr H referred their concerns to this service. Our investigator didnt feel Tesco 
needed to do anything more. Miss F and Mr H remained unhappy, they dont feel the limits in 
relation to mobile phones was sufficiently brough to their attention, it has therefore been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will be disappointing 
for Miss F and Mr H but Ive explained my reasoning below.
Tesco have a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. They should also ensure 
information they provide is clear, fair and not misleading.
Ive reviewed the online process to see what information would have been presented at the 
time of the sale. The online comparison provider gave an example of personal possession 
cover and limitations. It identified mobile phones as an example of what would be covered 
with a limitation of up to £2,000. Once transferred to Tescos site it prompts the buyer to read 
the product information in relation to contents cover before purchasing the policy to ensure it 
meets their needs. It also explains that exclusions and limitations will apply to the cover and 
provides a link to the policy booklet for the buyer to read.
It then provides the option to add cover away from home for personal possessions worth 
£2,000 or less. It again explains that exclusions, limitations, and excesses may apply and 
provides a link to the policy booklet for full details.
Following this, a further screen says:
Please read the Policy Booklet and Terms of Business before buying this 
insurance to make sure it meets your needs and youre aware of the benefits, 
limitations and exclusions of the cover, including cancellation rights and refunds.
This again links to the relevant documents for review.
The policy booklet details what is and isnt covered under the policy. In relation to personal 
possessions, the policy booklet says:
What is covered  Your or your familys personal possessions, money, credit 
cards and mobile phones are covered for loss, theft and damage anywhere in the 
UK (including your home) and for up to a total of 60 days in any period of 
insurance when you and/or your family are abroad.
What is not covered  The total excess shown in your schedule for every claim. 
Any amount above the maximum claim limit shown on your schedule
The maximum claim limit is a defined term in the policy and the definitions section defines it 
as The most we will pay for any one claim under the relevant section as shown in your 
schedule. If the limits shown in your schedule are not enough, please contact your 
administrator.
The policy schedule says:
This covers items that you or your family wear or normally carry around with you 
including baggage, clothing, jewellery, watches, binoculars, sports equipment, 
musical and photographic equipment and fursIn addition Money is covered up to 
£500. Mobile phones are covered up to £600 and credit cards are covered up to 
£500. Any items worth more than £2,000 need to be noted as a specified item if 
cover is required away from the home.
Whilst I appreciate Miss F and Mr Hs thoughts on the information presented to them on their 
online account and at the point of sale regarding the personal possessions cover, I dont find 
the documentation at the point of sale misleading. Its clear the policy booklet needs to be 
read in conjunction with the schedule of insurance. On page 2 of the policy booklet it says:This policy booklet together with your schedule and statement of fact form the 
contract of insurance between you and us. This policy booklet contains important 
information about what is covered and what is not covered under this policy. Your 
schedule will show the details of your cover, including which sections of the policy 
apply and any excess that applies if you make a claim.
Whilst the information presented on the online account after the purchase could have been 
clearer, it was a summary of the overall cover they had in relation to personal possessions. 
At the point of sale, the process was clear that exclusions and limitations may apply, it asked 
the buyer to read the policy booklet and terms of business before purchasing. As it was a 
non-advised sale it was for Miss F and Mr H to review the cover outlined in these documents 
to ensure it met their needs.
After purchase, Tesco provided the schedule and policy booklet to them and it was for them 
to check this to ensure the cover provided was the same level of cover they had selected at 
the point of sale. I understand why Miss F said she didnt feel the need to download the full 
insurance schedule as she had looked at the policy booklet. But the policy booklet is a 
generic document which covers various scenarios. The schedule details the specific cover 
and limitations which forms the basis of the contract between Miss F and Mr H and Tesco. It 
highlights the specific details of the policy purchased and level of cover provided and has the 
policy holders personal information. 
Its important to review this information to ensure the personal information and level of cover 
in place is correct. This is what Tesco asked Miss F and Mr H to do. I can see the limitations 
to cover were clearly detailed in a table on page two. As such, Im satisfied this information 
was prominently and clearly displayed. If it had been reviewed it would have been clear to 
Miss F and Mr H that the limit for mobile phone claims was £600. And if this wasnt suitable, 
they had a 14-day colling off period which meant they could cancel the policy within 14 days 
of taking it out without penalty. So Im satisfied Tesco have complied with the terms and 
conditions of the policy when agreeing to settle the claim.
In response to the customer service concerns, Tesco have accepted their adviser should 
have provided a better service when handling Miss Fs call. Having listened to the call I can 
see why Miss F was unhappy with the comment made. Theyve awarded £25 as an apology 
which I think is fair in the circumstances, the comment made wasnt professional or 
necessary, but the general handling of the call was ok.
There were some further concerns about the service provided after Tesco issued their final 
response. Having asked Tesco about this theyve explained the complaint handler was 
isolating at this time so their responses were delayed. The pandemic has had an impact on 
everyone and Im aware it has affected business operations. I can understand this would 
have been frustrating for Miss F and Mr H but was something that was outside of Tescos 
control. As a final response had been issued, Miss F and Mr H were able to refer their 
concerns to our service at this time.
Overall, Im satisfied the information provided at the point of sale wasnt unclear, it was for 
Miss F and Mr H to review the documents including the schedule to ensure the cover met 
their needs. Whilst the online summary after the purchase wasnt specific about limitations, 
the schedule provided at the outset was clear about the cover that was in place. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Tesco Underwriting Ltd should pay Miss F and Mr H £25 if they 
havent already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F and Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman