DRN-3434677
The complaint
Mr H complains about AXA PPP Healthcare Limiteds decision to increase the cost of his 
private medical insurance policy each year.
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service generally takes the view that its up to an insurer to decide how much to charge 
for its policies. So long as it exercises that judgement fairly and consistently, its a matter in 
which this service wouldnt normally interfere. 
AXA has explained to Mr H some factors that impact the increases are age, country of 
residence, and medical inflation. The renewal price doesnt take into account Mr Hs 
individual claims under the policy.
AXA has provided this service with a breakdown from the last few years of how each factor 
has impacted the premium increases. This information is commercially sensitive so I cant 
share it with Mr H, but Id like to reassure him that Ive checked it and Im satisfied his 
premiums were charged accurately. 
Mr H has provided quotes from other insurers which shows that he could take out a new 
policy for a lower cover. Ive looked at this information, but I dont think the cover is 
comparable to the AXA policy. I say that because not all the policies provide worldwide 
cover. Also, it seems the prices quoted havent taken into account any of Mr Hs existing 
conditions. This factor alone would likely make a new policy significantly cheaper than 
Mr Hs existing policy with AXA. 
Mr H says that when he took out the policy, he didnt have the medical conditions that he 
now has. He therefore thinks a comparable policy is one that also doesnt take into account 
existing conditions. However, I see that Mr H took out the AXA policy on a continued 
personal medical exclusions basis. That meant AXA agreed to cover any existing conditions 
at the time. The policy wouldve been priced accordingly to recognise the risk that presented.
Overall, I dont find that AXA did anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman