DRN-3123739
The complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt make him aware of a corporate action 
affecting shares he held on their platform.  
What happened
Mr R held shares in Company A, which were held in his Barclays Smart Investor account. In 
February 2019 Company A announced a plan to delist from the London Stock Exchange and 
offered shareholders the option to convert their ordinary shares into American Depositary 
Shares (ADS), which would be listed for trading on the NASDAQ Stock Exchange.
 
On 21 February 2019 Barclays wrote to Mr R to let him know about the corporate action and 
to set out his options. Barclays explained that investors cant hold ADS on their platform, as 
they can only hold shares listed on a UK Stock Exchange. In the letter Barclays explained 
that if no response was received, the default option would apply, and they would sell the 
shares in Company A on 20 March 2019. Mr R didnt take any action, and so his shares 
were sold. 
When Mr R discovered his shares had been sold, he made a complaint saying he didnt 
receive the letter and Barclays ought to have done more to contact him about it. He held 
shares in Company A on another platform, and those had been converted to ADS. Mr R 
explained a friend of his also held shares in Company A with Barclays and spoke to Barclays 
to arrange to receive their shares in certificated format, rather than being sold. He feels 
Barclays ought to have done that for him automatically.
Barclays didnt uphold his complaint and so Mr R brought it to our service. An investigator 
looked into his concerns and explained she didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong. 
She said that Barclays didnt need to contact him more than once, and their actions were in 
line with the terms and conditions of the account, which she thought were fair and 
reasonable. Mr R disagreed, saying he feels its unfair for Barclays to sell his shares without 
his consent and that other businesses wouldnt have done this. He said Barclays ought to 
have done more to ensure hed received the corporate action notification and that as a retail 
client, its not reasonable to expect him to be aware of every term and condition that applies. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator, for largely the same 
reasons. 
Ive considered what the terms and conditions say about corporate actions and 
communication - the investigator has set out the relevant terms to the parties during her 
investigation, so I wont seek to repeat those here. I appreciate Mr Rs comments about the 
terms, in that they are rather lengthy. However, that doesnt mean I can fairly disregard them 
 they explain the way in which the account will operate and how Barclays will deal with 
common situations. Mr R agreed to them when he chose to use the platform. 
The terms say that when Barclays become aware of a corporate action and pass that 
information onto the beneficial owners of the shares, if they dont receive an instruction from 
the investor, theyll have discretion to take the action they consider to be appropriate. This is 
normal practice across the industry and is an ordinary function of Barclays holding the 
shares as the nominee shareholder. I think the way Barclays has applied the terms relevant 
to this complaint to Mr R is fair and reasonable, and Ill explain why. 
The letter that Barclays sent to Mr R on 21 February 2019 clearly sets out the options 
available to Mr R as a result of the corporate action. It gave Mr R a reasonable amount of 
time to take any necessary steps and set out how Barclays would act if Mr R didnt reply. I 
appreciate Mr R is not happy that the default option was to sell his shares and Ive 
considered if it was fair and reasonable for Barclays to make it the default option. 
There would have been alternative options that Barclays could have chosen as the default  
including issuing share certificates - but that doesnt mean the one they chose was wrong or 
unfair. Im satisfied that it was within Barclays discretion to decide that the default option 
would be to sell, especially given that they were unable to hold ADS. Businesses dont have 
to agree to hold all types of shares on their platforms  its down to their commercial 
discretion to decide if they dont wish to hold certain shares. So, it wouldnt be fair to say 
Barclays should have automatically converted the shares, or that they had to hold ADS. As 
Mr Rs friends experience shows, if hed wanted to do something different with his shares, 
Barclays was open to this.
I understand Mr R says he didnt receive the letter and feels Barclays ought to have done 
more to let him know about the corporate action, for instance emailing him. Barclays has 
said they let all their customers know about the corporate action by post and the terms and 
conditions say they will contact customers either by post or electronically. Post is the default 
contact method - customers can choose a different one, but must proactively do so, and Mr 
R didnt make any changes. Ive also noted Mr R says he hasnt logged into his Smart 
Investor account online for around nine years, so he doesnt present as a customer who 
prefers online communication. Overall, I dont think its unreasonable for them to have written 
to him in the post. The letter was correctly addressed, and I dont think it would be fair to say 
that Barclays is responsible for Mr R not receiving it. 
I dont think Barclays had to have chased Mr R for a reply or done more to ensure he 
received the letter. Mr R is an execution only account holder which places the onus on him 
to manage his investments  Barclays is providing him with an account to facilitate his 
management. If they were providing an advisory service to Mr R I might then say they ought 
to have done more  but as it was an execution only service provider, I dont think Barclays 
acted unreasonably here. 
Overall, I think Barclays has treated Mr R fairly in this matter. Im satisfied Barclays took the 
necessary steps to make Mr R aware of the corporate action and acted fairly and reasonably 
in setting the default option in the circumstances.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Katie Haywood
Ombudsman