DRN-1990361
The complaint
Miss F says Lloyds Bank PLC her mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
Miss F took out three PPI policies in October 2001 and January and December 2002 to cover 
her monthly mortgage repayments if she couldnt work due to disablement or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Miss F disagreed with the 
adjudicator, so the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
Lloyds should have made it clear to Miss F that the PPI was optional and got her agreement 
before adding it. Miss F says it didnt do those things. 
I cant say for sure what happened back then or how the PPI was presented. But, for 
example, the mortgage application she signed in 2001 shows PPI was actively selected. And 
separate, signed, PPI application forms for all three sales indicates to me that Miss F was 
made aware it was optional and that she chose to take it on that basis. I can understand why 
she might remember things differently so many years later.
Lloyds has assessed the complaint as though it recommended the PPI to Miss F. So, as well 
as having to give her enough information for her to make an informed choice about taking it, 
Lloyds should have looked in to whether it was right for Miss F. I dont know what steps 
Lloyds took but I think a recommendation to take the PPI was suitable for her in any case.
I say that because, from what Miss Fs told us about her circumstances in 2001 and 2002, it 
appears shed have been eligible for the PPI and that it was affordable for her. And I cant, 
for instance, see that shed have been significantly affected by the main exclusions to, or 
limits on, the cover. 
Miss F says she was entitled to full sick pay for up to six months, followed by further pay for 
up to two years at the discretion of her employer. She also says she was entitled to an 
enhanced redundancy payment. However, the PPI benefits were also considerable in that 
theyd have been paid for up to 12 months per claim. That was in addition to her employers 
pay. I also note the PPI benefits were guaranteed, unlike the extended sick pay 
arrangements from her employer which were discretionary. 
Overall, given Miss Fs borrowing was secured against her home and the consequences of 
failing to make the repayments were potentially very serious, I think the PPI provided her with 
useful extra protection.
Its possible Lloyds didnt point out everything it should have about the PPI. But I dont find 
that Miss F lost out because of any failings. I say that because, for the same reasons I think 
the PPI was suitable and affordable for her, I dont think better information would have 
stopped Miss F from buying it. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think Miss Fs lost out because of how Lloyds sold her 
the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Im not upholding the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman