DRN-4400989
Complaint
Mr D has complained about a credit card MBNA Limited (MBNA) provided to him. He says 
his financial situation was not considered adequately and this resulted in him being issued 
with a credit card that had an unreasonably high limit.
Background
MBNA provided Mr D with a credit card with an initial limit of £8,800.00 in April 2019. The 
credit limit on Mr Ds credit card wasnt ever increased.
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr D and MBNA had told us. And he thought MBNA 
hadnt treated him unfairly when offering Mr D his credit card with a limit of £8,800.00. So he 
didnt think that MBNA had done anything wrong or that it needed to pay any compensation. 
Mr D disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ds complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain the 
reasons for my decision in a bit more detail.
MBNA needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
MBNA needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr D 
could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
MBNA says it agreed to provide Mr D with a credit card after it carried out a credit search 
and obtained some information on his income and expenditure. The information obtained 
suggested that Mr D had some existing debts but these were well managed and reasonable 
in comparison to his income. In MBNAs view, the information obtained indicated that Mr D 
would be able to make the monthly repayments due for this credit card. 
On the other hand Mr D says that this credit card shouldnt have been provided to him.
Ive considered what the parties have said. 
Whats important to note is that Mr D was provided with a revolving credit facility rather than 
a loan. And this means that MBNA was required to understand whether a credit limit of 
£8,800.00 could be repaid within a reasonable period of time, rather than all in one go. A 
credit limit of £8,800.00 wasnt small nonetheless it didnt require huge monthly payments in 
order to clear the full amount owed within a reasonable period of time. I say this particularly 
as a reasonable period of time in this instance is likely to be the term of an equivalent loan 
offered for this amount. 
MBNAs credit check did indicate that Mr D had some debts. But its fair to say that these 
were being well managed. For example, there was no significant adverse information such 
as defaulted accounts, county court judgements or insolvencies recorded against Mr D. 
Indeed the information MBNA relied on suggests that Mr D total unsecured debts of around 
wasnt unreasonable compared to his declared income at the time. 
I also say this while mindful that Mr D had a 0% interest balance transfer option of this card 
and transferring some of his existing debt, to a much lower interest rate, on to this account is 
likely to have improved his financial position. Ill return to the significance of this further on in 
this decision. 
Given the amount of the likely monthly payments, Mr Ds existing debts and the total amount 
of funds hes likely to have been in receipt of, there is a reasonable argument to say that 
MBNAs checks did go far enough in this instance. Indeed as Mr D was transferring an 
existing credit card balance on to this account at 0% interest, he was likely to be paying less 
interest than he would have done had the balance stayed where it was. And he was 
therefore able to make larger inroads into his balances 
In any event, even if more needed to be done here, at the absolute most it could be argued 
that MBNA needed to obtain information on Mr Ds actual living costs at the time of the 
application. But I dont think that MBNA would have made a different decision even if it had 
asked Mr D for such information. 
I say this because Ive not seen anything that shows me that when Mr Ds committed non-
discretionary regular living expenses and existing credit commitments were deducted from 
what he received, he did not have the funds to make a sustainable repayment for this credit 
card. So, in these circumstances, its difficult for me to conclude that MBNA wouldnt have 
lent even if it had tried to find out more about Mr Ds regular living costs at this time. 
I accept that Mr Ds actual circumstances at the time were worse than what the information 
about his living costs shows. Having looked at Mr Ds statements, I can clearly see why he 
might well have had difficulty making the required payments. I also accept that if MBNA had 
gone into the depth of checks Mr D appears to be saying it should have  such as obtaining 
bank statements from multiple accounts  its possible, but by no means certain, that it may 
have reached a different decision. 
Furthermore, I know that Mr D has had some discussion with the investigator over what the 
transactions on his accounts were for. But the truth is, given the circumstances here and 
what MBNA needed to find out, I dont think that reasonable and proportionate checks would 
have extended into obtaining bank statements for all of Mr Ds accounts  especially as bank 
statements werent the only way that MBNA could find out about Mr Ds living expenses in 
the first place. And they certainly wouldnt have gone into the level of granularity that Mr D 
and our investigator have.In my view, delving into the detail of Mr Ds statements in the way that Mr D and our 
investigator have done here isnt commensurate with a proportionate check. And most 
crucially Im satisfied that MBNA taking further steps to find out more about Mr Ds living 
expenses wont have led it to determine that the repayments for this credit card were 
unaffordable for Mr D.  
Finally, approving this application would lead to MBNA providing Mr D with a first balance 
transfer, with a promotional 0% interest offer, on this card. And this was in circumstances 
where there wasnt a history of Mr D obtaining funds in this way and then breaching the 
terms and conditions of the agreement therefore losing the terms of the balance transfer 
offer either. 
So Im satisfied that MBNA was reasonably entitled to believe that approving this credit card 
could reasonably leave Mr D in a better financial position. As this is the case, Im also 
satisfied that MBNA was reasonably entitled to believe that it wasnt increasing Mr Ds 
indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful. 
Overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that MBNA didnt act unfairly towards 
Mr D when providing him with his credit card and Im therefore not upholding this complaint. I 
appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr D. But I hope hell understand the reasons 
for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding this complaint, Id like to remind MBNA of its obligation to 
exercise forbearance and due consideration in relation to the outstanding balance on Mr Ds 
account should it be the case that he is experiencing financial difficulty. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman