DRN-3898190
The complaint
Mr E complains that Wise Payments Limited (Wise) rejected two credits to his account.
What happened
On 23 March 2022 and then on 25 March 2022, two credits for Euro300 and Euro700 
respectively were sent to Mr Es account with Wise. Both were sent from a person in Russia 
and from a Russian bank (A). Both payments were suspended and werent credited to Mr 
Es account and were then sent back to the senders account on 6 April 2022 (Euro700) and 
26 April 2022 (Euro300).
Mr E complained. He said the Russian bank A wasnt subject to sanctions and therefore the 
payments shouldve been allowed and not sent back. He said his Wise account was 
suspended and couldnt be used. He said he assumed that because he had a Russian 
name, he had been identified as such by Wise and discriminated against. He said his losses 
were Euro1,000 and said Wise should refund the money and pay him for stress and 
inconvenience.
Wise didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. They said that sanctions against A bank were imposed 
on 24 February 2022 and therefore the credits were returned. Wise said Mr Es account 
wasnt suspended.
Mr E didnt agree. He brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Wise acted 
reasonably. Wises terms and conditions included the right to make due diligence checks on 
customers. Mr Es account wasnt suspended. Most importantly, sanctions were placed on A 
bank on 24 February 2022  a month before the credits were sent to Mr Es account. Wises 
Acceptable Use Policy (within the Customer Agreement) said Wise would not process 
transactions connected, directly or indirectly to individuals, entities or countries which are 
subject to international sanctions. So he said - Wise were entitled to return the credits. 
Wise realised during our investigation - there had been some errors in their communications 
with Mr W and offered compensation of £150.
Mr E didnt accept Wises offer. He argued that as of 25 March 2022, there wasnt any 
restriction on receiving payments from A bank  that the prohibition affected only 
transferable securities or money market instruments. And he showed to us a document from 
HM Treasurys Office of Financial Sanctions Implementation dated 1 March 2022  he said 
this gave A bank the authority to continue to make payments.
Mr E asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint. So  it has come to me to do that.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is for Wise to decide on its commercial strategy as to how to run its payments business  
and we cant make Wise change its policies or procedures. But we do say if a customer has, 
or hasnt, been dealt with fairly and reasonably  based on the individual circumstances of 
their complaint.
Ive read what Mr E has said in detail. And we went back to Wise with the points hes made  
as I wanted to get absolute clarity.
Its not in dispute that if applicable, Wise can stop doing business with banks which operate 
in a sanctioned territory. Thats included in Wises Acceptable Use Policy section 1.2.3 which 
says: 1. Restricted activitiesUnsupported businesses and transactionsOther restricted 
activitiesIndividuals, entities, or countries subject to international sanctions..
The crux of Mr Es complaint is that Wise were wrong to stop dealing with A bank in the light 
of the sanctions documents applicable at the time of the credits  on 23 March 2022 and 25 
March 2022. Wise say they stopped doing business with A bank on 24 February 2022  we 
have seen internal communications from Wise that say that.
Wise quoted the sanctions document dated 1 March 2022  which said A bank was subject 
to sanctions. It said Sanctions imposed: Asset freeze, prohibition on correspondent banking 
and sterling clearing Mr E argues that that doesnt include payments. But I think its 
reasonable for me to say that sterling clearing would include payments. And in any case, an 
asset freeze would also include a stop on payments out of A bank. 
Mr A also quoted the HM Treasury document dated 1 March 2022  it referred only to A 
bank  and he said it allowed A bank to continue to make payments. I looked at it said A UK 
credit or financial institution may process a sterling payment to, from or via (A bank).The 
licence expired on 31 March 2022  so it seemed that Mr E had a point here. We put the 
document back to Wise. 
Wise said there was a further document dated 4 March 2022 from Office of Financial 
Sanctions Implementation HM Treasury  and this was a wind-down document which 
allowed for a transition period to 3 April 2022. It said that firms could deal with A bank in the 
interim for the purposes of winding down that activity. In other words, there could be 
some business done with A bank  but only for the purposes of winding activities down. 
Wise said that due to their risk appetite, they decided to cancel the deposits because A bank  
was already in a wind down period before becoming an officially sanctioned entity  which 
then happened on 6 April 2022. Wise said if they allowed payments to be received during 
the wind-down period, they ran the risk of transfers being blocked by their partner banks. 
Ive considered this - and I think that was a fair and reasonable approach to take  in the 
circumstances of the extraordinary events of the war. That affected the credits to Mr Es 
account, but in the circumstances of his complaint, I think that was a reasonable thing for 
Wise to do.
Mr E has said his account was suspended  Wise told us it wasnt, but there wasnt any 
activity during the period in question. I saw no evidence in our investigation of any unfair or 
discrimination towards Mr E  the fact that his account wasnt blocked confirms that for me. 
I could see that there were two errors when Wise communicated with Mr E. Firstly, they told 
him that one payment had been credited to his bank account and it hadnt  it was still held 
in supense with Wise. And he was also told that the reason for the rejection of one credit 
was due to a missing IBAN number on the payment. They apologised for this and offered Mr 
E compensation of £150. Mr E rejected this  but it is still available if he wishes to accept it.My final decision
Wise has already made an offer to pay £150 to settle the complaint. Mr E should contact 
Wise directly if he now wishes to accept this.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman