DRN-3369350
The complaint
Mrs G and Mr M complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) wont pay their
home insurance claim for accidental damage and that it voided their policy for alleged 
breach of the fraud condition.
What happened
Mrs G and Mr M reported a claim to RSA in September 2020. They said that in August 2020
Mrs G had spilt nail varnish on the carpet in the main bedroom. RSA arranged for its carpet
expert (R) to investigate. Because of Covid, R wasnt able to visit the property so it asked
Mr M to provide photos, which he duly did. R was concerned, as by looking at the photos the
nail varnish couldnt have fallen in the way described by Mrs G and Mr M.
RSA arranged for the matter to be referred to a specialist investigator (C) as it was
concerned about possible fraud. C contacted Mrs G and Mr M and set up a video interview
with Mrs G. In that interview Mrs G described the circumstances of the claim, but was unable
to demonstrate exactly what she was doing at the time because the furniture in the bedroom
had been moved around since then. She was asked why no attempts were made to clean up
the spillage and she explained that they had looked up on the internet and thought it was
best to let it dry rather than spread the stain.
C advised Mrs G that in light of her explanation it wasnt satisfied that the spillage had taken
place as she described. It advised her that it would be instructing a forensic expert to provide
a report. It warned her that if the report wasnt in her favour RSA could pursue her for the
experts costs.
The forensic expert (L) reported back. He was of the view that the pattern of spillage did not
concur with Mrs Gs description of the event. He said it was more readily explained by the
pouring of the nail varnish rather than a single accidental event.
RSA said that Mrs G was in breach of the fraud condition in the policy. It advised that it
wouldnt be paying the claim and that the policy would be voided from the date of the alleged 
fraud. It also said it would be requiring Mrs G and Mr M to repay the costs of the forensic
investigation.
Mrs G and Mr M objected, asking to see a copy of the forensic report. They also couldnt get
RSA to tell them if the policy had actually been voided as its claim handlers didnt appear to
know the result of the investigation. RSA declined initially to provide the report advising that
it had summarised it in its letter to them. However, on review, it agreed to provide a redacted
copy (with Ls name and address removed). It further agreed not to pursue Mrs G and Mr M
for Ls costs.
I issued a provisional decision. I said the case turned on the expert evidence produced. And
as the only expert evidence available supported RSAs position, I didnt uphold the
complaint.
In reply Mrs G and Mr M produced further expert evidence, and a video showing how the nail 
varnish could have spilled in the way they described. That evidence contradicted the expert 
evidence produced by RSA. Mr M also criticised the methodology in Rs forensic report.
RSA said it wouldnt challenge the matter any further. So I issued a further provisional 
decision, upholding the complaint. I proposed that RSA pay the claim, and remove any 
reference to the policy being cancelled, as well as paying Mrs Gs and Mr Ms costs of the 
forensic report, and £200 compensation.
Mrs G and Mr M responded to this second decision. I shall set out those comments and my 
responses below.
RSA didnt reply to my second provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the claim
In my second provisional decision I said:
Mrs G and Mr M instructed a forensic expert, H. I think that expert is sufficiently experienced
and qualified to review the evidence and reach an expert opinion as to the likely cause of the
damage. He reviewed a series of videos taken by Mr M, demonstrating the likely pattern of
spillage if the bottle was knocked off the table. His main conclusions were:
[Ls] opinion makes no mention of the possibility of the bottle spinning owing to a vigorous
sideways motion as it was knocked from the bedside table. and
Assuming that the bottle was knocked off the bedside table with sufficient sideways force to
set the bottle bouncing and spinning, then the spill pattern resulting from the incident is
consistent with an accidental event as described by [Mrs G].
The policy definition of accidental damage is:
sudden, unexpected and visible damage which has not been caused on purpose.
Having shared the new evidence with RSA it has declined to challenge it any further. In light
of this new evidence, I think it is likely that the spill was accidental damage in line with the
relevant definition in the policy. I think that RSA should pay Mrs Gs and Mr Ms cost of the
purchase and fitting of a new carpet in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the
policy. It should also pay Mr M and Mrs Gs costs of their forensic report, with interest.
allegation of breach of the fraud condition in the policy
In my original provisional findings I said:
This brings me onto the question of fraud. I should emphasise that I dont decide whether
fraud has been committed. Rather I have to decide whether RSA acted reasonably in
deciding that Mrs G was in breach of the fraud condition in the policy.
For an insurer to allege fraud by its policyholder is a serious matter. It means, as Mrs G and
Mr M have discovered that the cancellation of the policy will be registered on an insurancedatabase and the fraud registered on a fraud database. For that reason RSA has to show
that there is strong evidence that it is most likely that Mrs G breached the fraud condition in
the policy before we could say whether its action was reasonable.
The fraud condition says:
If dishonesty, exaggeration or false documentation is used by your family or anyone acting 
on behalf of you or your family to obtain or support:
a claims payment under your policy,
cover for which you do not qualify,
cover at a reduced premium,
all benefits under this policy will be lost, the policy may be invalid, you may not be entitled to 
a refund of premium and legal action may be taken against you.
RSA said that it had deemed that your claim was deliberately misrepresented. Essentially it
said that dishonesty was used to support a claims payment, so this was in breach of the
above condition. And the condition allows RSA to take the action it took, namely, to void the
policy so that all benefits under the policy were lost.
I said in my second provisional decision that, in light of the new evidence and RSAs 
decision not to challenge it further, I didnt think that there was now sufficient evidence to 
justify RSA invoking the fraud condition. I said that if RSA had registered Mrs Gs name on 
any fraud database it should now remove it, and confirm to Mrs G that this has been done.
date of voidance/cancellation
In my original provisional findings I said:
Mrs G and Mr M were notified of the voidance of the policy by letter of 29 December which
they didnt receive until 31 December. As a result they were without home insurance until
they could arrange this in the New Year. Also they contacted RSAs claims department who
seemed to know nothing of the cancellation. I understand that this was because C had sent
the voidance letter (albeit with RSAs authority) but the claims file hadnt been updated.
Whilst I understand the need for a formal letter, I think sending it just before a bank holiday 
without also notifying Mrs G and Mr M by email or telephone or making sure the relevant 
departments were aware first, caused unnecessary difficulty. And as they seemed to get 
conflicting information from RSA I can understand that this added to the stress caused.
I said in my second provisional decision that as the effect would now be that that the policy 
should not have been cancelled, it means that RSA must also reasonably compensate 
Mrs G and Mr M for the upset they were caused by the cancellation itself. Additionally I said 
that if Mrs G and Mr M paid a higher premium on their new policy because of having to 
declare the cancellation, RSA should refund that difference in premium with interest for the 
policy years of 2021 and 2022. Mrs G and Mr M would need to provide the necessary 
information, i.e. evidence of the new premium, and that the policy was like the one with RSA. 
I assumed that Mrs G and Mr M didnt want the RSA policy to be reinstated.
release of forensic report
In my original provisional findings I said:
When RSA reported back to Mrs G and Mr M it included a summary of Ls report, but
refused to release a copy of it. This was on the apparent grounds that release of the report
would allow a fraudster to change their story to accord with the forensic experts conclusions.I would generally expect such a report to be released to the accused person where breach of
the fraud condition is alleged. There may, on occasion, be exceptional reasons for not doing
so, such as pending criminal proceedings, but, in this case, I think RSA acted unfairly in not
releasing the report. It only did so after it was contacted by a consumer magazine.
Having said that I do note that RSA agreed not to pursue Mrs G and Mr M for the costs of
that report.
In respect of all the above findings, neither party has challenged those conclusions, so they 
are now final and form part of this final decision. 
compensation
In my second provisional decision I said that I had to take into account the effect this case 
had on Mrs G and Mr M for them to be unjustly accused of fraud, and having to find their 
own expert evidence. I said I thought the appropriate award of compensation was £200.
Ill deal with Mrs Gs and Mr Ms comments concerning compensation below.
Mrs Gs and Mr Ms comments on the appropriate steps for RSA to take
They request that RSA pay the full cost of buying and fitting a new flooring for the 
bedroom according to the price quotes they will obtain.
Ive already said that RSA should now pay the claim and will direct accordingly. 
That RSA remove both Mrs Gs and Mr Ms name from any internal and external 
databases, confirm in writing that this has been done and provide a confirmation from the 
Insurance Fraud Database and other databases involved that all data held on Mrs G and 
Mr M has been removed.
With regard to removing Mrs Gs or Mr Ms name from any database, RSA has only ever 
mentioned putting Mrs Gs name on such a database. It should confirm this to Mrs G and 
Mr M and notify them of the details of any such database it removes their name from.
That RSA confirms in writing that Mrs G and Mr M don't need to declare to other insurers 
that their policy was voided or cancelled.
I dont think this is necessary. If they accept my decision Mrs G and Mr M will have the 
necessary evidence to show this.
That RSA sends a written apology with an admission that it got it wrong and wrongly 
accused them of fraud, as well as a commitment to undertake an independent review of 
what went wrong with recommendations to ensure that customers are treated more fairly 
in similar situations.
I dont think its appropriate for me to require RSA to send such an apology. In fraud cases 
Insurers often rely on special investigators who recommend whether to pursue the question 
of fraud. Thats not unreasonable, here on the basis of the expert evidence and the 
recommendation of its investigator RSA decided that it had sufficient evidence of fraud. 
However experts do disagree, as they did in this case. I should advise that my role is to deal 
with the complaint, not to make any recommendations about RSAs future handling of such 
cases.
RSA pay compensation of around £1,500.I can understand that Mrs G and Mr M feel that they should be awarded more compensation. 
I summarise their points as follows:
Being wrongly accused of fraud and put on a fraud register has affected their ability to 
obtain insurance.
They were left without home insurance cover from Sep 2020 to Jan 2021 due to the 
retroactive voiding of the RSA policy. This could have had very serious consequences if 
there had been a fire during that time.
Being wrongly accused of fraud caused massive stress and anxiety for Mrs G as it can 
have serious consequences for her employment.
Additional stress and anxiety was caused because RSA threatened to share their details 
with fraud prevention agencies.
More stress and anxiety was caused when RSA threatened legal action for not 
contacting them about payment which they had already done multiple times.
The ordeal stretched for 16 months from Nov 2020 to Feb 2022.
The ordeal added to anxiety issues for Mr M and delayed his return to work.
I do have to take into account decisions weve made in similar cases. And I also have to 
consider that RSA took what would be the normal steps to take in such cases, including 
voiding the policy and entering a name on a fraud register. And from its point of view, it had 
an experts report with no counter experts evidence to suggest it was wrong. When I 
originally considered this case I explained that I thought the forensic experts evidence could 
only reasonably be challenged by another expert.
I understand that the matter caused Mrs G and Mr M anxiety and stress and I have taken 
that into account. But I cant award compensation for what might have happened. Nor can I 
award it for the length of time the complaint has been with the Financial Ombudsman. I 
stand by my view that the appropriate award of compensation is £200. 
RSA pay their expenses, including their time in preparing video evidence.
I note costs of £480 for the forensic report. I think thats reasonable. Theyve also incurred 
costs from a legal advice service of £54. We dont normally award such costs but as they 
were incurred in helping Mrs G and Mr M appoint the appropriate expert, I will award them. 
In respect of their costs of preparing video evidence I will award the cost of 2 bottles of nail 
varnish - £12 and 2 dust sheets - £20. I wont award Mr M the costs of his time in preparing 
such evidence. We dont generally award the cost of a consumers time in dealing with their 
complaint and I dont think its right to do so in this case.
RSA make a donation of £800 between the two advice services they used.
I can only award compensation to Mrs G and Mr M, though of course if they accept my 
decision, they will be free to do what they think fit with that compensation. Ive already said 
that fair and reasonable compensation is £200. I cant reasonably make RSA pay more than 
that. Putting things right
RSA should:
 
pay Mrs Gs and Mr Ms costs of buying and fitting a new carpet, in line with the
remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
remove any reference to the policy having been cancelled for fraud (it may record the
policy as being cancelled voluntarily by Mrs G and Mr M) and remove Mrs Gs (and, if 
appropriate Mr Ms) name from any internal or external fraud databases. It should 
confirm in writing that this has been done, and notify Mrs G and Mr M of the details of 
any such database.
pay Mrs Gs and Mr Ms costs of their forensic experts report, of £480, their £54 advice 
service costs and £32 for materials, together with simple interest* at 8% per year from 
the date they paid any invoices for this, or receipt dates for items purchased, until 
repayment
pay, for the policy years 2021 and 2022 the difference (if higher) between the premiums
Mrs G and Mr M paid for a new policy and the premiums that would have been charged
had the policy not been cancelled for fraud. It should add simple interest* at 8% per year
from the dates any premiums were paid until repayment.
pay £200 compensation.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to take off tax
from this interest. It must give Mrs G and Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken
off if they ask for one.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to provide the 
remedy set out under Putting things right above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2022. 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman