DRN-3843360
The complaint
Mrs S complains Morses Club PLC (Morses) gave her loans that she couldnt afford to 
repay.
What happened
Mrs S took seven home collected loans between July 2017 and September 2018. Ive
included some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £300.00 12/07/2017 11/08/2017 33 £15.00
2 £400.00 12/09/2017 15/12/2017 33 £20.00
3 £200.00 02/11/2017 15/12/2017 33 £10.00
4 £500.00 09/01/2018 11/05/2018 52 £17.50
5 £200.00 09/01/2018 11/05/2018 33 £10.00
6 £400.00 10/07/2018 sold 33 £20.00
7 £200.00 08/09/2018 sold 33 £10.00
Mrs S had some problems repaying her final two loans and Morses statement of account
shows these were sold to a third-party collection agency in April 2019. Later, Morses says
the collection agency had taken the decision to write these debts off.
The weekly repayment column above is the cost per week per loan. So, where loans
overlapped the cost will be greater. For example, when loans 2 and 3 were running at the
same time Mrs S weekly commitment was £30.
Morses considered Mrs S complaint and issued its final response letter in which it explained
why it wasnt upholding her complaint. Mrs S didnt agree, and she referred the complaint to
the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Morses then agreed to offer to uphold Mrs S complaint about loan 7 only. It explained that
as the debt had been sold and written off there wasnt any refund due to Mrs S as shed not
fully repaid the capital she had borrowed.
Mrs S didnt accept this outcome and instead provided copies of her bank statements.
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator who thought a reasonable decision to
provide loans 1 and 2 was made. He also didnt consider loan 7, because Morses had
already made an offer to settle the loan. 
However, he thought when loan 3 was granted, given the outstanding loan that Mrs S had 
and her declared income that loan 3 and all future loans shouldnt have been provided. He 
said this because the amount Mrs S was going to need to use from her income was too high 
and therefore the loans werent likely to be sustainable.
Morses disagreed with the adjudicators recommendation. Ive summarised its response
below.
Mrs S regularly settled her loans early.
There were small gaps between some of the loans such as between loans 1 and 2.
For loan 3, Mrs S income was verified, and her combined weekly repayment (with 
loan 2) represented 18% of her income. This point was made for the later loans too, 
for example when loan 6 was granted only 12% of her income went towards making 
the repayment.
Both loans 2 and 3 were settled earlier than contracted.
There was nothing with the repayment history that wouldve suggested Mrs S would 
have problems making these repayments.
Adequate checks were carried out before these loans were approved.
Morses was never told about any difficulties Mrs S was having at the time.
Mrs S didnt disagree with the adjudicators outcome.
As no agreement has been reached, the case was passed for a decision. I proceed to issue 
a provisional decision outlining why I though the complaint about loans 3  7 should still be 
upheld, but for different reasons. A copy of the provisional findings follows this in italics and 
a smaller font and forms part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mrs S could afford to pay back the amounts
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks could have taken into account a number
of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mrs
Ss income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs S. These factors include:
Mrs S having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mrs S having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mrs S coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mrs S.
Morses was required to establish whether Mrs S could sustainably repay the loans  not just
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mrs S was able to repay her
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and, in particular made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mrs Ss complaint.
Mrs S appears to have accepted the adjudicators findings about loans 1 and 2. Morses has
also accepted that loan 7 ought to not have been granted. So, I no longer think these loans
are in dispute.
Loan 3
For this loan Mrs S declared she had a weekly income of around £163 with outgoings of £80.
This left around £83 per week to make the weekly repayment of £10 towards this loan.
However, when this loan was running so was loan 2, so this meant Mrs S total weekly
commitment to Morses was £30 per week.
Morses says for this loan it saw evidence of her income  but it hasnt told us what evidence
this was or provided a copy of it.
When loan 3 was advanced, Mrs S income had dropped slightly compared to what she
declared for loans 1 and 2. In addition, her weekly expenditure had almost doubled since
loan 2 was granted.
Considering the information Mrs S provided about her income and expenditure, Morses may
have felt, the loan was pounds and pence affordable because this is what the information
showed. However, as Ive explained above, that is only part of what Morses had to consider
before granting it.
However, I dont think, given what Ive seen that Morses made a fair decision when it
decided to provide this loan to Mrs S. Im, therefore, upholding Mrs Ss complaint about it.
As Morses has pointed out in response to our adjudicator, Mrs S was committed to spending
18% of her income towards meeting her commitments to Morses at this time. In my view the
payments in this case were too high when considering what it knew about Mrs S
circumstances.
In these circumstances, there was a significant risk, in my view that Mrs S wouldnt have
been able to meet her existing commitments without having to borrow again. So, I think its
unlikely Mrs S wouldve been able to sustainably meet her repayments for these loans.
I say this because Mrs S was making a commitment to pay Morses for a further 33 weeks
and I think its fair to say that Mrs S income. On top of that, the information Morses was
given suggested that her income had gone down with her expenditure going up.
While Morses doesnt think those percentages are excessive I think it was. There is clearly
going to be a line beyond which it wouldnt have been reasonable for Morses to lend, but
thats going to be particular to the circumstances of each individual complaint. And whilst a
large proportion is going to increase the likelihood in any case that something has gone
wrong there isnt an automatic cut off  well always look at the broader circumstances  as
Ive done here.
Loans 4  6
The adjudicator upheld these loans because he still considered Mrs S was committing to
spending too much of her income repaying these loans. But as Morses has pointed out, the
portion of her income which was committed to being used to make these repayments tended
to decrease with each new loan. So, while I can understand why the adjudicator upheldthese loans, there is, given what Ive seen a more compelling and persuasive argument.
Loans 4 and 5 were taken on the same day, each loan had a different repayment term but
there was an expectation the loans would be running concurrently for at least 33 weeks and
her commitment was £30 each week.
Morses collected income and expenditure which showed it that these loans were likely to be
affordable. But that doesnt mean that Morses carried out proportionate checks. I do think
the time in debt, increased capital borrowing and once again having two loans running at the
same time ought to have alerted Morses to the possibility that Mrs S may have been having
some wider problems.
Overall, I dont think it was reasonable for Morses to have relied on what Mrs S declared to it
about her income and expenditure even though this information suggested Mrs S could
afford these loan repayments.
Instead, I think it needed to gain a full understanding of Mrs Ss actual financial position to
ensure the lending was affordable. This couldve been done in several ways, such as asking
for evidence of her outgoings, or looking at bank statements and/or Mrs Ss full credit file.
This mightve helped verify information provided and revealed whether there was any other
information that Morses mightve needed to consider about Mrs Ss financial position.
However, that isnt the end of the matter. For me to be able to uphold these loans, I have to
be satisfied that had Morses carried out a proportionate check it wouldve likely discovered
that Mrs S couldnt afford them.
Mrs S has provided copy bank statement for the period leading up to loans 4 and 5 and
having looked at this, there is an indication that Mrs S was struggling to meet her existing
credit commitments and already had a significant amount of outstanding debt.
Shortly, before these loans were approved, a payment for a high-cost lender was returned
as unpaid due to a lack of funds in the account. This to me is an indication that Mrs S was
having problems meeting her existing credit commitments.
In addition to this, Mrs S had 6 outstanding high-cost credit / payday loans at the time. Her
monthly commitment to these loans seems to be around £1,000 per month. On top of this
she also had three outstanding credit cards that she seemed to be making the minimum
repayment for.
The situation is no different when loan 6 was approved, at this time there were 4 credit cards
outstanding, 2 home collected loans with another provider as well as four other high-cost
credit loans. In addition, shortly before this loan was approved, a further two direct debits
were retuned as unpaid.
So had Morses carried out what I consider to be a proportionate check, I think it wouldve
likely discovered Mrs S couldnt afford the repayment for these loans because she already
had a significant amount of outstanding credit, which at times she was struggling to repay.
Im therefore intending to uphold the same number of loans, as the adjudicator but just for
different reasons.
Ive outlined below what Morses needs to do in order to put things right for Mrs S (including
the compensation for loan 7 which Morses has already accepted).
Response to the provisional decision
Both Mrs S and Morses were asked to provide anything further for consideration as soon as 
possible, but in any event, no later than 7 December 2022. 
Mrs S confirmed she accepted the findings that were reached in the provisional decision.Morses said the agent who provided these loans hasnt retained copies of the wage slips 
which were collected and it then confirmed it also had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S has accepted the findings of the provisional decision and while I thank Morses for 
confirming that the agent hasnt retained copies of the wage slips it hasnt provided anything 
new or further for my consideration. 
Therefore, as nothing further has been supplied, I see no reason to depart from the findings 
which were made in the provisional decision. I still think Mrs S was due to pay a too high 
portion of her income for loan 3. 
From loan 4, further checks ought to have been carried out by Morses. Had it carried out 
these further checks it wouldve likely discovered that Mrs S was having financial difficulties 
and so loans 4  6 shouldnt have been advanced either. 
Morses should still agree to uphold the complaint about loan 7, as it outlined in the final 
response letter. 
Ive outlined below what Morses needs to do in order to put things right for Mrs S in relation 
to loans 3  7. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might
have happened had Morses not lent loans 3 - 7 to Mrs S, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mrs S may have simply left matters there,
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Mrs S in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Mrs S would more likely than not have taken up any one of
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Mrs S loans 3 - 7.
If Morses has sold the outstanding debts it should buy these back if it is able to do so andthen take the following steps. If Morses is not able to buy the debts back then it should liaise 
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A. Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs S towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything you have already refunded.
B. Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mrs S which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs S originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Morses should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mrs S as though they had 
been repayments of the principal towards loans 6 and 7. If this results in Mrs S 
having made overpayments then Morses should refund these overpayments with 8% 
simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments 
would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Morses should then refund 
the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans [and any 
principal already written-off]. If this results in a surplus, then the surplus should be 
paid to Mrs S. However, if there is still an outstanding balance then you should try to 
agree an affordable repayment plan with Mrs S. But Morses shouldnt pursue 
outstanding balances made up of principal which has already been written-off.
E. Morses should remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs S credit file in 
relation to loans 3 - 6. The overall pattern of Mrs S borrowing for loan 7 means any 
information recorded about it is adverse, so Morses should remove the loan entirely 
from Mrs S credit file. Morses do not have to remove loan 7 from Mrs S credit file 
until the loan has been repaid, but Morses should still remove any adverse 
information recorded about it.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should give
Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax it deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Mrs S 
complaint in part.
Morses Club PLC should put things right for Mrs S as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman