DRN-4301946
The complaint
Mr H complains about Medicash Health Benefits Limiteds handling of a claim made under a 
group cash plan.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 7 August 2023. Heres what I said:
The policy covers the cost of prescribed contact lenses. It says the insured must give 
information or proof needed by Medicash to support the claim. And that a claim will not be 
paid if Medicash does not have enough supporting evidence.
The policy says Medicash requires an original receipt which should show: - the name, 
address and qualifications of the practitioner; the date of treatment; the name and address of 
the person receiving the treatment; and a breakdown and description of the treatment.
It seems to me that not all of the above would be available when ordering contact lenses 
online. But Medicash says it wanted to know the date of purchase, which wasnt 
unreasonable. This information wasnt contained in the information included with the claim 
that Mr H submitted via the app.
Medicash says that the later email Mr H sent it didnt show the date of purchase, only the 
date the email was sent by the supplier. However, confirmation emails, such as the one Mr H 
provided, are usually sent as soon as an online order has been placed. I dont know how 
else Mr H would be able to show the purchase date. I understand that Medicash has 
previously accepted claims from Mr H with this information.
Medicash later asked Mr H for a copy of the dispatch note. But this would have also been 
sent by email, and so its not clear why Medicash would have been willing to accept this, but 
not the order confirmation email.
Medicash also said the email from the supplier didnt show a letterhead or logo which helps it 
to validate a supplier or practitioner. But it didnt tell Mr H this, so he wasnt able to address 
this point. I note that by right clicking on the image, the logo can be downloaded. If Medicash 
couldnt do this on its systems, Mr H could have done this and resent it.
I do think it would have been helpful if Mr H had included the confirmation email with his 
submitted claim on the app, rather than a separate email (as the email wasnt seen by the 
initial claims handler). But after Medicash became aware of the email, I think it ought to have 
accepted the claim at that time.
Im pleased to see that Medicash did later accept Mr Hs claim, and I think this was done in a 
reasonable timeframe. Nonetheless I think it caused Mr H some unnecessary frustration 
during its assessment of his claim. I intend to require Medicash to pay Mr H £25 
compensation by way of apology for this.
I asked both parties for any further comments they wished to make before I made a final 
decision. 
Mr H responded to say he mostly agreed with my findings. Though for the sake of clarity, 
hes confirmed that he uploaded the claim via the app at the same time as he sent the 
receipt by email. So he thinks I should reconsider Medicashs initial rejection of the claim.
Medicash responded to say it disagreed with some of the points made in my provisional 
findings. It says that the date of an email cannot be used as proof of purchase date because 
this can be altered, and says that a dispatch note will usually contain the date of purchase 
within the body of the email. It said its reference to a letterhead or logo was in relation to 
what was required for future claims. Finally, it said it paid the claim within six days of 
submission.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has confirmed that he submitted his claim via the app at the same time as sending the 
receipt by email to Medicash. However, Medicash requires claims to be submitted via its 
app, and I would assume that would include all supporting documentation. Medicash has 
confirmed that the initial claims handler assessed the claim based on the information 
submitted on the app, as that is its process. Medicash did consider the information Mr H sent 
by email later, but the delay would not have happened if Mr H had submitted the receipt via 
the app rather than email.
Im aware that Medicash paid the claim within six days, and I recognised in my provisional 
decision that the claim was paid in a reasonable timeframe. 
Medicash says that an email date can be altered, and it will accept the dispatch email as this 
usually contains the date of purchase. However, Medicash didnt explain this to Mr H, it 
simply told him that it couldnt see the date of purchase and he should send it the dispatch 
note. But as far as Mr H was concerned, hed already provided this evidence when hed sent 
Medicash the confirmation email. Medicash also later made it seem that it hadnt wanted to 
accept the confirmation email because this had no letterhead or logo. I addressed this in my 
provisional decision.
I remain of the view that Medicash should pay Mr H £25 compensation for the frustration it 
caused him after he made the claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Medicash Health Benefits Limited to 
pay Mr H £25 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman