DRN-2727488
The complaint
Mr H & Miss H complain Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) refused to provide 
the financial support they asked for, by reducing the interest rate on their joint mortgage.
What happened
Mr H & Miss H hold a joint mortgage with Halifax which was moved to a fixed rate product in 
March 2020. Later that month Mr H approached Halifax at the start of the Covid pandemic 
and says he told them he was out of work and was looking for their support by reducing the 
interest rate on his joint mortgage with Miss H. Mr H says Halifax wouldnt agree to this and 
only offered him a three month payment deferral, which he declined as it would have meant 
adding more interest to his mortgage over its remaining term. Mr H says Halifax have also 
refused to remove any early repayment fees should he wish to transfer his mortgage 
elsewhere and they are simply profiting from the Covid pandemic and are not helping its 
customers, like some of the utility companies he has dealt with, who agreed discounts for 
him. 
Mr H & Miss H wants Halifax to reduce their mortgage interest rate by 1% or allow them to 
move their mortgage elsewhere, without any early repayment fees.
Halifax says they have offered Mr H & Miss H a payment deferral period in line with other 
customers as directed by the government, but dont have a specific interest rate for 
customers affected by Covid. Halifax have sympathised with Mr H & Miss Hs financial 
position, but says they are not able to either reduce the interest rate or change the terms and 
conditions of the mortgage contract to allow for its early repayment, without the appropriate 
fees. 
Mr H & Miss H werent happy with Halifaxs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. He 
felt Halifax had acted reasonably when offering the deferred payment on the mortgage and it 
had no obligation to reduce the interest rate or waive any early repayment fees. The 
investigator felt the other options open to Mr H & Miss H wouldnt have suited them either, as 
they had made clear they didnt want to pay more interest on their mortgage overall. The 
investigator says Halifax hadnt treated Mr H & Miss H any differently to any of its other 
customers in these circumstances, so didnt feel they had acted unreasonably.
Mr H & Miss H didnt accept the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to 
an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can understand that it would have been a worrying time for Mr H being out of work, only 
having recently moved his mortgage product to a fixed rate and then struggling to meet his 
monthly commitments. When looking at this complaint I will consider whether Halifax should 
have agreed to a reduction in Mr Hs & Miss Hs mortgage interest rate or allowed them to 
move it to another provider, without early repayment fees, given the circumstances here. 
The first thing to say when making a full and impartial decision here, I have to take into 
account this happened during the Covid pandemic which affected both businesses and 
customers alike. 
What happened here was Mr H, who is self-employed, found himself without work following 
the start of the Covid lockdown period. Mr H says he approached Halifax to ask for their 
help, specifically to reduce the interest rate on his joint mortgage. Mr H is unhappy that 
Halifax refused to do this and only offered a three-month payment deferral, which he felt 
wasnt that helpful, as it simply added further interest costs to the mortgage over its term. In 
addition, Mr H feels Halifax should have been prepared to allow him to move the mortgage 
to another provider, without incurring any early repayment charges. 
I have considered what Mr H & Miss H say here and understand they feel strongly that 
Halifax are profiting from the difficulties created by the pandemic. While I understand Mr Hs 
depth of feeling on this, whats important, and my role here, is to consider whether or not 
Halifax have acted unreasonably or treated Mr H & Miss H any differently to its other 
customers in the same circumstances  and I cant say it did. I say this because in March 
2020, Halifax, like other banks, took advice from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) who 
put in place guidance for lenders in the exceptional circumstances arising out of coronavirus 
(Covid-19) and its impact on the financial situation of its customers.
It stated that :
 where a customer is experiencing or reasonably expects to experience payment difficulties 
as a result of circumstances relating to coronavirus, and wishes to receive a payment 
holiday, a firm should grant a customer a payment holiday for 3 monthly payments, unless it 
can demonstrate it is reasonable and, in the customers, best interest to do otherwise.
From what I have seen this is what happened here, and although I understand Mr H & Miss 
H chose not to accept the payment deferral offer, for their own reasons, thats not to say 
Halifax were obliged to then change the terms of its mortgage agreement with them. I 
havent seen any evidence to suggest Halifax treated Mr H & Miss H any differently to any 
other of its customers in the same circumstances here, and I am satisfied it acted upon the 
guidance given by the FCA. 
Its not my role, even with the backdrop of the pandemic and the challenges that presented, 
to tell Halifax or any bank, that they must change the terms of its mortgage agreements 
entered into by its customers. I am satisfied it would be unreasonable to expect Halifax to 
agree to reduce Mr H & Miss Hs fixed interest rate, because of their individual 
circumstances, or as a result of the pandemic. What I would expect to see is Halifax offering 
to make reasonable adjustments and to provide some financial support for an agreed period 
of time, and I am satisfied this is what happened here. From the information I have seen, the 
fixed rate mortgage has an early repayment charge detailed in the mortgage agreement, 
entered into by Mr H & Miss H. This was part of the mortgage agreement terms and 
conditions Mr H & Miss H had recently agreed to. Whilst I appreciate Mr H and Miss Hs 
circumstances changed after theyd agreed to those terms, Im not persuaded it would be 
reasonable to expect Halifax to waive that charge because Mr H wasnt happy with the 
forbearance that Halifax offered.While Mr H & Miss H may not agree, I cant see any evidence to say that Halifaxs offer of a 
payment deferral was simply an attempt by it, to improve its profits, as Mr H suggests. From 
what I have seen, Halifax were trying to help take some pressure off the next few months 
mortgage payments due from Mr H & Miss H, which is what I would expect to see in the 
circumstances here. 
While Mr H & Miss H will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of 
Halifax. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Miss H 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 October 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman