DRN-3167647
The complaint
Ms S complained that 1Plus1 Loans Limited lent to her irresponsibly and provided her with 
an unaffordable loan.
What happened
Ms S was given a loan by 1Plus1 as follows: 
Date taken Loan status Number of monthly 
instalmentsLoan 
amountMonthly  
repayment*Total 
payable 
19th August 
2019Outstanding 60 £4,250 £162.04 £9,722.40
One of our investigators reviewed Ms Ss complaint. He said it didnt look to him like Ms S 
had a reasonable level of disposable income left once all of her bills, credit commitments 
and regular monthly outgoings were taken into account and 1Plus1 hadnt allowed properly 
for all the usual spending Ms S actually incurred each month. So he felt that the loan was 
unaffordable for Ms S and he didnt think that 1Plus1 shouldve provided it. Our investigator 
set out the steps that he felt 1Plus1 needed to take to put things right. 
1Plus1 disagreed with our investigators view. In summary, it mainly said that our 
investigator hadnt properly explained what a reasonable amount of disposable income 
would be for Ms S. It also said that a detailed review of Ms Ss bank statements showed she 
spent a significant amount on non-essentials and that it expected Ms S to pay her credit 
commitments before using her money for discretionary spending. 
As the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint. I have also taken into consideration 
regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time. 
Id like to reassure 1Plus1 that Ive looked at the complaint afresh  and Ive independently 
reached the same conclusions as our investigator and I am upholding Ms Ss complaint for 
broadly the same reasons. Ill explain in more detail why I say this.
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Ms Ss complaint. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include 
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. And its important to keep in mind that, when working out affordability, a lender 
must take a borrower focussed approach and think carefully about the impact of the lending 
on the customer. The lending decision shouldnt only be about the business risk to the lender 
of not getting its money back. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the 
borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender 
shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems for a borrower 
who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
Ive kept all these things in mind when thinking about this complaint.
1Plus1 asked Ms S about her income and expenses, it carried out credit checks and looked 
at her bank statements. It did electronic checks to verify her pay and her bank account and 
also relied on statistical information to compare Ms Ss income and expenditure against 
national data showing typical spending for someone in the same situation.
1Plus1 recorded a figure of £2,363 net salary per month and after doing its own background 
checks, it boosted the amount of Ms Ss expenditure  and this led to 1Plus1 reducing the 
amount it was prepared to lend to Ms S. But the assessment done by 1Plus1 suggested that 
this loan amount potentially looked affordable for Ms S. 
When looking at what she could afford, it worked out that Ms S should still have more than 
£302 in disposable income bearing in mind her income and what she would be paying out to 
cover non-discretionary costs including utility bills, existing credit commitments, phone, food 
and clothing etc. It also included an extra £200 emergency buffer to allow for variation in 
spending or income. So 1Plus1 felt that the monthly repayments of £162.04 for this loan 
were affordable for Ms S.But I dont think 1Plus1 thought carefully enough about what the information it had gathered 
showed about Ms Ss overall financial situation and the likelihood of her being able to pay its 
loan in a sustainable manner. And I dont think 1Plus1 made a fair lending decision when it 
lent to Ms S based on the information it had gathered.
I say this because 1Plus1 had information showing that Ms S was already paying at least six 
other providers of high cost short-term and unsecured loans in the months running up to this 
loan application. Bearing in mind that Ms S had said she didnt pay anything towards 
rent/mortgage, council tax, water or home insurance, I think 1Plus1 should have realised that 
there was no obvious explanation why someone with the level of income it had established 
that Ms S received should apparently need to rely to this extent on using expensive credit.
Like our investigator, I think this credit history strongly suggested that Ms Ss finances were, 
in actual fact, under significant stress and that the reality of her situation was that this 
additional debt would be unmanageable for her.
I dont think that anything Ms S told 1Plus1 in support of her application was sufficient to 
explain her evident reliance on using high cost credit. And whilst Ive carefully taken into 
account what 1Plus1 has said about the level of Ms Ss discretionary spending, this doesnt 
affect my overall view. If 1Plus1 had factored into its affordability calculations the amounts it 
saw Ms S was actually spending out of her account each month its affordability calculations 
wouldve resulted in Ms S having no disposable income left. I dont think the £200 buffer was 
enough to offset this. 
I think it was clear that the loan was only going to be affordable for Ms S if she substantially 
changed her established spending habits and kept this up for the next five years. But her 
credit history suggested a reliance on borrowing to support day to day spending and this 
pattern of lending did not provide any reasonable reassurance that Ms S was likely to make 
long term cutbacks on non-essential spending in order to make her new loan monthly 
repayments. 
I think 1Plus1 was able to see that Ms Ss credit report showed that she had a long track 
record of extensive reliance on expensive credit. I think 1Plus1 shouldve realised that it 
looked like Ms S was living beyond her means and supplementing her income with credit to 
fund her day to day spending. I think all the signs were that this loan looked like part of an 
ongoing pattern of funding in order to enable Ms S to continue her normal monthly spending 
habits. And the overall picture was of someone persistently reliant on expensive credit 
and unable to afford the cost of her debt.
Ms S had told 1Plus1 that she intended to use this loan for debt consolidation  in other 
words, to pay off other debt. But the loan it provided doesnt seem to be sufficient to enable 
her to repay all the debt she mentioned to 1Plus1. And the loan was paid to Ms S which 
meant that the lender wasnt in control of making sure any of the other loans were paid off. 
So, 1Plus1 couldnt have been sure it wasnt putting Ms S in a worse position by increasing 
her overall debts. And in any event, even if some other credit was repaid using the loan, 
I think the scale of her debts and the extent of her evident money problems, compared to the 
smaller value of the loan, would suggest that Ms S would remain in serious financial trouble 
regardless. 
So for all these reasons, I cant reasonably say that 1Plus1 made a fair lending decision 
based on the information in front of it and I dont think it should have agreed to provide this 
loan to Ms S.In coming to my decision Ive thought carefully about everything 1Plus1 has said, including 
its detailed responses to our investigators view. I appreciate the time 1Plus1 has spent 
setting out its position in some detail. I acknowledge that 1Plus1 has taken a different view to 
me and if I have not referred to each point raised its because I have nothing further I can 
usefully add to what our investigator has said already. I have concentrated on what 
I consider to be the main points that affect the outcome of this complaint. 
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for 1Plus1 but I hope that setting things 
out as I've done helps to explain how I've reached my conclusions. 
As Ms S has been further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on a loan 
that she shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that she has lost out as a result 
of what 1Plus1 did wrong. 
So, I think 1Plus1 needs to put things right.
Putting things right
Our investigator didnt recommend that 1Plus1 should pay any additional redress. Ms S 
hasnt commented on that and I havent seen anything which makes me think 1Plus1 acted 
unfairly towards Ms S in any other way. So Im not awarding any additional redress. 
And I think it is fair and reasonable for Ms S to repay the principal amount that she 
borrowed, because she had the benefit of that lending. 
But she has been charged extra for a loan that should not have been provided to her. 
In line with this Services approach, Ms S shouldnt repay more than the capital amount she 
borrowed. 
If 1Plus1 has sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then take 
the following steps. 
Otherwise, 1Plus1 should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined 
below and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Ms S received as a result of having been given this 
loan. The repayments Ms S made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Ms S having paid more than she received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then 1Plus1 should attempt to arrange an 
affordable/suitable payment plan with Ms S, keeping in mind the need to treat her 
positively and sympathetically if she still needs further time to pay.
remove any negative information recorded on Ms Ss credit file regarding this loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 1Plus1 to deduct tax from this interest. 1Plus1 should 
give Ms S a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Ms Ss complaint and direct 1Plus1 Loans Limited to put things right as set out 
above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman