DRN-2461154
The complaint
Mrs W complains that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited trading as 
Scottish Provident, wrongly cancelled her unemployment cover from her term assurance 
policy. All references to Scottish Provident will include Royal London.
What happened
In June 2013 Mrs W took out a term assurance policy that included unemployment cover 
(the benefit). In March 2020, Scottish Provident wrote to all policyholders, including Mrs W, 
giving them 90 days notice that the benefit was being cancelled from their policies. In short, 
Scottish Provident said the underwriter was no longer providing the benefit so it was being 
withdrawn from the policies.
Mrs W complained. She didnt think Scottish Provident made her aware that the benefit was 
underwritten by another business. She said the sole reason for taking out the policy was that 
it came with unemployment cover.
Scottish Provident responded reiterating what it had said in its initial notice. It explained the 
cancellation was done in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. And that when the 
underwriter decided to place its business in orderly run off, the benefit was withdrawn. 
Scottish Provident said in recognition of this coming at a difficult time for customers such as 
Mrs W, notably because of the effects of Covid-19 crisis, if a valid claim was made up to the 
end of 2020, it would honour it.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In brief, she considered Scottish Provident had 
acted in line with the terms of the policy and made these reasonably clear to Mrs W. 
Mrs W disagreed and asked for the matter to be passed to an ombudsman for a decision. In 
summary, she made the following points:
The policy was unsuitable for her;
She didnt receive all the documents referred to by our investigator  the ones she 
did receive, didnt refer to the issues that led to her complaint; 
Scottish Provident shouldnt be able to rely on the terms and conditions as the benefit 
was a guaranteed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I'm very aware that I've summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and I've 
done so using my own words. I'm not going to respond to every single point made by all the 
parties involved - no discourtesy is intended by this. Instead I've focused on what I think are 
the key issues here. I'll also mention at this stage that where there's a dispute about what 
happened I've based my decision on the balance of probabilities. In other words, on what I 
consider is most likely to have happened in light of the evidence.
As our investigator pointed out to Mrs W, the policy she purchased was bought through a 
broker. This business under which the broker operated, no longer exists. The broker would 
have been responsible for establishing whether the policy sold to Mrs W was suitable for her 
needs. So I cant hold Scottish Provident responsible for the sale of the policy or the advice 
in terms of whether it was suitable for Mrs W. What I can consider is whether Scottish 
Providents documents about the policy, were clear and not misleading.
The starting point for this complaint is the terms and conditions of the policy which, amongst 
other things, says:
 
The [unemployment] benefit is underwritten by the insurance provider. If the insurance 
provider ceases to offer this benefit and/ or is changed by us, we can withdraw or change 
the policy provision and the policy benefit schedule for this benefit in such manner as we 
deem appropriate in the circumstances. 
This section of the Policy Benefit Schedule went on to say that if the benefit was withdrawn, 
the customer would be given 90-days notice. And this is what happened in Mrs Ws case. 
All in all, I think Scottish Providents documents were clear and not misleading. Notably, the 
policy schedule made it reasonably clear to Mrs W, that the benefit would be provided by a 
different company and that it could be withdrawn with 90 days notice.  It should be noted the 
name of the underwriter changed in 2015. And the name that appeared on Mrs Ws 
documents, was the name of its managing general agent. But the important point is, Mrs W 
was made aware of the benefit being underwritten by a provider other than Scottish 
Provident. She was also made aware of the cancellation terms. I think Scottish Provident 
have acted fairly and reasonably in this regard.
In any event, Im not persuaded that if Mrs W was told the benefit was underwritten by 
another business, this would have changed her mind about taking out the policy. I appreciate 
with hindsight knowing the issues that arose, Mrs W may consider shed not buy this 
particular policy. But the issues werent known at the time of sale. Its not unusual for most 
insurance policies to be underwritten by a business other than the policy provider. It was for 
Mrs Ws broker to decide whether the policy was suitable for her knowing this information.
I can also see that Scottish Provident did say it would provide cover for the remainder of 
2020 given the impact of Covid-19 crisis. This gave Mrs W a further six months of cover 
beyond the 90-day notice period. I think this is fair. Mrs W says this extension wasnt 
relevant to her particular situation and shell find it more difficult to get this type of insurance 
as she gets older. I appreciate the difficult position Mrs W is in, but I think Scottish Provident 
have acted fairly in the circumstances.
Mrs W points out that the policy was sold as both a guaranteed and long-term cover. 
Scottish Provident recognise theres only certain conditions under which long-term policies 
can be cancelled. But I can see the underwriter was acting under the supervision of its 
regulator and the decision had been agreed by its board. Further, as Ive said, the policy did 
allow for the benefit to be withdrawn at any point as long as 90 days notice was given. In all 
these circumstances, Im satisfied the cancellation was carried out fairly.
Mrs W says she wasnt provided with all the policy documents referred to by our investigator, 
in particular, the policy schedule. But I can see from Scottish Providents letter dated 
11 June 2013 the Plan Documents were sent to Mrs Ws broker at the start of the policy. On 
the same date she was sent these documents to her home address. Scottish Provident has 
confirmed this was Mrs Ws previous address. And that Mrs W didnt update this until 2017. So I think its more likely than not, that at the time of sale, Mrs W was sent and received the 
policy documents either via her old address and/ or her broker.
I know Mrs W has asked for a refund of her premiums. But given she was provided with 
cover up to, and beyond, the 90-day cancellation notice period, I cant fairly ask Scottish 
Provident to do this. 
For all these reasons, whilst I appreciate Mrs W will be disappointed with this outcome, Im 
not upholding the complaint.
My final decision
Im not upholding the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman