DRN-3312559
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc closed his bank account.
Whats happened?
In summary, Mr T has said that:
his HSBC bank account was closed without notice, and hes been unable to open an 
alternative account with a different provider.
HSBC wouldnt let him withdraw his salary from his account whilst it was in the 
process of closing it, leaving him struggling to pay his bills.
HSBC says that it made the decision to terminate its banking relationship with Mr T after 
reviewing his account. His account was closed on 1 June 2021.
What did our investigator say?
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. She was satisfied that his account had been 
closed in line with the relevant terms and conditions.
Mr T asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. In summary, he said that:
HSBC has made a poor decision.
he cant get another bank account, or take out any contracts or finance.
he deserves to be given a reason for the account closure.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is my role to decide whether a business error has occurred and, if it has, what the business 
should do to put things right.
I can see that HSBC wrote to Mr T on 21 May 2021 to let him know that it had carried out a 
security check and it was in the process of closing his accounts with immediate effect, in line 
with the account terms and conditions. It said that it would send any credit balance on the 
account to him separately and, if he would like further information, he could contact CIFAS  
the national fraud database.
Contemporaneous call notes show that when Mr T contacted HSBC to query whether he 
could withdraw his salary from the account, he was told that he could do so by visiting a 
branch with valid identification documents.
Records show that Mr Ts account was closed on 1 June 2021. On 2 June 2021, HSBC 
wrote to Mr T enclosing a cheque for the credit balance on the account at the point of 
closure.
Under the terms and conditions of Mr Ts account, HSBC is entitled to close accounts 
without notice in certain situations. I understand that Mr T would like to know why his 
account was closed but HSBC isnt required to give him its reasons and I cant fairly require 
it to do so. I can however confirm, from the information HSBC has provided this Service with, 
that Im satisfied Mr Ts account wasnt closed unfairly or unreasonably. As HSBC has 
previously advised, Mr T can contact CIFAS if he would like further information.
Im pleased to see that HSBC offered Mr T a means of accessing his salary without waiting 
for it to send the credit balance on his account when he contacted it in this regard.
Overall, although I understand that this matter has left Mr T in a difficult situation in terms of 
access to banking facilities, Im not persuaded that HSBC has made an error on this 
occasion. So, I wont be upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman