DRN-3135986
The complaint
R, a limited company, complains that Funding Circle Ltd is taking a direct debit payment for 
a loan repayment earlier than its agreed to.
What happened
R arranged loan finance through Funding Circle in 2017. Its monthly payments have been 
due on the thirteenth of each month based on the payment schedule. But it noticed that 
these were being taken up to nine days early from its bank account. 
Funding Circle said it hadnt made any mistake. In line with the terms of the agreement it has 
asked its bank to collect the money to be available on the eighth of the month. And 
sometimes if that falls on a Bank Holiday or weekend its payment is delayed to the next 
working day. It said that the banking arrangements of R may account for it being taken a day 
earlier from its account. Funding Circle said that if it collected the funds later this may result 
in them being received and distributed late. It said that R could arrange a standing order for 
a specific date as an alternative. It offered to pay R £50 as a gesture of goodwill.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld, and that Funding Circle do 
anything further than it had offered to. He said that the loan agreement stated that:
The repayment amount due will be collected by direct debit up to five days before the date 
specified in the Payment Schedule in order to ensure that funds are received and distributed
to Investors by the date specified.
He said that R and Funding Circle both had two identified financial businesses involved in 
their banking. This may account for payments taken earlier from Rs bank account. But he 
didnt think that Funding Circle had done anything wrong. It had shown that it had received 
the payments at the earliest on the eighth of the month and for example in May 2021 as the 
eighth was a Saturday it was received on 10 May 2021. And he couldnt consider what 
those other businesses had done. A reasonable alternative had been offered.
R didnt agree and wanted the complaint to be reviewed. It provided comments from its bank 
which said that Funding Circle was looking to and did get value on the eighth of the month 
at the earliest between say October 2021 and January 2022. This was Day three of the 
direct debit process and this means they must start claiming on Day one. And that process 
only counted business days. Its bank told it that the fact it cleared payments through a 
different financial business should have no impact. R said that if the money was being taken 
early this should be accounted for in the interest it was being charged. R said that Funding 
Circle should take responsibility for its actions. It had given a factually incorrect excuse. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that R has shown that payments have been taken from its bank account earlier 
than the eighth of the month. And that Funding Circle has shown that it hasnt been receiving 
those payments until the eighth of the month at the earliest. 
Funding Circle has asked the business that collects its direct debits to do so for the eighth of 
the month. It uses the same process for other customers. And I dont think it can control 
what that independent business does. It hasnt been benefitting from having the money 
earlier than the agreement. So, I dont think its reasonable for me to find it has been acting 
outside its agreement with R. I also dont think its attempt to explain what was happening 
was other than a genuine one although I know its strongly objected to by R. I dont consider 
there is a reasonable basis for it to compensate R for any lost interest.
I note that R has calculated its loss by taking the element of each monthly payment thats 
interest, dividing this by the number of days in the month and then multiplying that by the 
number of days the payment is taken early from its account. For context even if I was to 
have found that it should be compensated I wouldnt have agreed with the basis for such a 
calculation. The monthly payment is £5,695.89. If I considered that at the interest rate on the 
loan of 10.5% per annum then the daily impact would be £1.64 (£5,695.89 *10.5 per cent 
divided by 365 days in a year). I appreciate that the interest R might be paying on any 
overdraft could be higher. 
Funding Circle has offered R a means of avoiding making payments so early by setting up a 
standing order. That would have been a viable way of making these equal monthly payments 
and would be a variation to the normal payment arrangement. I think that this and a payment 
of £50 was a reasonable offer to resolve things.
I appreciate R wont be satisfied with the outcome.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint on the basis that Funding Circle Ltd need 
do no more than it has already offered to do and which is to pay R £50 and to allow it to 
make payments by standing order if R chooses to.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman