DRN-1541238
The complaint
Mrs Is complaint is about her whole of life policy that she holds with The Royal London 
Mutual Insurance Society Limited. She says she is unhappy with the value of the policy, as it 
is significantly lower than the same policy held by her late husband. 
What happened
Mrs I took out the policy with The Royal Liver Friendly Society (Royal Liver). Royal London 
has since taken over operation of the policy.
The policy began in 1950. Mrs I paid a premium of 13.5 pence every four weeks. Mrs Is 
husband also took out the same policy at the same time, with a similar premium. The 
policies were non-profit whole of life policies.
Mrs I lodged her complaint in late 2018, after having recently discovered that her policys 
sum assured was £122.98  the total value of the premiums she had paid in to date. She 
said this was unreasonable, because when her husband passed away, his policy was worth 
over £1,000. Further, she was never told throughout the policy what the value actually was.
Royal London rejected the complaint in February 2019. It said Royal Liver stopped paying 
discretionary bonuses in 2011. Mr Is policy was paid out before this date and therefore had 
some bonuses attached. But, these were no longer offered and going forward were used to 
fund the cost of the cover. 
Mrs I referred her complaint to this service.
An investigator reviewed the complaint, but she didnt think it should succeed. She said she 
felt Royal London was not obliged to pay discretionary bonuses. She noted how Mr Is policy 
may have had a greater value 21 years previously, but since the only guaranteed return on 
the policy was the sum total of the premiums, she couldnt ask Royal London to do anything 
more.
Mrs I asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. She said she was sent the 
letter about discretionary bonuses but she didnt understand it. She felt if she had been 
made properly aware that the policy couldnt increase in value, she would have gone 
somewhere else whilst she was younger. She only checked the value of her policy now, 
because of anticipating any funeral costs she may have.
Royal London did not make any further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have reached the same outcome as our investigator and for much the same reasons.
I thank Mrs I for her patience whilst this matter has awaited assignment to an ombudsman. 
Im sorry that my decision will not be the answer she has hoped for. I have taken on board 
everything she has had to say.
I realise why Mrs I feels strongly about this matter, and it must be frustrating for her to realise 
that her policys sum assured is the value of the premiums she has paid from 1950 to now, 
and nothing more. But, my role is to decide if Royal London (and before that, Royal Liver) 
has acted unfairly or unreasonably in any way in providing the policy. And I dont believe it 
has done so.
Mrs I (quite understandably) thought her policy would have accumulated bonuses, because 
when a claim was made on her late husbands policy in the late 1990s, it paid out a sum 
greater than the total premiums he had paid. But Royal London has reasonably explained 
why her circumstances now differ from that of her late husband. That was because 
discretionary bonuses had been added to Mr Is policy.
Until 2011, Royal Liver added annual bonuses. And so, if at a policys maturity date or at the 
time of a death claim there were excess assets assigned to the policy, these would be paid 
alongside the guaranteed sum assured. But, it would not do so if there were no assigned 
bonuses, and these have dwindled in recent years before stopping altogether in 2011.
Having looked at Mrs Is policy documentation, it is clear that her policy is not a with profits 
policy. It is a guaranteed policy insofar as the sum assured will be equal to the total 
premiums paid in by Mrs I. But it does not have the same guarantee for bonuses. This 
means that it will not accumulate bonuses or profits on the basis that these cannot be 
withdrawn from the policy.
To the contrary, any bonuses, which might have been previously added, were discretionary. 
And as Royal Liver explained, it stopped adding these bonuses in 2011. Mrs I received this 
letter at the time. I realise she didnt appreciate what it meant, but I do think the explanation 
about the type of policy she has was clear. It said:
If your policy/ies were started prior to January 1994* the policy/ies are classed as 
non-profit. This means that the amount payable on death or maturity is the sum 
assured stated on the policy document, and there is no entitlement for the policies to 
receive bonuses.
Unfortunately, the decision of Royal Liver isnt something I can overturn  I cannot require a 
business to pay bonuses or act in a way that goes beyond the policy terms. I need to look at 
if it has acted fairly in accordance with the terms, and I believe Royal London (and Royal 
Liver before it) has done so.
Though I can see why Mrs I is unhappy, Royal London has given a reasonable expectation 
for the difference in Mrs Is sum assured now and that of her late husbands policy some 
twenty years prior. It has also explained how current economic conditions have meant that it 
had to reduce the level of discretionary payments to non-profit policies, and this hadnt 
changed since 2011. 
And whilst I understand Mrs I feels it is unfair that any pay out for her policy will be 
significantly lower than Mr Is was, this is also down to the difference of the ongoing cost of 
providing the life cover, which becomes more expensive as a policyholder gets older. That is 
how insurance policies of this nature operate, and there is nothing inherently wrong with that. It simply cannot be known from the outset how long a policyholder may live, and therefore 
any accumulated bonuses which may have been discretionarily assigned in earlier years will 
(in the case of a policy that is not with profits) be used to sustain the cost of the cover in 
later years.
My final decision
Despite my sympathy for Mrs I, I can only uphold a complaint where I find a business to 
have acted unfairly or unreasonably in some way. And that isnt the case here. The valuation 
of her policy is correct, and Royal Londons explanation is a reasonable one. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2020.
Jo Storey
Ombudsman