DRN-4039093
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Fleet Mortgages Ltd havent been able to agree to a new fixed rate on 
his buy to let mortgage. The property requires an EWS1 form which Mr K doesnt have. He 
said hes provided Fleet information about the remedial work that is being done on the 
property, but they still wont accept it.
What happened
Mr K has a buy to let mortgage with Fleet which he took out in 2017. His fixed rate expired in 
December 2019, and he asked Fleet for another fixed rate. But he said his property has 
cladding so an EWS1 form is required but he doesnt have one  so Fleet wont allow him to 
secure a new rate. 
Mr K said he has provided Fleet with information to show the remediation work that is being 
done on it  but they still wont accept it. He said he has another property in the same 
building, and he has been able to secure a rate on that one with another lender so doesnt 
understand why Fleet wont allow him to do so. He said because of the cladding, he is 
unable to remortgage either. 
Fleet said they are unable to switch Mr Ks buy to let mortgage to a new fixed rate because 
the property has cladding and requires an EWS1 form. They said they cant just switch the 
mortgage over and it has to be done as a remortgage and it wont be considered without the 
EWS1 form.
Mr K disagreed so he brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service which was 
looked at by one of our investigators. She didnt uphold the complaint and said that Fleet are 
treating Mr K the same as any other customers in the same position and didnt think that 
Fleet were treating him unfairly.
Mr K was unhappy with this and made the following comments:
Following publication of the latest guidance from the Royal Institution of Chartered 
Surveyors (RICS) and the Building Safety Act 2022, covering the funding to 
remediate cladding on affected properties, on 9 January 2023 other lenders (which 
Mr K named), all decided to offer mortgages to owners of flats with cladding issues. 
He said these banks ended their requirement for EWS1 form to process applications 
for properties in England that are in buildings fives storeys or higher.
In light of the above, Fleet has so far failed to provide him with any reasons as to why 
he doesnt qualify for a fixed rate mortgage offered to owners like him by the other 
lenders. His understanding is that he does qualify for a mortgage with these banks. 
Mr K said the conduct of Fleet has left him in considerable financial and emotional distress 
as his monthly payments are increasing each month.
As Mr K disagreed with the investigator, he asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For completeness, Mr K commented that he feels the SVR that he is paying is extortionate, 
but the investigator made it clear this would need to be considered under a new complaint as 
it doesnt form part of this one  which is correct. So I wont be addressing this issue in my 
decision. 
The EWS1 form was introduced in collaboration between government, the mortgage industry 
and the surveying industry following the Grenfell Tower tragedy. The fire at Grenfell Tower 
led to concerns across the country about the possibility of combustible cladding and other 
fire safety issues  including balconies built on top of each other  which might allow fire to 
spread quickly through affected buildings.
The EWS1 process allows a qualified fire safety inspector to assess a buildings external 
wall system. The building will then be given a rating  showing that there are no fire safety 
risks, that there are issues but the risk is low, or that there are issues which are high enough 
risk to require remedial work. Obtaining an EWS1 form is the responsibility of the building 
owner/management company, not individual leaseholders, since the form covers the whole 
building. 
The EWS1 process was designed, among other things, to give mortgage lenders enough 
information to decide whether a building presented a particular fire safety risk. Lenders will 
only lend where the property which is subject to the mortgage is good security for the loan  
and if theres a fire safety risk, it might not be good security. Thats because of the higher 
risk of damage to the property, and also a greater likelihood that it wont be able to be sold.
General guidance to surveyors and valuers from their professional body is that an EWS1 will 
be required where there are potential cladding or other issues and the building is six storeys 
or higher. And that an EWS1 may be required for smaller buildings too, if there are grounds 
for considering theres a risk that needs to be assessed. 
In common with other lenders, Fleet took these issues into account in setting their lending 
criteria for lending mortgages on properties in blocks of flats and similar buildings. Their 
instructions to valuers say that they require an EWS1 on smaller buildings where the building 
has potential combustible cladding or balconies. And they will only lend where there is an 
EWS1, and where the EWS1 shows theres no risk or need for remediation work. 
Mr Ks mortgage is a buy to let and so is unregulated. The rules and expectations 
surrounding these mortgages are very different to those who have a residential mortgage. 
So I have to consider whether Fleet treated him fairly in the circumstances of this complaint.
Fleet operate differently to other lenders. They have to borrow money to lend and use 
different lenders in order to do this. So switching a mortgage rate isnt as simple as it may 
seem. Fleet do not offer new interest rates and they can only take new applications as the 
lenders they use are different to those they used in the past. Those lenders have to be 
happy with the property and due to the cladding issues  this makes it more difficult. 
Mr K has mentioned that other lenders have removed their requirement for an EWS1, and I 
understand that he has another property in the same building which he has been able to 
secure a rate on. However, we cant tell a business how to operate and its each business 
commercial decision to decide if they are willing to lend. The new guidance about accepting 
remedial work schedules to offer new interest rates is something that those other lenders 
have been willing to accept. Not all lenders have to agree to that  as Fleet havent here  
and thats not unreasonable. 
Fleet have their own process to follow, and other lenders processes will differ  which is why 
Mr K has been able to secure a mortgage on his other property  but this doesnt mean that 
Fleet have done something wrong.Mr Ks property is rated a B2  which means there is substantial risk requiring remediation. 
As Ive mentioned, other lenders may be willing to lend on properties like this one, but it 
doesnt mean that Fleet should do the same because of the way they fund their mortgages. 
Were not the regulator so we cant tell a business how to operate and its not for us to 
decide whether a business process is fair or not. We can only consider whether their 
process has been applied fairly in each situation. Fleet doesnt offer new mortgage rates, 
only a new application because of the way they are funded  and this will apply to all 
customers who are in the same position as Mr K. So I cant say they have treated him any 
differently to how they would treat others in a similar position. 
I appreciate this puts Mr K in a very difficult position and I understand this is a very 
frustrating situation to be in. But Im satisfied that Fleet have treated Mr K fairly in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman