DRN-1585023
The complaint
Mr A has complained about Advent Insurance PCC Ltds decision to decline his claim under 
his short-term income protection insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A held a short-term income protection insurance policy with Advent. The policy, after a 
deferred period of six months and subject to certain conditions, would pay Mr A a weekly 
benefit for up to two years in the event that he was unable to perform his occupation due to 
illness or injury. 
In October 2018, Mr A stopped work to undergo an operation to replace his left hip. He later, 
and having still not returned to work, underwent an operation to replace his right hip. He 
made a claim under the policy.
After obtaining further medical information, Advent declined the claim. It noted that Mr A had 
required the operations because he suffered from osteoarthritis in his hips. It noted that he 
had first experienced this problem in March 2015. It pointed to a clause in the policy which 
said that benefit would not be paid if the incapacity didnt occur within 24 months of the 
illness or injury first presenting itself. It said Mr As claim was outside this timescale.
Mr A was unhappy at Advents decision. He referred his complaint to us. He said that his hip 
pain in 2015 had resolved after his GP gave him painkillers. He thought it was unfair that 
Advent should use this episode to decline his claim relating to his incapacity in 2018.
Our investigator ultimately recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. He noted 
that Mr A had been diagnosed with osteoarthritis in his hip in May 2015. He considered that 
Advent had acted fairly and in accordance with the policy terms when it declined the claim.
Mr A didnt accept the investigators findings. He said he couldnt have insisted on having the 
operation sooner just to comply with the policys 24-month deadline. He considered Advents 
decision was unfair
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy offers benefit if Mr A is unable to work due to illness or injury. However, the policy 
states:
We will not pay a claim for incapacity where the incapacity does not occur within 24 months 
of the illness or injury first presenting itself. This limitation will not be applied where you were 
placed on an NHS waiting list for surgery within the 24 month period but due to the 
involuntary wait (meaning the wait was not at your request), your incapacity occurs outside 
the 24 month period.
The medical evidence shows that Mr A underwent the operations on his hips because he 
was suffering from osteoarthritis.
However, the medical evidence also shows that Mr A visited his GP in March 2015 
complaining of hip pain. His GP certified him as possibly unfit to work for a period of about 
six weeks and referred him for an x-ray. The x-ray was undertaken in May 2015 and 
confirmed the diagnosis of osteoarthritis.
Mr A didnt return to his GP concerning his hip problem until September 2017 when he 
presented with a one week history of pain in the right hip. However, even though he hadnt 
needed to seek treatment for over two years, it doesnt alter the fact that his osteoarthritis 
had been present and diagnosed since 2015.
In view of this, I consider it was fair that Advent declined Mr As claim when he eventually 
became incapacitated due to the condition in October 2018.
Mr A has made the point that he couldnt have insisted on having his operation sooner 
simply to comply with the terms of the policy. This is true. But the policy takes account of 
NHS waiting lists so that the policyholder is not unfairly disadvantaged by these. However, 
there is no indication that Mr A sought, or needed, a hip replacement operation within 24 
months of first experiencing symptoms of his condition so I cant reasonably say that Advent 
has treated him unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2020. 
David Poley
Ombudsman