DRN-3029058
The complaint
Mr A complains about a number of mortgages a broker advised him to take out in 2004. This 
decision is about the capital and interest repayment mortgage. The other four mortgages are 
interest only mortgages, which are being considered under a separate complaint. Landmark 
Mortgages Limited (Landmark) is now responsible for the complaint about the repayment 
mortgage, despite the mortgage being sold by a different party originally. 
The mortgage was sold by a broker and Mr A has several concerns about the suitability of 
the advice he received from the broker. Mr A believes Landmark is responsible for that 
advice, as he believes the broker was an appointed agent for the original lender. 
Mr A is also concerned there mightve been an unfair relationship - due to the amount of 
undisclosed commission paid to the broker for arranging the mortgage.
What happened
In what follows, I have summarised events in rather less detail than theyve been presented,
using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by that; its a reflection of the informal
service we provide, and if I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll
be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint.
In 2004 Mr A wanted to buy a new home. Mr A appointed a mortgage broker and to raise 
capital for the deposit, the broker recommended Mr A take out interest only mortgages on 
four of his existing properties. Mr A was then advised to take a repayment mortgage for the 
new property. The product recommendation letter that the broker issued on 21 July 2004, 
amongst other things, said:
A Payment of less than £250 will be received from the lender for introducing this 
mortgage.
A Mortgage Application Form was completed for the repayment mortgage in July 2004, 
which said the broker was the intermediary who had introduced Mr A to the lender. This 
included the brokers Mortgage Code Compliance Board (MCCB) number (to prove he was 
registered under the Mortgage Code) and a P number [].
The lender issued three mortgage offers for the repayment mortgage and, amongst other 
things, they all said:
For the purposes of the Code of Mortgage Lending Practice, to which we subscribe, 
we have provided information on the particular mortgage product that either your 
mortgage intermediary has advised you to take or you have decided to take. We are 
not responsible for any advice given by the intermediary. As you have already 
chosen a mortgage, we have not provided information on other mortgage products. If 
you require any further information about your selected product you should contact 
us before completion of your loan takes place.
ln accordance with our current business terms, following completion of your loan we 
will make a single payment to your mortgage intermediary for helping us to arrange 
your mortgage.
The repayment mortgage funds were released on 27 September 2004 and it was settled and 
closed in December 2016.
In reply to Mr As complaint Landmark sent him a final response letter, which amongst other 
things, said: 
Due to the passage of time that has elapsed since you took out the mortgage, I am 
unable to establish as to how much commission was paid to the intermediary. 
However, I can confirm that this payment was made by [the original lender] and it 
was not added to your account. I am satisfied that in line with the regulatory 
guidelines applicable at the time you were clearly and unambiguously informed that 
we will make a single payment to your mortgage intermediary for helping us to 
arrange your mortgage. 
Mr A was not satisfied with Landmarks response and so raised the complaint with our 
service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr As complaint. They were satisfied there wasnt an agency 
relationship between Landmark (via the original lender) and the broker, and therefore 
Landmark wasnt responsible for the brokers mortgage advice. The investigator explained 
they felt the Mortgage Code had been adhered to at the time. The investigator also found 
that without knowing how much the commission was, they were unable to consider if the 
amount of commission needed to be disclosed to Mr A or if it resulted in an unfair 
relationship. 
Mr A disagreed with our investigators view saying he still thought the broker was an agent
of the original lender. He provided more documentary evidence including a Loan Summary 
and Authorisation Document, which said the broker was an intermediary, but that the 
brokers agent number was [].
This additional evidence didnt change the outcome of our investigators view, so as the 
complaint could not be resolved informally it has now been referred to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information is incomplete or perhaps contradictory, as it is in this case, I have 
reached my conclusions based on the balance of probabilities. As I said earlier, if I dont 
comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont 
think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider 
context.
Having considered all the parties have said and provided, I have not upheld this
complaint. I appreciate this decision will likely come as further disappointment to Mr A.
The complaint here relates to the sale of a mortgage in 2004. Landmark has explained that 
due to the amount of considerable time that has passed only limited information is available. 
It would, of course, have been easier if all records relating to these sales were available and presented for consideration. However, I think it would be unreasonable in the circumstances 
here to blame Landmark for not being able to present full records for the sale of the 
repayment mortgage. There are strict rules about retaining personal data of customers. So, I 
can understand why some of the information is no longer available, approximately 17 years 
later - especially as the mortgage was redeemed before the complaint was raised.
Was the broker an agent for the lender?
Mr A argues that Landmark is responsible for the advice he received from the broker and 
that advice was not suitable for him for several reasons. 
Landmark has explained the mortgage broker was not acting as its agent and has referred to 
documents indicating it is not responsible for any advice given by the broker. Mr A believes 
the Loan Summary and Authorisation Document suggests the broker was acting as an agent 
of the lender. 
The documentation between the broker and Mr A from the time of the sale refers to the 
brokers business name and that he is an independent mortgage broker. 
Having considered the documentation, along with the broader circumstances here, Im not 
persuaded the broker was acting as an agent for the lender. I think its more likely than not 
that the broker was appointed by Mr A and was acting as an independent mortgage broker, 
as indicated in the documentation between Mr A and the broker. Ive considered what Mr A 
has said and provided but this does not persuade me that the broker was acting as an agent 
of Landmark. 
Given the above, Im satisfied Landmark is not responsible for the advice given by the broker 
when advising Mr A. 
Undisclosed commission amount
Ive gone on to consider Mr As concerns about the amount of commission resulting from the 
sale of the repayment mortgage, not being disclosed to him and thereby potentially creating 
an unfair relationship. 
Documents from the time of the sale indicate the lender would pay the broker for helping to 
arrange the repayment mortgage and the payment would be less than £250. Ive not been 
provided with anything to show exactly how much that payment would be or confirmation 
that a payment was actually made. Landmark has indicated it no longer holds any records 
showing how much the payment (the commission) was. 
Considering the time thats passed, I dont think its unreasonable for Landmark to no longer 
have this information available. Mr A believes the undisclosed commission amounts to an 
unfair relationship under S140A Consumer Credit Act (CCA). In support of his arguments he 
has referred to a Court of Appeal judgement for Nelmes V NRAM PLC [2016] EWCA Civ 
491. However, to consider whether the payment of commission in this case is likely to have 
represented an unfair relationship under S140A Id need to see what the commission 
amount actually was. While I accept it is likely that a payment of commission was paid to the 
broker for arranging the mortgage, I havent been presented with anything that indicates 
what that amount actually was. I appreciate the documentation refers to a payment up to 
£250 but that does not however mean the payment was actually £250. 
Without knowing if any commission was paid, or what that amount was I cannot determine if 
there was actually any secret or undisclosed commission. To make a finding around there 
being an unfair relationship under S140A CCA, I would need to consider the amount of commission paid. But in the absence of any evidence demonstrating what level of 
commission was actually paid in this instance, I cannot conclude there was an unfair 
relationship. 
Ive also noted what Mr A says about section 10.3 of the Mortgage Code and that he feels 
this was not adhered to. This places certain requirements on the broker/intermediary 
arranging the mortgage and requires the lender to indicate if the intermediary is receiving a 
fee for arranging the mortgage. Mr A was informed at the time by the lender that the broker 
would be receiving a payment for arranging the mortgage. So, Im not persuaded the 
requirements of 10.3 werent met. 
My final decision
I am grateful for Mr A for taking the time to present this complaint and I appreciate his
patience while the complaint has been considered. The absence of documentation has not
been helpful, but this is because of the passage of time and not something Landmark can be
responsible for. From the information provided in this case I am not persuaded that 
Landmark acted unreasonably or unfairly when arranging the mortgage.
While again I appreciate Mr A will remain unhappy with the decision I have reached here, for
the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I have not upheld this complaint against
Landmark Mortgages Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Mark Hollands
Ombudsman