DRN-4172739
The complaint
Mr H complained about the service he received from Financial Administration Service 
Limited (trading as Fidelity). He said he was made to verify his identity when he didnt need 
to and been accused of committing identity fraud. Mr H said he should be compensated for 
this.
What happened
Mr H said he had received correspondence from Fidelity asking him to verify his identity. 
He said Fidelity harassed him to do this when he didnt need to. He said he believed it 
accused him of identity fraud. 
Mr H said he then provided a driving license and was told by Fidelity that he would 
receive a response within one working day, but this didnt happen. He believed Fidelity 
had committed a hate crime and was discriminating against him because of his 
disabilities, according to the Equality Act 2010. He said it took too long for Fidelity to 
answer his call and he was unable to use his account for six months until he provided 
his license, and this was party why he lost his job. Mr H complained to Fidelity about 
this. 
Fidelity replied and said it needed to verify Mr Hs identity because it didnt hold any identity 
documents on file for Mr H. It didnt think it had done anything wrong in asking for this. Mr H 
wasnt happy with Fidelitys response and made a complaint to our service. 
An investigator looked into Mr Hs complaint. He concluded after reading the letters sent by 
Fidelity, that it had done nothing wrong and there was no evidence to suggest it had 
harassed Mr H or accused him of identity fraud. He said Fidelity were obligated to confirm 
the identity of its customers under regulations and the terms and conditions of the product it 
was providing. He said Mr H couldve had access to his account at any time if he had 
provided the identification documents required. He didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Mr H didnt agree. He said all letters sent by Fidelity need to be looked at in detail as he 
believes it has stated he couldnt trade for a period or it has at least threatened that, until 
he spent time and stress providing new identification documents. He added there should 
be no requirement for disabled people to provide photo ID. He reiterated that fidelity had 
violated the Equality Act 2010. Mr H asked for an ombudsman review and so his 
complaint comes to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint. These are my findings that explain why:
Fidelity sent a letter to Mr H in January 2022 to Mr H, where it asked him to verify his 
identity. It asked him to send documentation to do this. It didnt receive a response 
to its request and sent a reminder letter in September 2022, where it explained it 
would place a hold on Mr Hs account if he didnt verify his account. 
Mr H says Fidelity harassed him into making him verify his identity when he feels he 
didnt need to. He has recently added that I should look at all the letters sent by 
Fidelity in detail, as he believes they have stated he couldnt trade on his account for 
a period, or at least given the threat that he wouldnt be able to, until he spent the 
time and stress doing what it asked.
I have looked at the letters sent by Fidelity to Mr H where it has asked him to verify 
his identity. In doing so, I dont agree that it has harassed Mr H or accused him of 
identity fraud. Fidelity has been clear in the letters sent to Mr H in January 2022 and 
again in September 2022 why it was writing to him, what it needed and by when. 
Having looked through what it sent to Mr H, I dont think it was excessive in how it 
communicated what it needed or what it said. 
Fidelity was looking to verify Mr Hs identity. It has explained this is because it didnt 
hold any documents on its system for him and it was looking to put this right so Mr H 
would be able to access his account without any problems going forward. It is 
mentioned in detail within the terms and conditions of Mr Hs account that Fidelity 
would need to ensure verification, the reasons why and how it would do this. So, I 
can see that this is what Fidelity was trying to achieve here. 
Mr H has complained that his account was restricted, and he has recently said he 
believes Fidelity said his account was restricted or threatened to do this. Fidelity has 
a responsibility to Mr H to protect his account. This would include it placing 
restrictions when it hasnt got the necessary verification it requires, as was the case 
here. This is something Mr H was able to do something about, by providing the 
documentation required at any stage from Fidelitys first letter sent in January 2022 
onwards. 
Mr H has said recently that there should be no requirement for disabled people to 
provide photo ID as this violates the Equality Act 2010. I can see that Fidelity has 
said it would accept alternative forms of identification and that Mr H would have 
needed to contact them if he had any issues with providing the documentation that 
he asked for. I can see that it has looked to verify Mr Hs account using a standard 
approach and would have been prepared to accept alternative forms of identification 
if it had been notified of any issues. So after reading this, I dont think it has acted 
unfairly to Mr H here.
Finally, Mr H has mentioned on a number of occasions that Fidelity has breached the 
Equality Act 2010. I have considered the Equality Act 2010 when deciding Mr Hs 
complaint. As an ombudsman, I do consider relevant law alongside regulations and 
good practice. But I am deciding overall what is fair and reasonable here in the 
individual circumstances of Mr Hs complaint. If Mr H thinks Fidelity has breached 
the Equality Act 2010 then this is a mater he would need to take to court. 
Looked at overall, I dont think Fidelity did anything wrong when it contacted Mr H to 
validate his identity and so I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman