DRN-1610210
 
The complaint
Mr O complains that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) unfairly voided his motor insurance 
policy and declined his claim. 
References to Ageas include its agents.
What happened
In February 2018, Mr O took out a motor insurance policy with Ageas through a price 
comparison website. The policy automatically renewed in February 2019. 
In April 2019, Mr O said his car was stolen so he claimed under his policy. Ageas asked him 
to send it some information to validate the claim. 
Ageas investigated the claim and decided to cancel the policy from the start (void it), decline 
the claim for theft and refund the premium Mr O had paid. Ultimately, it explained this was 
for two reasons:
1. It found out that Mr O had given incorrect information when taking out the policy as 
he failed to mention that hed previously had an insurance policy cancelled in 2016. 
Ageas said Mr O had made a careless misrepresentation about this and, if Mr O had 
told them about the previous cancelled policy, it wouldnt have offered him cover. 
2. Mr O failed to give it the necessary information to validate his claim when it 
discovered a discrepancy in the home address given on his application.
Mr O complained to Ageas about the length of time it had taken to consider his claim and the 
decision it made to void the policy and decline the claim. He says the following.
1. As far as he is aware, he told Ageas of the previous cancellation when he completed 
the initial application so he feels that its likely to be a computer error that this wasnt 
passed to Ageas. Alternatively, he says Ageas changed the information he gave on 
the price comparison site in order to get out of paying the claim. He also mentions 
that Ageas never contacted him to verify the discrepancies on the form.
2. He gave Ageas enough information to support his claim.
Ageas didnt uphold his complaint. Unhappy with this, Mr O brought his complaint to us. Our 
investigator looked into the matter but didnt think it should be upheld. 
Mr O doesnt agree. He says Ageas is running a scam  a corrupt strategydevised by the 
CEO of Ageas and his Sales Director - where it changes the details given to it in the 
application so that it can refuse to pay out claims. He wants this to be fully investigated by 
our service. To put things right, hed like his claim paid and hes seeking £350,000 as huge 
additional compensation for corrupt complaint handling and £350,000 as additional massive 
compensation for bad customer service and says the consequences of the Ageas scam will 
stay with him for the rest of his life. 
This matter has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks 
more likely to have happened in light of the evidence.
Although a number of matters and points have been raised, this decision focuses on what I 
think are the main issues. However, Ive given careful consideration to all of the submissions 
made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome here. So I dont uphold 
this complaint. Ill explain why.
As the investigator has explained, where a complaint arises from non-disclosure of 
information important to an insurer, we consider the appropriate legislation including The 
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). 
CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
taking out an insurance policy. It sets out several considerations for deciding whether the 
consumer failed to do this and, if it did, the options available to the insurer. The 
considerations include whether:
- the consumer took reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation.
- the information was important to the insurer and, if itd been given, would affect 
whether a policy was offered or its terms, known as a qualifying misrepresentation. 
If the policyholder made a qualifying misrepresentation without taking reasonable care then 
we consider whether they did so deliberately or recklessly, or carelessly.
Ive addressed each of these considerations in turn.
Did Mr O take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation?
Its important when looking at this to decide if the insurer asked a clear question when the 
policy was taken out. Mr O applied for his policy online and Ive seen the relevant questions. 
In particular, Mr O was asked during the application process whether any named driver 
on this policy had insurance declined, cancelled, voided or accepted on special terms?. I 
think this is a clear question and it was for Mr O to take reasonable care in answering it not 
to make a misrepresentation.
Mr O says he recalls putting the correct information into the site when he made the online 
application. Also, he says that the previous cancellation was on the no claims bonus (NCB) 
evidence he later sent to Ageas. So I think Mr O was reasonably aware that hed had a 
previous policy cancelled and understood what was being asked. 
Ageas says that, if Mr O had selected yes to the above question, the policy wouldnt have 
appeared as an option on the price comparisons website. Ageas has shown me through its 
underwriting criteria that it wouldnt have offered Mr O cover at all had it known about the 
previous cancellation. Therefore, it seems more likely that Mr O selected no when 
answering this question. So, I think Mr O was asked a clear question about previously cancelled insurance and he 
didnt take reasonable care not to misrepresent the facts when answering the question in 
2018 or when renewing in 2019. 
Ageas then sent Mr O his policy documents which included a Statement of Fact. This 
included the question about previous cancellations, and this was answered No. The 
covering letter asked Mr O to check the answers he gave during the application process. I 
cant see that Mr O corrected this at the time. On renewal in 2019, Ageas says it sent Mr O a 
Statement of Fact as it did the year before.
Mr O says he didnt receive this and therefore wasnt in a position to check the information 
he submitted. However, Ageas has evidence that this information was sent to him by a link 
to a secure portal and that the portal was accessed by Mr O on a number of occasions. So I 
think Mr C was given a further opportunity to check the information he provided was correct 
when he received his policy documents and on renewal. 
I note that Mr O says he sent a copy of his No Claims Discount (NCD) to Ageas which 
confirmed that hed had a previous insurance policy cancelled so Ageas was aware of the 
earlier cancelled policy in this way. Ive reviewed this document closely and I cant agree it 
shows or makes reference to the previous cancellation. There is some hand writing on the 
NCB which says cancelled with some dates above it. But this could be a reference to Mr O 
having cancelled the policy himself or something else entirely. So, I dont agree this fulfilled 
Mr Os obligation to answer the question he was asked with reasonable care when he 
applied for or renewed the policy. And I wouldnt expect Ageas to rely on this document in 
order to validate the cover. 
Under CIDRA, a customer is required to take reasonable care when answering the 
application questions. I cant say this happened here.
Did Mr O make a qualifying misrepresentation?
Ageas has given our service an extract from its underwriting guidelines that shows that it 
wouldnt have offered cover if Mr O had answered the question correctly. This means that 
whether Mr O had a previously cancelled insurance policy was information which was 
important to Ageas and wouldve changed whether the policy was offered to him.
So, under CIDRA, Mr O made a qualifying misrepresentation. 
Was the misrepresentation deliberate, reckless or careless?
As a result of making a qualifying misrepresentation when asked a clear question, I think 
Ageas was entitled to void the policy and decline the claim. 
However, whether the insurer can keep the premium depends on if the insurer decides the 
misrepresentation is careless, deliberate or reckless. If a deliberate or reckless 
misrepresentation was made, the insurer can void the policy and keep the premium even if it 
couldve offered a policy on different terms. If a misrepresentation isnt deliberate or reckless 
then its careless. With a careless misrepresentation, if the insurer can show it wouldnt have 
offered a policy, it can void the policy but should refund the premium unless a successful 
claim has already been made. 
Ageas decided that his misrepresentation had been careless. It has shown it wouldnt have 
offered a policy to Mr O and it has refunded his premium in full which I think was reasonable.
Summary Im satisfied from the information Ageas has provided that it correctly applied its underwriting 
criteria and it wouldnt have offered insurance to Mr O in 2018. So, I think it treated Mr O 
fairly and as it would any other customer in his circumstances. This means I think Ageas 
decision to void his policy from when he took out insurance with it in 2018 was reached 
reasonably and in line with CIDRA. And, as Mr Cs policy was cancelled as if it didnt exist, 
his theft claim isnt covered.
Mr O has said that he thinks Ageas has changed the information it holds in order to void the 
policy and get out of paying the claim. But I dont agree. I think its common for insurers to 
check policy details when a claim is made in order to validate the policy. I cant say that Mr O 
had made Ageas aware of the previous cancellation beforehand and  as Ive explained 
above - I accept that, if it had known about it, it wouldnt have offered him a policy. I havent 
seen any evidence of an insurance scam on the part of Ageas.
I note that issues have been raised about Mr Os address when he took out the policy and 
the automatic renewal of it in 2019. However, as Ive already found the policy was 
reasonably cancelled as though it had never been taken out and the premiums for 2018 and 
2019 have been refunded to him, this isnt something Im going to cover in this decision.
Customer service
Mr O is unhappy with the way the claim was handled. He says he gave it all the necessary 
documentation, but Ageas didnt accept this and delayed things. I dont see things quite the 
same. Im satisfied Ageas acted fairly and reasonably and in line with industry standards 
throughout this matter. I think it handled the claim and complaint reasonably, asking Mr O for 
the information it needed to assess the claim. Its not unreasonable that it took time to look 
into matters and assess the evidence Mr O gave it and I havent seen any evidence that 
Ageas unreasonably delayed matters.
I realise that Ageas decision to void Mr Os policy and refuse the claim is likely to have a 
significant impact on him and so my decision is likely to disappoint him, but I think Ageas has 
dealt with the situation reasonably and fairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2020.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman