DRN-3451828
The complaint
Ms S complains UK Insurance Limited T/as Churchill Car Insurance (UKI) unfairly declined 
her claim on her motor insurance policy.
There are several parties and representatives of UKI involved throughout the claim but for 
the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to UKI.
What happened
On 24 July 2021 when Ms S started the engine of her car, the airbags on both the driver and 
passenger side went off without warning. There was no impact as the car was stationary. No 
other vehicles were involved.
Ms S took her car to the main dealer. Ms S said the main dealer had said that water ingress 
had caused damage to the airbag control module and this had set off the airbags.
Ms S contacted UKI to make a claim on her motor insurance policy. She explained that her 
car had been in a previous non-fault accident in 2016 and work was undertaken at that time 
through an insurance claim on her motor insurance policy with UKI. There had also been a 
rear end collision in 2018 but no damage was sustained, and no repair work was required. 
Ms S said during the inspection undertaken by the main dealer she had selected, a number 
of issues of poor and substandard repair work were highlighted. Ms S said this had caused 
the water ingress and so this claim should be covered by UKI because there was a five-year 
warranty on this work.
UKI asked her to call the garage that had undertaken the repairs in 2016 directly to discuss 
this but it did not call her back as agreed. As nothing happened Ms S called UKI for an 
update and it organised for an engineer to inspect her car.
UKIs engineer inspected Ms Ss car and agreed the reason for the airbags going off was 
likely due to water ingress causing electrical damage. But said this was not caused by poor 
workmanship in 2016. Ms Ss claim was declined.
UKI agreed it had caused a delay when the garage did not call her back as expected and it 
had not kept her updated as it should. It sent £100 compensation for this. But it did not agree 
the water damage had happened as a result of poor workmanship from the repairs in 2016. 
It said the main dealer who had also carried out the inspection had agreed the same.  
After further consideration UKI acknowledged that some of the work completed in 2016 was 
not acceptable and offered £382.83 for the issue with the trim, overspray, and residue of 
broken glass.
As Ms S was not happy with UKIs response, she brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said another independent report is required to 
establish liability for the airbags being deployed and for a full assessment of the works 
conducted in 2016. He said if the inspection finds the water ingress was due to poor 
workmanship or missing repairs then UKI should look to cover the costs and also consider 
compensation for injury, and distress and inconvenience caused to Ms S. He said UKI 
should cover the costs of the independent report.
As both UKI and Ms S are unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been 
brought to me for a final decision to be made.
In my provisional decision I said
When looking at complaints relating to claims for damage to a vehicle, our service cant
determine how the damage occurred. Instead what we look at is the information the 
insurance company relied on to make their decision.
In this case the main dealer used by Ms S and UKI both come to the same conclusion that 
the most likely reason for the cause of the airbags going off was water ingress which caused 
electrical damage to the airbag control module. 
There is also agreement it is most likely the water came in through the soft-top convertible 
roof.
In the main dealers initial inspection of Ms Ss car it said we have identified that the roof on 
both sides is damaged which could be letting water into the body of the vehicle. Water is 
evident draining from the sill on the drivers side when the door is opened. It did not confirm 
this was due to poor workmanship in 2016.
As part of the additional investigation by the main dealer, it was highlighted that some of the 
repair work completed in 2016 was of a poor standard. UKI agreed the issue with the sill 
trim, overspray, and removal of broken glass should be covered and offered Ms S £382.83 
to complete this work. 
UKIs engineer conducted an inspection of Ms Ss car after the airbags had deployed and 
before any repairs had been undertaken. It said there was clear evidence of water ingress 
prior to the accident. It said it was not due to poor repair works in 2016. It added that 
damage to convertible car roofs is a common problem facing this make of convertible car.
UKI do not accept water ingress from the soft-top roof is related to the accident in 2016 and 
maintain this is due to the customer failing to repair this area of wear and tear which has 
caused the water to ingress over time. 
UKI further pointed out that pictures show the damage sustained to the right-hand side in 
2016 was some considerable distance from the soft-top. UKI said there was also evidence 
of repairs to the roof by non-standard methods. It said it did not carry out this work in 2016 or 
at any other time.
Ms S confirmed there had also been a rear end collision in 2018. She said that no damage 
was sustained, and no repair work was required. She said no repair work had taken place to 
the car roof since the accident in 2016.
Ms S maintains the reason for the water ingress is due to incomplete and poor repair work 
undertaken by UKI in 2016. She said the key consideration is that UKI should have 
inspected the roof following the accident in 2016, given the car is a convertible.
There is a clear difference of opinion between Ms S and UKIs engineers as to who is 
responsible for the damage to the car which allowed the water ingress.As there is a difference of opinion as to the cause of the damage to the car roof, I 
understand why our investigator suggested an independent inspection. But both Ms S and 
UKI did not accept this as the way forward in this case. 
Ms S said that an independent investigation is no longer viable because she has already had 
the airbag system replaced and repairs undertaken. And UKI said it could see no benefit in 
any further inspections. It had already offered to inspect the failed part, but as this had 
already been repaired and disposed of by Ms S it was unable to do so. 
Ms S said she could not wait any longer for a response from UKI so she organised for the 
car to be repaired in September 2021 so that it could pass its MOT and so she could use it. I 
understand that she needed her car to attend hospital appointments. 
I dont think a further inspection of the car would resolve this case. My reasons for this are 
There is no damaged airbag control module to inspect, so it isnt possible to prove 
liability of it being deployed.
A key point from Ms S in this complaint is a lack of inspection in 2016 and work not 
being carried out to the soft-top roof at that time. An inspection now could not resolve 
this with certainty as there has been a further collision to the car in 2018. 
I have considered the details of the inspection findings of both UKI and the independent 
main dealer. The findings of UKIs engineers show the site of the impact in 2016 was not 
near to the roof and so could not have caused damage to the soft-top roof. And the main 
dealers report said; the roof on both sides is damaged which could be letting water into the 
body of the vehicle.
Therefore, I intend not to uphold Ms Ss complaint and do not require UKI to do anything 
further.
I understand that Ms S will be disappointed with my intended decision. I can assure her that I 
have taken her complaint very seriously as I realise that this matter has caused her distress 
and a significant financial loss. But after considering all the evidence provided, I am satisfied 
the water ingress to the car cannot be apportioned to the lack of work undertaken in 2016 by 
UKI with any certainty. And is therefore not covered under Ms Ss motor insurance policy.
Responses to my provisional decision
Ms S responded to say.
Although the car has been repaired the airbag control module is available and can be 
provided. She does not understand what additional evidence we are looking to obtain 
from inspecting it.
Evidence of the damage to the side roof panel in 2016 has been provided and this shows 
the damage to the roof is unrelated to the collision in 2018.
The evidence provided of the poor repair work shows water might also have leaked from 
the right hand side door which would explain the concentration of the water damage on 
this side of the car.
The provisional decision does not give an opinion if the compensation offered for the 
poor repair work was sufficient and if a courtesy car should have been provided.
UKI responded to say it had no further comments to make at this stage.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to Ms Ss comments
Ms S has now said she can provide the removed airbag control module. However, I said in 
my provisional decision that there would be nothing to be gained from an inspection of the 
airbag control module as both Ms Ss and UKIs experts agree that the most likely cause of 
the airbags going off without warning was due to water ingress. 
I agree that Ms S provided a picture of damage from 2016 and this included a picture of the 
side panel and door to the right hand side but this does not confirm this was where the leak 
that caused the damage to the airbag control module came from. The evidence from both 
experts did not confirm this is the specific area where the water ingress happened. The main 
dealer said there was damage on both sides of the roof.
I think UKIs offer of £382.83 for the issue with the trim, overspray, and residue of broken 
glass was reasonable. In the terms of the policy UKI are required to provide a courtesy car if 
the claim is accepted. In this case UKI did not accept Ms Ss claim and so were not required 
to provide one.
As I said in my provisional decision when looking at complaints relating to claims for damage 
to a vehicle, our service cant determine how the damage occurred. Instead what we look at 
is the information the insurance company relied on to make their decision.
After looking at the evidence again alongside Ms Ss response to my provisional decision, I 
dont think any new evidence has been provided that requires me to change my decision. I 
still think after considering both experts reports, there is no conclusive evidence to confirm 
that poor repairs in 2016 were the cause of the leak that caused the airbags to go off without 
warning five years later.
I understand that Ms S will be disappointed with my decision, but based on the evidence Ive 
reviewed, I maintain my provisional decision and I do not uphold Ms Ss complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman