DRN-3165226
The complaint
Mr W and Miss A complain that BCR Legal Group Limited (BCR) provided a structural 
building warranty with their new home through an insurer who later collapsed and didnt 
provide a replacement warranty.
What happened
Mr W and Miss A bought a flat that was part of a building that came with a ten-year structural 
warranty. This was provided by BCRs appointed representative, who I will refer to as C. The 
warranty was with an insurer I will refer to as A. In 2018, A was declared bankrupt and all its 
policies were terminated. 
Mr W, Miss A and other residents of the building applied for a refund of the warranty 
premiums through the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). However, they 
only received small amounts, which werent enough to cover the cost of a new warranty.
Mr W and Miss A made a complaint to BCR. They said BCR should have provided an 
alternative warranty when A collapsed. They also said they thought BCR ought to have been 
aware of As financial position when it sold the warranty, and therefore acted irresponsibly. 
And they thought BCR should have made all policyholders aware of the full cost of the 
warranty, including what proportion was made up of the premiums. 
BCR didnt uphold Mr W and Miss As complaint. It said C sold the policy to the developer of 
the building, so Mr W and Miss A werent eligible to make a complaint about a mis-sale as 
they hadnt been involved in the sale. Further, it said that because C was acting as an agent 
of A, a complaint couldnt be brought to this service against BCR.
Mr W and Miss A didnt think this was right and approached our service. Our investigator 
thought we did have the authority to look into the complaint. She said she was satisfied that 
C was working as an appointed representative of BCR and that it was carrying out regulated 
activities. So, we could consider Mr W and Miss As complaint about the warranty for their 
flat.
She went on to consider the merits of the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. She 
said when the policy was set up the developer paid C to set up the arrangement and carry 
out all the necessary surveys, which is what it did. And as C wasnt responsible for the 
collapse of A, she didnt think it had done anything wrong. She also said that as the sale was 
between C and the developer, she couldnt consider information given at the point of sale as 
this hadnt involved Mr W and Miss A. Further, she said she was satisfied that C carried out 
the required checks before providing policies with A, and didnt think it could have 
reasonably foreseen that it would collapse at the time it sold the warranty to the developer.
Mr W and Miss A didnt agree. They said they thought BCR ought to have known that A were 
in financial trouble when it sold the policy to the developer. And as they were a beneficiary of 
the policy, it follows that they should be able to complain about the sale of a policy that 
impacts them. They asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our jurisdiction
BCR says our service doesnt have the authority to look into this complaint, and others like it. 
It says C was working as an agent of A and therefore BCR wasnt responsible for Cs 
actions. Further it says surveys, inspections, risk assessments and the membership of Cs 
construction register werent regulated activities under The Financial Services and Markets 
Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (RAO), and our service cant consider them 
under our compulsory jurisdiction.
I have considered this, and I am satisfied that I have jurisdiction. I find:
(a) the activities are either part and parcel of the carrying on by C of the regulated activities 
of: (i) dealing in investments as agent (Article 21 of the RAO)
or (ii) arranging deals in investments (Article 25 of the RAO); or
(b) they constitute the carrying on of ancillary activities in relation to these regulated 
activities; and
(c) the activities are ones for which BCR had accepted responsibility under the appointed 
representative agreement, such that it is responsible for Cs acts/omissions in relation to 
them.
So, I find I can consider this complaint about C carrying out these activities against BCR 
under our compulsory jurisdiction.
Mr W and Miss As complaint
When considering a complaint, its my role to decide whether the business thats being 
complained about has got something wrong. And where I find it has, decide what it should 
do to put its customer back in the position they would have been in if it hadnt.  
Here, Mr W and Miss A are unhappy that the warranty provided with their flat became 
worthless when A collapsed. Theyve said the warranty should never have been sold due to 
As financial position and C should have provided a replacement. I need to decide if C got 
something wrong here. 
Its important to note that as C were acting as an appointed representative of BCR, BCR is 
responsible for Cs actions. So if I find C got something wrong, it is BCR that would be 
responsible for putting things right. 
As our investigator explained, I cant look into the sale of the warranty by C, or the 
information given during the sale. As C sold the warranty to the developer of Mr W and    
Miss As building before they purchased it. So they didnt have any involvement in the sale. 
However, I can consider their complaint about the policy itself, as this was purchased for 
their benefit.
At the heart of this complaint is the fact that Mr W and Miss A purchased a property that had 
a ten-year warranty included. And now, due to the collapse of A, they no longer have a 
warranty in place. I understand this will have been both distressing and inconvenient for 
them, as they are now left in a position where they need to find a new warranty and are facing uncertainty around future plans for the property. However, the reason for their 
difficulties is because A collapsed, and C wasnt responsible for this. 
When the developer bought the policy, it paid C to set up a warranty. And, as the policy had 
been activated, Im satisfied that C did what it had been paid to do. Its unfortunate that A 
subsequently collapsed. But this isnt something I can hold C responsible for. So I cant say 
that C has done anything wrong here. 
I also understand Mr W and Miss A will now have to pay for a new warranty and this means 
paying an additional amount which is significantly more than the refund theyve received 
from the FSCS. However neither C or BCR are obliged to provide a replacement policy in 
the event of an insurer collapsing. So BCR hasnt acted unfairly by not offering a 
replacement warranty. 
Mr W and Miss A have also said that they think C acted irresponsibly by providing polices 
with A, as it ought to have known that it was financially unstable. 
Weve asked BCR to provide evidence of the due diligence carried out before placing 
policies with A. And while Im not able to share details of these checks due to the information 
being commercially sensitive, Im satisfied that it met the requirements laid out by the 
regulator. And as the warranty was arranged between C and the developer some time 
before A collapsed, I dont think it could have reasonably foreseen that this would happen 
when it arranged cover. So I dont think C acted unreasonably by providing the policy with A.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I dont uphold Mr W and Miss As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman