DRN-2667894
The complaint
Mr L and Miss W complain that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited wrongly cancelled their life 
and critical illness policy. Theyre also unhappy that Aviva sent them incorrect letters and 
didnt carry out a policy review when promised.  
What happened
Mr L and Miss W took out life and critical illness cover in 2000. In February 2020 they 
discovered their direct debit payments stopped in October 2019 and the policy had been 
cancelled. They complained to Aviva. 
Aviva upheld the complaint. It said Mr L and Miss Ws policy had been cancelled in error and 
shouldve remained in place until the next policy review on 16 March 2020. Aviva said it had 
further confused matters by sending unhelpful and contradictory letters. It reinstated the 
policy and paid £150 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Aviva didnt carry out the policy review on the 16 March 2020 and sent further misleading 
and inaccurate letters. Mr L and Miss W complained again. Aviva apologised, said the policy 
review would take place immediately - and paid a further £100. 
The review took place on 27 March 2020. To maintain the level of cover, the premiums 
increased from £25.34 to £65.72. Mr L and Miss W complained again. They no longer 
wanted the policy and wanted a refund of all the premiums theyd paid since 2000. They also 
thought £100 wasnt enough for the trouble and upset theyd been caused by receiving all 
the incorrect and misleading information. 
Aviva dealt with Mr L and Miss Ws further concerns as a mis-sale complaint and didnt 
uphold it. They remained unhappy and referred their complaint to our service. They said 
theyd lost all confidence in Aviva and had been left without cover when theyd been assured 
cover would be in place for life. They felt there was no benefit to the policy and wanted the 
premiums plus interest returned to them. As well as a further compensation payment for the 
trouble and upset caused. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint but didnt uphold it. She said Mr L and Miss W had 
benefited from the policy and couldve claimed on it. She was satisfied Aviva had acted to 
put Mr L and Miss W back in the position they shouldve been in had the mistake in 
cancelling the policy not happened. And she thought the total of £250 for the trouble and 
upset caused by its mistake, and the further administrative errors, was fair and reasonable. 
Mr L and Miss W disagreed and have asked for an Ombudsman to review their complaint.  
They questioned why the payments had stopped in October 2019 given the last review was 
in 2015  and why they werent told the policy had been cancelled. Mr L and Miss W also felt 
the information contained in Avivas letters about the review indicated the premiums would 
remain unchanged.  
Mr L and Miss W said they needed life cover  but felt this wasnt what they had ended up 
with because of the loss of confidence in Aviva and the administrative errors. They said 
Aviva caused them distress at discovering they had no cover in place during a pandemic. 
Miss W told us she contracted coronavirus, and what the consequences couldve been on 
her family if shed passed away without realising there was no cover in place. 
Mr L and Miss W said if theyd not noticed the error  the consequences of them not being 
covered couldve been catastrophic. And they felt strongly that Aviva hadnt provided them 
with the service theyd paid for over the past 20 years. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr L and Miss W feel strongly about this complaint and this will come 
as a disappointment to them, so Ill explain why. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome.
Mr L and Miss W have made us aware of a data protection breach. I understand theyve 
sought advice from the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) and have contacted Aviva 
directly about this issue. The ICO is best placed to deal with such matters so Ive not 
commented any further on that as part of this decision.  
Its not disputed that Aviva made a mistake which meant Mr L and Miss W were without life 
and critical illness cover from October 2019 to March 2020. Aviva has explained to me that 
an oversight following the 2015 review meant the policy automatically lapsed on 
24 October 2019  hence the premiums stopped being collected. I fully appreciate how 
distressing it wouldve been for Mr L and Miss W to not be told the cover had stopped, and to 
discover - by chance - that theyd been without cover. But Im pleased Aviva acted to 
reinstate the policy and waived the premiums that shouldve been taken during the time 
cover wasnt in place.  
Mr L and Miss W are understandably concerned about the impact of not having cover in 
place if theyd needed to make a claim. And I can also appreciate their point that the problem 
only came to light because they noticed the premium payments had stopped  and so they 
couldve been left without cover for even longer  and in this case, during a pandemic.
When I look at complaints like this, I must consider what went wrong and what the impact of 
that was. I totally understand the concerns Mr L and Miss W have, and why they think Aviva 
hasnt provided them with the service theyve paid for. But they didnt have to make a claim 
whilst cover wasnt in place and the problem with the cover was identified  albeit as a result 
of their actions not Avivas. Whilst there were potential problems that couldve arisen  Im 
satisfied that the impact on Mr L and Miss W only extended to the trouble and upset they 
were put to in discovering the oversight and having to rectify the matter. 
Aviva apologised to Mr L and Miss W and made sure cover was put back in place, as well as 
offering them £100 for the trouble and upset caused. Taking everything into account, I think 
this is a fair and reasonable outcome in the specific circumstances of this case. And so, I 
wont be asking Aviva to take any more action or pay more compensation.Mr L and Miss W are also understandably concerned about the misleading and inaccurate 
letters Aviva sent to them about the cancelled policy and the policy review. Having looked at 
these letters I agree that Avivas customer service here fell far short of what 
Mr L and Miss W had a right to expect. The letters contain incorrect review dates and 
premium amounts. And I can understand how this further compounded the error in 
cancelling the policy, and why they lost faith in Aviva and decided to seek cover elsewhere. 
Once the March 2020 review was eventually carried out, Mr L and Miss W were provided 
with the correct information to make an informed decision as to whether to accept the 
premium increase and continue with the policy. This was contained in a letter dated 
27 March 2020 and an enclosed reply form which Mr L and Miss W completed on 
9 April 2020.  
Aviva accepted its service was poor and apologised, as well as paying £100 for the further 
trouble and upset caused. Having thought carefully about the severity of the errors and the 
impact on had on Mr L and Miss W, I think Aviva has done enough here, and the £100 
payment is what Id expect to see offered in similar cases. So, I wont be asking Aviva to pay 
any more here.  
Im sorry Ive not been able to reach the outcome Mr L and Miss W hoped for. I dont 
underestimate the significance of what couldve happened as a result of Avivas mistake. But 
given the circumstances, I think Aviva has done enough to put things right.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman