DRN-2253109
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to him irresponsibly and that it has 
treated him unfairly in other ways.
What happened
Mr M was given a loan by Loans2Go in September 2018 for £500. The loan was due
to be repaid in weekly instalments, which meant he had to pay around £113 per month in 
repayments. The total amount due to be repaid over the 18-month loan term, including 
interest, was just over £2, 038. I understand the loan is still outstanding.
When Mr M complained to Loans2Go he also complained about the level of service hed 
received during some telephone conversations. Loans2Go offered to reduce Mr Ms loan 
balance by £50 as a gesture of goodwill. Mr M brought his complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators has looked into the complaint. She didnt think Loans2Go should 
have provided Mr M with the loan and she asked the lender to put things right. Loans2Go 
didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment, and so the complaint has been passed to me 
to make a final decision about the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable and irresponsible lending on our website and 
Ive considered this approach when deciding Mr Ms complaint.
Loans2Go needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr M 
irresponsibly.
The lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment - sometimes referred 
to as an affordability assessment or affordability check. The checks had to be borrower 
focussed  so Loans2Go had to think about whether repaying the loan sustainably would 
cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr M. 
Loans2Go had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr M 
would be able repay the loan sustainably. There was no set list of checks that Loans2Go 
had to do, but it could take into account a number of different things such as the loan 
amount, the length of the loan term, the repayment amounts, and the borrowers overall 
financial circumstances.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for any particular application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether Loans2Go did what it needed to before agreeing to 
give the loan to Mr M.
Loans2Go says it asked Mr M for information about his income and expenditure and it 
carried out some credit checks. Loans2Go thinks its checks were reasonable and 
proportionate  given the amount being borrowed, and the level of repayments compared to 
Mr Ms monthly disposable income. In some circumstances I might agree and on the face of 
it, Mr M could comfortably afford the loan.
However, I would also expect a lender to react appropriately to the information it had 
gathered about a consumer. 
The credit report that Loans2Go acquired for Mr M showed a number of arrangements to 
pay related to previous credit, including one related to a loan with an outstanding balance in 
excess of £6,000. These arrangements to pay were largely in relation to loans that Mr M had 
taken out in the previous 12 months or so. Mr Ms credit report also showed his credit card 
utilisation for the previous six months was at 96%. I would of course expect there to be some 
adverse information on the credit report, given the type of lending being sought. But on 
balance, I think the information on Mr Ms credit report ought reasonably to have suggested 
to Loans2Go that Mr M had experienced some difficulties with repaying credit in the previous 
12 months and might therefore be having problems managing his finances.  
I accept that the defaults on Mr Ms credit report were historic, and there were no CCJs or 
bankruptcies. I also accept that Mr M was only applying for £500 and he apparently had a 
reasonable level of disposable income available to meet the repayments. But overall this 
was still an expensive loan, repayable over a long period. Given this and Mr Ms credit report 
showing arrangements to pay I would have expected Loans2Go to want to take further 
steps to gain a thorough understanding of Mr Ms true financial position. So I am not 
persuaded that the checks that Loans2Go carried out before agreeing to the loan were 
reasonable and proportionate in the particular circumstances. 
So as well as asking Mr M about his income and expenditure, I think Loans2Go should have 
looked further into Mr Ms financial circumstances  for example by asking to see bank 
statements.
Mr M has provided us with copies of his bank statements leading up to his application to 
Loans2Go, so I can determine what better checks might have shown the lender at that time. 
Of course, different checks might show different things. But I think if Loans2Go had carried 
out what I consider to be proportionate checks, I think its likely it would have discovered 
more about Mr Ms financial position. In particular I think it more likely than not Loans2Go 
would have realised that Mr M was regularly gambling considerable amounts of money and 
was most likely financing his gambling by borrowing. From what Ive seen, Mr M was transferring money between bank accounts, and borrowing 
from other lenders, to support his gambling. Loans2Go says that Mr M didnt disclose his 
gambling when he applied for his loan. And had he disclosed his true financial status it may 
have assessed his application differently. Loans2Go says that as it thinks its checks were 
proportionate, it had no reason to request bank statements, so it is entitled to rely on what 
Mr M told it at the time. 
I appreciate why Loans2Go holds this view. But as Ive explained, given what it found out in 
its credit report, I think Loans2Go ought reasonably to have realised that for its checks to be 
reasonable and proportionate in the particular circumstances of this loan, they had to go 
further. I think Loans2Go should have been alerted by its credit report that Mr M might be 
having difficulties managing his finances and it ought reasonably to have sought a more 
detailed understanding of his true financial position  to assess whether Mr M would be able 
to sustainably repay his loan over the full loan term. 
I think if Loans2Go had carried out more detailed, independent checks on Mr Ms finances it 
ought reasonably to have realised that he was most likely borrowing as a result of his 
gambling  and that he would also most likely need to borrow elsewhere to repay his loan 
from Loans2Go. I would have expected Loans2Go to realise that it was unlikely that Mr M 
would be able to sustainably repay his loan. So it ought reasonably to have concluded that it 
was not appropriate to lend to him.
Did Loans2Go treat Mr M unfairly in any other way?
Mr M has complained about the interest rate on his loan. However, I think its likely that Mr M 
was aware he was taking a high cost loan at the time and I think the rate of interest being 
charged on his loan was in line with industry practice at the time. 
Mr M has also complained about the way he has been treated by Loans2Go during some 
telephone conversations which he says has caused him anxiety and stress. Loans2Go have 
acknowledged that it could have done some things better. It has apologised and offered to 
reduce Mr Ms account balance with a nominal amount of compensation. In the 
circumstances, I think this was a fair and reasonable offer from Loans2Go. 
Overall, I dont think Loans2Go treated Mr M unfairly in some other way. But I dont think it 
should have agreed to provide the loan to him. So Loans2Go needs to put things right.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr M to repay the principal amount that he borrowed, 
because hes had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan 
that shouldnt have been provided to him. So I think Mr M has lost out and Loans2Go should 
put things right for him.
Loans2Go should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on the loan and treat all the payments Mr 
M made as payments towards the capital. 
If reworking Mr Ms loan account results in him having effectively made payments 
above the original capital borrowed, then Loans2Go should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the 
date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*. 
If reworking the account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then 
Loans2Go should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr M, bearing in mind its obligation to treat him positively and sympathetically in these 
discussions.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file in relation to the 
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans2Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans2Go 
should give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct Loans 2 Go Limited to put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman