DRN-2632651
The complaint
Mr W has complained about advice he received from 1825 Financial Planning and Advice
Limited (trading as Pearson Jones). He transferred benefits he held in his former employers
pension fund into a personal pension after taking advice in 2009.
What happened
Mr W was a member of an occupational pension scheme (OPS) between 1976 and 1985. In
2009 he was referred to Pearson Jones for advice on his pension options. He completed a
client agreement which set out the relevant fee. This was £750 and was payable whether a
transfer was made or not.
Pearson Jones carried out an assessment of the suitability of transferring away from the
OPS. It wrote a suitability letter dated 8 June 2009. This detailed that a main objective was
for Mr W to take benefits earlier than his normal retirement at 65, he was 59 at the time.
The letter also said that Mr W was concerned about the financial stability of his employer 
and wanted to transfer his benefits to an insurance company who would offer more security
and peace of mind in the longer term. His attitude to risk was recorded as defensive.
The suitability letter went on to advise against the transfer. It recommended that he retain
the benefits of the OPS and that the target growth required to match them was 
unachievable.
Mr W responded with a letter of his own dated 14 June 2019. He said that he would prefer to
take the benefits available by transferring out of the OPS. He referred to two options which
had been outlined to him, these were to stay in the OPS and received £3,300 per year from
65 years, or to transfer and receive an immediate lump sum of £9,000 and £1,800 per
year. He said that the latter option provided greater flexibility and a greater dividend
although this view appears to have been based on his view that a savings interest rate of 5
per cent could be achieved.
Pearson Jones acknowledged this letter and agreed to arrange the transfer with, apparently,
a further fee of £500. The transfer was completed a few months later.
Mr W complained with the help of a claims management company in 2019. The complaint
said, in summary:
Mr W was disabled and had been financially disadvantaged by transferring out of the 
defined benefit OPS.
Early or ill-health options hadnt been explored.
He was vulnerable.
Whilst the report did record some disadvantages, these were only apparent to justify 
the recommendation and there was no comparison of benefits.
Pearson Jones didnt uphold the complaint. It said that its report only recorded Mr Ws
concerns about his former employer and his wish not to remain connected. He had advised
that he was unable to take early retirement, and the advice had been against transfer.
The complaint was referred to this service. An investigator considered the complaint and
after making an initial view that it should be upheld, she decided that Pearson Jones hadnt
acted unfairly. The initial view was made before the investigator had sight of Mr Ws letter of
14 June 2009 in response to the suitability letter.
The investigators later view noted that Mr W had explained that he applied for early
retirement with his former employer, but this wasnt granted. He said he had remonstrated
with the scheme but to no avail. Mr W said that he believed he had a right to retire but this
hadnt been granted. He added that once the advice process had started, he could not pull
out without facing a bill he could not pay. He felt blackmailed into writing the comments in
his letter of 14 June 2009.
The investigator said that she was satisfied that Mr W was aware of the fee payable from the
outset and it wasnt plausible that he would have expected there to be no charge for the
service.
In relation to early retirement, her view was that this appears to be the reason why Mr W
went against the advice not to transfer so that he could access the tax-free cash. The 
investigator concluded that it was reasonable for Pearson Jones to treat Mr W as an
insistent client. She didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr W responded, through his representative, and said:
He was advised that he couldnt take his OPS benefits before 65 even though he was 
unwell. This was intimated by the adviser and not in writing from Kelloggs 
themselves.
He felt blackmailed by threats of debt recovery and the adviser framed the letter 
he was instructed to write to continue with the transfer.
The regulator was clear on how insistent and vulnerable clients should be handled 
and these standards werent met.
He is registered disabled and was concerned about his financial future.
Some further enquiries were made with the OPS trustees about any application for, or
entitlement to ill-health or early retirement. It responded and said, in summary, the scheme 
rules allowed for early access to benefits on terms of serious ill-health with the consent of 
the trustees/company. As the GMP wasnt covered at the time of the transfer, the only other 
option available would have been a serious ill-health lump sum which but this would require 
medical reports to show that the member had less than 12 months to live.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
I made a provisional decision. I said:
My provisional view is that this complaint should not be upheld. Essentially, Im not satisfied
that Pearson Jones was acting unfairly in treating Mr W as an insistent client, and Im not
satisfied that it needed to do more to assess whether he may be eligible to any early 
retirement benefits from the OPS scheme through ill-health retirement or otherwise.
Ill consider those issues in turn.
Should Mr W have been treated as an insistent client?
I have carefully considered this issue. In her initial view the investigator referred to particular
COBS rules. As Pearson Jones has pointed out, these werent in force in 2009. However,
the regulator issued guidance for the industrywide review of pensions in 1994. Thatguidance explained how firms should assess cases involving insistent clients. The guidance
only applied to cases that fell within the review period which finished in June 1994. But I 
think the approach set out in that guidance can be applied to this case.
Im satisfied that the advice not to transfer was reasonably clear. I think Mr W ought
reasonably to have understood that he was likely to be worse off if he went ahead with a
transfer.
Mr W responded to the advice and said that he wanted to go ahead. Im satisfied that the
letter he wrote used his own words. Im not satisfied that he was blackmailed or coached
about what to write. Pearson Jones have been criticised for not questioning an assertion in
the letter from Mr W which suggested that savings interest rates of 5 per cent could be
achieved. I doubt that the letter it would have included this comment if Pearson Jones had
any direct involvement in drafting the letter, and I dont think that it did.
Mr Ws letter (14 June 2009) suggested he wanted to transfer and then he would set aside
his £9,000 lump sum and save it for 7 years. He says, at a conservatively estimated 5%.
But research suggests the average savings returns in June (and October) 2009 were below
3 per cent. MoneyFacts data from October 2009 suggests there was only one provider
offering savings at 5 per cent and most were lower. When Pearson Jones responded on 19
June 2009, its letter makes no reference to these savings expectations, which seem 
optimistic to me, and not conservative. It says that its advice was not to transfer out of the
defined benefit scheme, and Mr W had been told that this wouldnt be beneficial. He didnt
wish to accept the advice and was treated as an insistent client.
Ive considered what Pearson Jones has said. I think there is an argument that it should
have challenged Mr Ws aspirations on his potential savings. However, Im not satisfied that
would have been likely to have made a real difference to his decision. It could have said that
savings of 5 per cent werent easily available, and perhaps only a lower rate could be
achieved. But I dont think that would have altered Mr Ws decision, I say this because his
primary motivation appears to have been to increase his current income. Hes said he was
cash strapped. I cant be certain about what Mr W may have done if he had been
challenged, but I think its most likely that he would have gone ahead anyway. He had
already been told, in relatively clear terms that he was likely to be worse off.
Mr W may have been vulnerable. He had a physical disability and was unable to work. He
was dependent on benefits and had a need for additional income. But its not clear to me
exactly what more Pearson Jones should have done in this respect that may have made a
difference to Mr Ws decision. Its advice was clear, and there was time for cooling-off.
There is nothing to suggest Mr W lacked any capacity to deal with this transaction, and I
think Pearson Jones was entitled to presume Mr W had capacity in the absence of clear
evidence to the contrary.
Im also satisfied that Pearson Jones fees had been set out with reasonable clarity from the
outset.
Should Pearson Jones have done more to secure an ill-health pension from the OPS?
My current view is that the answer to this question is no.
Im satisfied that Mr W told Pearson Jones that he was unable to take early retirement. That
is consistent with comments he has made in this complaint, that outcome had clearly been a
source of frustration for him. Im satisfied that when he took advice in 2009 the issue of a
possible ill-health retirement had been explored by him, but he considered it to be closed.That is, in effect, what Pearson Jones seem to have recorded in the suitability letter. That is 
also consistent with what the scheme trustees have said when asked. They have said that 
the scheme rules allowed for early access to benefits on terms of serious ill-health with the 
consent of the trustees/company. But as the GMP wasnt covered at the time of the transfer, 
the only other option available would have been a serious ill-health lump sum, but this would 
require medical reports to show that Mr W had less than 12 months to live. And this doesnt 
apply.
Overall, Im not currently satisfied that this complaint should be upheld. But I will consider
any responses before making a final decision.
Pearson Jones accepted that provisional decision. Mr W didnt, his CMC responded and 
said, in summary;
Pearson Jones didnt adopt the correct principles of business when dealing with him.
Mr W never met anyone from Pearson Jones in person and the entire process was 
undertaken over the phone and the declaration dictated to him by Pearson so whilst it 
appears to be in his own words this was not the case.
In respect of 5 per cent interest rates, an adviser from his building society had told 
him this rate was available. This visit triggered the transfer enquiry.
Mr W remains of the view that payment demands were blackmail had me over a 
barrel from Pearson Jones and was the reason why he proceeded with the transfer. 
This is supported by the fact that the balance of the transfer amount received went 
into the savings account and was untouched and remains so. The transfer was 
therefore unnecessary.
the FCA requirement is that DB transfers should be deemed unsuitable.
Ive reconsidered the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I appreciate that this decision will disappoint Mr W, 
but Im not satisfied that Pearson Jones has acted unfairly or unreasonably.
Given Mr Ws insistence about the savings rate he referred to in his letter, I made further 
investigations. These led me to discover that his building society were in fact offering 5 per 
cent interest on savings bonds at that time as he said. I informed both parties of this.
So, I dont think Pearson Jones could be criticised for not challenging what hed said. And 
the fact that the reference to these rates appears to be correct, and based on what he had 
been told, doesnt seem to me to support an argument that the letter had been dictated to 
him or framed as has been suggested. I remain of the view that the letter of 14 June 2009 
was most probably in Mr Ws own words.
Mr W says the cash sum is intact and so the transfer was unnecessary, but this is consistent 
with his primary motivation being to increase his income. Hes said he was cash strapped. 
His plan had been to save the cash lump sum, that is what his letter had said.
Mr W may not have met with Pearson Jones, but Im satisfied that its advice was clear 
enough. It advised against the transfer, but Mr W decided to go ahead in any event. I dont 
think it was acting unreasonably in treating him as an insistent client.
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision
For these reasons, and for those set out in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this 
complaint or make any award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman