DRN-3670641
The complaint
Mr A has complained that his car insurer Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited wont 
refund his premium for the part of the (short-term) policy he did not use.
What happened
Mr A took out cover for the period 28 March to 27 April, at a cost of £462.92. He arranged 
the cover on-line and thought he could cancel within the first fourteen days for a full refund of 
the premium for the unused days of cover (less a £25 fee). He cancelled the cover on the 
first day and asked Markerstudy to refund him £422.49 (£462.92, less £15.43 for one day of 
cover and the £25.00 fee).
Markerstudy said its short-term policies dont have any refund entitlement. It directed Mr A to 
the declaration he had signed when arranging the cover on-line. And to wording within his 
policy documents. But Mr A pointed out that the policy booklet itself said full refunds for 
unused cover (less the admin fee) would be given. And that the on-line detail hadnt been 
clear. He complained to this service.
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He felt Mr A had agreed to a clear term when 
arranging the cover and that Markerstudy could reasonably rely on the term, thereby not 
refunding the unused part of the premium.
Mr A felt this was unfair. He said Markerstudy had made the website clearer since he had 
arranged his cover. And as a policyholder his first reference point to check his cover is the 
policy booklet which does say full refunds (less the admin fee) will be given. He said if that 
wording is not correct, Markerstudy shouldnt issue it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr As frustration here. But this is not an uncommon term for the type of policy 
Mr A was arranging. Due to the nature of the cover and the claims insurers see on these 
policies, the premium is often non-refundable. And as long as this is made clear to the 
prospective policyholder, this service will often find it is fair and reasonable for the insurer to 
rely on the non-refundable term when a cancellation occurs. 
I accept that Mr A clearly didnt spot or fully take into account the declaration on the website 
which says no refunds will be given on this type of policy. But it was there so he did have the 
opportunity to review his decision to purchase the policy by choosing not to agree to the 
terms of cover. However, he did agree to the terms, actively selecting so before making the 
policy payment. 
I also understand Mr As frustration with the content of the policy booklet. But Markerstudy 
has done nothing wrong by issuing him a standard booklet because it has stated in his 
individually specific policy documents that the standard wording is, in his case, amended. 
This is set out in the policy schedule which contains an endorsement amending the standard 
cancellation wording. And he was also sent a statement of fact document which, at the 
bottom, includes a copy of the declaration he agreed to on-line, which confirmed the 
premium was non-refundable.
I appreciate that this will come as a disappointment to Mr A but I think the non-refundable 
term was clear and Markerstuy has acted in line with the policy wording. As such, Im 
satisfied that its refusal to refund the unused part of the cover is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Markerstudy Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman