DRN-3895951
Complaint
Miss C is unhappy that Prepaid Services Company Limited (trading as Paysafecard) closed 
her account without notice and then took some time to return her remaining funds.
Background
In August 2022, Paysafe took the decision to review Miss Cs recently opened account. As a 
result of its review, Paysafe decided to block Miss Cs account and then close it. Miss C 
complained about Paysafes actions. Paysafe didnt uphold Miss Cs complaint. As Miss C 
remained dissatisfied, Miss C referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Cs concerns. He didnt think that Paysafe had 
done anything wrong or treated Miss C unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Miss C disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I dont think that Paysafe acted unfairly towards   
Miss C and so Im not upholding her complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
As our adjudicator explained to Miss C, a financial institution is generally under no obligation 
to continue offering an account to a consumer if it doesnt wish to do so. I know that Miss C 
is unhappy that Paysafe closed her account. However, each financial institution has its own 
criteria and risk assessment for deciding whether to open (or close) accounts and providing 
a customer with an account is a commercial decision that a financial institution is entitled to 
take. 
Furthermore, while Miss C is unhappy that her account was effectively closed without notice, 
having reviewed everything, including Paysafes actions and the information provided, Im 
satisfied that Paysafe acted in line with the terms and conditions of her account when taking 
the action it did. 
So Im satisfied that Paysafe had sufficient grounds to close Miss Cs account and as such 
its decision to block and then close it wasnt unfair in the circumstances. I realise that 
Paysafes decision will have been very disappointing to Miss C and I can appreciate why the 
closure of her account will have caused her inconvenience. But despite this, Im simply not in 
a position to be able to tell Paysafe it should have continued offering Miss C an account in 
circumstances where it legitimately decided it no longer wishes to provide her with one.
Finally, Ive seen that Miss C is unhappy with the length of time it took for her funds to be 
returned to her. Im really sorry to hear that Mss C was going through a difficult time at this 
stage and what shes said about having to borrow from family. But having considered 
everything, I dont think that the time it took Paysafe to return the funds in Miss Cs account 
was excessive.
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Paysafe has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Miss C and Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Miss C. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and 
that shell appreciate why Paysafe was entitled to close her account in the way that it did. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman