DRN-2782974
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Freedom to Insure (a trading style of UK Protected Limited) are 
removing themselves as the servicing agent for three insurance policies. 
What happened
In mid-January 2021 Freedom to Insure wrote to Mr S saying they were taking the necessary 
steps to remove themselves as the serving agent on his insurance policies with three 
different providers. 
Mr S was unhappy with this and complained. Freedom to Insure explained the reasons 
behind their decision and confirmed they no longer wished to continue acting as a servicing 
agent for Mr S.
Remaining unhappy Mr S brought his complaint to our service where one of our investigators 
looked into what happened. They thought Freedom to Insure acted in line with their terms of 
business and didnt think they acted unfairly. Mr S disagreed so the complaint has come to 
me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to assure Mr S that Ive read and carefully considered everything he has submitted. If 
I dont mention a particular point its not because I havent read it; I can assure him I have. 
Ive summarised what happened which reflects that informal nature of our service.
Its clear to me the relationship between Mr S and Freedom to Insure has broken down. This 
complaint isnt about the issues that caused that to happen. This complaint is solely about 
the decision made to remove themselves as the servicing agent for some insurance policies. 
The terms of business, which are given to consumers when they purchase a policy through 
Freedom to Insure say:
The authority to act on your behalf may be terminated at any time without penalty by either 
party 
So Im satisfied the terms of business allowed Freedom to Insure to take the action they did.
But relying solely on the terms of business might not always be enough. So I need to also 
consider whether Freedom to Insure acted fairly and reasonably when applying those terms.
In their final response letter Freedom to Insure explained the events that led up to the 
relationship break down and subsequent decision to withdraw from being a servicing agent 
for Mr S. 
Having considered these events, and that Mr S told Freedom to Insure on more than one 
occasion he no longer wanted to do business with them, Im happy with how the terms of 
business have been applied. 
After looking at everything carefully Im satisfied Freedom to Insure acted fairly and 
reasonably when applying the terms of business and withdrawing as the servicing agent on 
the policies for Mr S.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2021. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman