DRN-4514045
The complaint
Miss S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC has caused her loss and distress and 
inconvenience through negligent acts and omissions in dealing with a credit card taken out in 
her name which she didnt apply for.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
here. In brief summary, Miss S got in touch with Lloyds in June 2021 about a credit card in 
her name which she didnt apply for. In September 2021 Lloyds accepted that the credit card 
in Miss Ss name had been taken out as a result of ID theft, and that the balance should be 
written off and any record of the credit card deleted from Miss Ss credit file. 
Unfortunately, as acknowledged by Lloyds, this didnt then get completed properly. Miss S 
has explained that following September 2021, the record of the credit card was removed 
from her credit file for perhaps a month before it then reappeared. She says she then 
complained to Lloyds again, Lloyds investigated things, and essentially the record would 
intermittently get removed only to be re-added, and so forth, until the credit file was 
eventually properly corrected in 2023.  
Lloyds offered Miss S compensation of £175. Miss S remained unhappy and referred her 
complaint about Lloyds to us. Our Investigator was unable to resolve the matter informally, 
so the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
I sent Miss S and Lloyds my provisional decision last month explaining what I was minded to 
conclude and why. Now both parties have had further opportunity to comment, Im now 
ready to explain my final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions in my provisional decision and for the 
same reasons. Ive explained why again below.
First let me be clear what this decision is about. Its common ground that Miss Ss credit file 
has now been corrected properly, as it should have been back in 2021. I have no doubt the 
delay in Lloyds properly correcting things impacted Miss S and that Lloyds should 
compensate Miss S for this. The disagreement between the parties here is about the 
appropriate level of compensation. And thats what I need to decide on. 
In this regard, Miss S has said, in summary, that Lloyds delay in correcting her credit file 
resulted in: ongoing distress and inconvenience since September 2021, exacerbated by her 
inability to remove her abusive ex-husband from the mortgage on her home; and her now 
being in a position whereby shes unable to afford a mortgage on her home due to the 
increase in mortgage rates.
The mortgage
First let me address Miss Ss point about mortgage rates, in terms of whether theres been a 
financial loss. I understand the ID theft was committed by Miss Ss now ex-husband and that 
since 2021 Miss S has been looking to move the mortgage on her home into her sole name. 
Shes said because Lloyds didnt correct her credit file until 2023, she was (since 2021) 
unable to do this, at a time when mortgage rates were around 2%; and that now the default 
has been removed from her credit file, mortgage rates are around 6% which potentially 
makes things unaffordable for her.
However, I understand the 2% mortgage rates Miss S has mentioned here from 2021 are 
likely to be 2-year fixed rates, which would have expired this year (in 2023) if taken out in 
2021. So, Im not persuaded Miss S has suffered a financial loss here. She hasnt paid a 
higher rate than she would have yet. And bearing in mind any lower rate Miss S may have 
been able to obtain in 2021 would likely have expired this year, I think the mortgage rates 
Miss S is looking at now are likely the same as she would have been looking at anyway, 
even if she had successfully put the mortgage in her sole name earlier. So, I dont award any 
compensation for this because I dont think theres been a financial loss.
Distress and inconvenience
I do think, however, that Lloyds has caused Miss S substantial distress and inconvenience. 
Miss S has explained that:
Shes spent nearly two years emailing different credit agencies requesting they take 
off the incorrect default. She had to repeatedly spend time on the phone with Lloyds 
to try to sort matters. Lloyds multiple mistakes over a prolonged period were beyond 
stressful, on top of looking after her disabled children, and she spent many nights 
crying thinking it would never be resolved.  
Every time she needed to contact Lloyds again (when the default reappeared), she 
had to re-explain she was a victim of domestic abuse which involved financial abuse. 
It was humiliating to have to repeatedly disclose such personal information to total 
strangers. 
The financial order for her divorce was that she was to get the house in her name so 
there would be no ties with her ex-husband. But because the credit card default was 
still on her credit file, she was unable to move the mortgage into her sole name, 
meaning she had to remain connected to her ex-husband (because his name was on 
the mortgage). Her ex-husband was annoyed about this and this kept the cycle of 
abuse going, and it gave him a legal reason to contact her. She felt utterly hopeless, 
she remained scared thinking her ex-husband thought she was doing it on purpose, 
and she was living in a constant state of anxiety.
Ive no reason to doubt Miss Ss integrity here and Im satisfied this is most likely the 
situation as she lived it. Im really sorry this happened to Miss S and she has my heartfelt 
sympathy. I dont doubt the repeated failure by Lloyds over a prolonged period to properly 
correct her credit file will have been extremely frustrating, causing distress and 
inconvenience. But in this case, in assessing the impact on Miss S, Im particularly 
concerned about what Miss S has said about how this effected a reason for a continued link 
to her ex-husband. There is no doubt in my mind that Lloyds therefore made matters 
substantially worse than they reasonably ought to have been; and Im satisfied Lloyds should 
pay Miss S £1,500 to reflect the substantial distress and inconvenience its caused her. Ive 
thought carefully about this and whether a greater award would be warranted. But I think this was always going to be a challenging period of time for Miss S, with the pressures and 
difficulties the separation would likely bring. I think an award of £1,500 would appropriately 
reflect this, whilst also clearly acknowledging the fact the distress and inconvenience caused 
by Lloyds was substantial.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold this complaint in part and I direct Lloyds Bank PLC to 
pay Miss S £1,500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman