DRN-1601431
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about the poor service they received from Nationwide Building 
Society when they applied to port their existing mortgage product and apply for a 'Help to 
Buy' loan.
Nationwide has paid Mr and Mrs B £325 and reduced the early repayment charge (ERC) 
they were required to pay by £1,860.60 to compensate them for the problems they 
experienced. 
To resolve their complaint Mr and Mrs B want Nationwide to reimburse them for the part of 
the ERC they paid when they redeemed their existing Nationwide mortgage.
What happened
In mid-2019 Mr and Mrs B wanted to move home. They applied to port their existing 
Nationwide mortgage product to the new property in order to avoid incurring an early 
repayment charge (ERC).
A property valuation was carried out by a surveyor on behalf of Nationwide and a valuation 
report was produced on 20 June 2019.
The report set out that the property had been valued at £265,000. However, due to an error 
on Nationwides part the mortgage offer it issued to Mr and Mrs Bs solicitor on 25 June 2019 
was based on the purchase price Mr and Mrs B had agreed of £289,950.
Mr and Mrs B say they only found that there was an issue with the valuation on 9 July 2019 
when their solicitor told them that the Help to Buy loan could not go ahead as the property 
they wanted to buy has been down-valued.
Nationwide says usually allows a three-week window to appeal property down-valuations for 
the date of the valuation report. On 12 July 2019 Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage broker submitted 
an appeal. It appears that this was returned on the same day as it didnt set out the reasons 
for the appeal. Nationwide agreed deadline of 16 July 2019 for the appeal to be re-worked 
and re-submitted.
The appeal was re-submitted on 22 July 2019. But again, it didnt include a rationale for the 
appeal, nor did it explain why the extended deadline of 16 July 2019 had been missed. 
On 19 August 2019, Mr and Mrs Bs broker chased for an answer on the valuation appeal. 
Nationwide explained that as the appeal hadnt been received in time and was not complete 
it hadnt been able to consider it.
In order to go ahead with the property purchase Mr and Mrs B obtained a mortgage offer 
from another lender.
They complained to Nationwide about the very poor service they had received and explained 
that finding out at such a late stage had caused them considerable worry and upset.
Nationwide accepted that it shouldnt have issued the mortgage offer on 25 June 2019 using 
the wrong valuation and it apologised for the trouble and upset this had caused.
In order to put things right it paid Mr and Mrs B £325 for the trouble and upset its poor 
service had caused them and reduced the ERC due when they redeemed their existing 
Nationwide mortgage from £2,150.52 to £289.92. It said that the reduction in the ERC took 
into account that their monthly mortgage payments would be lower with their new lender 
than if they had remained with Nationwide.
Mr and Mrs B werent satisfied with Nationwides response and brought their complaint to 
this service. Our investigator looked into the complaint and, having done so, said he felt the 
offer Nationwide had made was fair and he didnt think it needed to do any more to put 
matters right. 
He said that if the appeal had been submitted on time and had been upheld the mortgage Mr 
and Mrs B would have taken out with Nationwide would have cost more that the mortgage 
they were able to secure with another lender. He noted that with Nationwide their monthly 
mortgage payments would have been £267.06 for the first 24 months but the monthly 
mortgage payments with their new lender are £554.98 per month. 
In view of this he said he didnt think it was unreasonable for Nationwide to reflect the saving 
Mr and Mrs B were making when it reduced the ERC it applied.
Mr and Mrs B werent satisfied with our investigators view. They said, in summary that they 
felt Nationwide should refund the ERC it had applied and should not have made 
assumptions about any savings they have made with their new lender as they had to take 
out a bigger mortgage with the new lender.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sympathetic to Mr and Mrs Bs position and I have carefully considered everything they 
have said about this matter.
It is not in dispute that the service they received from Nationwide was below the standard 
they could reasonably have expected. What is in dispute is whether Nationwide should 
refund the £289.92 Mr and Mrs B paid toward the ERC.
Nationwide says if feels it is fair for Mr and Mrs B to have paid something towards the ERC. 
It said: 
Regarding the Early repayment charges (ERC) you will incur due to leaving Nationwide 
working off todays date the ERCs are £2,150.52. On a like for like basis the monthly 
payment you would make if you stayed with Nationwide would be £567.06 compared to the 
new [name of lender] mortgage payment of £554.98. To put you back in the position you 
would have been in, had you stayed with Nationwide we have reduced the ERC to £289.92 
from the £2,150.52.
Mrs B says she doesnt think Nationwides position is fair and it hasnt taken into account 
that she has taken out a larger mortgage with the new lender.
I appreciate Mrs Bs point but, having carefully considered this matter, I think the offer 
Nationwide has made was fair. Ill explain why.Nationwide reduced the ERC it charged Mr and Mrs B so that they are no worse off when 
their new lower monthly mortgage payments are taken into account. I appreciate that Mr and 
Mrs B say they have borrowed more from their new lender than they wanted to borrow from 
Nationwide. But it appears this additional borrowing is to make up what would have been 
borrowed using a Help to Buy Equity Loan. So, Mr and Mrs B would still have borrowed this 
money albeit by way of a Help to Buy loan. As this is the case I dont think the amount they 
have borrowed from their new lender is something Nationwide needs to take into account 
when calculating the redress.
Moving home can be a very stressful time. I appreciate that finding out, at such a late stage, 
that the property they wanted to buy had been valued at less than they had agreed to pay 
would have caused Mr and Mrs B considerable worry. I am also mindful of Mrs Bs 
comments that they were at risk of losing the buyer for their property if they delayed the sale 
and spent more time appealing the Nationwide valuation.
I note that in addition to reducing the ERC by £1,860.60 Nationwide has also paid Mr and 
Mrs B a total of £325 for the trouble and upset its poor service has caused them. I think it is 
right that Mr and Mrs B have been compensated for the poor service they received and I 
think the amount Nationwide paid is fair in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do understand that this is not the decision Mr and Mrs B were hoping for. But in 
determining complaints I am required to be fair to both parties. In this case I think Nationwide 
has fairly compensated Mr and Mrs B for the problems its poor service caused. It reduced 
the ERC they would otherwise have had to pay by £1,860.60 and paid a further £325 for the 
trouble and upset caused. I cant reasonably say that it should do more.
My final decision
My decision is that I think the redress Nationwide has paid to resolve this complaint is fair 
and reasonable. I dont think it needs to do any more to put matters right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman