DRN-3567448
The complaint
Mr W complains that Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118 118 Money, lent to him 
irresponsibly and without carrying out proper affordability checks. He would like all the fees 
and charges associated with the loan refunded.
What happened
In January 2015 118 118 Money approved a loan of £1,500 for Mr W, which was 
scheduled to be repaid at approximately £181 per month over a term of 12 months. 
The loan appears to have been to fund the purchase of electrical goods. When 
assessing the application, 118 118 Money asked Mr W about him financial 
circumstances and carried out a credit check before approving the lending.
Unfortunately, it seems that Mr W quickly ran into financial difficulties in April 2015 and 
appears to have made no further payments since August 2015. 118 118 Money sold 
the balance of the loan to a third party debt collector in June 2018.
The adjudicator looked at the evidence and concluded that 118 118 Money should not have 
granted this loan, as it should have been clear that repaying it couldnt have been 
sustainable for Mr W. 118 118 Money did not accept that, and asked an Ombudsman to 
review the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it, and Ill explain why.
118 118 Money is aware of its obligations under the rules and regulations in place at the 
time of this lending decision, including the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), so I 
wont repeat them here. But, briefly, it was required to carry out sufficient checks to 
ensure that Mr W would be able to repay the borrowing applied for in a sustainable way. 
As set out in CONC 5.3.1G(2) that means that he could manage the repayments,
withoutincurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences
Essentially, Mr W needed to be able to meet him financial commitments and not have to 
borrow elsewhere to repay 118 118 Money for the loan to be considered affordable and 
sustainable.
Did 118 118 Money carry out proportionate checks before granting this loan?
The adjudicator thought that 118 118 Money had enough information to identify that this 
borrowing wasnt sustainable and affordable for Mr W. That was because of the proportion 
of his income needed to service his total debt burden.
118 118 Money didnt accept that, highlighting that this factor in and of itself might not be 
enough to indicate that borrowing would be unsustainable. In this case, I accept 118 118 
Moneys point, noting for example that Mr W told it that he lived with his parents, so 
therefore likely had little or no direct liability for housing costs or bills.
But the validity of 118 118 Moneys submissions on this point doesnt mean that the 
outcome of this case changes.
118 118 Money asked Mr W some basic questions about his income and expenditure and 
carried out a credit check when considering his loan application. The information 118 118 
Money found from its checks should have concerned it and led it to carry out additional 
checks to get a clearer picture of Mr W financial circumstances. In brief, the concerns 
flagged by the credit check obtained were:
- That Mr W did indeed need a large proportion of his income to service debt  which 
may be an indicator of potential difficulty.
- Arrears and/or late payments indicated.
- Credit card accounts either at or over their agreed limits.
In aggregate, these issues suggested all may not be well with Mr Ws finances, and meant 
that further checks were indicated, but not carried out.
What would 118 118 Money have found had it done proportionate checks?
When considering this second question, our service has had the benefit of several months 
of bank statements to review. I accept that there was and is no requirement on a lender to 
obtain any particular type of information: they are permitted to source and rely on a range 
of evidence when assessing affordability, and so 118 118 Money could have opted to 
gather more information about Mr Ws financial position in a range of ways. However, it 
didnt, and, in the absence of anything else provided, Im happy to rely on the statements 
to demonstrate what Studio would most likely have discovered if it had completed 
proportionate checks.
The relevant statements suggest that Mr W had some financial. Of key concern are the 
following issues evident from the bank statements:
A lower income than that declared.
Mr Ws account was almost never in credit, and he was clearly reliant on borrowing 
via an agreed overdraft.
Unpaid transaction fees.
Unarranged overdraft fees when Mr W exceeded his agreed limit.
So I have seen no evidence of any genuine disposable income with which Mr W could have 
made repayments. It is an almost inescapable conclusion, therefore, that he would have had 
to borrow to do so. I have already explained that, under the rules in force, that does not 
equate to the lending being affordable and sustainable for him. It therefore follows that I 
uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
As stated above, the debt was sold to a third party in 2018. 118 118 Money should buy the 
debt back if it is able to do so and then take the following steps. If it is not able to buy the 
debt back, then it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined 
below.It must remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the outstanding 
loan, and treat any repayments made by Mr W made towards the loan as though 
they had been repayments of the principal loan amount of £1,500.
If that means that Mr W would have made overpayments, then it must refund 
these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, 
from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is 
settled.
Alternatively, if there is still an outstanding balance following the account 
restructure, then 118 118 Money should try to agree an affordable repayment plan 
with Mr W.
It must remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ws credit file in relation 
to this loan, once it has been repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money to deduct tax from this interest. It should 
give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Madison CF UK Limited to 
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022. 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman