DRN-4362596
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs G are unhappy with the settlement Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited 
(LBG) offered for their storm damage claim.
Mr A and Mrs G jointly held buildings and contents insurance underwritten by LBG. For ease 
of reading, Ill refer mainly to Mr A and any reference to LBG includes action taken by its 
agents.
What happened
Mr A raised several complaints with LBG. He said it:
incorrectly declined his storm damage claim;
incorrectly declined his claim for damage inside his home;
made a low cash settlement offer after accepting his ceiling damage claim, and
made a further, but still low, offer despite reassessing the claim
In response to the complaints, LBG:
declined the roof damage claim because it didnt think the damage was caused by a 
storm;
identified some service shortfalls and offered Mr A £200 in total by way of apology;
agreed to settle the internal damage claim;
agreed its first offer was based on an incorrect assessment of the claim, and
increased its cash settlement offer to reflect its own costs.
The circumstances are well known to both parties, so Ive only summarised them here. Ill 
focus on explaining the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr As and Mrs Gs complaint. 
Storm
Mr A claimed under his policy for storm damage. In order for his claim to succeed thered 
need to be reasonable evidence that there was a storm and that the storm, more likely than 
not, caused the damage.
LBG said the weather conditions didnt meet the policy definition of a storm. Ive looked at 
the policy definition and the weather report from the day Mr A said the damage happened. I 
agree that the conditions didnt meet the policy definition, but the weather report does 
indicate strong winds and heavy rain. Based on this evidence, while there wasn't a storm as 
defined by the policy, I think its fair to consider that conditions local to Mr A couldve been 
more severe. Therefore, I considered whether, if there were storm conditions, the claim 
wouldve succeeded.
LBG inspected the damaged roof and Ive seen the report and photos. Although Mr As 
evidence is that his roof was in good condition, the report indicates otherwise. LBGs expert 
said the flat felt roof was in poor condition and the surface was worn and missing in places. 
The photos support what LBGs expert said and I, too, can see the evidence of cracking, 
splitting, and small sections of lifted felt. 
The evidence indicates that if the strong winds and heavy rain resulted in damage to Mr As 
roof, its likely because the condition was already poor. Therefore, LBG reasonably declined 
this part of his claim in line with the policy.
Ceiling damage
LBG declined Mr As claim for damage to his bedroom ceiling, which he said was caused by 
rain coming through the roof. It later accepted his claim and offered a settlement. But Mr A 
said it didnt cover the cost to him.
Ive looked at why LBG offered the amount it did. Its first offer was around half the amount of 
its second offer because its contractor assessed the claim incorrectly. LBG acknowledged 
the mistake and made a payment to Mr A by way of apology. Its final offer reflected the 
amount it wouldve cost its contractors to do the work. While Mr A said it still doesnt cover 
his invoiced cost, he hasnt provided LBG with evidence of the breakdown of work done. In 
the absence of evidence to support Mr As claimed costs, I dont find that LBG made an 
unreasonable settlement offer. I also note LBG offered to do the work rather than cash settle 
so, in line with the policy, it is entitled to settle the claim at its own cost to repair.
Therefore, Im satisfied that LBGs offer was in line with the policy, and I see no reason to 
ask it to do any more here.
Compensation
LBG paid Mr A £200 compensation for the mistakes it made handling his claim. Ive looked 
at the individual complaints - such as failing to provide a link, not offering a settlement, then 
offering a low settlement - and I accept that LBG caused some avoidable, additional 
inconvenience to Mr A. However, its payment to him is what Id expect in the circumstances, 
so I see no reason to ask it to pay any more.
Overall, Im satisfied that the evidence indicates LBGs decision to decline the roof damage 
claim was fair and reasonable. While LBG caused some avoidable delays and 
inconvenience in its handling of the ceiling damage claim, the evidence shows that LBG 
reconsidered the claim fairly and reasonably and paid compensation in line with what might 
reasonably be expected in the circumstances.
Therefore, my decision is that LBG put matters right where appropriate and that it 
reasonably and fairly declined the storm damage claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr As and Mrs Gs 
complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman