DRN-3783494
The complaint
Mrs G complains that, in 1993, Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited failed to provide her with 
appropriate advice, or information, about making additional contributions to her occupational 
pension.
What happened
Mrs G has been assisted in making her complaint by a claims management company. But in 
this decision, for ease, I will generally refer to all communication as having been with, and 
from, Mrs G herself.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in September 2022. In that decision 
I explained why I thought the complaint should be upheld. Both parties have received a copy 
of the provisional decision but, for completeness and so those findings form part of this 
decision, I include some extracts from it below. In my decision I said;
The advice that was provided to Mrs G in 1993 was from a firm called Colonial 
Mutual Life. That firm is now the responsibility of Aviva, and so it is Aviva that is 
required dealt with this complaint. In this decision I will refer to the advising business 
as Aviva throughout.
Mrs G is a teacher, and in 1993 was a member of the teachers' occupational pension 
scheme ("OPS"). She met with Aviva to discuss making some additional 
contributions to her pension. Mrs G's husband, Mr G, was also present at the 
meeting. He was also a teacher and received similar advice from Aviva at that time. 
I am dealing with Mr G's complaint separately, but given the similarity of their 
circumstances, and that a single recommendation was made to them both, it is 
unsurprising that my conclusions on the two complaints are the same. I make no 
apology for the similarities in my two decisions.
Aviva advised Mrs G that she should start to make free-standing additional voluntary 
contributions (FSAVCs) to a personal pension plan. Mrs G started those contributions 
in October 1993 before increasing her monthly payment around a year later, and 
again in 2003. Aviva hasn't provided us with copies of the advice that was given to 
Mrs G, but it has provided details of the background information it gathered at the 
time. That information showed that Mrs G was aged 24 and was in her first year of 
teaching.
 
Aviva has been unable to safely conclude that Mrs G was provided with sufficient 
information to ensure it met its regulatory responsibilities at the time of the advice. In 
particular it hasn't been able to demonstrate that Mrs G was given sufficient 
information, or directed to seek additional information, about the additional 
contribution options offered by the OPS - in particular, paying additional voluntary 
contributions (AVCs) to the scheme or purchasing added years benefits.
So Aviva agreed to uphold Mrs G's complaint. It considered her circumstances at the 
time and concluded it was unlikely that Mrs G would have chosen to purchase added 
years benefits. So it offered Mrs G some compensation, in line with the regulator's 
guidance, to reflect the higher charges she would have paid by taking the FSAVC 
option. Mrs G didn't accept that offer, as she thought her circumstances were such 
that she would have chosen the added years option. So she brought her complaint to 
us.
The advisor that met with Mrs G was what was known as a "tied" advisor. That meant 
they could only recommend products offered by Aviva. They couldn't actively 
recommend any other products from any other product providers including the 
in-house options (AVCs or added years) offered by the OPS.
 
However, a tied adviser was required to follow rules set in 1988 by the regulator at 
that time - LAUTRO (the Life Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation). 
The LAUTRO Code said advisers should maintain high standards of integrity and fair 
dealing, exercise due skill, care and diligence in providing any services, and 
generally take proper account of the interests of investors. It added that businesses 
should:
Have regard to the consumer's financial position generally and to any rights 
they may have under an occupational scheme, and
Give the consumer all information relevant to their dealings with the 
representative in question.
So, this means that tied advisers should have known that 'in-house' AVC options 
would most likely be available to consumers like Mrs G. And in addition to 
highlighting the benefits of the FSAVC, a tied advisor needed to mention the generic 
benefits of the 'in-house options', including that:
Money purchase 'in house' AVCs could potentially offer lower charges than 
the FSAVCs
'Added years' might be available under a defined benefit OPS
The consumer's employer might match or top-up the amount the consumer 
paid into either in-house option.
As I said earlier, Aviva has accepted that it is unable to show that its advisor provided 
the information that was necessary about the options available to Mrs G through the 
OPS. It is on that basis that Aviva has upheld the complaint. So, for the same 
reasons, I consider it reasonable to conclude that it is unlikely that Mrs G was made 
aware of the availability of the added years option, or directed to explore the costs of 
purchasing additional retirement benefits in that way.
The teachers' pension scheme allowed members to accrue a maximum of 40 years' 
service. If Mrs G worked until her normal retirement age she would have only been 
able to accrue around 37 years' service. So it would have been possible for her to 
purchase added years benefits if she had chosen to do so. But that alone doesn't 
mean that I should conclude that Mrs G would have chosen this option. I also need to 
consider whether added years would have been more attractive for Mrs G than 
paying AVCs.
At the time of the advice Mrs G was relatively new to the teaching profession. But 
she says that she was committed to that as a career and I'm sure that, given her 
husband was also a teacher, she had a good understanding of how her career might 
evolve. I haven't seen anything that would make me think that Mrs G expected to 
leave teaching at any stage of her life, or that she didn't think she would make good progress through promotions. So I'm persuaded that Mrs G would have expected the 
majority, if not all, of her retirement provision to be provided by the OPS.
Mrs G agreed to make monthly contributions to the FSAVC plan amounting to £420 
per annum. And as I said earlier, those contributions were increased the following 
year, and in 2003. So I have no reason to conclude that Mrs G found the starting 
level of contributions to be anything other than affordable, or that she expected she 
might find them difficult to pay in the future. She, and her husband, had stable 
employment and owned their own home, albeit they were paying a mortgage. And as 
I said above Mrs G had a good expectation of increases to her salary, in excess of 
normal cost of living rises, in the future.
 
Mrs G has provided us with details of the costs of taking an added years contract in 
1993. At that time, based on the purchase of the maximum three added years 
benefit, and taking account of her salary, the annual cost of the added years benefit 
would be little more than half of what she had committed to pay into the FSAVC plan. 
So that doesn't suggest she would have faced any issues, at that time, affording the 
payments she would need to make.
But the costs of purchasing added years benefits are calculated based on a 
percentage of salary. So as Mrs G's salary increased, as she expected it to, the costs 
of purchasing the added years benefits would also rise. But I'm not persuaded that 
would have dissuaded Mrs G from making this choice.
In order for the cost of purchasing the added years benefit to increase, Mrs G would 
need to have enjoyed a rise in her income. Only a relatively small part of that salary 
increase would have been taken by the increase in her pension contribution to fund 
the added years benefits. On balance I don't think Mrs G would have found that 
unattractive. And, as I said earlier, Mrs G increased the amounts she was paying to 
her FSAVC plan a year later, and in 2003. That also suggests, although admittedly 
with the benefit of hindsight, that Mrs G might have had sufficient disposal income to 
absorb any additional added years costs.
Aviva has noted that Mrs G didn't apply any automatic escalation to her FSAVC 
payments when she first took out the plan. It suggests that indicates that Mrs G might 
not have found the likely increases to the cost of the added years benefits to be 
attractive. But I don't think I can reach the same conclusion. The increases to the 
added years costs would only occur when Mrs G benefitted from an increase to her 
salary - whereas an automatic escalation to the FSAVC payment would apply 
regardless of any changes to Mrs G's salary. Effectively she might have faced a fall 
in her disposable income as a result of an automatic escalation being applied.
Mrs G, and her husband, appeared keen to start a family in the following years. 
Whilst I accept that, in the short term, that might have seen them face a reduction in 
their disposable income, I haven't seen anything to make me think that any changes 
would be of a longer-term nature. Mrs G appears to have been committed to her 
career.
So the additional protection benefits offered by added years benefits might have 
been very attractive to Mrs G. Should she need to cease work due to ill-health, her 
ultimate pension would take the added years into account. And of course her ultimate 
pension benefits would have a direct correlation to any salary increases that she had 
enjoyed over her working life. A salary that she had a reasonable expectation of 
being far higher than she received at the time of the advice.Aviva's paperwork from the time suggested that Mrs G had indicated that she wanted 
to retire at age 55. And on that basis Aviva suggests that the FSAVC (or even AVC) 
option might have been a better fit since those benefits wouldn't have been impacted 
in the same way as added years by that early retirement. I have thought carefully 
about this part of the evidence.
Mrs G says that she had no firm plans to retire at 55. She had simply answered a 
question posed by Aviva asking whether she would find retiring early to be attractive. 
I think most consumers in that situation would have answered in the affirmative. But 
that time was more than 30 years away - I haven't seen anything that makes me 
think Mrs G, or her husband, had any firm plans that would support her answer. And, 
whilst again with the benefit of hindsight, Mrs G has pointed out that she continues to 
work, and enjoy her career, and expects to be employed well past the selected 
retirement age of 55 given the career objectives she still hopes to attain.
 
I think it would have been generally accepted that teachers were able to retire before 
age 60. Doing so would mean however that they would face an actuarial reduction in 
the value of their pension to reflect the fact that it would be paid sooner, and for a 
longer period. But it could be argued that a similar loss of value might be faced in 
FSAVC or AVC savings. Those savings would need to be taken at the same time as 
the main occupational pension. And so would miss out on a number of years of 
investment growth. Any annuity the AVC savings would be used to purchase would 
also face similar reductions in value to reflect the longer period for which it would be 
paid.
So, on balance, had she been given all the appropriate information and guidance, 
I currently think that Mrs G would most likely have chosen to make added years 
contributions rather than taking the FSAVC plan that Aviva recommended to her. So 
I think that Aviva now needs to assess whether Mrs G has lost out as a result, and if 
so to pay her compensation.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Mrs G has said that she agrees with my findings and has nothing 
further to add. Aviva doesnt agree with my findings and has provided some additional 
comments. Although I am only summarising here what Aviva has said, I want to confirm that 
I have read, and carefully considered, the entirety of its response.
Aviva says that it understands that the applicable regulations when the advice was provided 
in 1993 didnt place an obligation on its advisor to discuss or provide guidance on added 
years availability or potential costs. But the advisor did have to point out that an in-house 
AVC arrangement was available. Since it cannot demonstrate that was done, it decided to 
uphold the original complaint.
Aviva says that means that it is reasonable to conclude that Mrs G would only have found 
out about added years from her employer. And it says that the following year, when she 
increased her FSAVC contributions, Mrs G confirmed she was aware of the in-house AVC 
scheme. So Aviva thinks that Mrs G should also have been made aware of the added years 
option at that time. Since she didnt change her pension contributions, Aviva thinks it likely 
that Mrs G would have been unlikely to choose added years in 1993.
Aviva says that its fact find is a reasonable reflection of Mrs Gs intention to retire at age 55. 
It says that was the reason she agreed to make additional pension contributions and so that 
suggests it was more than just an attractive possibility.Aviva notes that purchasing added years would have initially cost Mrs G around £25 per 
month. It says that in 1993 Mrs G declined its recommendation to take family protection 
cover at a cost of around £8 per month as it was too expensive based on her budget. So it 
doesnt think that the cost of the added years benefits would have been affordable for Mrs G. 
And Aviva says that it understands that Mrs G has taken one, and possibly two, breaks for 
maternity leave. It says those breaks would have led to a break in the added years 
payments, and an increased rate of contribution once they restarted. It says that Mrs G 
ceased her FSAVC payments in 2016.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about the additional comments that have been made by Aviva in 
response to my provisional decision. Those comments havent led me to conclude that 
I should change the provisional findings that I reached. But I will comment further on the 
matters that Aviva has raised.
I set out in my provisional decision the specific regulations that were applicable in 1993, and 
my interpretation of what that meant in relation to the advice given to Mrs G. I dont agree 
that Avivas responsibilities were solely related to the in-house AVC scheme. I think those 
responsibilities equally applied to all the contribution options that were open to Mrs G.
But in saying that I am not suggesting that Aviva needed to provide Mrs G with any advice, 
or even information about the structure of the added years option. That might be further than 
the knowledge or understanding of its advisor needed to go. But Aviva did need to ensure 
that Mrs G was directed to make sufficient enquiries of her own so that she could determine 
what might be the right course of action to take.
Aviva has already agreed that it fell short of that requirement in respect of the AVC options 
when it gave Mrs G advice in 1993. And so that would lead to a reasonable conclusion that 
Aviva also failed to direct Mrs G towards gathering information about the other in-house 
options that were available, such as the added years option.
I have looked closely at the application form that was completed the following year when 
Mrs G increased her payments to her FSAVC. It seems likely to me that the form that was 
completed was populated by Aviva, rather than Mrs G herself. And it doesnt seem that, 
when initially upholding Mrs Gs complaint, Aviva thought that the advice given in 1994 was 
sufficient to correct any failings from the year before and so restrict its liability. So on balance 
I cannot be sufficiently confident that any information Mrs G was given in 1994 was sufficient 
to make her aware of all the in-house options available to her, or even that she should make 
further enquiries of her own. Even if the application form was a full representation of the 
discussions held with Mrs G, it simply indicated that, at that time, she was aware that she 
could pay AVCs to her occupational scheme.
There is no further record of the meeting that Aviva held with Mrs G in 1993 other than the 
fact find that suggests an aspiration to retire at age 55. But that same aspiration was used as 
the justification for the recommendation of the FSAVC plan. Alternatively Mrs G has provided 
her testimony about how that retirement age was derived. Whilst I appreciate that the 
discussion took place many years ago, I dont think I should simply discount her 
recollections. So Im not persuaded that I have sufficient evidence to decide that, in 1993, 
Mrs G had any firm plans that would have led to a conclusion that retirement at age 55 was 
needed or even likely.As I said in my provisional decision the cost of the added years option was less than half of 
what Mrs G had agreed to pay to her FSAVC each month. And of course the added years 
costs would have been paid instead of the payments to her FSAVC, rather than in addition to 
them. So I cannot agree with Aviva that Mrs Gs decision to decline the family protection 
cover as it was too expensive based on her budget would give any reasonable grounds to 
conclude that Mrs G would have considered the added years costs to be unaffordable. She 
had already agreed to make additional pension contributions well in excess of that cost.
Mrs Gs decision would undoubtedly have needed to take into account any plans that she 
had to start a family in the future, and the interruption that might have made to her career. 
But as I explained in my provisional decision it appears that Mrs G was equally committed to 
her career. Whilst it is true that any periods of maternity leave would have impacted on the 
added years contributions that were being made I think the same could be said of any 
FSAVC payments. Im not persuaded that the potential of future maternity leave would have 
been enough to dissuade Mrs G from taking the added years option.
I dont know why Mrs G stopped making her FSAVC payments in 2016. But I havent seen 
anything that makes me think that course of action could have been expected, or considered 
as a possibility, when the advice was provided in 1993. After all, Mrs G continued to make 
FSAVC payments for more than 20 years. So whilst, with the benefit of hindsight, the 
cessation of the contributions might suggest the added years option would have been less 
flexible and so less attractive, I dont think there is anything to suggest that would have been 
a factor in Mrs Gs thinking in 1993.
So on balance, I still think that Mrs G would most likely have chosen to make added years 
contributions, had she been given all the appropriate information and guidance, rather than 
taking the FSAVC plan that Aviva recommended to her. So I think that Aviva now needs to 
assess whether Mrs G has lost out as a result, and if so to pay her compensation.
Putting things right
I have made Mrs G aware that the FCA is currently considering revisions to some of its 
guidance than might affect the compensation that Aviva needs to pay to her. But Mrs G has 
agreed that she is content for Aviva to proceed with its calculations under the current 
methodology. And the FCA considers that its current methodology will still provide a fair 
outcome to compensate consumers in circumstances such as these.
I think that, had Aviva provided Mrs G with appropriate advice and information, she would 
have chosen to use her additional pension contributions to purchase added years benefits 
(to the maximum allowed by her OPS) instead of taking out a FSAVC plan. A fair and 
reasonable outcome would be for Aviva to put Mrs G, as far as possible, into the position 
she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice.
Aviva should undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators FSAVC review 
methodology on an added years basis. This involves using, in part, the Pension Review 
methodology as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: 
Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mrs G's acceptance of the decision.If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Gs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Aviva is unable to pay the total amount into Mrs G's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs G's expected marginal rate of tax at 
her selected retirement age. I think that its reasonable to assume that Mrs G is likely to be a 
basic rate taxpayer when she retires, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, as Mrs G 
would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Where I consider that total fair compensation requires payment of an amount that might 
exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the business pays the balance.
determination and money award: I require Aviva to pay Mrs G compensation as set out 
above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to Mrs G 
within 90 days of the date Aviva receives notification of her acceptance of my final decision. 
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 
90 days, that it takes Aviva to pay Mrs G this compensation.
recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds 
£160,000, I also recommend that Aviva pays Mrs G the balance. I further recommend 
interest to be added to this balance at the rate of 8% per year simple for any time, in excess 
of 90 days, that it takes Aviva to pay Mrs G from the date it receives notification of her 
acceptance of the decision, as set out above.
If Mrs G accepts my determination, the money award is binding on Aviva. My 
recommendation is not binding on Aviva. Further, its unlikely that Mrs G can accept my 
determination and go to court to ask for the balance of the compensation owing to her after 
the money award has been paid. Mrs G may want to consider getting independent legal 
advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Gs complaint and direct Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman