DRN-1952380
 
The complaint
Mrs P and Mr P are unhappy with the service provided by Harwood Claims Management 
Limited when looking into potential mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) claims. 
What happened
Mrs P and Mr P agreed for Harwood to look into potential mis-sold PPI by lender B in May 
2019. The first part of the process was checking whether Mrs P and Mr P had taken out PPI 
with lender B. 
On 8 July Mr P was sent a letter saying lender B have confirmed that you did take PPI with 
them and you have at least 2 guaranteed cases... Mr P was asked to complete documents 
to enable these PPI mis-sale claims to be put to lender B. The pack said these should be 
returned by 25 July. On the same date, Mrs P was sent an email saying We have completed 
your PPI Check with lender B. Good news it has been confirmed that you have PPI. Mrs P 
was also sent an email saying Today we have sent you a formthey are required for your 
PPI Check with lender B. 
On 15 July Mrs P signed a Letter of Engagement (LOE) instructing Harwood to act for her in 
making PPI claims, and confirming acceptance of their terms and conditions. The LOE said 
If we are dealing with joint loans, joint credit cards, or joint mortgages, only one of you 
needs to complete and sign this form. 
On 15 July Mr P completed questionnaires to support his two clams against lender B. 
On 25 July Harwood text Mrs P saying she has PPI. On 26 July Harwood sent a further pack 
to Mr P asking him to complete documents in support of his complaint. 
On 1 August Mrs P and Mr P completed forms for Harwood including details of their previous 
addresses. 
On 17 September lender B sent an acknowledgement letter to Harwood and Mr P in relation 
to the two claims sent to them, and on 16 October made offers in settlement of these claims. 
On 25 October Harwood sent their success fee invoices to Mr P for the two successful 
claims. On the same date Harwood sent Mrs P two text messages saying Harwood have 
sent you the invoice for the successful claim against lender B. 
Mrs P complained to Harwood about the invoice chaser shed received. She was confused 
as Harwood hadnt told her about any successful claims shed had. Harwood explained that 
as Mrs P was the main account holder, and only her mobile number and email address had 
been provided, all text and emails were sent to these contacts. Mrs P remained unhappy, 
saying that theyd had to complete a lot of the paperwork for Harwood, and Harwood had 
continually sent confusing messages about whether she had been sold PPI. Harwood responded to Mr and Mrs Ps complaint on 19 December saying that Mr Ps claims 
had been successful because of work completed by Harwood, and their success fees were 
payable for these claims. They confirmed one invoice had been paid, and another remained 
outstanding. 
In December 2019 and January 2020 Mrs P continued to received text messages and emails 
regarding the outstanding invoice. On 24 January Harwood confirmed to Mrs P that theyd 
received payment for their outstanding invoice.
Unhappy with the service provided by Harwood Mrs P and Mr P contacted the Claims 
Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman service). 
The investigator found that the service provided by Harwood wasnt as good as it couldve 
been. There was evidence that theyd incorrectly told Mrs P that she had PPI, and sent Mrs 
P reminders to make payment, when the successful claims belonged to Mr P. Because of 
the impact on Mrs P caused by these failings, the investigator recommended Harwood pay 
Mrs P £75 in settlement of the complaint. Mrs P disagreed with these findings saying that the 
impact on her was much more. Harwood didnt respond to the findings. 
In June 2020 Mrs P received a further email from Harwood indicating she had five open 
claims with them. Mrs P complained about this. Harwood logged this as a separate 
complaint but didnt respond within the eight weeks allowed. So Ive dealt with this complaint 
as part of this final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that this has been an upsetting time for Mrs P and Mr P. Having reviewed the 
case, I agree with the investigators findings, for broadly the same reasons. Ive focused my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific point its 
because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Only Mrs P signed Harwoods LOE. At the time, there wasnt clear evidence to say that Mrs 
P and Mr P had joint agreements with lender B. So Harwood shouldve asked Mr P to sign a 
separate LOE. On balance its fair to say that Mr P did want Harwood to act for him. This is 
evident by the questionnaires, and previous address details, he returned to Harwood. 
Because only Mrs P completed the LOE, it was her contact details that Harwood had a 
record of, and continued to communicate with. This meant that any updates in relation to Mr 
Ps sole claims were sent directly to Mrs P. Harwood have confirmed that they havent found 
any evidence of PPI being sold to Mrs P. But throughout the claims process they sent Mrs P 
emails and texts with confusing information about whether theyd found PPI that had been 
sold to her. When Mr Ps claims were successful, Harwood sent Mrs P reminders to pay their 
invoices. As Mrs P had previously been told she didnt have PPI, these reminders wouldve 
caused upset, and shock to Mrs P.
Mrs P and Mr P say that they were sent the same forms to complete, and this made the 
process confusing. Its likely that duplicate forms were sent by Harwood. But considering the 
date of these forms, its likely that these were sent because Harwood were still waiting for 
information to be returned, and the second set of the same forms were sent as a reminder. 
At the time of receiving forms dated 26 July, Mr P had probably already returned what was 
required. But because of the relatively close dates in the forms being signed and returned, and new forms being issued, there was a cross-over. I can see why this wouldve been 
confusing for Mr P. The forms were sent to try and progress the claims, so lender B could 
complete their review. Although I accept it may have come across like duplicate requests 
being made, I dont think it would be reasonable to say Harwood did something wrong by 
sending the same forms out more than once. The purpose of sending these forms was to try 
and progress the complaints without delay. 
Harwood couldve taken more care to ensure that they had the correct details for Mr P. 
The service failings couldve been avoided if Mr P had signed a separate LOE. Although this 
caused upset and confusion, the outcome of the claims were unaffected. Mr P didnt lose out 
financially because of what had happened. And its fair to say that the claims with lender B 
were still successful because of the work that Harwood did. 
Mrs P was sent an email in June indicating she had open claims with Harwood. Harwood 
have informed this service that their own investigation hasnt found any evidence of PPI 
being sold to Mrs P by lender B. Based on what Harwood have informed this service, it 
seems likely that the email in June was sent in error, adding to Mrs Ps confusion. 
There were failings in the process which meant the claims werent dealt with as efficiently as 
they couldve been. But I think the £75 recommended by the investigator is in line with what 
this service could recommend in the circumstances. This recognises the upset caused by 
this, while also considering the overall successful outcomes on Mr Ps claims. 
Putting things right
Harwood Claims Management Limited should pay Mrs P and Mr P £75 (not each) for their 
poor handling of their claims.
My final decision
For the reasons provided I uphold this complaint. Harwood Claims Management Limited 
should pay Mrs P and Mr P £75 (not each) for their poor handling of their claims.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 August 2020.
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman