DRN-3031157
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a type of 
credit card account, in 2005. Mrs W says Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc, trading as 
M&S Bank, mis-sold her the PPI.
Ill refer mainly to M&S for consistency.
background
Our adjudicator didnt think we should uphold the mis-sale complaint. However, they thought 
M&Ss offer to pay back some of the cost of the PPI, because of the non-disclosure of high 
commission and profit sharing, was fair in the circumstances.
Mrs Ws representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. However, they didnt raise 
any new or additional points and repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me 
for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. When considering 
what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: law and regulations; 
regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ws. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Ws 
complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive too decided M&S should have disclosed the 
commission it received - but that its subsequent offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. 
I see we still have access to the agreement Mrs W signed when she applied for her new 
card. There was a section on the agreement which invited her to choose if she did  or she 
didnt  want PPI with the new card she was applying for. She selected the yes option and 
she also signed at this point, as well as also signing to agree the credit terms. So this 
demonstrates to me that she wanted this type of protective cover and I think M&S properly 
obtained her consent.
I note this was an in-store application and therefore not an advised sale. This means M&S 
didnt need to make sure the policy was suitable for her, the decision about buying the cover 
was for Mrs W herself to make and she would have made her way through the application in 
her own time without any intervention from M&S. 
My experience of these types of sale is that the application was part of a wider leaflet-based 
form which would have also included some brief details about the policy, including the cost. 
Nevertheless, its possible the information M&S gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt quite as 
clear as it should have been and Ive given a lot of thought to this area. 
However, the PPI cover Mrs W was sold wasnt too dissimilar to what she reasonably 
thought she was buying from the information she was likely given at the point of sale. I 
therefore dont think Mrs W would have declined the policy, even if M&S could have done a 
better job at explaining things. She was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the 
main exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy. The PPI would also have paid off 
15% of Mrs Ws outstanding credit card balance for up to a year if shed needed to claim. 
This would have been in addition to any other means she had at that time. 
Mrs Ws representatives told us about her medical history in the context of any pre-existing 
medical conditions that might have affected her ability to successfully claim on the policy. 
But the matter raised on her behalf related to a condition from the 1980s, a long time before 
the PPI sale. Whilst Im sure the medical condition mentioned would have been worrying for 
Mrs W at the time, few details were provided and Ive seen no evidence it was an ongoing 
issue that would have been either excluded or would have put Mrs W off buying the PPI. 
Overall, although I cant say why she bought the policy, I do think it was of use to Mrs W.
Mrs Ws representative also raised a number of what I consider to be general points, which it 
says apply to all PPI complaints. These include: a claim that the Financial Ombudsman 
Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI 
complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of significant 
exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with a low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost 
good faith meant M&S should have disclosed the poor value and explained the significance 
of the limitations and exclusions and the impact on the chances of making a claim.
But Mrs Ws representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Ws individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints. 
Ive thought about these and how they might apply in Mrs Ws particular case. But these 
points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the mis-
sale element of this complaint. 
This means M&S doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided M&S should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that M&Ss offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused 
is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?M&S didnt tell Mrs W about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this case. 
So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
M&S and Mrs W was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
M&S didnt tell her about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case 
I dont think M&S acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs W because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mrs Ws representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on her complaint. In summary they have said Mrs W should get back 
all the money she paid for the policy because: M&S failed to tell Mrs W about the high 
commission and profit-share rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and 
exclusions on cover. Because they say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find 
that Mrs W wouldnt have taken out the policy had they known about the level of commission 
and she should receive a refund of all the premiums she paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipTaking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mrs W in order to remedy the unfairness caused by M&S not disclosing the high level of 
commission to her before she purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mrs Ws representative suggests, driven to conclude that she wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for M&Ss failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for M&S to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mrs W paid for her PPI policy. I consider this fairly removes the 
source of the unfairness because it leaves Mrs W with the policy Ive concluded above she 
would still have taken out if M&S had done everything it should have done  but with lower 
commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that M&Ss subsequent offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the 
commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated 
interest where applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the 
circumstances.
 
my decision
I do not uphold the mis-sale element of Mrs Ws complaint or make any award for this part.
However, because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc should pay Mrs W an amount equivalent to the 
commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated 
interest where applicable). The evidence Ive seen suggests an offer was previously made in 
this regard.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs W to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 December 2021. 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman