DRN-3565907
The complaint
Ms H complains about how FCE Bank Plc dealt with her new account opening.
What happened
Ms H says she opened a FCE account in February 2022. She says there were problems with 
a code that was sent to her which resulted in a number of calls to sort matters out. Ms H 
says she spent some time on the telephone to FCE which resulted in call costs and suffered 
a loss of interest. She says she was reprimanded by FCE for contacting it via what it called 
an incorrect method and says she asked for the rational behind a £25 compensation 
payment. Ms H would like appropriate compensation.
FCE says Ms H didnt authenticate her existing account before adding her new account 
which generated a number of codes being sent to her. It accepts it gave Ms H incorrect 
information during a telephone call but says the correct information was then given in the 
same call. FCE says matters were sorted out on 21 February 2022 which was a week after 
the account was opened. It has apologised for the mistake and paid £25 compensation.
Ms H brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Ms H was given incorrect information, but it was later corrected. The investigator 
thought the compensation offer appropriate.
Ms H says the codes were not requested by her and no consideration was given to the time 
she spent on the telephone. She also says the investigator hasnt mentioned the reprimand 
she was given in the letter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that FCE has paid an appropriate 
compensation amount and I dont require it to do anything further in the circumstances of this 
complaint. I appreciate Ms H will be disappointed by my decision.
There is no dispute here that FCE gave Ms H incorrect information during a telephone call 
on 17 February 2022. But Im satisfied the incorrect information was corrected during that 
call and that account access was sorted out on 21 February 2022. I think on balance the 
initial problem was caused by a request to add an account before the original one was 
authenticated which led to multiple codes being generated.
The key issue is about the level of compensation, as FCE accepts it made a mistake. I dont 
think the mistake had a significant impact and have made clear that I think that Ms H would 
have needed to have spoken to FCE in any event due to the codes being generated. I 
accept Ms H would have been caused some frustration to have been given incorrect 
information but cant see that she acted upon it. Im satisfied that FCE has fairly apologised 
and has said it will speak to the staff member involved. Im also satisfied that it has fairly paid 
£25 compensation which I think is a fair and reasonable amount and takes into account the 
limited impact of that mistake.
I appreciate Ms H says she lost out on interest and that there was a call cost. I have not 
seen evidence of either loss or costs. But in any event have made clear that I think Ms H 
would have had to have spoken to FCE and that there would have been a delay here. I also 
think the issue was sorted out within a relatively short time period.
I also appreciate Ms H says she was reprimanded by FCE in a letter. I make clear to Ms H 
that complaint handling is not a regulated activity and not something we normally consider 
complaints about. I accept that is not the main part of the complaint and its not our role to 
direct a business on how it communicates with its customers in any event.
Overall, I find FCE has fairly apologised and paid appropriate compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman