DRN-2101511
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Accredited Insurance Europe Ltd (Accredited) declined his 
home insurance claim following a flood at his property.
Mr M used a representative to make the complaint on his behalf. For ease, Ill refer to 
all actions and comments as being those of Mr M.
What happened
Mr M took out a buildings and contents home insurance policy with Accredited in June 
2019. The policy was bought through a broker. Mr Ms policy did not include flood cover.
In early February 2020 Mr Ms home flooded and damage was caused to floor coverings, 
kitchen units and soft furnishings. Mr M submitted a claim to Accredited and this was 
turned down, so Mr M complained.
Accredited did not uphold Mr Ms complaint. It outlined the flood clause from the policy and 
highlighted that flood cover was excluded from Mr Ms policy. It said the surveyors report 
indicated the whole ground floor of the property had suffered an ingress of flood water. The 
surveyors report also said local press reports said gardens in Mr Ms area flooded because 
of a local beck. It provided a link to a government website, which outlined the long-term 
flood risk in Mr Ms area.
Mr M complained to this service. He said the proximate cause of the flooding is storm Ciara 
and so his loss should be covered under the storm section of his policy. He said there was 
very heavy rainfall in a very short period of time, which meant the drains were not able to 
cope with the volume of water and the water entered his property. Mr M feels the insurers 
should have put an additional clause in his policy saying that flooding, as a result of a 
storm, isnt covered.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ms complaint. He said Accredited were right to say Mr Ms 
policy excluded flood cover. However, he thought the claim should be assessed again as 
there was enough evidence to suggest the root cause of the damage was a storm, which 
Mr M is covered for under the policy. Our investigator outlined various weather and news 
reports from the time of the flood, to show that the flood was most likely caused by storm 
Ciara.
Our investigator said he looked at the policy terms in relation to flooding and what is and 
isnt covered. He said this section doesnt mention that flood caused by a storm isnt 
covered. He also looked at the policy term in relation to storm damage and the events that 
arent covered under this term. He said this doesnt mention that floods due to a storm 
arent covered or would be dealt with under the flood section. He concluded that if the 
cause of the flood is a storm, then this is covered under the policy.
Accredited did not agree with our investigator and the complaint has come to me to review.
I issued a provisional decision on 17 July 2020 and indicated that I intended to come to a 
different conclusion to that of the investigator and not uphold this complaint. In summary, I 
said I didnt think it would be fair to ask Accredited to pay a claim where one of the direct 
and primary causes of the damage to Mr Ms home, namely flooding, is excluded under Mr 
Ms policy.
I gave both parties the opportunity to respond with further comments.
Mr M responded and asked why the provisional decision hadnt dealt with damage caused 
by the same storm to an upstairs ceiling in his home. I made additional checks with 
Accredited and let Mr M know that he didnt mention damage to the ceiling when he 
submitted his claim to Accredited or when he brought his complaint to this service. And 
this means I cant deal with any issues Mr M has in relation to the upstairs ceiling.
Accredited responded and said it thought this was a fair outcome and had no 
further comments to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
An inspection of the damage to Mr Ms property was carried out by a surveyor following Mr 
Ms claim. Mr M reported the cause of the damage to Accredited as the beck at the bottom 
of his road breaking its banks and flooding the street, causing water to enter the ground 
floor of his property. The surveyor agreed that this was the most likely cause and said this 
was confirmed by local press reports. So Im satisfied that the damage to Mr Ms home was 
caused by floodwater from the beck entering his property.
Accredited said Mr M is not covered under this policy for flood damage. Having looked at 
the policy documents and schedule, Im satisfied this is the case. I can see that the policy 
schedule excludes flood cover for both buildings and contents.
But Mr Ms policy provides cover for storm damage. And Im satisfied that storm Ciara 
caused a good deal of damage in Mr Ms area on the date in question. So Ive looked 
at whether this claim should be assessed under the storm damage term. But I dont 
think it should. Ill explain why.
The policy defines flood damage as:
Water, from any source external to a building, which enters a building 
(a)At or below ground level, or above ground level, provided that part of the body of such 
water is at ground level; and
(b)Does so with a volume, weight or force which is substantial and abnormal.
Im satisfied that rainwater from the storm didnt directly enter Mr Ms property. Im also 
satisfied that the amount of rain that fell during storm Ciara was the reason there was an 
excessive amount of water in the beck, and the beck burst its banks as a result. This in 
turn caused Mr Ms property to flood - so an external source of water, the beck, entered 
his property at ground level with some force.
I appreciate the flood water was caused by the storm, and Mr M is covered for storm 
damage under the policy. So the question of proximate cause  the direct cause  of the damage to Mr Ms property, has to be looked at.
But I dont think its fair to say the storm was the only cause of the damage to Mr Ms 
property. I think its fair to say its because Mr Ms property is in close proximity to the beck 
and because the beck flooded, that the damage has been caused. So Im satisfied it was a 
combination of rainwater from the storm  causing there to be an excessive amount of 
water in the beck - and flooding, that led to the damage in Mr Ms property.
This means that one cause of the damage to Mr Ms property is covered under Mr Ms 
policy and the other isnt. When this situation arises, its usually fair to say that the insurer is 
allowed to turn down the claim. Im satisfied thats reasonable in this case. And thats 
because, as I said above, rainwater from the storm didnt directly enter Mr Ms property. It 
was the flooding caused by the beck bursting its banks that led to the damage being 
caused. So Im satisfied the damage was primarily caused by the flooding.
In this situation I dont think it would be fair to ask Accredited to pay a claim where one of 
the direct and primary causes is excluded under the policy. So Im satisfied that Accredited 
acted fairly when it declined to pay the claim on the basis that damage caused by flooding 
is excluded under Mr Ms policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 September 2020.
Martina Ryan
 
Ombudsman