DRN-2772604
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Vitality Corporate Services Limited mis-sold him a private medical
insurance policy in June 2018.
All references to Vitality in this decision relate only to the insurance broker who is an
appointed representative of Vitality Corporate Services Limited, and who sold Mr B the
private medical insurance policy in June 2018.
What happened
Mr B was the policyholder of a medical insurance policy taken out in 2017, which was
underwritten by a particular insurer (policy 1). His wife, Mrs B, was also a beneficiary of
policy 1. Before then, he says theyd had private medical insurance for many years and
whenever they switched insurance providers, cover was continued on the same basis.
In June 2018 Mr B contacted his insurance broker - an appointed representative for Vitality 
whod sold him policy 1 in 2017. Thats because policy 1 was due to renew in July 2018 and
he wanted Vitality to ascertain the renewal premium quote, from the insurer of policy 1.
Vitalitys representative was able to confirm the renewal price, which was higher than the
current premium Mr B was paying. Mr B asked Vitalitys representative to see whether it
would reduce the premium. And when it wouldnt, Vitalitys representative told Mr B about
another medical insurance policy, underwritten by a different insurer (policy 2).
Mr B was informed that policy 2 offered better out-patient cover compared with policy 1 and
the monthly premium worked out to be around £25 per month cheaper. Mr B was asked
questions about his and Mrs Bs medical history. And, ultimately, Vitalitys representative
confirmed that if Mr B bought policy 2, existing cover would be maintained, and no
exclusions would be placed on the policy.
Mr B was sent the policy documents for policy 2 and asked to complete, sign and return a
medical declaration document for himself and Mrs B, which he duly did.
It wasnt until the summer of 2019 that Mr B discovered that the following exclusion had
been added to policy 2, when taken out in 2018, to exclude any claim relating to:
condition described as build-up of phlegm, breathing difficulties, and related
conditions.
Ill refer to this as the asthma exclusion.
Mr B says he hadnt been made aware of the asthma exclusion by Vitalitys representative
when policy 2 was first sold to him. So, he complained to Vitality.
Vitality said it was unusual for the insurer of policy 2 to have added the asthma exclusion, so
it raised the matter directly with the insurer, on Mr Bs behalf.
The insurer of policy 2 requested further information from Mr B and his doctor. And upon
considering the information received, it agreed to remove the asthma exclusion.
However, Mr Bs GP said Mr B had undergone an Echocardiogram (ECG) for a longstanding
heart murmur. And whilst no intervention was needed and the murmur was asymptomatic, it
was confirmed that he had an underlying medical condition; mild mitral and tricuspid valve
regurgitation. Mr B also confirmed to the insurer of policy 2 that hed attended annual check-
ups with his GP to monitor his heart murmur and that the murmur was detectable with a 
statoscope.
As a result, the insurer of policy 2 retrospectively added a different exclusion with effect of
the policy start date; to exclude:
any further investigations or treatment due to mitral and tricuspid valve regurgitation
and related conditions.
Ill refer to this as the heart exclusion.
Mr B is unhappy and feels that he was mis-sold policy 2. He says he would never
have switched private medical insurance policies in 2018 had he known that it included the
heart exclusion.
Vitality accepts that its representative didnt inform him about the asthma exclusion when the
policy was sold in June 2018. It upheld this aspect of Mr Bs complaint.
However, it didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint about the heart exclusion being applied. It says
Mr B had failed to provide accurate information relating to his heart murmur when answering
questions about his medical history when taking out policy 2. Its representative relied upon
the information Mr B provided when selling the policy to him and as such policy 2 wasnt mis-
sold.
Unhappy, Mr B complained to our Service. Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. As
Mr B disagreed, his complaint was passed to me to look at everything afresh to
decide.
I issued my provisional decision in March 2021 explaining why I wasnt intending to uphold 
this complaint either. An extract of my provisional findings is set out below: 
From listening to the calls that took place between Mr B and Vitalitys representative in June
2018, Im satisfied that Mr B was advised to take out policy 2. And, so, Vitality had to ensure
that it was suitable for his needs. It also had to give him clear, fair and not misleading
information about its main terms.
Mr B says policy 2 was unsuitable for him because of the heart exclusion which was added
retrospectively. And further had he known about the heart exclusion when policy 2 was sold,
he says he wouldnt have taken it out.
Im satisfied Mr B was asked several questions during the fifth call he had with Vitalitys
representative about his and Mrs Bs medical history.
Mr B was asked:
In the last three years, have you or any other person to be insured:
a) experienced symptoms, received any advice from a healthcare professional, orreceived treatment
b) have treatment planned or expected including prescribed or over the counter
medication, for any condition
Mr B answered Yes to question (a) and advised that he had asthma and was due to have
an ECG in July 2018. Vitalitys representative enquired what the ECG was for. Mr B said that
he had a combination of asthma and a build-up of mucus. And this, sometimes, affected his
breathing. He said his doctor didnt think there was anything wrong but that his doctor
wanted to ensure there was adequate blood-flow to his heart.
Mr B also answered Yes to question (b). He said he took two inhalers for asthma.
Mr B was also asked:
In the last 3 years have you or any other person to be insured experienced
symptoms, or received advice from a healthcare professional, had any consultations,
tests or received treatment (including prescribed or over the counter medication)
related to the following:
a) Cancer
b) Heart Conditions
c) Prostate
d) Diabetes
e) Mental Health Illness
f) Back Pain
g) Arthritis
Vitalitys representative paused and waited for Mr B to provide an answer after stating each
of the medical conditions listed at (a) to (g) above.
Mr B answered no to heart conditions. And didnt disclose anything about his heart murmur.
Nor did he disclose the annual GP check-ups which he subsequently told the insurer of
policy 2 about in 2019, to monitor his heart murmur.
He did declare that he was due to attend an ECG but confirmed on more than one occasion
that this was on the advice of his GP due to asthma. He said that he experienced a build-up
of mucus that can affect his breathing. And that his GP wanted to check that his breathing
problem wasnt affecting his heart.
The medical questions were discussed again in the sixth call and the answers Mr B provided
in the fifth call were repeated. He didnt disclose any information about his heart murmur.
This is also supported by the medical declaration Mr B completed, signed and returned to
Vitality within the days after the fifth and sixth calls took place in June 2018. He didnt
mention his heart murmur in response to the same medical questions.
Im satisfied that Vitalitys representative can only advise on the suitability of the policy based
on the information provided by Mr B, including the answers he provided to questions about
his and Mrs Bs medical history.
And as Mr B hadnt provided Vitalitys representative with any information about his heart
murmur, I dont think Vitalitys representative couldve, at that stage, reasonably known
about this  or that it was being annually monitored by his GP. And so, I think its reasonable
that this information wasnt considered when considering the suitability of policy 2 for Mr B
(and Mrs B).When provisionally making this finding, Ive taken into account what Mr B says about telling
a different Vitality representative about his heart murmur in 2017 when being sold policy 1.
However, I dont think that means that he shouldnt have told the representative who sold
him policy 2 about the heart murmur when answering the medical questions.
Vitality accept that its representative didnt make Mr B aware of the asthma exclusion.
Vitality says its very uncommon for the underwriter of policy 2 to add such an exclusion for
asthma and, its said, this may explain why its representative overlooked it, in error.
Ive considered whats most likely to have happened had Vitalitys representative noticed the
inclusion of the asthma exclusion at the time of sale in 2018. And Im currently persuaded
that Vitalitys representative wouldve done what Vitality did when Mr B first became aware of
the asthma exclusion and had raised it as an issue; the representative is likely to have
questioned the insurer of policy 2 about why it had been included.
I think thats more likely than the representative advising Mr B to take out policy 2 despite the
asthma exclusion. Thats because policy 1 didnt contain any specific exclusions on account
of Mr Bs medical history at the time. And, further, at one point, during the fifth call, Vitalitys
representative says he wouldnt advise Mr B to move policies if policy 2 had any individual
exclusions.
Had Vitalitys representative then questioned the insurer of policy 2 about the asthma
exclusion before the policy was taken out, Im persuaded that its likely that the insurer
wouldve taken the same course of action it did in 2019; its most likely it wouldve requested
further information from Mr B and his GP. It follows, that the insurer wouldve then been
made aware of Mr Bs heart murmur and the reason for the ECG. And, Im persuaded, it
wouldve then notified Vitality that instead of applying the asthma exclusion it would apply
the heart exclusion.
This being the case, I think its unlikely that Mr B wouldve been advised to change policies
at that stage. And even if he was, had he been given information about the heart exclusion
then, as he shouldve, I dont think Mr B wouldve chosen to take out policy 2.
Ive considered the impact on Mr B (and Mrs B).
Policy 1 didnt contain any specific exclusions relating to Mr B at the time. However, Ive
seen an email from the insurer of policy 1. It has said that had it been made aware of Mr Bs
heart murmur when policy 1 was taken out with it in 2017, it also wouldve applied an
exclusion for claims relating to Mr Bs underlying heart condition. Its provided this
information knowing that Mr Bs heart murmur is asymptomatic and that it required annual
check-ups with his GP.
So, if Vitalitys representative had acted fairly and reasonably when selling policy 2 in 2018,
its unlikely that Mr B wouldve ended up taking out that policy; instead renewing policy 1.
But Im persuaded that had he ever needed to make a claim on policy 1 for anything relating
to his heart murmur, it wouldve been excluded. Just because that specific exclusion hadnt
been added when he took out the policy in 2017, it doesnt mean that it wouldnt have been
added at a later date, once the insurer of policy 1 became aware of his longstanding heart
murmur and the regular monitoring of it.
By switching policies and taking out policy 2, Mr B was paying around £25 less per month
and had a higher, overall, outpatient benefit. So, overall, Im not persuaded that he has lost
out financially because of what Vitality did wrong.Ive seen nothing in policy 2 to say that any treatment to do with the heart is excluded under
the policy terms as standard, as Mr B suggests. And I dont think Mr B is in any worse
position than he wouldve been had he renewed policy 1 rather than switching to policy 2 in
2018. Especially given that insurer 1 has said it wouldve retrospectively applied an
exclusion similar to the heart exclusion once it had been made aware of Mr Bs heart
murmur.
I do think Mr B has experienced some unnecessary distress and inconvenience as a result
of what Vitality did wrong in 2018. I accept that he wouldve been frustrated and distressed
to learn that the asthma exclusion had been added when hed been told over the phone by
Vitalitys representative that no individual exclusions had been applied to policy 2. However,
Im satisfied that the money hes saved as a result of switching policies in 2018 fairly
compensates him for this distress and inconvenience. So, I dont think it would be fair and
reasonable to direct Vitality pay him further compensation.
Responses to my provisional decision 
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further information or 
arguments they wanted me to consider. Vitality didnt reply. Mr B wasnt happy with my 
provisional decision. He said:
- he and his wife had had private medical insurance for over 40 years, and this was the 
first time any exclusions had been added;
- the terms of policy 2 stated that any known heart conditions wouldnt be covered 
under the policy. Had he been told this, he says he wouldnt have switched policy 
providers in 2018;
- Vitality had known about his heart condition in 2017 when it sold him policy 1 and 
although he ought to have mentioned it again when the policy 2 was sold to him in 
2018, he says they had the information already.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
That includes the further comments Mr B has made in response to my provisional decision. 
Whilst I recognise the points made by Mr B are very important to him, they have been raised 
previously and Id considered them along with everything else, when reaching my provisional 
decision. And Ive addressed them in my provisional findings.
As neither party has provided any new information for me to consider, Im satisfied that 
theres no reason for me to reach a different outcome. So, for this reason  and for the 
reasons explained in my provisional decision which Ive set out above  I dont uphold Mr Bs 
complaint.
To confirm, the complaint Ive considered is about the sale of policy 2. I havent looked at 
whether the insurer of policy 2 was right to retrospectively add the heart exclusion going 
back to the start date.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Bs complaintUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman