DRN-3024189
The complaint
Ms K complains about the overdraft charges that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) 
applied when she was abroad and didnt have access to the internet. 
What happened
Ms K complained to RBS that the overdraft charges that RBS applied to her account when 
she was abroad were unfair because she wasnt aware of the arranged overdraft charges. 
Ms K was in excess of her overdraft limit by £469.88. This excess balance was due to Ms 
Ks interest-free buffer on her overdraft being reduced in August 2019. From this point on Ms 
K was charged for using her overdraft  these charges caused her to go over her agreed 
overdraft limit. RBS offered to reduce the excess to £180 which Ms K rejected. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Ms Ks concerns and reached the conclusion RBS hadnt 
done anything wrong or treated Ms K unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Ms K disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ks complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail. 
My role is to look at problems that a consumer has experienced and see if the bank has 
done anything wrong. If it has, we seek to put the consumer back in the position they 
wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And we may award modest compensation 
that we think is fair and reasonable.
Ms K is unhappy that RBS wont wave the entire balance she is in excess of her overdraft. 
She says the charges are unfair as they were applied at a time when she had no access to 
the internet and she wasnt aware she was being charge for using her overdraft. 
 
I have seen RBSs internal screen shots showing the contact information it held for Ms K. It 
shows that Ms K wouldve received her statements on a monthly basis via email. I accept 
that Ms K didnt have access to the internet for a period of time  but Ive not seen anything 
to show me that RBS were informed of this and being abroad or not having access to the 
internet isnt an excuse for not managing the account.
All charges that were applied were in line with the terms and conditions of the account. So I 
cant say that RBS has done anything wrong here. I havent considered whether the various 
amounts RBS charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in 
comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. That said, while Im not looking at RBS various 
charging structures per se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Ms K if it 
applied any interest, fees and charges to Ms Ks account in circumstances where it was 
aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Ms K was experiencing financial 
difficulty. From what Ive seen of Ms Ks bank statements I cant see anything to suggest that 
RBS ought to have realised she might have been experiencing financial difficulty. 
 
So, in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for RBS to proceed with 
adding the interest, fees and charges in line with the terms and conditions of the account 
and I dont think RBS treated Ms K unfairly or unreasonably which means that Im not 
upholding this complaint. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Ms K  
especially as shes been waiting some time for this answer. But I hope shell understand the 
reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms Ks complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or reject my decision 
before 8 November 2021.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman