DRN-3865268
The complaint
Mr F2 has complained on behalf of Mr F1 about how Santander UK Plc (Santander) 
handled arrears on Mr F1s mortgage account.
What happened
Mr F2 says Mr F1 has health concerns and lost his job, so he was unable to pay his 
mortgage. As part of Mr F1s health concerns he was unable to deal with correspondence 
such as letters, but Mr F2 says Santander was threatening Mr F1 with the repossession of 
his property from 2018 onwards. Mr F2 and social services adult mental health team were 
all trying to discuss a resolution with Santander, but Mr F2 feels Santander made it very 
difficult.
Mr F2 says he made payments himself to avoid the threat of eviction. He says he 
understood if he paid an agreed amount then Santander would stop legal action. But Mr F2 
says Santander continued legal proceedings anyway. Mr F2 has since paid off all the arrears 
on the mortgage, and says he was overpaying on a monthly basis because Santander didnt 
send him a redemption statement even though it agreed to several times. Mr F2 has now 
settled the account. 
Santander looked into Mr F2s complaints and issued two final response letters. The first 
dated 28 January 2022 looked into whether Mr F2 was told legal action would stop or not. It 
found that Mr F2 was told Mr F1 would be given breathing space, but it felt the meaning of 
this may have been misunderstood. Santander said it was appropriate to start legal 
proceedings based on the account history at the time, but as the call handler Mr F2 spoke to 
could have been clearer about what they meant by breathing space it agreed to refund the 
legal fees Mr F1 was charged totalling £130. Santander also offered an additional £120 
compensation. Both sums were credited to Mr F1s mortgage account. 
The second response dated 17 March 2022 looked into Mr F2s concerns about not 
receiving a redemption statement. Santander found that the first copy was sent to an 
incorrect email address. It said the email was encrypted so there was no data breach, but it 
offered Mr F1 another £100 to say sorry for this, which was again credited to the mortgage 
account. 
As the responses didnt cover all of the complaint points Mr F2 raised with this service, in 
particular, how it handled Mr F1s account considering he was a vulnerable customer, our 
investigator asked Santander if it was happy for us to look into the additional points. 
Santander confirmed it was but said that it didnt think it had done anything wrong in this 
regard. 
Our investigator looked into Mr F2s concerns and they felt Santander had done everything 
expected of it for the most part, but they found Mr F2 had legitimate concerns about whether 
his personal information was truly protected by the encrypted email or not. So, the 
investigator suggested Santander explain what encryption means to reassure him and they 
also awarded an additional £100 for the delay. 
Santander accepted the investigators suggested settlement, but Mr F2 said their view wasnt 
an accurate reflection of what happened, so the complaint was referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator that the complaint should be partially upheld. 
Before I explain my findings I note that Mr F2 has asked that I listen to a number of call 
recordings before deciding the case. Our investigator explained that they didnt think it was 
necessary to listen to the calls as Santander provided its contact notes that recorded the 
nature of all of the calls that took place. They felt it would be unreasonable for this service to 
listen to all of the calls that took place between 2018 and 2022. 
Ive also thought about Mr F2s request, and I agree with our investigator that it wont be 
necessary to listen to all of the calls. This is a fairly straight forward complaint, and both 
sides have made their points clearly. Santander has already accepted that the way the call 
handler explained things could have caused confusion in relation to legal proceedings, so 
Im satisfied I dont need to listen to that myself. And I think I have enough information from 
both parties to decide Mr F2s other complaint points without listening to all of the calls that 
took place. 
Its worth mentioning at this point that the ombudsman service is an informal and impartial 
dispute resolution service. While Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill only comment 
on what I think is relevant to this complaint and necessary to explain my findings. This also 
helps to protect Mr F1 and Mr F2s anonymity as final decisions are published on our 
website. 
Finally, before I explain my findings further, I also want to acknowledge that Mr F1 and Mr F2 
have faced some extremely difficult circumstances over the last few years and I appreciate 
trying to resolve the issue of the arrears will have added to that. While I empathise with both 
Mr F1 and Mr F2, I also have to bear in mind that Santander still has to follow its own 
processes for settling arrears and although it can make reasonable adjustments it will 
ultimately need to find a way forward to protect its security in the property, particularly 
considering the length of time Mr F1 had been in arrears. 
Legal proceedings
Santander informed Mr F2 it intended to start legal proceedings in October 2021. Given 
Mr F1 had been in arrears since 2018, Im satisfied Santander would have been within its 
rights to do this. So, my findings will focus on whether Santander misled Mr F2 into believing 
it wouldnt start proceedings. 
Mr F2 says each time he made a payment he was led to believe this would stop legal 
proceedings, but Santander continued anyway. I havent seen anything to support this 
occurred on more than one occasion. It appears Mr F2 spoke to Santander on 12 November 
2021 following receipt of the above letter and arranged to make the monthly mortgage 
repayments by standing order. But Santander also said that an income and expenditure form 
would need to be completed in order for the arrears to be repaid. I cant see that this was 
ever completed, so Santander referred the account to its solicitors on 1st December 2021. So, I think the main instance of Mr F2 feeling misled was addressed and upheld by 
Santander already. Santander accepted that Mr F2 may have got the wrong impression that 
legal proceedings would stop based on the wording used by the call handler he spoke to on 
12 November 2021. It said that the call handler confirmed legal proceedings hadnt started, 
which was accurate, but the call handler also said that Mr F1 would be given breathing 
space. Santander accepts that this phrase may have misled Mr F2 into believing the 
account would not be referred to solicitors and apologised for causing this misunderstanding. 
To resolve this, Santander refunded the cost of the legal proceedings and awarded an 
additional sum for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Ive thought about this carefully, and I think the misunderstanding was the result of the call 
handler trying to be empathetic to the situation  by using terminology that they hoped would 
give Mr F2 some relief. Unfortunately, it wasnt an accurate reflection of the situation and so 
it was appropriate to compensate for that. 
Santander has paid £250 in total. This includes a refund of the legitimate legal fees charged 
to Mr F1s mortgage account, and an additional £120 to make up the difference. I think this is 
in line, if not slightly higher, with what I would have awarded in the circumstances. I say this 
because the award is to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused in relation to this 
specific event only. Its also awarded to reflect the impact on Santanders customer, Mr F1. I 
cant award distress and inconvenience to Mr F1s representative, and as Mr F2 was the one 
speaking to Santander, I think the impact on Mr F1 was reduced. 
Redemption statement
Mr F2 says that he repeatedly asked for a redemption statement but didnt receive one for 
several weeks. I can see a record of Mr F2 discussing settling the arrears on 22 December 
2021. While the notes dont specify Mr F2 asked for a copy of a redemption statement 
specifically, Im satisfied this was at least implied based on their notes which document his 
desire to settle the account. Particularly considering Mr F1 confirmed he had the funds to 
settle the account due to the inheritance received from his late parents. But I note the 
records dont confirm Mr F2 asked for a redemption statement until 6 January 2022.
Following this, I cant see that Santander requested a redemption statement until 
21 February 2022, so it wasnt produced until 23 February 2021. Considering this, Im 
satisfied Mr F2s concerns about the delays in producing the statements are valid. And 
Santander has accepted that the original copy was sent to the wrong email address, 
delaying things further. A copy of the redemption statement wasnt actually sent to Mr F2s 
correct email address until 15 March 2022. 
In terms of the wrong email address, Santander has explained that the email was encrypted 
and couldnt have been opened if it was received by a third-party. But it awarded £100 for 
any distress and inconvenience caused. Our investigator felt Santander should explain to 
Mr F2 how its encryption works to provide further reassurance to him that his and Mr F1s 
data was safe. And I agree it would be appropriate to do this in the circumstances. 
The investigator also recommended Santander increase its award for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by delays and pay an additional £100. Santander has agreed to 
arrange both. Ive thought about this carefully, and I agree with Mr F2 that Santander didnt produce a 
redemption statement as quickly as it should have, and I appreciate he would have concerns 
about the statement being sent to the wrong email address too. That said, as Ive explained 
above, Mr F2 is not Santanders customer in regards to this complaint, so I can only think 
about whether Mr F1 has been compensated fairly or not. 
Considering everything, I think £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused is 
appropriate for Mr F1, again, bearing in mind Mr F2 was the one who had to chase 
Santander for the statement, and I cant award compensation to him. 
Other difficulties assisting Mr F1
Mr F2 has complained that Santander made it difficult for both he and social services to 
assist Mr F1 with his account. I dont intend to provide a timeline of each and every contact 
either party had with Santander, but Ive reviewed all of the contact notes provided by 
Santander alongside Mr F2s testimony of what happened and Im satisfied Santander 
treated Mr F1 fairly and attempted to help him with his situation. 
I understand handling this situation will more likely than not have been very stressful for 
Mr F2, but a number of the issues he appears to have had with Santanders handling of the 
account were unavoidable. Santander has a duty to protect Mr F1s account and it would 
need the appropriate documentation in order to communicate with Mr F2 or social services. 
Once this was in place for Mr F2, I can see Santander contacted him about the account 
instead of Mr F1 until the authority expired.
Santander repeatedly explained that an income and expenditure form would be required in 
order for it to set up an arrangement. It appears Mr F2 disagreed with this process, but this is 
common practice and any other lender would likely have had the same requirements. 
Santander would have been within its rights to start legal proceedings on Mr F1s account 
much sooner than it did, so I think it delayed things to give Mr F1, Mr F2 and social services 
a chance to get an acceptable repayment plan in place. 
Considering everything, I dont think Santander made it difficult for Mr F2 or social services 
to assist Mr F1 with his account. But I do think Santander could have been clearer about its 
next steps in terms of legal proceedings. I also think Santander should have sent a copy of 
the redemption statement to Mr F2 sooner than it did. But Santander has agreed to pay £450 
compensation to Mr F1 in total and for the reasons Ive explained above, I think thats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Below, Ive set out the remaining actions Santander should take if Mr F2 accepts the 
decision. 
Putting things right
Santander UK Plc should:
Explain how its encryption process would prevent a third party from accessing the 
redemption statement it sent to an incorrect email address.
Pay an additional £100 to Mr F1 for issues relating to the mortgage redemption 
statement.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct 
Santander UK Plc to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F2 to accept or 
reject my decision on behalf of Mr F1 before 2 March 2023.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman