DRN-4465293
The complaint
Mr H has complained about administrative problems he encountered when he was trying to 
switch his buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage held with Santander UK Plc onto a new interest rate 
product, and to make a lump sum payment.
Mr H also says that Santander failed to record his complaint when he first made it and is 
unhappy with the length of time the bank took to investigate it.
What happened
I do not need to set out the full background to the complaint. This is because the history of 
the matter is set out in the correspondence between the parties and our service, so there is 
no need for me to repeat the details here. In addition, our decisions are published, so its 
important I dont include any information that might lead to Mr H being identified. 
Finally, the underlying issues that gave rise to the complaint  the product swich and the 
issues around a lump sum payment and reimbursement of an overpayment  have now 
been resolved. The only issue I need to decide, therefore, is whether the compensation 
Santander has offered (£250) is sufficient, or whether Santander should pay the £1,500 Mr H 
believes is more appropriate for the distress and inconvenience he was caused.
So for these reasons, I will instead concentrate on giving a brief summary of the complaint, 
followed by the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because 
Ive ignored it; rather, itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint.
Briefly, Mr H has a BTL mortgage with Santander. It was on a fixed rate taken out in 2021, 
which was due to expire on 2 July 2023. On 22 May 2023 Mr H wanted to make a lump sum 
payment of £170,000 towards his BTL mortgage, and arrange a new two-year fixed rate. 
Because of technical issues, Santander wasnt able to do this. Mr H complained that same 
day. When Mr H spoke to Santander again the following day, he was given contradictory 
information and asked different questions. Mr H wasnt happy about this.
Unfortunately, although Mr H was told an application for a new mortgage product had been 
submitted, this wasnt, in fact, done, which meant Mr H had to call again on 3 June 2023 
when a mortgage offer was issued. Mr H accepted this, Santander receiving the acceptance 
form on 23 June 2023. This was at the same interest rate as was available in May 2022. The 
product moved onto the new rate when the previous rate expired on 2 July 2023.
Mr H raised another complaint on 3 June 2023 because he was still unhappy about the 
service hed received. Mr H made 35 bullet points in relation to his complaint, detailing all the 
issues he was unhappy about. Santander said its investigation was taking longer than 
expected, and gave Mr H referral rights to our service. Mr H raised his complaint with us.
Santander issued its final response letter on 11 August 2023. The bank explained that the 
first two agents Mr H had spoken to in May 2023 were not advisers and so the discussions 
with Mr H were on a non-advised basis. It wasnt until 3 June 2023 that Mr H spoke to an 
adviser. Santander said that is why the questions the adviser asked were different.
Santander also clarified that, because of the technical issue on 22 May 2023, the agent Mr H 
had spoken to wasnt able to track what had happened. Santander also noted that an 
overpayment Mr H had requested be returned to him was paid to a different account from 
the one hed expected it to go to.
In relation to recording Mr Hs complaint on 22 May 2023, Santander confirmed that this had 
been done.
Overall, Santander acknowledged it could have done better, and offered Mr H £250 
compensation. Mr H didnt think this was sufficient. He thought £1,500 was more 
appropriate. Mr H said there had been "serious disruption to daily life over a sustained 
period with the impact felt over many months. I therefore seek £1,500 compensation plus 
damages for delay processing of some overpayments made.
Our investigator looked at what had happened. She noted that the product switch had gone 
through at the same rate that Mr H had been offered and there was no financial detriment 
caused to Mr H. The investigator noted the administrative issues that had resulted in Mr H 
having to make several calls. However, the investigator was satisfied that the £250 offered 
was fair and reasonable.
Mr H disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. Hes made some 
further comment, which I summarise below:
the investigator failed to acknowledge and investigate whether the bank formally 
recorded the complaint when it was originally made;
the investigator doesnt appear to have listened to any/all of the phone calls that would 
provide a better understanding of the inconvenience and distress he has been caused;
it is improbable that Santander just so happened to offer the exact amount of 
compensation that our service would have calculated, and a sum of between £300-
£1,500 based on Financial Ombudsman Service guidance was expected.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I confirm that Ive read everything provided by both parties, and listened to all the call 
recordings. I will explain first that the Financial Ombudsman Service is independent of both 
consumers and the businesses they are complaining about. This means that we dont act for 
consumers, nor do we take instructions either from consumers or businesses, or allow either 
party to direct the course of our investigations; were we to do so, it would compromise our 
independence and impartiality. Its up to us to determine what evidence we need in order to 
investigate a complaint. So although Ive noted the questions which Mr H would like 
answered, its not my role to put those questions to Santander or act as a representative or 
go-between on this case.
As I said above, the underlying issue in the complaint  the switch to a new interest rate 
product  was ultimately resolved with Mr H receiving the product he wanted, starting 
immediately on expiry of his previous product. Although there were some administrative 
issues and customer service errors that caused Mr H to have to chase up the application, 
the matter was resolved relatively promptly, as it began on 22 May 2023, and the new offer 
was issued nine working days later on 3 June 2023. Santanders acknowledged things could have gone more smoothly, and that there were 
technical issues and a mistake was made in not submitting the application. Because the 
bank has accepted this, I dont need to analyse what happened in depth in order to 
determine who is at fault or why  because I am satisfied that is not in dispute. So much as 
Mr H might want me to go into detail about what happened, I dont need to, given that the 
bank has acknowledged mistakes were made. All I need to decide is what needs to be done 
to put this right.
In addition, although there was some inconvenience caused by the overpayment being 
reimbursed to a different account (Mr H complained about this on 12 June 2023), Mr H has 
provided no evidence of any financial loss or detriment as a result.
Given this, although there was some inconvenience caused to Mr H, Im not persuaded that 
Mr H suffered serious disruption to daily life over a sustained period with the impact felt over 
many months. I say this because the evidence is clear that these issues were resolved 
within a couple of weeks, not many months as Mr H claims.
Mr H is also unhappy at the way Santander dealt with his complaint and has raised a 
number of other points relating to the manner and the time it took Santander to investigate 
his complaint. The complaint was first logged on 22 May 2023, and Mr H followed this up 
with a more detailed complaint. 
Santander explained to Mr H on 17 July 2023 that this would take longer than expected to 
investigate but the bank gave Mr H referral rights to our service, and the complaint was 
raised with us on 31 July 2023. The banks final response letter addressing the complaint 
was sent to Mr H on 11 August 2023. Mr H is unhappy at the length of time Santander took 
to respond to the complaint.
The handling of complaints is not itself a regulated activity. It is something that the FCA 
requires banks and others to do. But that isnt enough to make it a regulated activity within 
the meaning of the rule  that is, one of the list of activities set out in the legislation from 
which we derive our powers. Furthermore, complaint-handling isnt covered by the definition 
of an ancillary activity contained in the Glossary to the FCA Handbook (DISP is also a part 
of the Handbook).  
As I have explained, the underlying issue about the mortgage administration was resolved 
when Santander sent out a new offer on 3 June 2023, which Mr H accepted. Mr Hs 
concerns about whether his complaint was logged on 22 May 2023, about failure to call him 
back to discuss his complaint or about the length of time Santander took to issue a final 
response letter are not ancillary to the arrangement of a new mortgage interest rate product. 
In the circumstances, I dont have any power to consider a complaint about the date on 
which Santander logged the complaint, the way the complaint was handled or the length of 
time Santander took to respond to the complaint, as these arent activities that fall within the 
scope of our rules.
Putting things right
In all the circumstances, Im satisfied that the compensation of £250 offered by Santander is 
fair, reasonable and proportionate to the issues concerning the mortgage account 
administration detailed above. As I have explained, Im satisfied those issues were resolved 
within a short period of time from when they first arose (22 May 2023) to when the mortgage 
offer was issued (3 June 2023). Im therefore not persuaded that Mr H has suffered months 
of distress and inconvenience that would justify a higher award of compensation.My final decision
My final decision is that in full and final settlement of this complaint Santander UK Plc must 
pay Mr H £250 compensation. I make no other order or award.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
discussion about it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman