DRN-1178381
 
The complaint
Mr C and Mr A bring this complaint on behalf of their business, Company M. Company M is 
unhappy with HSBC UK Bank Plcs handling of its business banking overdraft facility.
What happened
In May 2017 Company M opened an HSBC business bank account, and it had an overdraft 
facility of £5,000. On 24 August 2017 Company M met HSBC and asked to increase the 
overdraft to £55,000 until 31 October 2017, as it wanted to stage an event in October 2017 
which it hoped to then stage again in 2018.
HSBC asked Company M more questions about its business plans. And on 25 September 
2017 HSBC agreed the increased overdraft on the condition that Company M and its 
directors provided security guarantees through a solicitor. About a week later Company M 
asked HSBC to extend the increased overdraft to 31 December 2017. HSBC records 
suggest Company M asked this because HSBC was asking for guarantees and it would give 
Company M time to start receiving income from the event. HSBC also agreed to this further 
extension.
On 12 October 2017, HSBC wrote to Company M to say it was prepared to offer an overdraft 
of £50,000 until 31 December 2017. The letter said the facility couldnt be used until certain 
new security has been completed to our satisfaction. It also said We can withdraw and/or 
demand immediate repayment whether or not you are using the overdraft
Company M began providing guarantees. Between 12 and 16 October 2017 Company M 
says it repeatedly tried to contact HSBC, as it needed the overdraft urgently. On 
16 October 2017, HSBC apologised for its lack of response and confirmed its security team 
was still reviewing the overdraft application. Company M said it had missed some key 
marketing opportunities for the event because it hadnt had access to the £55,000 
requested.
On 20 October 2017, the first day of Company Ms event, HSBC agreed to provide £27,000 
of the overdraft even though guarantees werent yet in place. On 1 November 2017 (several 
days after Company Ms event finished) HSBC told Company M there were some pages 
missing from the guarantees it had provided, and it should send these as HSBC needed 
them to register the guarantee. But by 8 November 2017 HSBC had everything it needed for 
the guarantees, and that same day it gave Company M the full overdraft facility of £55,000 
until 31 December 2017, then continuing at £27,000. This letter also said Your overdraft is 
repayable on demand. This means we can, at any time, withdraw your overdraft or reduce 
the overdraft limit and ask you to repay the overdrawn amount immediately.
The overdraft repayment had been due on 31 December 2017, but HSBC extended this 
several times at Company Ms request. So it was due on 7 March 2018. In April 2018 
Company M asked for another extension, as it planned to stage the event again and use the 
income to pay the overdraft. HSBC didnt agree to this, as it had concerns about how the 
overdraft had been managed and how it would be repaid. On 11 April 2018 HSBC wrote to Company M about its concerns, but the overdraft remained unpaid and towards the end of 
2018, HSBC removed the overdraft facility and passed the outstanding balance to its 
recoveries department to pursue.
In January 2019 Company M complained to HSBC. It thought unnecessary delays on 
HSBCs part meant Company M received the overdraft facility too late to market the event 
properly and sold less tickets. And it was unhappy HSBC had withdrawn the overdraft and 
asked for it to be repaid.
In its final response, HSBC said it hadnt caused any delays and that things took longer 
because Company M changed the lending term and some pages had been missing from the 
guarantee paperwork. HSBC said it had tried to help, including providing some of the 
overdraft before guarantees were in place. And HSBC said the guarantees it held were 
enforceable.
Company M referred its complaint to our service. It said HSBC took too long to process its 
overdraft application. It said the delays meant it cancelled advertising for the event, which 
directly affected ticket sales. It said HSBC didnt respond to calls and emails between 12 and 
16 October 2017, and asked for information at a late stage or that it already had.
Company M said it was unfair of HSBC to withdraw the overdraft and ask for repayment 
before the 2018 event took place, as the overdraft was secured on a two year business plan 
and such events only become profitable from the second year onwards. To put things right, 
Company M wanted compensation for loss of earnings and reputational damage.
After looking into things, our investigator said HSBC hadnt caused any unreasonable delays 
and had done more than it needed to by giving Company M some of the overdraft before 
guarantees were in place. She said the account terms and conditions entitled HSBC to 
withdraw the overdraft and ask for repayment, and HSBC didnt have to wait until 
Company M capitalised on its investment.
Company M disagreed and maintained HSBC had acted unfairly. Because Company M 
disagreed, this complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding it. I 
realise this will be disappointing to Company M, but Ill explain my reasons.
Company M complains HSBC took too long to increase its overdraft in 2017. Ive seen that 
Company M first asked for the increase on 24 August 2017. After asking for more 
information about Company Ms business plans, HSBC agreed the increase about a month 
later - subject to Company M providing security guarantees. HSBC was being asked to lend 
Company M a substantial amount of money, so I dont think it was unreasonable of it to ask 
for assurances.
About a week or so later, Company M changed what it was asking HSBC for  it asked to 
have the increased overdraft for two months longer. I think this change probably made the 
application process take a bit longer, as HSBC would reasonably have needed time to 
consider and process this further request for a significant extension to the overdraft. HSBC 
agreed this change and confirmed the overdraft terms in the letter it sent Company M on 
12 October 2017, around two weeks after Company M requested the £50,000 overdraft be 
extended to 31 December 2017. I dont think this is an unreasonable timescale given the 
sum and timeframe involved.Company M says that from 12 October 2017 it repeatedly tried to contact HSBC as it 
urgently needed funds to pay suppliers, but HSBC didnt respond until 16 October 2017. 
Company M says HSBC apologised for this at that time. I appreciate having to keep 
contacting HSBC would have inconvenienced Company M, but I think the apology HSBC 
has already given is a fair and reasonable way of putting right the four days of delay here. 
On 16 October 2017, HSBC asked Mr A for details of his solicitor, which it wrote to two days 
later.
On 20 October 2017 HSBC wrote to Company M confirming it could have a £27,000 
overdraft without guarantees being in place. HSBC wasnt obliged to offer that and I dont 
think it took an unreasonably long time to do so, as there were only eight days between 
when Company M said it began calling about this on 12 October 2017 and HSBC making the 
funds available on 20 October 2017.
HSBCs records show that on 1 November 2017 it asked Company M to send the pages 
missing from the guarantee paperwork it had provided. It wouldnt be reasonable of me to 
hold HSBC responsible for any delay that caused, as HSBC said it needed these pages to 
register the guarantees. By 8 November 2017, HSBC had what it needed and it made the full 
overdraft of £55,000 available to Company M.
As Ive said, Company M was asking to borrow a substantial amount of money and so it 
wasnt unreasonable for HSBC to seek assurances. Company M asked for the increased 
overdraft to be extended until 31 December 2017 in October 2018, less than three weeks 
before the event it had planned. Company Ms request would necessarily take time and likely 
involve HSBC going backwards and forwards with Company M to gather and clarify 
information. And I dont think there was any guarantee HSBC would grant the extended 
overdraft Company M says it needed.
Further, I dont think HSBC would have been in a position to review Company Ms final 
request for £50,000 by 31 December 2017, approve it and obtain the necessary security to 
its satisfaction before Company M were due to advertise the event, which took place on 20 
October 2017. Overall it took about eleven weeks for HSBC to provide the full overdraft. 
While this might have been longer than Company M wanted, I dont think HSBC caused any 
unreasonable or significant delays
Company M also complains that HSBCs decision to remove the overdraft and ask for 
repayment left it unable to stage the event again in 2018 and realise the profits with which it 
would repay the overdraft. Company M says HSBC agreed the increased overdraft on the 
basis of a two year business plan, and that it was in year two that the event would capitalise 
on the success of year one and become profitable.
Ive seen that Company M did provide HSBC with a two year business plan during the 
overdraft application process. However, overdrafts are short-term lending by their nature. 
And based on HSBCs contact notes and lending notes, Im satisfied the increased overdraft 
was only ever intended to be short term  initially over a few weeks, and then extended to a 
total of about six months after a series of requests from Company M. And Im satisfied HSBC 
made clear to Company M when the increased overdraft would end, as its letter of 12 
October 2017 told Company M it was offering the increased overdraft until 31 December 
2017 when the overdraft would then decrease to £27,000. As it happened, HSBC offered a 
further concession, extending the overdraft until March 2018, which it was not obliged to do.
That letter also told Company M that HSBC could withdraw the overdraft or demand 
immediate repayment at any time. Ive seen that Section 5 of the account terms and 
conditions entitles HSBC to do this  this section explains how overdrafts work on the 
account and says Unless weve agreed something else in writing, we can reduce or remove your overdraft or demand that you immediately repay all the money you owe us at any time. 
So while I appreciate the point Company M is making here, I cant say HSBC acted unfairly 
in removing its overdraft facility and asking for repayment of the overdraft debt.
HSBC considered Company Ms further request to extend the overdraft further into 2018, but 
decided not to. It is for HSBC to decide when it is prepared to lend, and on what terms. It 
wasnt obliged to extend the overdraft further. Whilst I appreciate the impact HSBCs 
decision has had on Company M, I dont think HSBC treated Company M unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not asking HSBC UK Bank Plc to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Company M to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 March 2020.
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman