DRN-3318170
The complaint
Mr A complains about the way Inter Partner Assistance SA handled his claim under his 
home emergency insurance policy.
All references to Inter Partner include agents acting on its behalf.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this matter earlier this month, part of which is copied 
below:
Mr A has home emergency insurance which is underwritten by Inter Partner. He contacted 
Inter Partner in March 2021 as he had a leak from his bedroom into the lounge below. An 
engineer arrived the same day and found a small hole in a central heating pipe running 
under the bedroom floor. They said the system needed to be drained and as that might take 
several hours, they would return the next day. Another engineer attended the following day. 
They removed and replaced the problem section of the pipe and checked for further leaks. 
Mr A called Inter Partner the next day to say water was spouting out of the overflow pipe 
above the front door. A third engineer attended. They changed a ball valve in the header 
tank and re-secured the vent pipe that had fallen down. 
Mr A called Inter Partner again two days later because water was coming through a crack in 
the bedroom ceiling below the water tank. A fourth engineer attended. They lowered the 
water level in the heating tank, sealed the overflow pipe to the tank and reduced the pump 
speed from 3 to 2. The following day, Mr A said he contacted Inter Partner again to say the 
radiator in the main bedroom wasnt working. As no progress had been made after a few 
days, he asked a friend to investigate. His friend found and rectified an air lock in the system 
and restored the pump level to 3. The system was then functioning normally.
Mr A complained that Inter Partners engineers had caused the problems theyd then had to 
fix, including the damage to his bedroom ceiling. He thought Inter Partner should reimburse 
him for the estimated cost of plastering and repainting his ceiling, for the amount hed paid 
his friend to restore heating to his bedroom, plus an amount for the inconvenience and 
distress caused. Inter Partner didnt agree its engineers had caused the damage to the 
bedroom ceiling. It said the damage was caused by the header tank overflowing and that 
was a result of the hot water tank back filling the header tank. It also didnt agree that its 
engineers had left an air lock in his system. It asked Mr A for any evidence to support that. 
Mr A remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. He outlined his version of 
events and said Inter Partner had got a lot of the facts wrong. He said each of the engineers 
had been critical of the work carried out by the previous one. Hed not had any problems with 
the header tank previously and no one had been in the loft other than Inter Partners 
engineers. He thought Inter Partner should pay him £250 for the cost of repairing his ceiling, 
£100 to reimburse him for the amount hed paid his friend, and £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Our investigator thought Inter Partner needed to do more to put things right. He thought Inter 
Partner should pay for the cost of repairing the bedroom ceiling, which he thought was about 
£150. He didnt think it was fair to ask Inter Partner to pay the cost of Mr As friend restoring 
the heating. But he thought it should pay Mr A £100 for the distress caused. 
Inter Partner accepted the investigators view but Mr A thought it should pay more for the 
stress it had caused and reimburse him the small fee hed paid his friend. As he didnt 
accept the investigators view the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is in this 
complaint), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I 
consider most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and wider 
circumstances.
Mr A has outlined his version of events on a number of occasions, both soon after the events 
happened and as part of the complaints process. His account is consistent and detailed. The 
engineers notes of their visits are brief and factual and are broadly consistent with Mr As 
account of events. And taken together, I have no reason to doubt Mr As account of what 
happened.  
Mr A said the first engineer thought the system needed to be drained and as that would take 
some time, they said theyd return in the morning. Mr A says the second engineer said the 
previous one had been wrong and the system didnt need to be drained. Instead, they went 
into the loft and bunged the tank, drained two radiators and repaired the damaged piece of 
pipework. The third engineer attended because the overflow pipe was spouting water. Mr A 
said this engineer said the previous one had knocked the vent pipe out of position, causing 
the overflow pipe to drip and some of the water had been leaking on to the ceiling. Thats 
consistent with the third engineers notes, which said the vent pipe wasnt supported and had 
fallen, so hed secured it back up.
Damage to the bedroom ceiling
The fourth engineer attended because the overflow was leaking again, and water was 
coming through the bedroom ceiling where a crack had appeared. Mr A said the fourth 
engineer told him the previous engineer hadnt dealt with the problem properly. They said 
they lowered the water level, sealed the overflow pipe to the tank and turned the pump down 
to 2. This is consistent with the fourth engineers report which says they lowered the water 
level in the heating tank. They said the overflow was leaking when water flowed through it. 
So, he glued the pipe to prevent this. He also reduced the speed setting to on the pump to 2.
Inter Partner said the damage to Mr As bedroom ceiling was caused by the header tank 
overflowing and that was a result of the hot water tank back filling the header tank. This 
seems to be a reference to the fourth engineers notes which say that water was pumping 
over into the heating tank from the tank. But I dont think thats evidence the third engineer 
didnt cause the damage to the ceiling. Im more persuaded by Mr As account, which is 
supported to an extent by the engineers notes, that the leak was caused by the third 
engineer not resolving the issue when they attended. The third engineer noted that some of 
the water had been leaking onto the ceiling. And the fourth noted that the overflow pipe was 
still leaking and they had to glue it back into position. So, on balance, Im satisfied that the 
third engineer did cause the damage to Mr As ceiling. Had that engineer repaired the issue 
properly, the leak would have been resolved sooner and the damage avoided. As it caused 
that damage, Id expect Inter Partner to pay to repair it.Bedroom radiator not working
After the fourth engineer left, Mr A said the bedroom radiator wasnt working. Inter Partner 
didnt return to investigate and Mr A asked his friend to look at the issue instead. He found 
an air lock in the system and restored the pump level to 3. He said he didnt understand why 
the previous engineer didnt check the whole system was functioning properly before he left. 
Mr A says he paid £100 to his friend for resolving the heating issue and for replacing the 
floorboards and carpet trim that had been removed to repair the leak.
Mr A thinks Inter Partner should reimburse him for this cost because its engineer caused the 
problem. But, on balance, I dont think that would be fair. The fourth engineers notes say 
they had the heating running for about 30 minutes after theyd resolved the previous 
problem. So, they did check to see if the system was functioning normally before they left. 
And, at that point it was. The engineer also said they advised Mr A to monitor the situation 
and put the pump speed up to level 3 if some of the radiators began to struggle. And thats 
one of the ways Mr As friend resolved the issue when he attended. Had Mr A done that 
himself, he might have resolved the issue with the radiator, although I recognise thats 
debateable. 
I also note that part of the payment Mr A made to his friend was for replacing the floorboards 
and carpet trim. The terms and conditions of Mr As policy say it doesnt cover any damage 
caused in gaining access to the heating system or any associated decoration costs or 
making good. So, that part of the payment wouldnt have been covered by his policy anyway.
In light of the above, I dont think it would be fair to ask Inter Partner to reimburse the cost of 
Mr As friend helping him restore heating to the bedroom radiator. 
Service provided
I dont think Inter Partner provided a very good service to Mr A. There was very little delay in 
sending engineers to Mr As property. But, Im persuaded by the evidence Ive seen that 
when they attended each engineer created new problems as they resolved previous ones. 
And this caused unnecessary distress and inconvenience. The first engineer could possibly 
have repaired the initial leak on the first visit, had he followed the same approach taken by 
the second engineer. Im persuaded by the evidence that the second engineer dislodged the 
vent pipe, which caused the overflow to leak, meaning Mr A had to call Inter Partner again. 
And, as Ive said above, I think the third engineer failed to repair the issue with the vent pipe 
properly and that caused the damage to Mr As bedroom ceiling. So, a small initial problem 
created a number of other problems. And, on balance, I think those problems were created 
by the engineers who attended, and could have been avoided.
Our investigator thought Inter Partner should pay Mr A £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. But I think that amount should be higher. Mr A said hed suffered 
substantial stress and inconvenience over the whole episode. He estimated hed spent a 
number of hours contacting Inter Partner by phone, email and letter. And he had to sit at 
home for days waiting for the arrival of the four Inter Partner engineers. I think much of that 
time and stress could have been avoided had Inter Partner resolved matters on the first or 
second visits. 
Putting things right
Mr A estimated that he paid £150 for the labour and materials needed to replaster and paint 
the bedroom ceiling. That seems like a reasonable amount for the work that needed doing. 
So, I think Inter Partner should reimburse Mr A that amount.In light of the distress and inconvenience caused by Inter Partners poor service, I think it 
should also pay Mr A £250 to recognise that impact.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im currently intending to uphold Mr As complaint and 
direct Inter Partner Assistance SA to pay him a total of £400. £150 to reimburse him for the 
cost of repairing his bedroom ceiling. And £250 for the trouble and upset caused by its poor 
service.
Responses to my provisional decision
Inter Partner agreed with my provisional decision. Mr A raised a few points. In summary they 
were as follows:
He said it wasnt true the first engineer found the small hole in the pipework under his 
bedroom floor. His friend had discovered the leak and lifted the floorboards. 
He thought the first engineer was probably correct when he said the system needed 
fully draining. 
He didnt think £250 fully compensates him for the stress and inconvenience caused 
by Inter Partner.
And he didnt agree with my finding that it wouldnt be fair to ask Inter Partner to 
reimburse him for the amount hed paid his friend to resolve the issue. 
He said it wasnt true the system was fully functioning when the fourth engineer left. 
Mr A says he went round the house immediately afterwards and the bedroom 
radiator wasnt working.
His friend has advised him that turning the pump up to 3 wouldnt have resolved the 
problem on its own.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the evidence again, including the points made by Mr A in response to my 
provisional decision, Im not persuaded to change my findings. 
Ive noted what Mr A says about his friend finding the leak rather than the first engineer. That 
was something hed made clear in his complaint to Inter Partner. I said the engineer found 
the hole because thats what Inter Partner had said. But Id like to reassure Mr A that while I 
might not have referred to every aspect of his complaint, Ive read all the evidence available 
to me and drawn out any inconsistencies in the accounts where Ive thought that was 
necessary to help explain my decision.
I note what Mr A says about fully draining the system and I think its debateable whether the 
approach taken by the first engineer or the second was the correct one. But either way, I 
agree Mr A and his wife were without water and heating for longer than they should have 
been.  
Ive also taken account of what Mr A has said about his friend who helped him rectify things. 
Mr A says he went round the house immediately after the fourth engineer left and noticed the 
radiator wasnt working. But the fourth engineer said they took time to check the system was 
working before they left and they advised Mr A to turn the pump up if any of the radiators 
werent working properly. I recognise Mr As friend doesnt think turning up the pump, in 
itself, would have resolved things. But as I said in my provisional decision, I think thats debateable. And I also need to take account of the fact that part of the payment Mr A made 
to his friend was for replacing the floorboards and carpet trim, which I dont think Inter 
Partner should pay for. So, on balance, I dont think it would be fair to ask Inter Partner to 
reimburse Mr A for the amount he paid his friend.
Ive also thought about whether Inter Partner should pay more than £250 to compensate 
Mr A for the distress and inconvenience it caused. Theres no doubt the service provided by 
Inter Partner fell short of what Mr A had a right to expect. And, as I said in my provisional 
decision, I think much of the wasted time and stress could have been avoided had Inter 
Partner got things right on the first occasions its engineers attended. I recognise its taken a 
long time to move through the complaints process but my decision has to focus on the 
events giving rise to the complaint, not the way the complaint itself was handled. Complaints 
handling isnt a regulated activity that I can consider. So, having reviewed matters and 
looking at things in the round, Im satisfied that £250 is a fair and reasonable amount to ask 
Inter Partner to pay Mr A for the trouble and upset caused.     
Putting things right
Mr A estimated that he paid £150 for the labour and materials needed to replaster and paint 
the bedroom ceiling. That seems like a reasonable amount for the work that needed doing. 
So, I think Inter Partner should reimburse Mr A that amount.
In light of the distress and inconvenience caused by Inter Partners poor service, I think it 
should also pay Mr A £250 to recognise that impact.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Inter Partner Assistance SA to pay Mr A a total of £400. 
£150 to reimburse him for the cost of repairing his bedroom ceiling. And £250 for the trouble 
and upset caused by its poor service.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman