DRN-2969047
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr C holds with Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Birmingham Midshires (BM). Hes had the mortgage since 1986, but added to it in 
subsequent years, meaning there were several separate components to it. Mr C is unhappy 
that since the components were merged into one in 1998, hes unable to check that his 
account has been calculated correctly and that hes paid the right amounts.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr C and BM. Im also aware that 
the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, a copy of which has been sent 
to all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mr C being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary in my own words and then 
focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be 
because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
An ombudsman colleague decided that the event giving rise to this complaint was the 
merger of the separate accounts in 1998. She also explained why the time limits in our rules 
didnt prevent us from looking at how the account had been calculated since then. The 
complaint was then considered by one of our investigators; she explained that whilst we 
dont provide an auditing service, there was nothing in the account statements from 1998 to 
the present time to suggest any obvious errors had taken place.
Mr C asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. He doesnt believe the 
information BM provides meets the regulators requirements; but most of all, hes frustrated 
at having to take BMs word that all is well.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, these are my conclusions, and the reasons for them.
Ive looked at what my fellow ombudsman said about our remit to investigate this complaint. 
To be clear, I agree with what she decided and her reasons for doing so. Ive then looked at 
the conclusions the investigator reached, and I agree with those too.
I appreciate Mr C is frustrated at not being able to satisfy himself that his mortgage has been 
calculated correctly. But not being able to check things are correct isnt the same as having 
good reason to believe they are incorrect; and Mr C hasnt provided any substantive 
argument as to why he thinks his mortgage is incorrect. 
Having no regulatory power means its not my remit to tell BM what information it should put 
in its statements, or in what format it should present that information. Thats a matter for the 
FCA, and unless or until it tells BM otherwise, I cant say that BM shouldnt continue to 
present the account statements in the manner it does now.
But that doesnt mean Mr C has to take BMs word that everything is correct. If Mr C has a 
real and substantive belief (based on something other his frustration at not being able to 
verify things himself) that BM has over-charged him, it is open to him to arrange for the 
account to be audited by a suitably qualified and independent party. 
The evidence of the audit could then be used as the basis for a new complaint, but not as 
the basis for this one. I make the latter point because BM would need to be presented with 
the finished audit first, and be given the opportunity to consider and respond to it. 
Mr C would have to meet the cost of the audit, albeit if errors were found that were to his 
detriment, we would then expect BM to reimburse any reasonable cost of the audit as well 
as taking any corrective action the audit revealed to be necessary. But as things stand, 
theres no evidence that gives me any reason to think that BM has mis-calculated Mr Cs 
mortgage.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman