DRN-4239298
The complaint
Miss T complains about her mortgage with Clydesdale Bank PLC, trading as Yorkshire 
Bank. Shes unhappy that:
- the interest rate on her mortgage didnt change in line with Bank of England (BOE) base 
rate;
- the bank wouldnt offer her a lower interest rate product, change her mortgage to a 
capital and interest repayment basis, extend the term, or agree a lifetime mortgage; and
- she couldnt access her mortgage statements online.
What happened
Miss T took out her mortgage with Yorkshire Bank in 2009. She borrowed £135,000 on an 
interest-only basis, over a term of 20 years. 
The interest rate on the mortgage was fixed at 5.99% for the first two years, until 30 
September. The mortgage was then on the banks standard variable rate (SVR) until May 
2021, when Miss T took a new fixed rate. 
In 2017, Miss T complained that the bank wouldnt switch her mortgage onto a lower interest 
rate, or change it to repayment terms or grant a lifetime mortgage instead.
The bank sent Miss T its final response to this complaint on 5 June 2017, giving her six 
months to refer the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
In 2018, Miss T complained again about the banks refusal to agree a lower interest rate, as 
well as about its lack of help while she was in financial difficulty. 
Yorkshire Bank sent Miss T its final response to this complaint on 5 December 2018, again 
giving her six months to refer the complaint to us if she remained unhappy.
In February 2020, Miss T complained that the interest rate on her mortgage was too high, 
because it hadnt changed in line with BOE base rate. She said she wanted a cheaper 
interest rate because she couldnt afford the monthly mortgage payments. She had had a 
payment holiday, but a lower rate would be of more help and the bank wouldnt agree to one. 
She felt the bank hadnt done enough to help her. 
The bank sent Miss T its final response to this complaint on 30 March 2020. It said that her 
mortgage was on its SVR, which isnt linked to BOE base rate. It also said it would need to 
see information about Miss Ts accounts in order to consider offering her a new interest rate 
product or extending the mortgage term. 
 
In May 2020, Miss T referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. She 
wanted the bank to put her mortgage on a lower interest rate and on a capital repayment 
basis, over an extended term until shes 85 years old in order that the mortgage is repaid, or 
she wanted the bank to agree a lifetime mortgage. She also wanted to be able to see her 
mortgage online.
While this complaint was with us, the bank told Miss T that it doesnt offer lifetime 
mortgages, or the facility for customers to access their mortgage statements online. It also 
said it could look into switching Miss Ts mortgage to a repayment basis and/or a lower 
interest rate product, but it would need to assess her financial situation first. It invited Miss T 
to send it information about her income.
By early 2021, Miss T had cleared the mortgage arrears, and in May 2021 she took a new 
fixed interest rate product at 2.14%, making a significant saving on her monthly mortgage 
payments. 
Our Investigator concluded that we could only consider the changes to the mortgage interest 
rate in the six years before Miss T made this complaint, although in considering those we 
would need to bear in mind earlier rate changes. She also said we could only consider Miss 
Ts complaint about the banks responses to her requests to change the mortgage to a 
repayment basis and for a lifetime mortgage after 5 June 2017 (when the bank issued its 
final response about that), and about the banks refusal to change the mortgage to a lower 
interest rate after 5 December 2018 (when the bank issued its final response about that).
Both parties accepted the Investigators conclusions about which parts of this complaint we 
can and cant consider, so the Investigator went on to consider the parts of the complaint 
which she could look at. 
The Investigator concluded that the bank hadnt done anything wrong in not setting its SVR 
in such a way that it tracked BOE base rate, or in not offering Miss T a term extension or 
lifetime mortgage, or in not making online mortgage statements available. 
She also concluded that the bank should have offered Miss T an interest rate product sooner 
than it did, and that it should have done so in February 2020. She recommended that the 
bank re-work Miss Ts mortgage on that basis, and pay her £350 by way of compensation.
Neither Miss T nor the bank accepted that outcome.
Miss T still wanted to be able to see her mortgage online, and thought the SVR she had 
been charged was unfair, because she understood it should have varied in line with BOE 
base rate. She also thought she should fairly receive more compensation in the light of the 
emotional impact the banks treatment of her had had.
The bank said its eligibility criteria for a product switch include that the mortgage must be up-
to-date and not in arrears. It said it had tried to work with Miss T to find a solution, but she 
hadnt given it the information about her income which it had asked her for. It also said the 
regulatory guidance the Investigator had referred to about supporting customers in the cost 
of living crisis hadnt been in force in the period in question here.
As the parties didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me to decide. I came to a different 
conclusion to our Investigator, so I issued a provisional decision.
My provisional decision
I said: 
[B]efore deciding a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint, I must first determine 
which parts of this complaint I have the power to consider.I share the Investigators view that I cant consider Miss Ts complaint about the banks 
responses to her requests to change the mortgage to a repayment basis and for a lifetime 
mortgage before 5 June 2017. This is because the bank issued a final response letter about 
that on 5 June 2017, and Miss T didnt refer her complaint to us within six months, the bank 
hasnt consented to us considering it, and there are no exceptional circumstances to explain 
the delay in referring the complaint.
I also agree with the Investigator that I cant consider Miss Ts complaint about the banks 
refusal to change the mortgage to a lower interest rate before 5 December 2018. This is 
because the bank issued a final response letter about that on 5 December 2018, and Miss T 
didnt refer her complaint to us within six months, the bank hasnt consented to us 
considering it, and there are no exceptional circumstances to explain the delay in referring 
the complaint. 
Finally, under the time limit rules I must apply, I find that I can consider Miss Ts complaint 
about the fairness of the banks SVR in the six years before she complained. However, for 
clarity, that means I can consider this from February 2014, rather than 2015 as the 
Investigator set out, because Miss T made this complaint in February 2020. In considering 
the SVR after February 2014, I take into account earlier changes to the banks SVR, 
because those earlier changes affect more recent ones.
I turn now to the merits of the parts of the complaint I can consider. 
The level of the SVR
Miss Ts mortgage was subject to the banks SVR between September 2011, when her initial 
fixed rate ended, and May 2021, when she took a new fixed rate. During that period, the 
SVR and BOE base rate operated as follows:
Effective date BOE base rate SVR Difference
05/03/2009 0.5%
30/09/2011 4.59% 4.09%
05/05/2012 4.95% 4.45%
04/08/2016 0.25%
01/09/2016 4.7% 4.45%
02/11/2017 0.5%
01/12/2017 4.95% 4.45%
02/08/2018 0.75%
31/08/2018 5.2% 4.45%
11/03/2020 0.25%
19/03/2020 0.1%
02/04/2020 4.55% 4.45%The bank sets out its entitlement to vary its SVR in its Home Loan General Offer Conditions. 
They say, under Interest  Changes in Interest Rates, that:
Where the rate of interest you are paying is a variable rate, we may vary this at any time for 
any of the following reasons:
1 if it is reasonable to vary the rate to reflect changes which have occurred, or which 
we reasonably expect to occur, in interest rates generally or in the residential 
mortgage market;
2 to reflect changes in the Bank of Englands repo rate (sometimes known as the Bank 
of Englands base rate);
3 to reflect changes in our base rate;
4 to enable us to maintain the competitiveness of interest rates paid to our depositors 
or the providers of funds to us;
5 to manage margins between interest rates paid to our depositors or the providers of 
funds to us, and interest rates charged to borrowers from us, in the interests of our 
business as a whole;
6 to reflect changes in costs which we have incurred or in our financial strength;
7 to enable us to harmonise, in a reasonable manner, the interest rates being paid by 
borrowers following any acquisition or transfer of mortgages or any take over of, or 
merger with, another mortgage provider; or
8 if it is reasonable to make the change following a decision or recommendation made 
by a court, regulatory body, ombudsman or other official body or as a result of a 
change (or anticipated change) in the law or the interpretation of the law.
Miss T complains that the SVR she was paying should have followed changes in BOE base 
rate. Theres no general obligation on mortgage lenders for their SVRs to track BOE base 
rate, and Im satisfied that that isnt the way Yorkshire Banks SVR operated. Im also 
satisfied that this was clear in the offer conditions. While BOE base rate is one of the things 
the bank takes into account in setting its SVR, it isnt the only consideration. 
Ive considered whether the banks SVR variation terms were unfair and whether it applied 
them in a way which resulted in unfairness, and in doing so Ive also considered relevant law 
and regulations. Having done so, Im satisfied that the bank hasnt managed its SVR unfairly, 
and Miss T hasnt been overcharged interest as a result.
This is because Im satisfied the SVR has been varied in line with the terms and conditions 
of the mortgage, for reasons those terms allowed. And having considered the circumstances 
of those changes, I think they were all fair and reasonable.
The difference between the banks SVR and BOE base rate in fact remained the same 
during the whole period Miss Ts mortgage was on the SVR, at 4.45% as set out in the table 
above, with the exception of the May 2012 increase. The bank told its customers when it 
increased its SVR in May 2012 that the increase reflected the higher costs in funding 
mortgages at that time. 
The mortgage offer conditions allowed the bank to vary its SVR to respond to these sorts of 
changes. While BOE base rate didnt change in the months leading up to the May 2012 SVR 
increase, it doesnt automatically follow that the banks costs also didnt change. The bank 
has provided the Financial Ombudsman Service with information about its funding costs at 
that time and how those costs informed its decision to increase its SVR. Having taken that 
into consideration, I dont find that its decision to vary its SVR in the way it did in 2012 was 
unfair. The other changes the bank made to its SVR followed changes to BOE base rate, and were 
also allowed for under the mortgage conditions. I dont find that they were made unfairly.
The banks refusal to agree to a rate switch, change the mortgage to a capital and interest 
repayment basis, extend the term, or agree a lifetime mortgage
Miss T has asked the bank about ways to reduce her mortgage outgoings many times over 
the years. However, as I said above, I can only consider the banks responses to those 
requests after 5 December 2018 in respect of an interest rate product, and after 5 June 2017 
in respect of other changes to the mortgage terms.
Miss T says lower monthly mortgage payments would have been much easier to manage, 
and the bank failed to help her when she was struggling. The bank says it didnt offer interest 
rate products to borrowers who are in arrears, and it wanted to be satisfied that Miss T could 
afford her mortgage before agreeing to make changes to it. It also says it doesnt offer 
lifetime mortgages. 
Its reasonable, in principle, for lenders only to offer interest rate products to customers who 
meet certain criteria. And its not uncommon for lenders to require that a mortgage be up-to-
date with payments before they will offer an interest rate product. Ive seen Yorkshire Banks 
rate switch criteria, and they include this requirement.
I think its reasonable that the bank would want to be satisfied that the mortgage would be 
sustainable before agreeing to a new interest rate product  and to do that it would need to 
see that the mortgage would be affordable at the revised monthly payment.  
This is an important consideration because, while a fixed interest rate would usually result in 
lower monthly payments, it would also come with an early repayment charge if the mortgage 
needed to be brought to an end early  such as in circumstances where the mortgage is no 
longer affordable and the lender repossesses the property. So a fixed interest rate which a 
borrower cant maintain can end up costing more in the end.
Miss T has clearly found herself in a very difficult position financially but has prioritised her 
mortgage payments and budgeted carefully. In February 2020, the mortgage had 
nevertheless been in arrears for several years, and at that point the arrears stood at just 
under £3,000. The banks records show that Miss T was in regular contact with it and was 
expecting her circumstances to change later in 2020, but at the time her income was still 
irregular, as it had been throughout the period Im considering here. There are notes in the 
banks records about council tax and utilities arrears in 2019, and while Miss T had been 
trying to bring the mortgage back up-to-date, she had been unable to do so. 
I find that the bank reviewed Miss Ts situation a number of times with a view to switching 
her mortgage onto a new interest rate product  but didnt go ahead due to the mortgage 
arrears and Miss Ts financial circumstances. In all the circumstances, I dont consider that 
this was unreasonable, nor was it unreasonable for the bank to want up-to-date information 
about Miss Ts finances before making its decision.
The banks records show that it had suggested capitalising the mortgage arrears, as I would 
expect in the circumstances, but Miss T hadnt wanted to go ahead.  It also agreed payment 
arrangements and offered payment deferrals, and gave her details of organisations offering 
free debt advice. I note that Miss T was for the most part able to communicate with 
dedicated points of contact at the bank.
Extending the mortgage term on an interest-only basis wouldnt have affected the monthly 
mortgage payments, because Miss T would still have been expected to pay the same amount of interest each month. The bank did look at switching part of the mortgage onto a 
repayment basis, on the basis that Miss T would use her pension lump sum to clear the part 
which would remain interest-only  but it wanted documents from Miss T before making a 
decision, and Miss T decided not to proceed. Switching to a capital and interest repayment 
basis would also increase the payments, because it would mean Miss T paying off some of 
the capital each month too  so it would have been important to make sure that was 
affordable for her. And the bank doesnt offer lifetime mortgages, so that wasnt an option 
open to Miss T. 
In all the circumstances, I dont find I can fairly conclude that the bank should have agreed to 
make the changes to Miss Ts mortgage which she considers it should. I think it offered 
support and set out the options that were available to her. I dont consider that it should have 
switched the mortgage onto a fixed interest rate in early 2020, when the mortgage was still in 
arrears and Miss T was still struggling to keep up with the payments. While she had been 
making some inroads into the arrears in 2019, in 2020 Miss T was still finding it difficult to 
manage the payments, and I think at that stage the mortgage was not yet on a sustainable 
footing; it was far from clear that moving the mortgage onto a fixed rate with an early 
repayment charge attached would make it sustainable, outweighing the risk of an early 
repayment charge becoming payable. I dont, therefore, find that the bank should backdate a 
fixed interest rate on the mortgage.
Online access to mortgage statements
I recognise that Miss T would find this service very helpful, but the bank has said it doesnt 
offer it, and theres currently no obligation on it to do so. Im not the regulator, and I cant 
fairly require the bank to put this in place. It is required to send Miss T regular information 
about her mortgage, and Miss T can contact it when she wants specific information.  
For the reasons above, I said that I didnt intend to uphold the parts of this complaint which I 
could consider. 
I invited Miss T and Yorkshire Bank to provide any further submissions they wanted me to 
consider before making my final decision.
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss T didnt accept my provisional decision. She still thought the bank hadnt treated her 
fairly and it should have offered her a lower fixed interest rate sooner, and said the stress 
she had gone through as a result of the banks lack of support hadnt been recognised.
Yorkshire Bank didnt respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered Miss Ts further comments and arguments. Having done so, while I 
realise Miss T will be disappointed, Ive come to the same conclusions I set out in my 
provisional decision, for the same reasons. 
Miss T made overpayments to her mortgage in 2019 and 2020, and I can understand why 
she considers that this demonstrates she could have afforded to pay a lower interest rate on 
the mortgage: payments at a lower rate would, of course, have been lower. The mortgage was, however, still in arrears in 2020 and had been in arrears for several years. While 
making inroads into the arrears was a positive sign, I would expect the bank to have taken 
account of Miss Ts overall financial situation before deciding whether to offer her a new 
interest rate product. The available evidence satisfies me that it did so.
The banks records show that it explored various options with Miss T, as I set out in my 
provisional decision. Miss Ts financial situation was changing in 2020 and its clear that she 
was still struggling to maintain payments to the mortgage. Against this background and in 
the overall circumstances, I dont find I can fairly say that the bank should have offered her a 
new interest rate product, which would have come with an early repayment charge and the 
risk of costing Miss T more in the long run. 
I also dont find that the bank failed to support Miss T. It knew about her health difficulties 
and arranged for dedicated points of contact for her, it reviewed her situation a number of 
times, and it set out the options it had available to her. 
I make no order or award. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman