DRN-2747745
The complaint
Mr B complains that JLT Wealth Management Limited (JLT) failed to put sufficient 
safeguards in place to prevent him from encashing his self-invested personal pension 
(SIPP). He explains that on taking his entire fund as a lump sum, it enabled him to then 
transfer those funds to fraudulent accounts. He then lost his pension payment, and also led 
to his facing an additional tax bill for the income taken in that tax year.
What happened
Mr B was a customer of JLT and contacted them on 12 October 2018 requesting that he 
encash all of the remaining funds in the SIPP that he held. The funds in his SIPP were 
valued around £450,000 at that time.
Mr B had unfortunately been contacted by fraudsters who, through a sophisticated fraud, 
had led Mr B to believe that his money was at risk by remaining in his SIPP with JLT. The 
method used in the scam caused Mr B to mistrust the person at JLT whod been his advisor 
for a number of years.
Mr Bs usual advisor at JLT called him back on 12 October 2018 in response to the call Mr B 
made to take his entire pension as a lump sum. And Mr B confirmed his request to JLT. And 
on 12 October 2018 put his request to JLT in writing.
JLT started the process of making Mr Bs pension payment. Which involved funds to be 
disinvested and then the cash transferred for the income payment to Mr B to be calculated 
and paid.
JLT explain that Mr B was written to on 18 October 2018. That Letter enclosed the 
retirement options form which Mr B subsequently completed, signed and returned. The letter 
also lists other enclosed documents which included: 
- Your pension  its time to choose booklet published by the Money Advice service;
- retirement options and risks factsheet;
- Pension Wise letter.
Mr B sent back his completed retirement option form on 24 October 2018, which was 
received by JLT by 25 October 2018. 
JLT sent Mr B a further letter on 26 October 2018 which outlined certain risks associated 
with the option hed chosen. It provided a link to the pension advisory service leaflet entitled 
Scam proof your savings. The letter advised Mr B that his pension would be paid to him on 
6 November 2018.
Mr Bs pension was paid to his nominated bank account on 6 November. Tax was deducted 
using an emergency tax code. 
Mr B subsequently transferred his pension lump sum, along with other savings to overseas 
bank accounts as part of the fraud he was a victim of. 
Mr B complained to JLT that they should have done more to investigate why he was 
encashing his whole pension and identified the fraud before money was released. JLT failed 
to provide Mr B with a response to his complaint until after his complaint had been brought to 
our service. In response to us, it explained that it didnt think it had done anything wrong in 
the way that it had processed Mr Bs application to take his pension. But identified that it 
failed to deal with Mr Bs complaint properly by failing to respond to him. It offered Mr B 
£1,500 in compensation for that failing. 
Mr B didnt accept JLTs offer and asked that our service fully consider the matter. Our 
investigator looked into everything and didnt think that Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. 
She explained why she thought that JLT had provided the required information to Mr B and 
that he had time to consider it.
Mr B didnt agree with our investigator, so this case has been referred for an ombudsman 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware of the impact that being a victim of a fraud of this nature will have had on Mr B. Im 
really sorry that he found himself in this position, with the consequences that hes faced as a 
result of the fraudsters actions. I can see that he suffered personal financial loss as a result, 
so I know that hell be disappointed to hear that I have reached the same decision as our 
investigator, for similar reasons.
In looking at this case Ive focussed on what I think it would have been fair and reasonable 
for JLT to have done in these circumstances. Mr B was entitled to legitimately access his 
pension benefits in a number of ways. And one of those was for him to take the whole 
pension fund as a single lump sum payment. So JLT werent able to refuse him that request.
I think that JLT needed to be mindful of the risk that Mr B may have been the victim of a 
scam. And Im satisfied that it was and did what it was required to do. After Mr Bs initial call 
to JLT on 12 October 2018, the request was immediately flagged to the person who would 
ordinarily advise Mr B. I appreciate that the scammers had led Mr B not to trust that person. 
But JLT didnt know that, so I think its response was appropriate.
Mr Bs normal advisor phoned him back on the same day to question his request. Which I 
think was a reasonable response. JLT didnt record calls at that time but have provided us 
with the contemporaneous call notes it made. Those notes imply that Mr B was told that hed 
face a significant tax bill by proceeding with his request. And records that Mr B was asked if 
he was being coerced in anyway and that Mr B confirmed that he wasnt. Mr B confirmed 
that he wanted to go ahead still. And sent JLT written confirmation of his instruction on the 
same day.
I understand that the nature of the fraud in this case, meant that Mr B had been coached on 
what to say to JLT. But JLT could only respond to the circumstances it was presented with. 
And having been told twice on the phone what Mr B wanted, and in writing, and been 
provided with reassurances that he wasnt being coerced, JLT had to start the process.
Mr B was sent a pack on 18 October 2018. The letter was headed IMPORTANT PLEASE 
READ. It explained that it had included a range of information sources to assist Mr B before 
proceeding. And suggested that financial advice be sought and that Mr B should take 
advantage of the government guidance service Pension Wise. The letter set out the information that had been enclosed. One of those was the Retirement Option Form that Mr B 
subsequently completed and returned. So I think that its more likely than not that Mr B 
would have also received the other documents that the letter said were enclosed.
It means that Mr B was provided with the Pension Advice Services Pension  your time to 
choose booklet. This provided Mr B with a source of information independent from JLT. It 
was produced in conjunction with Pension Wise. On pages 24 and 25 it explained about the 
things to consider in taking a pension pot in one go. Including tax implications. And page 33 
provided information about how to spot pension and investment scams.
Mr B would have also had JLTs leaflet titled Retirement options and risks factsheet. This 
was shorter and included a summary of the risks of taking all funds in one go, including the 
possibility of paying a higher rate of tax than normal. It also had a short section on pension 
scams relating to the withdrawal of cash lump sums to invest elsewhere. And included the 
link to the pension advisory service website and its Scam proof your savings leaflet. 
The pack on 18 October 2018 also provided Mr B with the Pension Wise letter. Offering free 
and impartial pension guidance.
Overall, I think that JLT provided Mr B with all of the information that it needed to. It 
highlighted the risks in terms of the potential for a higher tax burden in taking his pension in 
the way hed requested. It also provided the warnings that it was supposed to about the risks 
of scams on pension withdrawals. I understand that Mr B was subjected to a sophisticated 
scam and am not suggesting that the information provided meant that he should have seen 
through it. But that its an indication that JLT was following industry guidance.
Mr B returned JLTs retirement option form signed and dated on 24 October 2018 asking JLT 
to pay his pension as quickly as possible. Mr B had signed the form and theres no 
suggestion that he hadnt completed it himself. Under the section for benefit questions, it 
asked whether Mr B understood how his benefits would be taxed. And he ticked the box for 
yes. Mr B elected for his payment to be made into the account details that JLT already held. 
This was an account that JLT had been paying drawdown income from this SIPP into. So I 
dont think that it would be reasonable to suggest that JLT ought to have suspected 
fraudulent activity from this request.
On 26 October 2018, JLT sent Mr B a further warning letter that again included the link to the 
Scam proof your savings leaflet. I think that this was also in line with industry requirements 
on JLT to help safeguard against fraudulent activity. 
JLTs payment of his pension was made to Mr Bs bank account. So at that point he hadnt 
yet suffered any financial loss from the fraud. He was simply in receipt of the full pension 
benefits he was entitled to. Mr B only suffered a financial loss when his money was moved 
from his bank account into fraudulent accounts. Which JLT werent responsible for.
For the reasons Ive explained, I think that JLT did what was required of them to highlight the 
risks of Mr Bs course of action, given the information that it had been provided with. It had a 
duty to carry out Mr Bs request in a timely manner. Even so, Mr B didnt receive his payment 
until 6 November. Which was three weeks after hed requested it. Which I think gave him 
time to consider the information hed been provided or to seek alternative advice given that 
he believed he was unable to trust JLT. As a result, I dont think that it is fair or reasonable to 
hold JLT to account for the fact that Mr B ended up being defrauded from his pension 
income. 
Ive noted that Mr Bs original complaint suggested that JLT should have deducted all of the 
tax that would end up being due before making the net payment. I understand that would have reduced the amount that Mr B ended up losing and would have avoided the additional 
tax due to HMRC. But I cant see that JLT have treated Mr B unfairly. 
The retirement form that Mr B completed asked for his current tax code as well as his P45. 
The form explained that where a current tax year P45 wasnt supplied, the payment would 
be taxed using the emergency tax code. In line with HMRC requirements. This is normal 
practice but does mean that the actual tax due may be different at the end of the tax year. 
Mr B was informed of what his net payment would be on 1 November. JLT were led to 
believe that Mr B understood the tax implications of his decision. And werent asked to 
provide advice on whether additional tax would be due.
As I dont believe that JLT were responsible for the loss due to the fraud, or the fact that 
Mr B faces a further tax bill, I wont be asking JLT to do anything to put these things right.
Im aware that JLT have offered to pay Mr B £1,500 compensation for the failings that it 
acknowledges it made in responding to Mr Bs complaint. My decision is limited to the 
regulated activity complained about  which is the way JLT treated his pension withdrawal  
and not the way in which it handled the complaint that Mr B made. As such, I make no 
direction on JLT in this regard. And suggest that Mr B contact JLT if its offer is still available 
and he wishes to accept it. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman