DRN-1924159
The complaint
Mrs M complains that she was given unsuitable advice by Lighthouse Advisory Services 
Limited to transfer her existing pensions into a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with a 
Discretionary Fund Manager (DFM).
What happened
In 2013, Mrs M discussed her pension arrangements with Lighthouse. She had four personal 
pension arrangements totalling around £62,000. The adviser recommended her to 
consolidate her pensions into a SIPP and use a DFM. 
Mrs M, through a representative, said she relied entirely on the advice of her adviser as she 
lacked previous investment experience or knowledge. She complained that she didnt 
understand the risks of a DFM and she considered the risks of a pension transfer and the 
underlying investments to be too high. She also said the fees had not been clear to her.
Lighthouse rejected Mrs Ms complaint and so she referred it to this service. Our investigator 
upheld her complaint. She felt Mrs M didnt really need the flexibility of a SIPP or the 
services of a DFM and, given the additional costs of the new arrangement, the pre-sale 
illustrations showed that she would be better off staying in her existing schemes. She 
recommended that Lighthouse should compensate Mrs M using an index benchmark.
Lighthouse disagreed. They pointed out that Mrs M had invested into particular shares on an 
execution-only basis which had incurred significant losses that neither they or the DFM were 
responsible for. They also said Mrs M had since taken her tax-free cash lump sum and had 
gone into a drawdown arrangement, something that would not have been possible in her old 
pensions. Mrs Ms actions showed the SIPP and DFM were matching her requirements. To 
bring matters to a close they offered to follow the investigators recommendations, however 
to exclude any losses resulting from Mrs Ms direct investments.
Mrs M rejected the offer and Lighthouse subsequently withdrew it. The investigator wrote to 
the parties to say that having considered Lighthouses offer she thought it was fair in the 
circumstances. As no agreement could be reached the complaint was passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator that the advice was unsuitable, but 
Lighthouses subsequent offer was fair in the circumstances.
Ive looked at the evidence from the time of sale and in the fact find Mrs Ms objectives are 
recorded as:
[Mrs M] has a number of personal pensions that could be consolidated.
A review of your existing pension arrangements to ensure they are performing 
satisfactorily
Ensure your plans reflect your stated risk profile and continue to meet your needs for 
retirement
Consider having your fund professionally managed to ensure that they are managed 
in line with your attitude to risk
In the suitability report, the adviser said he recommended a new arrangement because: 
The existing plans do not provide the necessary flexibility to allow you to tailor the 
benefits around your changing needs and circumstances
You wish to take advantage of a DFM which will match your current attitude to risk 
and a suitable mix of assets and funds
However, the documents dont show why Mrs M had changing needs and circumstances 
and what flexibility she actually required. Mrs M had a medium attitude to risk and she was 
invested accordingly in her existing funds. I cant see that Mrs M needed an active 
management approach to her investments, particularly as her overall funds were relatively 
modest. I also cant see a particular need to consolidate her pensions, especially as she 
didnt save any money by moving to a cheaper arrangement.
Its true that Mrs M made use of features of a SIPP that she wouldnt have had in her old 
plans (like a drawdown function several years later or the possibility to make direct share 
investments) and its possible that she found those features attractive when she had them. 
However, I cant see that these are things she had a particular need for at the time of the 
advice or that she had requested this. Her actual plans for retirement werent discussed 
either as far as I can see. And in any event she didnt need a DFM to use these features. I 
think its more likely in the circumstances that the DFM proposal came from Lighthouse.
Due to higher charges, Mrs Ms new investments needed to keep outperforming her existing 
pensions just to provide the same benefits. I appreciate actively managed funds can 
outperform insurers managed funds. However, equally theres the risk they dont. And 
theres nothing in the suitability report to explain on what basis Mrs Ms new portfolio would 
likely make up these additional charges in higher returns. In fact the disadvantages of higher 
charges and possible lower returns were specifically highlighted, whereas the advantages of 
this arrangement were kept fairly vague.
I would like to note that the DFM investments were in line with Mrs Ms attitude to risk and I 
think the charges were clear. But overall I cant see sufficient justification here that a SIPP 
with a DFM was in Mrs Ms best interest and so it shouldnt have been recommended.
Having said that, I can see Mrs M did instruct the DFM to make particular investments on an 
execution-only basis. And it seems these didnt perform particularly well. It was Mrs Ms 
decision to make these investments and it would be unfair to hold Lighthouse responsible for 
this. I dont know how these funds would have performed if different investments had been 
chosen by the DFM. There also might have been losses or they might have been additional 
returns. In the circumstances I think its fair to assume neither a loss or a gain.
Ive considered whether using a benchmark for compensation here is fair and I think it is. I 
dont know how Mrs M would have invested differently. She might have remained in her 
existing pensions with her existing investments, changed investments within her pensions or 
consolidated some of her pensions into a new plan. 
Lighthouse have asked me to consider the fact that any product they recommended would 
have attracted the same adviser charges, so these should be accounted for in any calculation. I understand their argument, however we generally consider it fair to use the 
benchmark return as a measure of what a consumer would have got net of charges as 
otherwise we would effectively be assuming they would have made investments which 
always underperformed the benchmark. Mrs M might also have stayed in her existing 
pensions which I doubt would have attracted the same adviser charges as moving her to a 
new product. 
Putting things right
 To compensate Mrs M fairly, Lighthouse must:
Compare the performance of Mrs M's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable. It is possible this is the case here. See explanations about 
the actual and fair value below.
If there is a loss, Lighthouse should pay into Mrs M's pension plan to increase its 
value by the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If Lighthouse is unable to pay the total amount into Mrs M's pension plan, it should 
pay that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs M's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age, presumed to be 20%. As only 
75% of her benefits are subject to income tax, a reduction of 15% should be applied. 
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP still existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Indexdate of 
transfer of 
each 
personal 
pension date of my 
decisionNot applicable
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. Lighthouse can 
add back on any net losses Mrs M suffered from the direct, execution-only investments she 
made.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Lighthouse totals all those payments and deducts that 
figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
Any sums invested on an execution-only basis by Mrs M into investments through the SIPP 
should not attract any benchmark returns from the time each of the investments were bought 
until they were sold or - if they havent been sold- until the date of this final decision.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mrs M wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It would be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mrs M's circumstances and risk attitude.
Its fair in the circumstances that Mrs M is responsible for losses she suffered from 
execution-only investments
My final decision
 I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Lighthouse Advisory Services Limited should pay 
the amount calculated as set out above. Lighthouse should provide details of its calculation 
to Mrs M in a clear and simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman