DRN-4278607
The complaint
Ms T complains about how Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) has handled claims 
shes made under an appliance protection policy for her washing machine.
What happened
Ms T protected her washing machine against breakdown by taking out a policy with D&G. 
In 2021, Ms T contacted D&G because her washing machine was making a loud noise. The 
engineer attended in early August 2021, and discovered parts needed replacing. The 
engineer ordered a front panel as he didn't have one and a new appointment was booked to 
fit this on 16 August. When the engineer attended to change the panel, it was damaged. Ms 
T said the engineer said it happened in transit but didnt do anything to order a new one. 
Ms Ts washing machine then started to leak so she contacted D&G, explained the situation 
about the panel and the leak. An engineers appointment was booked for 26 August. The 
engineer attended and Ms T said he didnt have access to the notes and wouldnt accept he 
was there to change the panel. Then he claimed to have fixed the leak and left. Ms T said 
this engineer was angry and rude and how he acted really upset her. She was already 
dealing with an incredibly difficult personal matter and so didnt call D&G about this.
By 2022, Ms T said she felt slightly stronger to deal with the matter so called D&G on 5 
August 2022. A further engineers appointment was booked for the leak on 9 August. The 
engineer started a wash cycle and said there wasnt a leak. Ms T says she explained it only 
happened on certain cycles  shared photos of this and dates  but the engineer wouldnt 
wait for the wash to finish and another cycle to be started. Ms T said this engineer tried to 
make her feel stupid as he said, from the perspective of a leak, the washing machine didnt 
know it was a different cycle and so this wouldnt change anything.  
Ms T contacted D&G to complain. She said the call handler said theyd call back the next 
day but failed to do this. Instead, Ms T was sent a final response letter (FRL) which 
incorrectly said the washing machine was fixed during the latest engineers visit and 
explained she could bring her complaint to this service. 
Ms T explained to our service D&Gs actions have impacted her anxiety at an already 
difficult time. She said shes had to buy extra clothes and only wash certain things as the 
leak wasnt worth the hassle. To put things right, she asked for a new washing machine and 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused in this matter.
In April 2023, Ms T contacted D&G as her machine was still leaking and a part had become 
detached. She was unhappy as, although she was offered an appointment by D&G, this 
couldnt be booked as the previous job hadnt been closed. By the time this had been done, 
the convenient appointment had gone. She explained this impacted her children who 
couldnt attend school without clean uniforms. 
Ive summarised the points D&G made when it sent its file to this service.
- D&G had investigated Ms Ts complaints, issuing FRLs, in August 2021, August 2022 
and April 2023.
- It had upheld Ms Ts complaint in August 2021. To acknowledge the service and 
damaged front panel, Ms T was given £65 at the time.
- After August 2021, there was no contact from Ms T for a year and so it concluded her 
washing machine was functioning properly. 
- When Ms T reported a leak in August 2022, the engineer couldnt find a fault. 
- After August 2022, there was no contact from Ms T until April 2023. 
- On the occasions Ms T said she didnt get a call back from D&G in August 2022 and 
April 2023, it sent evidence the call handlers had tried to phone Ms T but hadnt been 
able to get through and so issued FRLs. 
- It noted in the April 2023 FRL, Ms T had unlimited repairs and so, if her washing 
machine still wasnt working, she could contact them to book a new repair. 
- Although Ms Ts other complaints werent upheld, in May 2023 it agreed to replace 
the washing machine without Ms T having to wait for another engineer to attend. Ms 
T was also given an upgrade to her machine, as a gesture of goodwill, which had a 
value of £75.
The Investigator considered matters and didnt ask D&G to do more to put things right. Ms T 
disagreed. She didnt feel certain aspects of her complaint had been considered in full and 
discussed this with the Investigator. She shared photos and videos to show, after D&Gs 
engineers visited, the leak hadnt been fixed. The Investigator agreed to put a compensatory 
amount Ms T would accept  of £300 - to D&G. D&G didnt agree to this and the Investigator 
didnt change his view in the matter.
Ms T still wasnt happy with this and reiterated the points shed made previously. She also 
said, if D&G hadnt done anything wrong, why would it give her a new washing machine 
now. And feels this shouldve been done ages ago.
This matter has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the 
key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this and it reflects the informal nature of our 
service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. Ive given careful consideration to all of the submissions made 
before arriving at my decision and Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
argument to be able to reach what I consider to be a fair outcome. 
Having done so, Im satisfied the Investigator reached a fair outcome in this matter so Im not 
upholding Ms Ts complaint. Ill explain why. 
The starting point of any claim made under an insurance policy is the contract between the 
customer and the insurer - the policy document. 
Ms T's policy entitles her to a repair, a replacement or the cost of a replacement product - at 
D&G's option. The policy further sets out there will be some situations where it will arrange a 
replacement instead of a repair. For example, if the covered item can't be repaired or it is 
uneconomical to do so.On each occasion Ms T contacted D&G, Im satisfied it arranged for an engineer to attend in 
a reasonable amount of time. Where the engineer considered parts were needed, they were 
ordered. Whilst I appreciate Ms T says the leak was still present after the engineers attended 
to fix it, and she has evidence to prove this, this isnt what D&G was told by its engineers. 
And I consider D&G was reasonably entitled to rely on the information given to it by the 
engineers after the appointment. Even so, Ms T was able to contact D&G to let it know the 
leak was still a problem after the engineer left. 
I appreciate Ms T had reasons for not contacting D&G for two long periods of time. But I 
cant agree D&G are responsible for the overall time this matter has taken from when it was 
first told about the leak and impact Ms T says this had on her. This is because I wouldnt 
expect it to know Ms Ts washing machine was still leaking unless Ms T contacted it to let it 
know a further appointment was needed. Particularly when I note this could be done on the 
phone or, if Ms T didnt want to speak to anyone, using the online booking service.
Ms T isnt happy with how she was spoken to by some of the engineers and how they acted 
when they visited. Its not possible for me to know what happened. However, I think its 
important at the point to explain I wouldnt have reasonably expected an engineer to wait 
through a full wash cycle to see if a leak took place nor to then wait for a different cycle to 
run. I also dont consider it unreasonable for an engineer to say a washing machine doesnt 
differentiate between cycles in terms of a leak as the components which may cause the leak 
are in use on every wash cycle and the water enters the machine in the same way each 
time. Given these are some of the things the engineers did which Ms T has described shes 
unhappy about, I dont feel its possible to say its more likely the engineers treated Ms T 
poorly.  
In relation to the replacement panel and service at the time, D&G likely shouldve dealt with 
this sooner than it did. However, it upheld Ms Ts complaint about this in August 2021 and 
paid £65 compensation. Im satisfied this is a fair way to resolve Ms Ts complaint about this. 
Ive reviewed the contact notes and can see the call handlers had tried to call Ms T when 
theyd agreed to  albeit unsuccessfully - and then sent her their FRLs. So, I dont uphold 
this aspect of her complaint. 
I accept Ms T says there was an appointment which she wasnt able to book due to an 
administrative mistake on D&Gs part. However, when I consider the overall delays in this 
matter, I cant say the extra few days between the appointment she wanted and the next one 
available were unreasonable nor had the impact shes suggested. I say this because Ms T 
says shed already had the leak for many months by the time she called D&G in April 2023. 
Im satisfied D&G complied with the obligations on it under the policy  I say this because it 
was willing to send out engineers to carry out repairs on each occasion Ms T contacted it. 
I note D&G has ultimately agreed to replace Ms Ts washing machine for an upgraded 
appliance. This is likely more than I would have required it to do as I havent seen any 
evidence the situation is one where D&G would be obliged to replace the washing machine 
under the terms of the policy. 
In light of the above, I'm satisfied D&G has fairly resolved Ms T's complaints by replacing her 
machine - when I consider it wasnt obliged to do so - and covering the cost of an upgraded 
appliance (of £75) as well as having paid £65 compensation for the issue with the 
replacement panel. So, I won't be asking it to do any more than it has already agreed to do 
to put matters right.I know Ms T will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in trying 
to resolve her dispute with D&G  can do for her.
My final decision
My final decision is Domestic & General Insurance Plc doesnt need to do anything more 
than it has agreed to do to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2023.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman