DRN-1297756
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading at the time of sale as Halifax) mis-
sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H bought a regular premium PPI policy alongside a mortgage in 2001. They 
purchased the policy during a meeting with an advisor from Halifax. The mortgage and policy 
ended in or before July 2004. The policy covered Mr H only against accidents, sickness and 
unemployment.
Mr and Mrs H say they had significant sick pay and savings so did not need the MPPI policy. 
They add that at no point was it made clear that the policy was optional. They think Halifax 
mis-sold the insurance to them.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. As Mr and Mrs H dont agree with 
the adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Hs case.
Ive looked at all of the information provided by both parties and have decided not to 
uphold  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint because of the following reasons:
Halifax has been unable to provide much of the sales documentation that was used 
at the time of sale. There is little information available and so I cant be sure how the 
policy was presented by an advisor from Halifax to Mr and Mrs H during the meeting 
and Ive not been able to see most of the original sales documentation (such as the 
loan agreement or application form). So its been difficult for me to consider whether 
Mr and Mrs H were given a choice or not as to whether they should have the PPI 
policy (or whether it was added without their knowledge).
 
But Im not aware of any known issues with the way Halifax sold these policies 
around this time. Ive also not been able to obtain a detailed recollection of how the 
meeting at the time of sale. This is understandable considering the amount of time 
that has passed. So, I cannot fairly conclude on this occasion that the policy was sold 
in the way Mr and Mrs H say it was. I just havent seen enough to make that 
conclusion. 
 Moving on, Halifax has said it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs H during the 
meeting and so, as this puts additional responsibilities on the business, I will proceed 
that this was the case. So as it did recommend the policy to Mr and Mrs H, it had to 
ensure during the sale that the policy was suitable for Mr Hs needs (as the sole 
policy holder). 
 
After reviewing the very limited information, it doesnt look as if the PPI policy was 
unsuitable for Mr H based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. The 
benefit would have been of use to Mr H during a difficult time. He has told us that he 
would have been able to rely on 6 months sick pay and 6 months worth of savings. 
But on balance, I am persuaded he had a need for this cover for any extended period 
of unemployment or sickness. I also couldnt find any other reason such as a 
significant or limiting term that would make the policy unsuitable for him.
 
Halifax has provided some information about the costs relating to the PPI policy that 
Mr and Mrs H took out but even though it has provided information detailing the cover 
and how much it cost, I cannot be sure that these costs were disclosed to                
Mr and Mrs H in a clear and fair way at the time of sale. That said, even if they were 
disclosed clearly I dont think Mr and Mrs H would have done anything different and 
decided against having the policy for the reasons that I have already given for the 
policy being suitable.
 
Its possible Halifax didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mr and Mrs H wouldve been affected by any of these.
 
I understand this will come as a disappointment but in conclusion I do not uphold                
Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 March 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman