DRN-4119066
The complaint
Mr B complains about a used car he acquired through a conditional sale agreement with 
Santander Consumer (UK) Plc. The car was sold with a body wrap and Mr B is unhappy that 
very shortly after acquiring the car it showed signs of peeling. Attempts to rectify this have 
not been successful. 
What happened
In May 2022 Mr B acquired a used car, which was financed predominantly through a 
conditional sale agreement with Santander. The car was first registered in November 2020 
and I understand had travelled less than 5,000 miles when supplied to Mr B. The car can be 
described as a prestige/performance vehicle and had a cash price of over £60,000 when Mr 
B acquired it. 
Mr B complained to Santander in February 2023 about the body wrap peeling from the 
vehicle and despite attempts to have this rectified, they had not been successful so the 
issues persisted. Santander did not uphold Mr Bs complaint and explained that cosmetic 
damage isnt covered by the Consumer Rights Act 2015. 
Unhappy with Santanders response, Mr B referred his complaint to our service, where it was 
upheld by the investigator. It is disappointing to note that the investigator received no 
response from Santander and as a result of this, the complaint was referred to me for 
consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered all that the parties have said and provided, I have come to 
similar conclusions to the investigator for what are broadly the same conclusions. 
Mr B acquired the car through a conditional sale agreement with Santander and as the 
supplier of the car, Santander is responsible for the quality of the car. As the investigator has 
already referred to, the Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant legislation here and this sets 
out expectations and requirements around the quality of goods supplied. In summary, goods 
should be of satisfactory quality and satisfactory quality is essentially based upon what a 
reasonable person would consider to have been satisfactory. In instances like this when 
considering the quality of a car, the age, mileage and price are some of the things that I think 
would be considered to be reasonable to take into account. 
Mr B did acquire a used car but it was less than two years old and had travelled less than 
5,000 miles when he got it. It is also worth noting that it cost in excess of £60,000. It is 
reasonable when considering a car of this age, mileage and price to have high expectations 
around the quality of the car. 
The issue or defect here relates to the body wrap that I understand was applied shortly 
before Mr B acquired the car. Mr B has supplied photos of the car which show the wrap is 
peeling/bubbling and ultimately coming away from the bodywork. There seems to be no 
dispute that the wrap is peeling/bubbling. Considering what I have set out about the car, how 
soon after acquiring the car the wrap was peeling/bubbling and what the Consumer Rights 
Act says about satisfactory quality, I am satisfied the car was not of satisfactory quality when 
it was supplied to Mr B. 
I have not seen anything to indicate the wrap was a temporary addition/alteration to the cars 
appearance, or that Mr B was told that the wrap would start to peel/bubble within a short 
period of time. My understanding is that this type of alteration to the cars appearance should 
last a considerable amount of time. So should not have started to peel/bubble or come away 
from the bodywork when it did and so soon after Mr B acquired the car. 
I have noted what Santander has said in its very brief final response to Mr Bs complaint and 
that cosmetic damage is not covered by the Consumer Rights Act. The Consumer Rights Act 
does refer to issues that were drawn specifically to the consumers attention, or where the 
consumer examines the goods and that examination ought to reveal an issue. And that 
essentially goods would not be deemed not of satisfactory quality if an issue is drawn to the 
consumers attention before the sale, or a reasonable examination would have revealed the 
issue. This is not however the same as providing a complete exclusion to all cosmetic 
issues, which is what Santander appears to understand. If applying the same logic to 
Santanders argument, even a new car costing £100,000 with a scratch or defective 
paintwork would be excluded from the Consumer Rights Act and this is not actually the case. 
As I have found that the car was not of satisfactory quality, I have next considered what 
should reasonably be done to resolve matters now. I note that repairs have been attempted 
already and that from the photos Mr B has provided post repair, those repairs appear to 
have been unsuccessful. In the circumstances of this complaint, and again noting previous 
attempts have been unsuccessful, I think it would be fair and reasonable for Santander to 
take back the car from Mr B and end this agreement with nothing further owed. 
Mr B paid an initial deposit of £3,000 and it would be reasonable for Santander to refund this 
to Mr B, along with interest. Interest should be calculated at 8% simple per year from the 
date of payment until the date of settlement. 
I also consider Mr B has suffered some trouble and upset in spending time and effort, and 
some cost, in attempting to get the car repaired and in bringing his complaint. I think it is also 
worth noting that Mr B would have suffered some loss of enjoyment while driving the car with 
these defects. However, considering the defects and again accepting they will have been 
disappointing, these defects have not prevented Mr B from using the car and he has been 
supplied with a courtesy car while repairs were attempted. Because of this, I think it would 
be reasonable for Mr B to pay for the use he has had of the car and I do not therefore 
consider Santander should be required to refund the monthly repayments Mr B made to the 
conditional sale agreement. 
But, I do consider that Santander should make and additional payment of £600 to Mr B to 
reflect the trouble and upset he has been caused, along with the loss of enjoyment and a 
contribution towards the costs associated with returning the vehicle for the repairs. 
Putting things right
To settle this complaint Santander should now:
Arrange a convenient time to collect the car from Mr B and meet any costs 
associated with that collection.End the conditional sale agreement with nothing further owed and ensure no adverse 
information is recorded with any credit reference agencies.
Refund Mr Bs £3,000 deposit, with interest as set out above.
Pay Mr B an additional £600, for the reasons set out above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct Santander Consumer (UK) Plc 
to settle the complaint in line with what I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Mark Hollands
Ombudsman