DRN-4300094
The complaint
Mr H complains that Nationwide didnt do enough to protect him from the financial harm 
caused by an investment scam company, or to help him recover the money once hed 
reported the scam to it.
What happened
Mr H saw an advert on social media for an opportunity to invest in cryptocurrency with a 
company Ill refer to as F. He responded to the advert and was contacted by someone 
claiming to be a broker working for F, who instructed him to open an account on its trading 
platform.
Before going ahead with the investment, Mr H noted the website was professional and that 
the broker provided live Q&A sessions and weekly updates. The broker also encouraged him 
to speak to other investors via a telegram group who claimed to be ex-employees at 
reputable companies.
Mr H understood that he was using cryptocurrency exchanges to transfer his money into 
USD with a view to protecting himself from the falling value of the pound, and this was the 
lowest cost way to do the transfers. The broker told him to first purchase the currency 
through a cryptocurrency exchange company and then load it onto an online wallet.
Between 5 January 2022 and 9 September 2022, he made 93 payments to two 
cryptocurrency exchange companies and a payment platform totalling £200,573.72. During 
the scam period, he received credits worth £21,116.02, so his total loss was £179,457.70.
He realised hed been the victim of a scam in October 2022 when F issued a statement that 
it had to suspend withdrawals due to an external event which had caused significant losses.
Mr H complained to this service arguing Nationwide could have done more to alert him about 
the use of cryptocurrency exchange companies by scammers as he had no idea that 
sophisticated frauds like this were operating. He said hed been working towards investing 
for his retirement and warnings and consultation from Nationwide could have prevented 
much of his loss.
Mr H explained the investment was endorsed by people he thought were reputable in the 
industry and the apparent involvement of these people made it difficult for him to identify the 
investment as a scam. He argued Nationwide had experience in dealing with scams and 
could have warned him about the risk. And that if Nationwide had intervened and told how to 
check the investment was genuine, he wouldnt have made the payments.
Nationwide agreed to refund 50% of the money Mr H had lost from 9 February 2022 
onwards, which was £86,810.01. But Mr H felt the 50% reduction was unfair as he didnt 
think he could have done more to identify the investment was a scam. He explained that he 
did substantial research and relied on documents and video statements, which led him to 
believe the investment was genuine.
My provisional findings
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Mr H says hes fallen victim to, in all 
but a limited number of circumstances. But the CRM code didnt apply in this case because 
the disputed payments were to an account in Mr Hs own name.
I thought about whether Nationwide couldve done more to recover Mr Hs payments when 
he reported the scam to it. Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it will 
ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved 
between them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme 
 so there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in such cases 
is not to second-guess Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine whether 
the regulated card issuer (i.e. Nationwide) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or 
choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (Mr H).
Mr Hs own testimony supports that he used cryptocurrency exchanges to facilitate the 
transfers. Its only possible to make a chargeback claim to the merchant that received the 
disputed payments. Its most likely that the cryptocurrency exchanges would have been able 
to evidence theyd done what was asked of them. That is, in exchange for Mr Hs payments, 
they converted and sent an amount of cryptocurrency to the wallet address provided. So, 
any chargeback was destined fail, therefore I was satisfied that Nationwides decision not to 
raise a chargeback request against either of the cryptocurrency exchange companies was 
fair.
I was also satisfied Mr H authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although he didnt 
intend the money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and 
conditions of his bank account, he is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
There was no dispute that this was a scam, but although Mr H didnt intend his money to go 
to scammers, he did authorise the disputed payments. Nationwide is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, but where the customer 
has been the victim of a scam, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to 
reimburse them even though they authorised the payment.
Prevention
Nationwide had reimbursed 50% of the money Mr H lost from 7 January 2023 onwards. But 
as he complained that the settlement shouldnt have been reduced for contributory 
negligence, I needed to consider what I thought should have happened to decide whether he 
is entitled to anything else.
Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and from the evidence Id seen, the payments 
were to a genuine cryptocurrency exchange company. However, Nationwide had an 
obligation to be alert to fraud and scams and these payments were part of a wider scam, so I 
needed to consider whether it ought to have intervened to warn Mr H when he tried to make 
the payments. If there are unusual or suspicious payments on an account, Id expect 
Nationwide to intervene with a view to protecting Mr H from financial harm due to fraud.
The payments didnt flag as suspicious on Nationwides systems. I considered the nature of 
the payments in the context of whether they were unusual or uncharacteristic of how Mr H 
normally ran his account and I thought they were. The first five payments were low value 
and, even though they were to a cryptocurrency exchange company, they werent unusual or 
suspicious and so I didnt think Nationwide missed an opportunity to intervene. However, on 
7 January 2022, Mr H made a payment of £250, which was the fourth payment hed made that day to the same cryptocurrency exchange. The cumulative total was only £682.62, so 
the amount wasnt concerning. But to make four payments in succession to the same 
cryptocurrency merchant represents a pattern of spending which ought to have raised 
concerns, so I agreed that Nationwide ought to have intervened at that point.
I explained that I would expect Nationwide to have contacted Mr H and asked him some 
probing questions around the purpose of the payment. This would include questions around 
how hed learned about the investment opportunity, whether he was being advised by a third 
party or broker and, if so, how he met the third party or broker. I would also expect it to ask 
him about the returns he expected, whether hed been asked to download remote access 
software, whether hed made any withdrawals and whether hed been told to make an 
onward payment from the cryptocurrency exchange.
If Mr H was asked these questions, I was satisfied hed have answered truthfully and that 
hed have provided as much information about the investment as he reasonably could. This 
is because theres no evidence hed been coached to lie to Nationwide, and he really 
believed the investment was genuine, so I theres no reason he wouldnt have been open in 
his responses to the call handler.
With this information, I would expect Nationwide to have drawn Mr Hs attention to the fact 
there were red flags present, including the fact hed seen F advertised online and that hed 
been advised to make onward payments to a wallet address provided to him by the broker. I 
would also expect it to have provided a tailored scam warning describing how cryptocurrency 
scams work and to advise him that it would be unusual to invest in something hed seen 
social media and that scammers often instruct people to move cryptocurrency to a wallet in 
their control.
I would also expect it to provide advice on additional due diligence, including checking the 
FCA website himself. This should include a warning about the importance of checking the 
details of all beneficiaries, and advice that he should contact the details of the company 
registered on the FCA website to check what hed been told about Fs affiliation with that 
company.
Mr H had said he was happy with the checks hed done and that he believed F was affiliated 
with a brokerage that was regulated by the FCA. There were no warnings about F on either 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) or International Organisation of Securities 
Commissions (IOCSO) websites which would have alerted him to the fact there was a 
scam. But if hed contacted the company using the contact details on the FCA website to 
check the information hed been given, hed have realised F wasnt associated with the 
brokerage, and hed have realised there was a problem.
Mr H was using money from his pension and savings, and I hadnt seen any evidence that 
he was keen to take risks. So, I thought hed have followed any advice from Nationwide 
regarding additional due diligence and decided not to go ahead with the investment once he 
learned about the red flags and realised it wasnt registered with the FCA. Because of this, I 
was satisfied that Nationwide failed to intervene on 7 January 2023 in circumstances which 
would have prevented his loss and I was minded direct it to refund the money he lost from 
that point onwards.
Contributory negligence
I considered whether the settlement should be reduced for contributory negligence, but I 
didnt think it should. Mr H had explained that he believed what he was told by the broker 
and those he thought were genuine investors on the telegram group he was part of. He was also impressed by those he thought were running the investment and the professional-
looking material he was sent about the investment.
He did some basic research and was satisfied the returns were plausible and that they could 
be achieved by the experts he trusted were running the investment. He also explained why 
he believed F was authorised to carry out financial services in the UK and I was satisfied his 
explanation was reasonable, and I wouldnt expect him to have anticipated that the 
information he was given about Fs affiliation with another entity was false. I also thought the 
explanation that he thought F had offices in the Seychelles for tax purposes was reasonable.
I noted Mr H had invested before and so wed expect him to have some existing knowledge 
regarding the risk of fraud, but this was a sophisticated scam, and hed taken what he 
thought were reasonable steps to check the investment was genuine. So, I didnt think he 
contributed to his own loss in failing identify that F was a scam. Consequently, whilst there 
may be cases where a reduction for contributory negligence is appropriate, I didnt think this 
was one of them.
Developments
Nationwide maintains the settlement should be reduced for contributory negligence, arguing 
Mr H could have done more to protect himself prior to becoming involved with F. It has 
offered to pay the settlement with a reduction of 20% plus 8% interest, less any credits 
received.
It has argued that Mr H was expecting something too good to be true given the returns were 
between 20-43% with no risk to the capital and he had invested before so he should have 
realised the returns were unrealistic.
It has also said that despite having said he wouldnt have invested if he didnt think hed 
done his research, Mr H opted for a company which had no proven or credible history, and 
he had relied on information provided by F. Further, he was satisfied F operated in the UK 
under an FCA registration number that it shared with its EU owned brokerage, but he didnt 
do anything to check this.
Finally, it has noted that Mr H was convinced the risks were minimal due to the reputation of 
the people he thought were running the investment, but there was no independent third party 
reassurance. And he invested in a company whose offices were abroad, in a high risk 
country.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered Nationwides additional comments, the findings in my final decision will 
be the same as the findings in my provisional decision.
Nationwide has suggested that Mr H should have been concerned by the fact he was 
promised unrealistic returns and the fact he had invested before means he should have 
been more knowledgeable than someone with no investment experience. Im satisfied with 
Mr Hs explanation that he was satisfied the returns were plausible and that they could be 
achieved by the experts he trusted were running the investment. In recent years instances of 
individuals making large amounts of money by trading in cryptocurrency have been highly 
publicised to the extent that I dont think it was unreasonable for him to have believed what 
he was told in terms of the returns he was told were possible.Nationwide has also said that Mr H relied on information provided to him by F, despite 
having said he wouldnt have invested if he didnt think hed done his research. It has also 
noted he didnt check what he was told about F sharing an FCA registration number with its 
EU owned brokerage. I accept that with more careful checking Mr H might have been able to 
work out that the claim that F was registered with the FCA was false by contacting the 
details of the company registered on the FCA website. But this was a sophisticated scam, 
and I dont think it was unreasonable that he didnt know how to check the information he 
was given or to have taken at face value what he was told by those he trusted to be running 
the investment.
I also accept that he went ahead with the investment without having taken any third-party 
advice. But this was a sophisticated scam and the involvement of a broker and those he 
perceived to be reputable in the industry, coupled with the endorsement of other investors 
was enough to satisfy him that this was a sound investment. Mr Hs loss might have been 
prevented if he had sought independent financial advice, but I dont think it was 
unreasonable that he chose to go ahead without doing this, or that his failure to do so means 
he should share responsibility for his own loss.
Finally, as I noted in my provisional decision, Im satisfied that Mr Hs explanation that he 
thought F had offices in the Seychelles for tax purposes was reasonable.
Overall, I remain satisfied that Nationwide should refund the money Mr H lost from 7 January 
2023 onwards and while there may be cases where a reduction for contributory negligence 
is appropriate, I dont think this is one of them.
My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society should:
Refund a total of £178,480, less the money it has already refunded.
pay 8% simple interest*, per year, from the respective dates of loss to the date of 
settlement.
*If Nationwide Building Society deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this award it 
should provide Mr H with the appropriate tax deduction certificate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman