DRN-2213774
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained that Advantage Insurance Company Limited has unfairly 
refused to renew their home insurance policy because of a subsidence claim they made in 
the previous policy year.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S insured their home through Advantage between April 2018 and April 2019. 
During this policy year they made a claim for damage to their property caused by 
subsidence. The claim was accepted and settled by Advantage.
On 31 March 2019, Mr and Mrs S broker informed them that it wasnt able to obtain a 
renewal quote from any of its panel of insurers  which included Advantage. The broker told 
them this was likely because of the subsidence claim.
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree this was fair, so they complained. They explained they had been 
unable to find another insurer who would accept the subsidence risk because of their 
previous claim, so theyd had to take out a new policy with no cover for subsidence. When 
their complaint wasnt upheld, they brought it to our service where it was looked at by one of 
our investigators.
Our investigator highlighted that Advantage was a member of the Association of British 
Insurers (ABI) and so had, in effect, agreed that it would continue to provide ongoing cover 
once a subsidence claim had been made.
Advantage explained that the previous subsidence claim was not the reason that it didnt 
offer a renewal quote. It said during the term of Mr and Mrs S first policy it purchased 
additional data about the flood risk in their area. This data showed that their property was in 
a high-risk flood area  which its underwriting criteria deems to be an uninsurable risk. 
Advantage said this is why it was no longer able to offer cover.
Our investigator considered this. But she felt that in the particular circumstances of this case, 
it was unfair of Advantage to refuse to offer cover. This was because Mr and Mrs S would 
find it difficult and expensive  if not impossible  to find another insurer prepared to cover 
them for subsidence now that they had made a claim. She recommended that Advantage 
should offer a renewal, including subsidence cover, from April 2021 (when Mr and Mrs S 
current policy expires) and that it should provide a letter confirming it will cover any potential 
subsidence claims which might arise between now and then. She also recommended 
Advantage should pay £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it had caused 
Mr and Mrs S.
Advantage didnt accept our investigators opinion. It said her opinion would effectively force 
it to offer cover for a risk despite it providing evidence to confirm that the risk is 
unacceptable.
As no agreement has been able to be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done, so Ive decided to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Each insurer is entitled to decide which risks it wants to cover and which it doesnt. This isnt 
something our service would usually involve itself in. But as an ombudsman Im required to 
consider the particular circumstances of an individual complaint to reach a decision that is 
fair and reasonable.
Advantage has shown that Mr and Mrs S property is in a high-risk flood area and that its 
underwriting guidance deems this to be an uninsurable risk. So, ordinarily, I wouldnt 
necessarily decide that its decision not to offer a renewal would be unfair or unreasonable. 
However, in this particular case, I also need to consider the fact that Advantage did accept 
the risk in the previous policy year, and that during that year Advantage settled a claim 
Mr and Mrs S made for damage caused by subsidence.
As our investigator pointed out, Advantage is a member of the ABI, and as such it is 
expected to adhere to the Domestic Subsidence Agreement. Part of this agreement states 
that where an insurer has dealt with a claim for subsidence previously, it should continue to 
offer cover. This is because the policyholders are likely to find it difficult, or prohibitively 
expensive, to find cover elsewhere. Also, as the insurer has carried out the repairs, it should 
be confident that it has resolved the problem.
Ive thought carefully about Advantages reasons for not offering to renew Mr and Mrs S 
policy, and about its requirements under the ABI agreement. While, strictly speaking, I think 
Advantage has a genuine reason not to want to offer a renewal, I dont think it is fair in the 
particular circumstances of this complaint. This is because with a previous subsidence claim 
recorded against them, I think its very unlikely that Mr and Mrs S will be able to obtain 
sufficient cover elsewhere.
Im not persuaded that it is fair for Advantage to act contrary to the ABI agreement for 
continual subsidence cover in these circumstances. I think Advantage could only do this if 
the risk it was required to take on (beyond the subsidence risk) was fundamentally 
unreasonable, for example if the policyholder had made a fraudulent claim. 
As I understand it, the risk of flooding at Mr and Mrs S property hasnt changed since they 
took out their policy in 2018. Its just that Advantage/the broker has purchased new 
information about the flood risk which has made Advantage more aware of the existing risk. 
But, crucially in this case, Advantage did accept the flood risk in 2018 and, because it did, it 
was the insurer on cover when Mr and Mrs S property suffered damage as a result of 
subsidence. 
If Advantage had obtained better flood risk information in 2018, it wouldnt have offered 
cover and Mr and Mrs S would have found an alternative policy elsewhere (which Im 
confident they could have done as their current policy covers them for flood). The alternative 
policy would have responded to the subsidence claim and Mr and Mrs S would then have 
retained protection for subsidence cover from the alternative insurer under the ABI 
agreement. So, I dont think its fair that Mr and Mrs S should lose out on this protection 
because Advantage accepted a risk in 2018 which it now, effectively, says it shouldnt have. In the particular circumstances of Mr and Mrs S complaint, I dont think Advantages new 
understanding of the flood risk is enough of a reason for it to act contrary to the ABI 
agreement. So, I think Advantage should offer Mr and Mrs S a renewal when their current 
policy expires. And if a subsidence claim should arise between now and then, I think 
Advantage should cover it  subject to its normal policy terms and conditions, including 
payment of an appropriate excess.
Ive also considered the distress and inconvenience Mr and Mrs S have experienced as a 
result of Advantage unfairly deciding not to renew their policy in 2019. I think Advantage 
should pay them £100 to compensate for this.
Putting things right
In order to fairly put things right, Advantage Insurance Company Limited must:
Adhere to the ABI agreement for continual subsidence cover by renewing 
Mr and Mrs S policy from 2021
Cover any claims for subsidence which might arise between now and when it renews 
their policy
Pay Mr and Mrs S £100 compensation
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs S complaint. Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited must put things right by doing what Ive set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman