DRN-1688603
 
The complaint
Ms H and Mr S have complained that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
 What happened
Ms H and Mr S took out the PPI in 1996 at the same time as arranging the mortgage.
I issued my provisional decision in February 2020, explaining why I was not thinking of 
upholding the complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may 
wish to make before I reached a final decision. Ms H responded to reiterate that they didn't 
know they had taken out PPI and that it only came to light when they were contacted by 
Lloyds some years later.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having considered Ms H's response to my provisional decision, it has not persuaded me to 
change my mind.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms H and Mr Ss complaint, for the reasons explained in my 
provisional decision, which I repeat below.
Lloyds no longer has any paperwork available from the point of sale, which is not surprising 
given how much time has elapsed. However this does make the complaint more difficult to 
decide. Therefore in reaching my decision I have considered the information that we do 
have, as well as what I consider is most likely to have happened. I have also thought about 
how long ago the sale took place and how this may have affected Ms H and Mr Ss  
recollection of events.
Ms H and Mr S say they didnt know they had PPI  meaning that Lloyds added it without 
their knowledge or consent. Mortgage interviews tended to involve a longer conversation 
about applicants personal details and requirements. From what we know of Lloyds sales 
processes at the time, there would have been a discussion about PPI as part of this process 
and the policy was normally presented as optional. I havent seen any evidence to persuade 
me that something different happened in this case. Ive thought very carefully about what Ms 
H and Mr S have said. However, on balance, I consider that they probably decided to buy 
the PPI, knowing that they didnt have to, even if they no longer remember doing so.
Lloyds advised Ms H and Mr S to buy the policy. Therefore, in recommending it to them, it 
needed to ensure that it met the couples needs. And from what Ive seen of their 
circumstances at the time, I consider that the policy was suitable for them.Both Ms H and Mr S have said they would have received 12 months sick pay from their 
employers. Given the nature of their employment this was likely to have been six months full 
pay, followed by six months half pay. However, the policy would have paid out in addition to 
any sick pay and potentially for longer than they would have received full pay for.
Ms H has said that she received an inheritance in 1996 of approximately £65,000. Ms H has 
provided a copy of the grant of probate dated 4 November 1996 which shows the net worth 
of the estate as being less than £70,000 net. Shes also provided evidence that she received 
the proceeds of the sale of her relatives house in March 1997. Shes said that the rest of the 
inheritance was in cash.
Lloyds doesnt have any evidence of the date of the actual sale  so it has used the date that 
the mortgage funds were released -  in November 1996 - when responding to the complaint. 
However, on average, theres usually about a three month timescale for the purchase of a 
property. So I imagine that Ms H and Mr S actually arranged the mortgage in 
August/September 1996. So its possible that the sale of the PPI pre-dated the death of Ms 
Hs relative in September 1996. Its also likely that Ms H wouldnt have known the value of 
her relatives estate at that point or that she was the main benefactor. Given the timing of the 
sale and the couples likely circumstances at that time, I consider that it was reasonable of 
Lloyds to recommend the policy to Ms H and Mr S.
Lloyds also needed to provided Ms H and Mr S with sufficient information for them to make 
an informed choice about buying the policy. Its possible that Lloyds could have provided 
more information about the PPI, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Ms H 
and Mr S werent affected by any of those things. As I consider they had an interest in the 
policy and decided to buy it, I dont think that further information would have caused them to 
change their minds. It follows that I dont uphold Ms H and Mr S's complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Ms H and Mr S's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman