DRN-1644400
 
The complaint
Mr L says PDL Finance Limited  trading as Mr Lender (PDL) - irresponsibly lent to 
him.                           
Background
This complaint is about three payday loans PDL provided to Mr L between January and 
November 2013. Mr Ls borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment Deferrals
1 12/01/2013 24/04/2013 1 £100.00 £130.00 3
2 03/05/2013 21/10/2013 1 £200.00 £260.00 5
3 18/11/2013 Outstanding 1 £500.00 £575.00 5
At the time of writing this decision, loan 3 remains outstanding
Our adjudicator partly upheld Mr Ls complaint and thought loan 2 from the fourth time Mr L 
deferred payment and all lending after that shouldnt have been given. This was because of 
the amount Mr L had to repay and the pattern of his borrowing. PDL disagreed and said that 
a deferment (or rollover) didnt automatically mean someone was struggling financially. It 
also said that Mr L had enough disposable income to over the costs of the loan repayments.
As the matter couldnt be resolved informally, the complaint was passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
PDL needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr L could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that PDL should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that PDL was required to establish 
whether Mr L could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Our adjudicator didnt think PDL needed to do more when it approved loans 1 and the first 
three rollovers in loan 2. Mr L hasnt provided any further evidence or arguments for me to 
consider. As such, I wont be making any further findings on these loans as they no longer 
appear to be in dispute. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ls complaint. Having done this, Im partially upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
PDL has said that someone rolling over their loan repayment isnt automatically a sign that 
someone is struggling financially. I agree that a deferment isnt a sign something is wrong  
the facility can be useful in its flexibility. But  like our adjudicator said - repeated rollovers 
can indicate an underlying financial difficulty. So, I think when Mr L applied for the fourth 
deferral of loan 2, there was an enough of a suggesting from his borrowing behaviour that he 
was having problems managing his money.  By this point, he had been a customer of PDLs 
for four months and hed rolled over the repayment of his first loan three times before paying 
the loan in full. Loan 2 was for double the amount and Mr L again deferring repayment. 
Ive noted PDLs comments around the fact it wasnt regulated at the time which is true. But 
even though there werent specific rules on the number of rollovers on a loan, PDL still 
needed to use moderation when customers were experiencing problems repaying their loans 
in full in a reasonable time. And it is worth noting that only a couple of years after these 
events, rules were put in place to prevent more than three rollovers. Which suggests that 
businesses werent always treating customers fairly in situations like this.  
So, Im upholding Mr Ls complaint about loan 2 from the point of the fourth rollover (28 
August 2013) onwards.  
Putting things right  what PDL needs to doIf PDL has sold the outstanding debts PDL should buy these back if PDL is able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If PDL cant buy the debts back, then PDL should liaise with 
the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) PDL should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr L towards interest, fees 
and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything PDL 
has already refunded.
B) PDL should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mr L which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr L originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) PDL should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr L as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr L having made 
overpayments then PDL should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. PDL should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B 
and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus, 
then the surplus should be paid to Mr L. However, if there is still an outstanding balance then 
PDL should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr L. PDL shouldnt pursue 
outstanding balances made up of principal PDL has already written-off.
E) PDL should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ls credit file in relation to 
loan 2 from the fourth rollover and loan 3.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires PDL to take off tax from this interest. PDL must give Mr 
L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Ls complaint. PDL Finance Limited 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman