DRN-3892969
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax sent him a marketing email 
which abused the data they held about him.
What happened
Mr M received an email from Halifax asking him to switch his motor finance from his current 
provider to themselves. He says the email was specific and quoted payments that he had 
made to the third party over a three month period. Mr M made a complaint to Halifax as he 
said that they are abusing his data to take away business from the third party. He also said 
that he didnt receive the expected documentation when making a complaint. 
Halifax partially upheld Mr Ms complaint. They said that the expected letter for his complaint 
closure was not sent out as expected so they paid £25 to his account as an apology. Halifax 
said the email he received was one of their marketing emails aimed at saving him money. 
They said they use algorithms and other information to ensure their marketing is relevant to 
him. Halifax said he was currently registered for email and text message marketing, but he 
could amend this at any time. Mr M asked Halifax to retract the £25 compensation to his 
account, which they did. Mr M brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ms complaint. He said If Halifax use their customers data 
to send out marketing material, we could only consider it a business error if a customer has 
opted out of receiving marketing information. He said Halifax confirmed Mr M hadnt selected 
this option, so for this reason, they hadnt done anything wrong. 
Mr M asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He said the email was a specific 
and targeted attempt, because Halifax quoted a specific sum which had been paid from his 
Halifax account to a competing finance provider. He said specific monetary amounts were 
quoted over a specific period of time (three months), so this was not a general marketing 
email. He said the level of detail being mined by Halifax deeply concerns him and there 
would appear to be ethical and compliance issues in making approaches to customers to try 
to switch business to them from their competitors. He said the email breached the line of 
expected customer confidentiality.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to explain to Mr M that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how to run 
their marketing policies and procedures. It would be the role of the regulator  the Financial 
Conduct Authority, who have the power to instruct Halifax to make changes to their policies 
and procedures, if necessary. 
Ive had a look at Mr Ms marketing preferences with Halifax. These show that he has agreed 
to receive marketing via emails and text messages. So Ive had a look at the email that 
Halifax had sent Mr M. I agree with him that it was a tailored/targeted email to try and get 
him to switch his motor finance to Halifax. And as a result of this, a competitor would 
naturally lose his business if Mr M switched this to Halifax. But Im not persuaded this means 
Halifax are being unethical or uncompliant as a result of this. 
This email does not quote the exact amount Mr M had paid to the third party or mention the 
third party by name, although I appreciate that Mr M feels that the level of detail in the email 
was too specific, and it is concerning to him. But this is in line with Halifaxs privacy policy on 
their website that they use his information to study this to form a view on what we think you 
may want or need, or what may be of interest to you. This is how we decide which products, 
services and offers may be relevant for you. This is called profiling for marketing purposes. 
You can contact us at any time and ask us to stop using your personal information this way. 
So here, Halifax have acted in line with their privacy policy, which they publicly display. 
Should Mr M disapprove of Halifaxs methods then he may wish to consider opting out of all 
marketing from them.
Ive considered what Mr M has said about his data being mined by Halifax and the email 
breached the line of expected customer confidentiality. But Im not persuaded that it has. I 
say this because they used information from his account to provide him with marketing for 
products which they believe would be beneficial to him. The email was sent to Mr M to his 
registered email address, so Im not persuaded that Halifax hadnt been confidential with his 
information. 
Halifax have admitted that they did not send Mr M the relevant letter when they closed his 
complaint down. They paid him £25 for this, but Mr M asked them to remove this from his 
account. But as Im satisfied this is a fair amount for the inconvenience Mr M had to re-
contact Halifax about this issue, then its only fair they should pay him what they originally 
offered him. But it follows I dont require Halifax to do anything further.
My final decision
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has already made an offer to pay £25 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax should pay Mr M £25 if this 
payment was retracted. But I wont be requiring them to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman