DRN-2358527
The complaint
Mrs L is unhappy that BUPA Insurance Limited didnt freeze the monthly premiums she was 
paying for her private dental insurance. Shes also unhappy that she couldnt access 
dentistry services which she says she needed. 
What happened
Mrs L was paying around £15 per month for private dental insurance, underwritten by BUPA 
(the policy).
Due to the unusual and unprecedented circumstances of the Covid-19 global pandemic, and 
following government advice, many dental practices were unable to operate in the way they 
usually would in early 2020. And rather than seeing patients in person, BUPA says many  of 
its dental  practices  could  only offer telephone  support  and guidance  for ongoing  
treatment  or face to face treatment  for emergency  dental  issues.
Mrs L says its unfair that she had to keep paying her monthly premiums for the policy during 
this time as she couldnt access the services she needed. She said it was essential that she 
saw a hygienist. She complained to BUPA about this in around May 2020.
BUPA didnt uphold her complaint. Unhappy, Mrs L complained to our Service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold her complaint. Mrs L disagreed. Her complaint has now been 
passed to me consider everything afresh and decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint. Thats because I dont think BUPA acted 
unfairly and unreasonably in the circumstances of this complaint by not agreeing to freeze 
Mrs Ls monthly insurance premiums. Ive explained why below. 
Due to the restrictions that were in place in the UK from March 2020 as a result of the 
Covid-19 pandemic, dentists were restricted in the services that they were able to 
provide. This, understandably in my opinion, temporarily affected BUPAs ability to 
provide the full range of services it would usually be able to offer to customers who 
had the benefit of private dental insurance policies  including Mrs L. This was due to 
the unprecedented and unforeseen impact of Covid-19 pandemic which, Im satisfied, 
was outside of BUPAs of control.
BUPA accepts that coverage for dental treatments was initially restricted as a result 
of the pandemic. However, BUPA says many  of its dental  practices  could  offer 
telephone  support  and guidance  for ongoing  treatment.  And further,  they could  
direct customers to the most appropriate support location if emergency face-face 
treatment was needed. I havent seen anything which persuades me that isnt right, 
and I accept what BUPA says. As such, Im persuaded Mrs L was capable of 
benefitting from the policy during this time. 
I appreciate Mrs L says that she needed to see a hygienist. She says during a call 
with one of BUPAs representatives around 11 May 2020 (which Ive listened to) that 
she wanted to book an appointment in February 2020, but her dental practice was 
fully booked. And that the effects of the pandemic impacted her ability to get an 
appointment in March 2020. During this call, Mrs L was told that if she was in any 
pain or discomfort, unable to eat or if there was serious risk to her health, she was 
able to visit a dentist of her choice. And that she should keep the receipt of payment 
and the confirmation from the treating dentist that she required emergency treatment 
(to make a claim). Mrs L replied that she couldnt make an appointment and that 
dentists only considered something like a tooth extraction to constitute an 
emergency. However, Im satisfied that what Mrs L was told by BUPA further 
supports that she was able to benefit from the policy if she required emergency 
treatment. 
Mrs L has subsequently said that she did try to contact several dental providers but 
wasnt able to get an appointment to see a hygienist. But I dont think I can 
reasonably hold BUPA responsible for her being unable to get through to various 
dental practices when trying to make an appointment. 
Mrs Ls membership certificate reflects that cover started on 1 January 2020 and was 
due to end on 31 December 2020 (unless renewed).  The Insurance Product 
Information Document reflects that Mrs L was covered for two 30-minute check-ups 
and two 30-minute scale and polish treatments, per year (subject to the remaining 
terms of the policy). The policy could also pay £400 towards emergency treatment  
up to a maximum of £1,000 per year. So, Im persuaded, at the time BUPA took the 
decision not to freeze Mrs Ls policy premiums in May 2020, there was enough time 
remaining in the policy year for Mrs L to be able to fully benefit from the policy.
Mrs L says gyms had suspended subscriptions so its not fair that BUPA didnt. But 
an insurance policy operates differently to a gym membership. And for the reasons 
Ive already set out above, Im persuaded that she was still capable of benefitting 
from her dental insurance although there were temporary restrictions in place at the 
time. 
I know Mrs L will be disappointed with my decision, but I hope it will help her to know that her 
complaint has been reviewed by someone who is impartial and independent of the parties 
involved.
My final decisionI dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman