DRN-2933770
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain about AXA Insurance UK Plcs (AXA) decision to decline a claim 
under their commercial insurance policy. Any references to AXA include its agents. 
What happened
In October 2020, Mr and Mrs D were told about damage to the roof of the garage linked to a 
property they rented out. Mr D made a claim to AXA, but this was declined. AXA said it 
wasnt clear whether the cause of the damage was as a result of an insured event. 
AXA considered if the damage could be accidental, but decided it wasnt based on the 
information it had seen. In declining the claim, AXA said it considered both the pictures Mr 
and Mrs D sent and an email from their roofer. The pictures showed significant moss growth 
on the garage roof, which AXA said indicated the garage hasnt been properly maintained. 
The email from a local roofer said he thought the roof would need to be replaced, but there 
may be questions whether the foundations would withstand this, given how old the garage 
was. AXA said there was no indication of how the damage had occurred, or that an insured 
event had taken place. 
Mr and Mrs D say the location of the garage meant it wasnt frequently visited. They said 
they dont know exactly when or how the garage roof was damaged. Mr D says it could have 
been maliciously damaged or suffered storm damage up to six months before the damage 
was noticed. But they didnt think it was right that the claim was declined without the garage 
being inspected. 
Mr and Mrs D referred their complaint to this service. It was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt recommend AXA needed to take any further action. As Mr and Mrs 
D didnt agree, this matter has been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the first instance, I can understand why Mr and Mrs D would have preferred for AXA to 
attend the site before deciding the outcome of the claim. However, it isnt always possible for 
insurers to do so. Ive considered the evidence available to AXA when considering the claim. 
There are a number of photographs showing the inside and outside of the garage, as well as 
an assessment from Mr and Mrs Ds roofer. This assessment doesnt identify a cause of the 
damage but does specifically reference the age and condition of the garage and says this 
course of action might cause further damage. On the basis of the information available, I 
dont think AXA acted unfairly in deciding the claim without assessing the garage in person.
Ill turn now to whether AXA acted fairly in declining the claim. As well as considering the 
information Ive outlined above, AXA also considered if local weather reports indicated storm 
conditions could have damaged the roof. It said the local weather reports showed no 
evidence of high winds ahead of the damage being noticed, but there were records showing 
there had been heavy rainfall in the days leading up to the damage being identified. 
However, Im mindful there is no conclusive evidence to show storm conditions may have 
been the cause of the damage. And I think this is especially true as Mr D has said he cannot 
be sure when the damage occurred, only when it was identified. 
Mr D says that the moss on the roof alone wouldnt have caused the damage. Hes provided 
links to articles to support this view, but these arent specifically in relation to his property. I 
think though, that AXA makes a valid point when it says the photographs provided show a 
considerable amount of moss on the roof of the garage and indicated the garage roof hadnt 
been cleaned or maintained for some time. Mr D says the garage was out of the way of the 
property, and not used on a regular basis, but I dont think this means it couldnt have been 
inspected or checked by Mr D. 
However, to date, Mr and Mrs D havent been able to show the damage was caused by an 
insured event. Ive considered whether AXA acted fairly in declining the claim on the basis of 
wear and tear. In doing so, Ive considered the following part of the policy:
The Buildings section is extended to include the following cause
Any other damage excluding 
1 damage which is excluded under
causes 1 to 8 or under What is not
covered of the Buildings section 
2 damage caused by or resulting from:
a wear and tear
Im satisfied the policy terms are clear in setting out that damage caused by wear and tear is 
not covered. And, on this basis, where there isnt evidence of an insured event being the 
cause of the damage, it seems reasonable that AXA relied on this exclusion in declining Mr 
and Mr Ds claim. Im not going to direct AXA to take any further action. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2021. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman