DRN-2854089
The complaint
Mrs P has complained The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc didnt carry out a proper affordability 
assessment when they gave her a personal loan in 2016. She doesnt think the loan was 
ever affordable and there were cheaper options.
What happened
In 2016 Mrs P was struggling to meet her financial commitments. She held three personal 
current accounts with RBS. After discussing her situation with RBS, she applied for a 
personal loan of £2,950. RBS checked her credit record and reviewed the known facts about 
her outgoings and income. They accepted the loan application.
Her account ending 060 was overdrawn by £950 when RBS credited this with the £2,950 
loan. Another account ending 424 received funds from other payday loan providers around 
this time as well as her monthly salary but was also overdrawn on the date of the loan credit.
Mrs P complained to RBS in 2019 after shed finally paid off this loan. She was concerned 
that when she fell into difficulties and was unable to repay the loan RBS continued to charge 
her interest on the rearranged payments she made. RBS explained this was their normal 
process.  
In 2020 Mrs P complained again to RBS about a number of issues, including her belief that 
the loan was never affordable in the first place. RBS then confirmed theyd carried out all the 
checks required.
Mrs P brought this complaint  and others  to the ombudsman service. Our investigator 
reviewed the evidence and considered RBS had carried out proper checks and that the loan 
had been affordable when Mrs P took it out.
Mrs P disputed this outcome. She felt that she should have been offered an alternative in 
March 2016 to repay her debts without any interest being added. She also mentioned that 
she was missing payments on other accounts at the time and this would have been apparent 
to RBS.
Mrs Ps complaint was referred to an ombudsman for decision.
I completed a provisional decision on 5 May 2021. This also confirmed it wouldnt be fair to 
ask RBS to do anything further but expanded on the reasoning.
RBS had nothing further to add.  No response was received from Mrs P.
I now have all I need to complete a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so and received no further comments from either party, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as I did in my provisional decision. What follows explains why Ive made the 
decision I have.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint above in far less detail than Mrs P and Ive 
done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think 
are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
I should also mention that Mrs P has brought other complaints to our service. This complaint 
is only about the loan granted in March 2016.
In reviewing the affordability aspects, Ive considered  amongst other things  the rules and 
guidance for lenders set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) within the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook.
I think there are two overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the affordability circumstances of this complaint. These questions are:
Did RBS complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs P would be 
able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
a. If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
b. If not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mrs P could 
sustainably repay the borrowing?
Then did RBS act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
If I think Mrs P has been disadvantaged in any way by RBSs actions, Ill go onto consider 
what I think is a fair way to put things right.
Did RBS conduct reasonable and proportionate checks?
Before granting credit, RBS were required to carry out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of Mrs Ps ability to sustainably repay the debt. This is often referred to as an 
affordability check. This check had to be borrower-focussed. This means it needed to be 
concerned with whether Mrs P could sustainably afford the borrowing (considering her 
specific circumstances), rather than how statistically likely she was to repay.
The latter is the risk posed to RBS as the lender, or their credit risk but this is not 
necessarily the same as an assessment of affordability.
Whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on a number of factors 
such as, but not limited to:
The amount of credit;
The total repayable and the size of the regular repayments;
The duration of the agreement;The cost of the credit; and
The consumers individual circumstances.
What this means is that there isnt a one-size-fits-all approach to what is considered 
proportionate as any of these factors (or others) might influence what a reasonable and 
proportionate check ought to be.
The total amount borrowed was £2,950 over a two-year period. Mrs P would be repaying 
£148.46 a month. The APR was 20.5%.
As Mrs P had three current accounts with RBS, they held a pretty comprehensive picture of 
her income and expenditure. The evidence theyve shared with us shows they calculated her 
regular outgoings which included her mortgage, Council Tax, other lending commitments 
and what RBS assessed as her living costs. This assessment showed Mrs P to have enough 
disposable income to make the monthly payments for her loan.
RBS has also confirmed they did consider Mrs Ps credit record. Im aware she says this 
recorded missed payments on other accounts but that is part of the risk  as opposed to 
assessing affordability  RBS was considering in providing her with a loan. Negative data  
although RBS said they didnt note any when reviewing her record  wouldnt in itself be a 
reason to reject someones loan application.
Overall I think RBS conducted reasonable and proportionate checks when considering 
Mrs Ps loan application.
Did RBS act unfairly or unreasonably in another way?
Ive considered here what else I know about Mrs Ps personal circumstances at the time. 
This includes whether RBSs loan decision disadvantaged Mrs P in any other way.
At the time Mrs P took this loan out, RBS were talking to her as she was approaching her 
overdraft limits. Mrs P has wondered why she wasnt given the option of a repayment 
arrangement which she thinks would have limited the interest she would have paid.
But I dont believe this would obviously have been the case. Theres no indication Mrs P 
wanted to limit her use of her current accounts or would have agreed to the impact this 
would have had on her credit record. In all likelihood interest would have also continued to 
be charged and this may well have been at the banks authorised overdraft rate.
Consolidating Mrs Ps different overdrafts  which she was already paying for  into a single 
loan, I believe was probably the cheaper option for her. I appreciate Mrs Ps arguments that 
this loan was unaffordable but she was likely paying more in overdraft charges than she 
ended up paying in interest.
RBS has said the loan was affordable partly as Mrs P continued to meet her repayments for 
about 20 months. But just because payments were being met doesnt mean this meant the 
loan was affordable on a sustainable basis. I say this from looking at transactions 
immediately after the loan. I can see about £1,800 was credited to Mrs Ps account within 
two weeks of the RBS personal loan. These were all from payday loan providers and I 
suspect shows Mrs P was struggling overall.
However I note that Mrs Ps loan wasnt providing money for her to make purchases but to 
help consolidate her debts and lower her overall financial commitments. So Im not sure 
what other option would have been available to Mrs P. Her overdrafts would have continued to rise and she would have ended up paying more in interest and this would have led to a 
greater debt overall.
In the end as Mrs Ps financial difficulties became more pronounced, she wasnt able to 
make her monthly payments. As our investigator said in her view on 20 August 2020, RBS 
entered into an agreement to extend the loan and reduce monthly payments. Ive not seen 
anything which suggests Mrs P was treated unfairly. I know shes concerned about interest 
continuing to be charged but this was in line with the terms and conditions. So I dont think 
theres any evidence to show Mrs P was treated unfairly.
Overall considering Mrs Ps financial situation, I dont think it would be fair to ask RBS to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mrs Ps complaint against The 
Royal Bank of Scotland Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman