DRN-2534829
The complaint
Mrs O complains that the car she acquired through a hire purchase agreement (HPA) with 
FCE Bank Plc trading as FCE Bank was mis-sold. She says the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality and that FCE Bank didnt provide her with the service it should have when dealing 
with the issues she raised.
What happened
Mrs O entered a HPA with FCE Bank in October 2016 to acquire a new car. She says that 
the car was mis-sold as she was told the annual road tax would be £30 but then discovered 
it was £115. She also says she was charged for additional features that had already been 
installed and for a colour she hadnt requested. 
Mrs O says that in July 2018, the clutch failed even though she had only driven the car 
around 6,000 miles. She says that at the same time the battery failed and soon after the 
heating system failed. She says she paid £800 for the repair which was later refunded. 
However, in February 2020 the clutch failed again after only 13,000 miles being driven and 
she had to pay for the repair. Mrs O doesnt accept that her driving style is causing the issue 
and says the car is faulty.
Mrs O has also complained that she hasnt been provided with the service she should have 
been, and that the supplying dealerships closure has been used as an excuse not to fully 
address the issues she has raised. 
FCE Bank issued a final response letter dated 30 April 2020. It didnt uphold Mrs Os 
complaint. It said there was insufficient evidence to show that the car had been mis-sold to 
Mrs O. Regarding the issues with the clutch, it said that after the first six months, it was 
Mrs Os responsibility to show any issues were present or developing from the point of 
supply. It said given the first clutch failure happened around 22 months after acquisition it 
was unlikely that the issue was present at supply. It noted the further issue in February 2020 
but said the service team had said this occurred due to driver error and so it didnt accept the 
request to refund the repair cost. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Os complaint. She said that there wasnt enough 
evidence to show that the issues Mrs O had experienced with the car were due to faults that 
were present or developing at the point of supply. Regarding Mrs Os complaint about the 
mis-sale, our investigator didnt think that there was a false statement of fact regarding the 
road tax that induced Mrs O into acquiring the car. 
Mrs O didnt accept our investigators view. She said there was lots of evidence online about 
the issue with cars similar to hers experiencing clutch failures prematurely and the reason 
being given as driver fault and provided extracts from online commentary regarding this. She 
reiterated that she had been driving many years and hadnt previously experienced issues 
with the clutch. Mrs O said she felt she had been taken advantage of as an older customer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are three parts to Mrs Os complaint: mis-sale of the car; the car not being of 
satisfactory quality; and the service she was provided with while trying to deal with the 
issues. I have dealt with each part separately.
Mis-sale
Mrs O says that when she was discussing the acquisition of the car in October 2016 she was 
told the road tax would be the same as her previous car, that is £30. She has also said that 
she was charged additional amounts for features that were already installed and for the 
colour when she hadnt requested a specific colour.
For me to say that a misrepresentation has occurred I would need to be satisfied that Mrs O 
had been provided with a false statement of fact and that this had induced her into entering 
the HPA. I have looked at the sales invoice from the time of Mrs Os acquisition and this lists 
the costs involved including the charge for the colour and also the charge for the navigation 
system. Therefore, while I note Mrs Os comments about these items, as they were clearly 
set out and priced I find that Mrs O could have raised her concerns about these at the time 
and not gone ahead if she didnt accept the charges. Mrs O decided to acquire the car, and 
on balance, I do not find that I can say these costs were misrepresented.
Regarding the road tax, I have looked at the information Mrs O has provided about this. I can 
see that the sales invoice provides information about the band the car falls into but doesnt 
provide a road tax amount. Based on Mrs Os testimony I accept that she thought the road 
tax would be lower than it was. I note her comments about this issue however, I do not think 
I have enough to say that a misrepresentation occurred. I say this because the sales invoice 
provided the information needed to establish the road tax amount and while I appreciate the 
information provided by Mrs O could suggest a lower amount, I do not find I can say for 
certain that the amount was misrepresented and that acted as an inducement for Mrs O to 
enter the HPA.
Overall, I do not find that I have enough to say the car was misrepresented to Mrs O.
Satisfactory quality
Mrs O acquired a car through a HPA with FCE Bank. Under the regulations, specifically the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015), FCE Bank can be held liable if the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Satisfactory quality takes into account factors such 
as the age and mileage of the car and what a reasonable person would expect taking into 
account all the circumstances. In this case Mrs O acquired a new car in October 2016 and 
so it would be reasonable that she would expect it to be free from faults, including minor 
defects, and that issues wouldnt arise for a reasonable amount of time.
Mrs O says that the clutch failed in mid-2018 when the car had only been driven around 
6,000 miles. I appreciate this is a low mileage and so it would be unusual for the clutch to fail 
at this time. However, as Mrs O had been driving the car for over a year and half I find it 
reasonable that further evidence would be needed to show that the issue with the clutch was 
due to a fault that was present or developing at the point of supply. This is also the case with 
the battery issue Mrs O noted at this time. I understand the cost Mrs O paid for repairs were 
refunded and so she didnt suffer the cost of this repair.
However, the clutch failed again in February 2020. I note the comments that FCE Bank has 
made about the issue being driver error and Mrs Os comments disputing this. I also note the information Mrs O has provided based on her online research into the issue. While I 
appreciate the online research Mrs O has provided, my decision is based on the individual 
merits of this case and in this case, I do not find that I have enough evidence to say that 
there is an underlying issue with the car that meant the clutch failed in February 2020.
Mrs O raised concerns about the clutch and an inspection took place in August 2020. I note 
the comments Mrs O has made about the inspection, but this does confirm that the clutch 
was performing as it should, and no issues were identified. Therefore, I do not find I can say 
there was an ongoing issue with the clutch that could be linked to issues present or 
developing from supply.
Mrs O has also said there are issue with the heating system. However, I have no further 
evidence of this and so havent considered this further. 
Overall, while I understand why Mrs O is upset by the issues she has experienced and I take 
on board her comment about not previously having problems with the clutch in previous 
cars, I do not find I have enough evidence to say the issues Mrs O experienced are due to 
faults that were present or developing at the point of supply. Without this I do not find I can 
say the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and so I do not find FCE is liable for Mrs Os repair 
costs for the February 2020 clutch repair.
Service
I can understand why Mrs O is upset by the issues she has experienced and that she feels 
her complaint hasnt been properly addressed due to the closure of the supplying dealer. 
However, having looked through the information provided, FCE Bank looked into the issues 
raised and as it was informed the clutch had failed due to wear it didnt accept liability. It 
issued a final response letter dated 30 April 2020 which set out its position and I can see that 
it responded to Mrs Os correspondence after this time. 
Overall, I understand why Mrs O is upset by the issues she has experienced but I do not find 
I have enough to say that her complaint should be upheld. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against FCE Bank Plc trading as FCE 
Bank.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman