DRN-3806760
The complaint
Miss C complains that a credit card was opened fraudulently in her name with 
Santander UK Plc, which impacted her credit history at a time when she was applying for a 
mortgage. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In January 2022 a credit card was applied for in Miss Cs name with Santander. Miss C 
contacted Santander on 15 June 2022 informing them that she didnt apply for it. So, 
Santander put a block on the credit card and referred the matter to their investigations team 
to review.
Miss C complained to Santander on 26 June 2022 about their timescales for investigating 
the fraudulent application. She said she was in the process of a mortgage application and it 
was having a detrimental effect on her credit history. Santander responded to the complaint 
the same day and in short, they said:
The application was processed in line with their procedures, with arrangements made 
to issue the documentation relevant to the account for Miss C to operate banking 
facilities with them.
Since being advised by Miss C that she didnt make the application, restrictions were 
placed on the credit card and they were still waiting for this matter to be reviewed. 
Unfortunately, they couldnt provide a timescale for this. 
Theyd asked for the matter to be reviewed [by the investigations team] as a priority 
given the impact it was having on Miss Cs mortgage application process.  
They were sorry if thered been an extended wait time when she contacted them 
about the matter. But, while they aim to service customers within a suitable 
timeframe, there are busy periods on occasions which extends the time it takes. To 
prevent additional costs though, their contact numbers are 0800. 
They were also sorry that Miss C didnt receive promised call backs. In recognition of 
the inconvenience caused, they offered £60 compensation to Miss C. 
Miss C referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. She wanted Santander to deal 
with the fraud immediately, send a letter confirming this and rectify her credit history with the 
relevant credit reference agencies. Miss C added that, as a freelancer, she would also like 
compensation for any loss of income suffered while dealing with this matter.  
Santanders investigations team reviewed the application and deemed it as fraudulent on 
27 June 2022. They sent a letter to Miss C confirming the status of her being a victim of 
impersonation and attached a disclaimer for her to complete and return. The disclaimer 
required Miss C to confirm that she hadnt made the credit card application, nor had she 
given permission to another person to use her details for that purpose.
The credit card was closed by Santander on 12 July 2022, with credit history amendments 
requested that day. Santander then received the completed disclaimer from Miss C on 18 
July 2022. 
Our investigator considered Miss Cs complaint but she didnt think Santander had to do 
anything further. In short, she said:
It was reasonable for Santander to consider the credit card application was genuine 
as enough information matched Miss Cs details. 
She noted Miss C says she didnt receive the letter from Santander confirming the 
status of her being a victim of impersonation. Its unclear why this wasnt received as 
it was provided with the disclaimer form which Miss C returned. But in any event, 
hopefully Miss C could take her findings as confirmation Santander had accepted the 
credit card was opened fraudulently, closed it and made the credit history 
amendments too.
Although she understood why Miss C wanted compensation, she thought Santander 
dealt with the reported fraud promptly by closing the credit card and making the credit 
history amendments in under a month. And that its important to recognise the 
situation came about as a result of the credit card being opened by fraudsters.
Miss C disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise the fraudulent opening of the credit card has been a difficult experience for 
Miss C. I also realise that Miss C spent a lot of time dealing with this matter while she was 
going through a mortgage application process. So, I appreciate that this has been a stressful 
period for her. But while I know this isnt the outcome Miss C is hoping for, I dont think 
Santander has to do anything further. 
Santander accepts the credit card was opened fraudulently and so Ive considered whether 
they were responsible for it happening. Having done so, I dont think Santander had reason 
to question the legitimacy of the application at the time. This is because the application 
information matched Miss Cs personal details and those on her credit file  including, for 
example, her date of birth and address. An automated credit score check was completed by 
Santander and the credit card application was accepted based on this. So, I dont think 
Santander is responsible for the fraud occurring as the checks carried out made the 
application appear genuine.
Ive looked at Santanders actions upon being notified by Miss C that she hadnt applied for 
the credit card. And I think they acted appropriately by putting a block on the credit card and 
referring the matter to their investigations team. I appreciate there was a greater urgency for 
Miss C to have the matter resolved as she was worried it could jeopardise her mortgage 
application. But, while I sympathise with the situation Miss C found herself in, I think 
Santander acted in a timely manner by closing the credit card and submitting the credit history amendments within one month of being notified of the fraud. So, Im satisfied they 
handled their fraud investigation reasonably. 
I understand Miss C wants further compensation for what happened as she says that it 
impacted her work greatly as she had to spend time contacting Santander to report it. And 
that shes also incurred telephone costs and had to pay for monthly credit reference agency 
memberships too. But, as Ive said, I dont think Santander is responsible for the fraud 
occurring. It was therefore the actions of the fraudsters that led to the credit card being 
reported to the credit reference agencies - and not Santander as they thought it was opened 
legitimately and had a duty to report it. So, while I appreciate Miss C was the victim here, I 
think its reasonable to have expected her to have to spent some time reporting the fraud 
even if this did impact her workday(s)  although she did have the option of doing so outside 
of normal working hours. And, while I think it was sensible for Miss C to monitor her credit 
file with the relevant agencies, I dont think she was required to pay the monthly 
memberships or that Santander is obligated to cover these costs.
Miss C shouldnt have incurred significant telephone costs  if any - in reporting the fraud as 
Santander uses free 0800 contact numbers. Santander does however accept Miss C may 
have experienced longer waiting times when reporting the fraud and, that she also didnt 
receive promised call backs. Ive considered this and I dont think £60 is an unreasonable 
amount to recognise the inconvenience Miss C experienced. So, Im not increasing it any 
further. If this hasnt yet been paid then Miss C should contact Santander directly to arrange 
payment.
I know Miss C will be disappointed by this outcome but, for the above reasons, I think 
Santander dealt with the fraud in a timely manner. And that the £60 compensation is fair for 
the service issues Miss C experienced. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman