DRN-3975004
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC added a marker about him at CIFAS having 
closed his account.
What happened
Mr M says that there was no fraudulent activity carried out on his account. And so, Barclays 
didnt have a basis to close it or add the marker which is having an adverse effect on him.
Barclays said it hadnt made a mistake. It had concerns about the operation of Mr Ms 
account and had made a decision to close the account. It had added the marker and 
released the remaining funds.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that Barclays 
asked Mr M about a credit of £2,500 he had received into his account. Hed told her that hed 
gone into a branch with the person that sent him the money. And had explained that he was 
selling a car. He didnt have any documentation to support that - for example a logbook - as 
this sale didnt go ahead and it was a word of mouth arrangement. She referred also to a 
report of a fraudulent payment into Mr Ms account that Barclays had received on 29 June 
2022. Taking into account all the information she considered it had grounds to close the 
account and add the marker.
Mr M didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He was very unhappy at the 
suggestion hed purposefully misused his account. He only had the account for a year and 
had used this at university and he wouldnt have jeopardised everything for £2,500. He no 
longer cared to have this account service from Barclays. But he is an accounting graduate, 
and a credit check would be required for a job and his chances were being ruined. Mr M 
insisted that he was the victim here and he was trying to sell a car to a friend and didnt know 
what sort of evidence he could provide. The logbook would have been relevant if the 
transaction had completed, and he had no texts or other information about this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Through our adjudicator I asked Barclays for some more information about this case. It told 
me that there were two payments relevant here. There was the one for £2,500 that Mr M 
received on 31 May 2022 and which it had asked him questions about. It hadnt been 
satisfied with what hed said and had closed his account. It had held the money for a period 
but released it to him in a branch on 27 June 2022. And then on 29 June 2022 it had 
received a report that a different payment of £2,500 that hed received on 24 April 2022 had 
been reported as fraudulent. Mr M had withdrawn that money at the time. It couldnt then 
contact him about this, and it added the marker. Mr M had pursued a complaint and as a 
resolution it had told him he could have a payment of £250 refunded. That was an error both 
in terms of the amount because it was referring to the payment of £2,500 on 31 May 2022 
and as Mr M had already been paid this. He went into a branch on 27 October 2022 and was 
given this money again in error. I asked that this latter point be double checked, and I saw 
clear evidence of this from the branch involved.
I asked our adjudicator to contact Mr M to say that I intended to rely on this information and 
for any comments about him having a further £2,500. And to allow him to provide any 
explanation about the payment hed received in April 2022. He was given the narrative about 
this that showed on his statement at the time. 
Mr M responded to state that Barclays had told him that it owed him £250 as compensation 
for his account being closed. And that when he was in a branch he was told by a manager 
that it was £2,500 and he relied on that as he says others would. Mr M said he didnt recall 
any fraudulent transaction in the name on his statement. And how this could arise after the 
account had closed. This was over a year ago and it was probably a friend whod asked him 
to receive money. He said that the amount isnt significant in relation to the entries on his 
statement. He said that he has always worked for his money, and he emphasised again the 
personal impact of the marker.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Barclays 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted. The evidence must 
be clear, relevant and rigorous.
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered the consumers account, whether they are retained or pass through the 
account. Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that the consumer 
was deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might 
be, an illegitimate payment. This can include allowing someone else to use their account in 
order to receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against 
someone who was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate 
complicity.
To meet the standard of proof required to register a CIFAS marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving 
the account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to 
understand their level of knowledge and intention.
I appreciate the potential for confusion about the two payments in question here. I take into 
account that Barclays had concerns about the credit of £2,500 on 31 May 2022 despite the 
information Mr M had provided. It made a decision to restrict and then close his account. It 
also received a third-party fraud report about an earlier credit that Mr M had the benefit of. 
And it relied on this when adding the CIFAS marker.
I note that in the final response to Mr M Barclays stated that it didnt uphold his complaint 
about the closure of the account. It went on to say that There are some discrepancies with 
the funds paid into your accounts: as a result, £250.00 has been removed from your 
accounts and is being held in one of our sundry accountsyou can have access to the 
total amount of £250.00 in branch
I cant know what he was told in branch. And Barclays accepts it made a mistake both in 
what it said in the final response about the refund and in paying him £2,500. I dont think on 
balance Mr M could reasonably think that this was compensation. 
Mr M hasnt been able to explain the credit of £2500 on 29 April 2022 any further and I 
think hes fairly responsible for what happens on his account taking into account too the 
significant amount. I note that the statement narrative relating to this payment had what appeared to be a business name and then Mr Ms name- and this detail had been provided 
to him. I appreciate that the report about this payment being fraudulent came after his 
account was closed but it is still something that Barclays can take into account. And 
alongside the payment that it asked him specific questions about. I take all the information 
together in thinking about the reliability of what he says and what money he has been 
entitled to. I find it most likely he has been complicit in the receipt of fraudulently obtained 
funds.
Barclays says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mr M received fraudulent funds into 
his account. So, Ive looked at whether Barclays was fair to apply the marker, based on the 
evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business must 
have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set by CIFAS. And 
that any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable grounds to believe fraud or 
financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion. 
Having reviewed Mr Ms account of events and the evidence he has provided, Im satisfied 
that Barclays had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In coming to this 
view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Mr M received fraudulent funds into his account and didnt report this to Barclays at 
the time.
- He authorised the withdrawal of the funds and so was in control of who had the 
benefit of this money.
- Barclays had grounds to believe that Mr M had used fraudulently obtained funds and 
money he wasnt entitled to based on the evidence it had.
In the circumstances Barclays closed his account under the terms and conditions and in 
any event Mr M has now said he doesnt want an account. Ive considered what hes said 
about the impact of the marker, but Im afraid I dont have a basis to require Barclays to do 
anything more.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman