DRN-3586420
The complaint
Mr M complains that Starling Bank Limited unfairly blocked two payments despite him calling 
to confirm that the payments were legitimate, causing him stress and inconvenience.
What happened
The background here is not in dispute. Mr M had two payments from his Starling bank 
account blocked. He considers that it was unfair for Starling to do so.
The investigator did not think the complaint should be upheld. Mr M did not accept what he 
investigator said. He made a number of points, including:
For the first transaction hed called the bank before it was made to tell it the amount, 
what it was for and so that a note could be placed on his account that the payment was 
genuine.
When the payment was held by Starling, he tried unsuccessfully to confirm it was a 
genuine transaction. It was refused, causing him stress and a financial loss as he was 
late making the payment.
For the second transaction, hed again told the bank the transfer was genuine in 
advance. But the bank insisted that he tell them what he transfer was for. There is no 
legal obligation for him to explain his spending. The bank said that unless he told the 
bank what the money was for, the money would not be released  despite the bank 
knowing it was speaking to the account holder.
The transaction was approved when he tried it again, even though he gave the bank less 
information than he did the first time.
The bank was invading his privacy by asking what the transfers were for.
It is unreasonable for the bank to ignore his instructions even though it had confirmed his 
identity.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It was Mr Ms money in the account  and ultimately the bank must accept his instructions. 
On the other hand, it is also reasonable for the bank to have procedures in place to try and 
prevent its customers falling victim to frauds and scams. I accept that might at times cause 
consumers some inconvenience where genuine transactions are flagged  but that has to be 
balanced against the legitimate need to try and prevent its customers losing money to 
fraudsters. 
In regard to the first payment, I cant see that Starling told Mr M that the payment would go 
through. It was always be subject to the usual checks. In the circumstances, Im satisfied 
that it was reasonable for the bank to block the transaction. And in any case, the money was 
released less than an hour after being blocked.
In regard to the second payment, I can see why a bank would ask what the transaction was 
for. That is so it can try to identify if a customer has been a victim of a scam. Mr M is correct 
there is no legal requirement for him to answer those questions. But if a customer refuses to 
answer it could indicate that they are trying to hide something  and I can see why a bank 
might view that as risky, even if it was satisfied it was dealing with the account holder.
Mr M made a number of attempts to transfer the money. It was successful when he 
answered the question why are you making this payment by saying  as discussed in 
complaint and then manually reviewed by Starling. I cant see Mr M had given that answer 
before. So I dont agree that he had given less information to the bank for the successful 
transfer than he had previously.
Ultimately, the terms and conditions of the account say that the bank might block payments 
in this way. I cant see there were any errors by Starling in this case. While Mr M might have 
suffered some inconvenience and stress, that wasnt as a result of anything that Starling did 
that was unfair or unreasonable. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman