DRN-2865391
The complaint
Mrs D is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) are pursuing her for an 
outstanding balance on a joint account which she believed she no longer bore any 
responsibility for.
What happened
In 1994, Mrs D was added to her husbands NatWest bank account as a joint account 
holder. The account has remained in the joint names of Mrs D and her husband ever since.
In 2005, it was explained to Mrs D by her husband that she was no longer a party to the 
account and that she no longer bore any responsibility for it.
In 2020, Mrs D raised a complaint with NatWest as she was unhappy that she was being 
pursued for an outstanding balance on the account of approximately £9,500.
NatWest looked at Mrs Ds complaint, but they noted that Mrs D had never been removed 
from the account and that as such she remained jointly and severally liable for any 
outstanding balance. Because of this, NatWest didnt uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Mrs D wasnt satisfied with NatWests response, so she referred her complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that because Mrs 
D had never been removed from the account  despite what she had been told by her 
husband  that NatWest were within their rights to pursue her for the outstanding balance.
Mrs D remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs D has raised several detailed points in her correspondence with this service. I hope that 
Mrs D doesnt consider it a discourtesy that I wont be responding in similar detail here. 
Rather, in line with this services role as a quick and informal dispute resolution service, Ive 
focussed on what I consider to be the key aspects of this complaint.
As such, if Mrs D notes that I havent responded to a particular point that shes raised, it 
shouldnt be taken by Mrs D that I havent considered that point  I can confirm that Ive read 
and considered all submissions presented by both Mrs D and NatWest  but rather that I 
dont feel that its necessary for me to directly address that point to reach what I consider to 
be a fair outcome in this instance.
Its also the case that Mrs D is the sole complainant here, and as such this review is limited 
to considering accounts on which Mrs D has an interest  specifically, the joint account in 
question. It follows from that that Im unable to consider, or comment on, any accounts held 
solely in Mrs Ds husbands name.
Mrs D has provided this service with detailed information surrounding the financial difficulties 
that she and her husband have experienced as well as information about the nature of the 
relationship between Mrs D and her husband.
Having reviewed this information I can certainly sympathise with Mrs D and the difficult 
position that she now finds herself in. Unfortunately, it doesnt follow from this that I feel that 
it would be fair to uphold this complaint in Mrs Ds favour. And I say this because, for me to 
consider upholding a complaint such as this against NatWest, Id need to be satisfied that 
NatWest has committed some form of error which has contributed to the difficult position that 
Mrs D is currently in.
Ultimately, having considered all the information and evidence available to me, I dont feel 
that I can reasonably make such a conclusion in this instance. And this is largely because 
Mrs D was never removed from the account, as she believed, and has remained a joint party 
on the account since she was initially added in 1994.
Mrs D has explained that she was informed by her husband that shed been removed from 
the account in 2005 and that she had no reason to question her husband about this. Mrs D 
has also asked why, if the account is a joint account in joint names, correspondence has 
only ever been sent by NatWest addressed to her husband, and not addressed jointly to 
both of them.
I can appreciate Mrs Ds latter point here  to a degree. But it must be noted that NatWest 
arent obliged to address a joint account to both parties unless specifically requested to - 
which in this instance they werent  and where a second account holder is added to an 
existing account, as was the case here, account correspondence isnt automatically updated 
to include both parties. 
It also must be noted that in the period between 1994 - when Mrs D was first added to the 
account - and 2005 - when Mrs D believed that she was removed from the account - the 
account correspondence was also addressed solely in Mrs Ds husbands name.
And while I can appreciate that Mrs D was told by her husband in 2005 that she had been 
removed from the account, ultimately it was incumbent on Mrs D to have confirmed that she 
had in fact been removed from the account.
So, considering the above, its difficult for me to conclude that NatWest have acted unfairly 
or unreasonably by continuing to pursue Mr D for the outstanding balance on the joint 
account on which she has remained a joint account holder since 1994. 
And this becomes especially apparent when considered from the viewpoint of NatWest, 
whom as far as they have been aware added Mrs D to the joint account in 1994 and have 
never received any request for from either Mrs D or her husband to remove Mrs D from that 
account. 
Because of this, Id find it very difficult to reasonably instruct NatWest to no longer consider 
Mrs D as a joint account holder and to no longer pursue her for the balance owed on the 
account.
It also must be noted that the account transactions show that a debit card in Mrs Ds name 
was used as recently as 2019. Mrs D has stated that her debit card may have been used, 
but that it wasnt used by herself. This may have been the case, but I hope that Mrs D can understand how it adds to the picture that NatWest reasonably have of this account as it 
being a joint account maintained and used jointly by both Mrs D and her husband.
So, while I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mrs D was wanting here, it follows that 
I wont be upholding this complaint or asking NatWest to take any further action at this time.
I hope that Mrs D can understand, given everything that Ive explained above, why I have 
made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman