DRN-3496016
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) rejected his claim against it under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to his purchase of some solar panels.
Mr M is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
Mr M bought solar panels for his home in April 2017. The purchase was funded by a loan 
from Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. Mr M says the installer misled him into believing that the 
panels would be self-funding, which they werent, and that they would pay for themselves 
within eight years, which they wont.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr M and found no reason to uphold the complaint. The CMC did not agree, 
saying that the adjudicator had expected Mr M to compare two different documents with 
each other in order to find out that the panels would not pay for themselves  contrary to our 
services usual and well-established approach of expecting the suppliers of solar panels to 
provide all of the relevant cost / benefit analysis in one document.
Since no agreement could be reached, the case was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I do not uphold this complaint. That is 
because the contract for the sale of the solar panels sets out the cost and the estimated 
benefit of the panels very clearly, and the benefits did not begin to approach the cost. This 
information appears in one document, as I shall explain.
On page 2 of the contract, in the middle, under the heading Returns and Benefits it says in 
bold letters Total Estimated year 1 Benefit: £399.66. I think this figure is conspicuous; it is 
not buried in some fine print. Directly below that on the same page, under the heading 
Payment Information it says that the price is £5,299, and next to that it says that this will be 
paid for by finance.
The only relevant facts which are not on mentioned on this page are the length of the loan 
term and the amount of interest. I think that Mr M could be forgiven for overlooking the 
interest, but I dont think it is expecting too much of him to remember that the loan was to be 
repaid over ten years (after a six month period at the start when no payments would be due).
Ignoring the interest, one tenth of the amount borrowed would clearly come to £529.90 each 
year. That is clearly more than the stated benefit figure for the first year, £399.66. So I think 
there was enough information in one and the same document to make it obvious that the 
panels would not make enough money in year 1 to cover the loan payments. I dont think the 
fact that the loan term does not appear in this document is significant enough to justify my 
taking a different view and upholding this complaint when, but for that point, our established 
approach would be to reject it.
For these reasons, I am not persuaded that the installer misled Mr M about the benefits and 
cost of the panels. It was clear that the panels would not be self-funding during the term of 
the loan.
Turning to the estimate that the panels would pay for themselves within eight years, I accept 
that that is not going to happen, because the panels have not made as much money as was 
estimated at the point of sale. There is no evidence to show that the panels are defective or 
that the installation was botched, so I have considered whether there is another explanation. 
I have not been provided with all of the sales documentation, but from my experience in 
dealing with many other solar panels cases I am aware that the suppliers estimates of future 
performance were based on an assumption that energy prices would increase over time, and 
that this assumption was supported by data published by the Office of National Statistics 
(ONS). I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 2020, and the 
increases have actually been lower than predicted.
I think this explains why Mr M hasnt been receiving the financial returns he may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system have 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by the installer were based on the information 
available from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for 
the installer to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income 
Mr M could have expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the 
returns may not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that 
this was due to unreasonable assumptions being used by the installer at the time Mr M 
entered into the contract.
My final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman