DRN-3043944
The complaint
  Mr K complains about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc trading as More Th>n 
(RSA) dealt with a claim under his home insurance policy.
What happened
 I set out the background to this complaint and my initial findings in my provisional decision a 
copy of which is below. In my provisional decision I explained why I was minded to uphold 
Mr Ks complaint. I invited both parties to let me have anything in response they thought was 
relevant.
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties and so I have 
summarised them here rather than going into full detail.
Mr K had his home and its contents insured with a policy provided by RSA. In 
November 2017 Mr K had an escape of water in his home and made a claim under 
this insurance policy. RSA accepted this claim as valid and dealt with it.
In order for the claim to be dealt with it was necessary for Mr K to move into 
alternative accommodation, which he remained in until September 2019. During this 
time the contents of his home were stored with a third-party business paid for by 
RSA. During the course of the claim RSA made the decision to move the contents to 
a different storage facility due to the costs being incurred.
Throughout the claim there were issues Mr K was unhappy with and he made RSA 
aware of these. RSA dealt with the issues as they arose but felt that it would be more 
appropriate to look at compensating Mr K for any of its failings at the end of the 
claim. So, it said it would look a compensation once the claim was complete.
Once Mr K was back in his own home the issues that were left to be resolved and 
formed part of his complaint to RSA were:
The extent of the delays to the work being completed  resulting in him being 
in alternative accommodation for almost two years
Mr K not feeling safe in his own home, as he says he was threatened by one 
of the contractors. Mr K also says he was later told by other workmen on site 
the contractor had recently been released from prison. And it was common for 
the third-party company (Company B) that employed the contractor to take on 
ex-convicts.
Mr K had to cancel a trip abroad that he had arranged as he says he couldnt 
go due to issues with arranging the repairs to his property.
When Mr Ks contents were returned to him, there were items missing and 
damaged. RSA offered a cash settlement figure of £15,000 for the damaged 
and missing items but Mr K didnt feel this was a fair reflection of his loss. He 
was also upset that RSA changed where his contents were stored part way 
through the claim and felt this was the reason for the damage and or loss of 
his items.
Mr Ks home was ready for him to return to on 18 September 2019, which is 
when his contents were due to be returned to him. He didnt want to move 
back before his contents were unpacked and so it was agreed that the 
alternative accommodation costs would be covered up until 20 September 
2019. Mr K rejected some of his contents due to them being damaged. And 
so, he decided to stay in the alternative accommodation for a further three 
days. RSA declined to cover the cost of this, but Mr K felt it should.
RSA considered Mr Ks complaint and also took into consideration previous issues 
that had arisen during the lifetime of the claim and upheld Mr Ks complaint in part. 
Ive summarised in my own words what RSA said in its response below:
Its suppliers had let Mr K down on both the buildings and contents aspect of 
his claim.
It recognised there had been an incident where there had been a verbal 
exchange between Mr K and a contractor, and following Mr Ks complaint, 
that contractor had been removed from the job. As there was no one from 
RSA present at the time it couldnt say that the contractor had been 
threatening or abusive as he had given a different account to the one Mr K 
had. But it apologised that Mr Ks perception was that he felt threatened. It 
confirmed its supplier, Company B, had assured it that it carries out 
background checks before taking on contractors and only does so if those 
checks are clear.
It acknowledged that Mr K was feeling a high level of distress throughout the 
claim but it didnt think that made it responsible for his decision not to travel 
while the claim was ongoing and so it wouldnt cover the cost of any cancelled 
trips.
It was a commercial decision to move Mr Ks contents from the original 
storage provider to Company Bs own storage facility. It did this in order to 
mitigate the rising costs of the claim. It acknowledged that it should have 
informed Mr K of its decision although pointed out it didnt need his 
permission.
It went on to say while there was no evidence that the outside storage 
provider nor company B had acted improperly when handling or transporting 
Mr Ks contents it did accept the majority of the damage caused to the 
contents had likely been caused during transportation.
It said the list of Mr Ks damaged items alone came to approximately £55,000. 
His contents insurance policy covered him for a total amount of £60,000. This 
gave RSA cause to have reservations about the size of the loss, which guided 
its decision to appoint a loss adjuster to validate the damage and the value of 
the items.
The loss adjuster said a more accurate reflection of the value of the loss 
would be around £29,000. RSA made an offer of £15,000 in full and final 
settlement of the damage contents. It went on to say the offer took into 
account that the value of some of the items was overstated and the figures 
presented by Mr K represented replacement costs rather than repair costs. 
The offer of £15,000 would allow Mr K to retain his items and potentially seek 
to have them repaired rather than replacing them.RSA told Mr K for it to consider increasing the offer it would require further 
evidence, such as from a professional restorer, to confirm whether items can 
be restored and the cost of this. But it did point out that this did not guarantee 
that any subsequent offer would be more than £15,000. 
Mr K had reached the limits set out in the policy for alternative 
accommodation. RSA had agreed to meet a further five days accommodation 
costs to allow Mr K time to unpack his contents, up to 20 September 2019. 
Any accommodation costs beyond this were the responsibility of Mr K.
It looked at the claim as a whole and accepted that Mr K had been let down 
by its suppliers and that it could have handled matters better with regard to 
moving his contents. It recognised that the claim had had a significant impact 
on Mr K and offered £2000 in compensation for the upset it had caused.
Mr K remained unhappy with RSAs stance and brought his complaint to this service 
to be considered.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ks complaint and upheld it in part. Ive 
summarised his findings below:
There were number of avoidable delays throughout the claim
He accepted Mr K had felt unsafe in his home due to the incident with 
Company Bs contractor, but felt RSA have taken reasonable steps to 
investigate the concerns and had followed matters up with Company B.
It was ultimately Mr Ks decision to cancel his trip abroad and so he couldnt 
fairly ask RSA to reimburse Mr K for the cost of the trip.
He felt RSA had acted fairly in agreeing to cover the costs of the additional 
five nights alternative accommodation from 15 of September 2019 until 20 
September 2019 even though Mr K had reached the maximum payment for 
alternative accommodation under his policy. And so, he didnt think RSA 
needed to cover the cost of the further three nights alternative 
accommodation that Mr K arranged beyond 20 September 2019.
He was satisfied that RSA was responsible for the decision to move Mr Ks 
contents from the original storage provider to company Bs own storage 
facility, and as such it was responsible for any issues with those contents. He 
went on to say that having looked at the evidence provided by both parties he 
felt the offer of £15,000 was a fair amount to compensate Mr K for the value 
of the items lost and damaged.
He considered the trouble and upset caused to Mr K throughout the lifetime of 
the claim and felt that RSA should increase its compensation award from 
£2,000 to £4,000.
RSA agreed with the investigators findings. But, Mr K did not and so the matter has 
now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I want to assure Mr K that whilst Ive read and considered everything RSA and Mr K 
have said, I may not address each and every point made. Instead, Ill focus on what I 
consider the crux of the complaint to be  the outstanding contents claim, the 
outstanding alternative accommodation costs, the cost of the cancelled trip, the 
incident with the contractor and the compensation award. I hope both parties realise I 
mean no disrespect by this  it simply reflects the informal nature of this service.
Having done so I have to tell Mr K that I have provisionally reached the same 
outcome as the investigator but for different reasons, Ill explain.
Outstanding alternative accommodation costs
Mr Ks policy entitles him to alternative accommodation if his home is made 
uninhabitable by an insured event. The policy has two sections where this is covered 
 and each section has a limit.
The buildings section of the policy allows accommodation costs up to 20% of the 
value of the sum insured on the building. In Mr Ks case his home was insured for 
£400,000  so the limit under this section is £80,000.
The contents section of his policy has a similar limit in that it allows accommodation 
costs up to 20% of the sum insured on the contents. Mr Ks contents were insured for 
£60,000  so the limit under this section is £12,000.
Combined this means Mr K had a limit of £92,000 for alternative accommodation 
while his home was uninhabitable.
Mr K was in alternative accommodation, in the form of a hotel, for a substantial 
period of time  in part down to delays caused by RSAs suppliers. Nevertheless, the 
cost of this was covered by RSA up to the £92,000 limit which was reached on 15 
September 2019. 
Mr Ks property was fully repaired at this point, but his contents were due to be 
delivered and unpacked on 18 and 19 September 2019. As such RSA agreed to 
meet the cost of £743.75 for an extra five days accommodation in the hotel, meaning 
Mr K would check out of the hotel on 20 September 2019.
Due to some of his contents being missing or damaged, Mr K decided to extend his 
stay at the hotel for a further three nights. I fully understand that Mr K was upset and 
distressed to find the issues with his contents. But I have seen no evidence to show 
that these issues made his home inhabitable  I say this because Mr K is currently 
living in his home and those issues are still largely unresolved and form part of this 
complaint.
As the alternative accommodation cover is in place for when the home is inhabitable, 
and the limit to this had already been exceeded, I cant reasonably say RSA should 
cover the additional three days Mr K chose to stay in the hotel before returning to his 
home.
Cost of the cancelled trip
Mr K has told us that he and his partner cancelled trips and lost the cost of the flights 
they had booked, due to the claim. He made the choice not to travel as he has said 
he didnt know what was happening from one week to the next as there were numerous meetings to arrange work schedules that didnt always lead to work being 
completed.
I accept how very stressful the whole situation was for Mr K, and fully understand 
why he might have felt it was better for him to be around, while the work schedule 
was being agreed. Mr Ks trip was due to take place in March 2018, so relatively 
early on in the claim, considering the amount of work that had to be carried out. So, 
while I sympathise with his situation, the nature of the claim meant works would have 
always gone beyond Mr Ks intended date of travel. And so, I cant reasonably say 
that it was RSAs actions that caused Mr K not to travel, but rather a choice he made 
 albeit an understandable one, and therefore I cant reasonably ask it to pay for the 
cost of the cancelled flights.
Incident with the contractor
There is no dispute from either party that an incident took place between a contractor 
and Mr K on Mr Ks property. Both Mr K and the contractor gave different versions of 
event as to what had happened -both alleging the other was aggressive. 
The contractor worked for Company B, and Mr K has said other contractors on site 
told him the gentleman concerned had recently been released from prison, and that it 
was common for Company B to employ the services of convicted offenders, and 
people recently released from prison. Mr K has told us he thinks this is unacceptable 
and that he felt unsafe in his own home.
Its not for me to decide here which version of events happened or is even more likely 
to have happened. Having a criminal record does not automatically exclude people 
from being employed and its not for me or RSA to tell a business who it can and 
cannot employ. My role here is to determine if RSA acted appropriately when Mr K 
reported to it that there had been an incident, and he had felt threatened. And I have 
to tell Mr K that I think it did, I say this because, RSAs responsibility here was to 
make sure that the contractors on site at Mr Ks property did not pose a safety 
concern to Mr K
The contractor in question was removed from the site following the incident being 
reported and replaced with a different contractor, who Mr K was happy with. RSA 
contacted Company B to investigate the matter. Company B assured it that it carries 
out background checks on its employees and that it only employs people once those 
checks are satisfied.
So I think RSA did what was needed here, it remove Mr Ks perceived threat instantly 
and investigated the matter with Company B to make sure the contractor had been 
appropriate to be on the premises in the first place. It follows I dont uphold this point 
of Mr Ks complaint. 
Outstanding contents claim
Before I go into the specifics of Mr Ks claim for his damaged and missing contents, I 
think it would be prudent for me to explain what under-insurance and overstated 
claims are, as these are things that RSA have raised to Mr K previously.
Under insurance 
When a policy is taken out the sum insured needs to reflect the full amount it would 
cost to replace the items insured. If the amount insured is less than this, it is known as under-insurance. When we see cases where a person has under-insured their 
possessions we look to see if they have misrepresented the facts to the insurer when 
taking the insurance. If its found that there was a misrepresentation, then the insurer 
is entitled to certain remedies, depending on the severity of the misrepresentation. 
One of those remedies, if its determined that the mis-representation is deliberate, as 
RSA has said it thought it may be in this case, is to decline the claim and cancel the 
policy. In its email to Mr K in December 2019 RSA said:
In relation to the values presented to Mr T, the value of your contents as detailed to 
Michael is suggestive of the fact that your sum insured should have been significantly 
in excess of £60,000.00 which is its current value. In correspondence to S earlier 
this year you declared that the total value at risk was £54,963.45 and furthermore in 
a declaration to D B signed by you on the 15 January 2018 you confirmed that 
the value of your effects was no more than £60,000.00. This discrepancy in the 
figures presented is of concern and could be seen as a deliberate misrepresentation 
of the facts.
Overstated claims
An exaggerated or overstated claim is one where items that arent lost or damaged 
are claimed for or the value of those items that are lost or damaged is exaggerated. 
When a claim is found to be exaggerated in any way the insurer has the right to 
decline the claim in full. In the same email as mentioned above RSA said the 
following to Mr K:
Following a review of the information provided to Mr T we have identified a 
significant element of overstatement in relation to two xxx beds. Within your claim 
you confirmed that these were originally purchased from E B.. and that these were 
hand made. The claim presented totalled £9,695.00 before discount and £6,785.00 
after discount. On the photos taken by Mr T we believe that we identified that the 
beds were in actual fact produced by T B.. F.. in I. Photographs of the beds were 
forwarded to T B F for their review and they confirmed that the beds were 
indeed theirs and that the replacement cost would be around £1,530.00 for the two. 
As you will appreciate this does represent a significant overstatement on your claim 
which gives me cause for concern. If there has been a misunderstanding in this 
regard and you are able to provide us with supporting documents to substantiate 
your claim then could I please ask that you forward these on to us for our 
consideration.
Mr K had his contents insured up to a limit of £60,000. 
Mr Ks policy contains the following terms under How we settle claims:
1a. Where the damage can be economically repaired we will pay the cost of 
repair.
b. Where the damage cannot be economically repaired and the damaged or 
lost item can be replaced, we will replace it. If a replacement is not available 
we will replace it with an item of similar quality.
c. Where we are unable economically to repair or to replace an item with an 
item of
similar quality, we will make a cash payment equal to an agreed replacement 
value.d. Where we can offer repair or replacement through a preferred supplier, but 
instead
you request and we agree to pay a cash settlement, then the amount will not 
normally exceed what we would have paid our preferred supplier.
e. At our option we will make a cash settlement equal to the cost of repair or
replacement.
The costs already paid on the claim so far under the contents section of Mr Ks policy 
is approximately £32,000. This includes things like the blinds and curtains that have 
been replaced and £12,000 towards the alternative accommodation, that was met 
under this section of the policy. Mr K has told us that he sat with a loss adjuster and 
together they valued the damaged and lost items that are outstanding at 
approximately £43,000. RSA has not chosen to pursue its misrepresentation 
argument for underinsurance  and that is its choice  so I have not considered if a 
mis-representation occurred. However, given the £43,000 and the £32,000 already 
paid is more than the sum insured, and this only represents the damaged or lost 
items and not all of Mr Ks contents, Im in agreement with RSA that its more likely 
than not that Mr K was underinsured. 
There is no dispute that Mr Ks some of Mr Ks contents were damaged or went 
missing while in storage, under the care of RSA, and so there is a valid claim to be 
met. However, having looked at the evidence provided, particularly about the value of 
the beds, mentioned in the excerpt from RSAs email above, I can see why RSA 
might believe Mr Ks claim to have an element of overstatement or exaggeration. 
Because of this RSA couldve chosen to invoke its right under the policy terms to 
decline the claim, but it has chosen not to do so but to instead offer Mr K cash 
settlement of £15,000.
RSA is entitled under the policy to choose to settle a claim by way of a cash 
settlement. It has explained the cash settlement is for Mr K to source repairs or 
replacements for his damaged or missing items, without having to relinquish any of 
them to RSA. Given the circumstances of the claim laid out above, and what Mr K 
has told us about the sentimental value of much of his contents I believe this is the 
fairest solution and Im satisfied that RSA has made a fair offer here. So, I wont be 
asking it to increase this.
Compensation award
Unfortunately, significant escape of water claims affecting large areas such as at Mr 
Ks home are complex to resolve involving several parties and generally take several 
months to conclude. It follows that this is an inherently disrupting and stressful 
experience for policyholders. Our role is to determine whether avoidable delay and 
stress by the insurer and its agents has added to the policyholders experience.
I can see that pursuing the claim has been a very stressful experience for Mr K. And 
its clear that communications have been strained. I think all parties bear 
responsibility for this but given the delays and further damage caused by its suppliers 
I think it was beholden on RSA to ensure every effort was made to expedite matters. 
And to communicate effectively with Mr K and its agents. I dont think it did so as Mr 
K had to pursue the claim, deal with further damage caused by RSAs suppliers, and 
on occasions he received unclear and misleading information. It appears the claim 
suffered from RSAs lack of overall management and of some of the parties involved. 
Taking all aspects of the claim into consideration, I think that compensation of £4,000 would be a fair and reasonable reflection of the avoidable distress and inconvenience 
RSAs poor service caused Mr K. This is consistent with awards we have made in 
similar circumstances.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold Mr Ks complaint against Royal & 
Sun Alliance Insurance Plc trading as More Th>n.
To put things right here Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc trading as More Th>n 
should:
Pay Mr K £15,000 to settle the claim under his contents policy
Pay Mr K £4,000 for the trouble and upset that has been caused throughout 
the claim.
RSA accepted my findings and said it had nothing further to add.
Mr K initially asked for an extension to reply as he has been unwell, but has now also 
responded, he didnt accept my findings, he felt that I hadnt addressed everything that had 
gone on throughout the claim and that the award I recommended for the settlement of his 
contents claim and the compensation level for his distress and inconvenience were both 
unfair.
In his response Mr K described what had happened throughout the claim in his own words 
and told me his views on what had gone wrong and where the blame lay for those things. 
Ive read the response in full and summarised below what I feel are the most salient points:
As the delays on the work were not of his making, he shouldnt be punished by 
having to pay for the extra days in alternative accommodation, as he would not have 
reached the limit on this but for those delays. 
I had not mentioned in my findings the health and safety regulations that he says 
were broken while the works were being carried out at his house. The thought of this 
makes him anxious and nervous thinking about what could have happened.
He cancelled his trip abroad because the loss adjusters were still trying to sort out 
who was going to do the rebuild. This had affected his mental health and he had had 
enough.
He has not exaggerated any claim, he feels he has not been duly compensated for 
the damage and loss to his contents. Some of which are sentimental and 
irreplaceable.
His mental health was affected by this claim so badly that he has at times felt suicidal 
and has had to seek out counselling.
He believes the stress caused by the issues arising from this claim have had a 
detrimental effect on his physical health too. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained previously in my provisional decision although a number of issues have been 
raised, this decision only addresses those issues I consider to be materially relevant to this 
complaint. And having given careful consideration to the responses from both parties, Ive 
reached the same conclusions as set out in my provisional decision and for largely the same 
reasons, Ill explain.
Before I do, Id like to say to Mr K, Im truly sorry to hear about his recent health issues, and 
hope he is feeling better and recovering well.
I understand that Mr K doesnt feel he is being fairly compensated for the loss and damage 
to his contents and that it can be difficult to put a specific value on every item, as some as 
Mr K rightly says are irreplaceable. Based on the values Mr K and the loss adjuster agreed 
on, the value of the outstanding damage and lost items is approximately £43,000. This value 
is based largely on replacing the items rather than repairing them. £43,000 represents a 
significant portion of the £60,000 limit his policy covers him for. As RSA has already paid 
approximately £32,000 under this section of the policy, it follows £60,000 does not represent 
a true value of Mr K's contents, meaning Mr K was potentially underinsured.
RSA said the discrepancy in the figures presented a concern and could have been seen as a 
deliberate misrepresentation of the facts. As previously explained, this could have led to 
RSA declining Mr K's claim in full. But it has accepted that given the problems throughout 
this claim that wasn't the right thing to do and has put forward an offer of £15,000 by way of 
cash settlement and retain all of his items. I believe that to be a fair offer in my provisional 
findings and still do, nothing Mr K has provided since my provisional findings has persuaded 
me otherwise.
Mr K has said that RSA and its contractors broke health and safety rules while working on 
his property and is concerned that this was not mentioned in my provisional findings. As I 
said in my provisional findings under the heading what I've provisionally decided-and why 
I may not address each and every point made. Instead I'll focus on what I consider 
the crux of the complaint to be.
Even so, I will explain a little further here. It is not for me to make a finding on if health and 
safety regulations were breached, this is the role of the Health and Safety Executive. I 
understand Mr K feels strongly about this and has said that he worries about what could 
have happened, but I can't consider what might have been, I can only take into account 
events that actually happened. But I would like to assure Mr K that this and other issues that 
he brought to us that I did not comment on in either my provisional finding or this decision 
have been considered in full and taken into account.
Turning now to the compensation award, this claim has been complex to resolve and has 
involved multiple parties. Unfortunately claims of this nature can be stressful for anyone 
however I recognise this has been particularly stressful for Mr K and how strongly he feels 
about the effect he said it had on his mental and physical health. I also understand how 
angry he feels about certain aspects of it. And I'd like to assure him, I have taken account of 
all of these things when looking at what I consider to be a fair compensatory amount for the 
distress and inconvenience that has been caused to Mr K. Having done so I still believe that 
£4000 is a fair reflection in this case. So, I won't be asking RSA to increase this.
I know Mr K will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in trying 
to resolve his dispute with RSA can do for him.Putting things right
Pay Mr K £15,000 to settle the claim under his contents policy
Pay Mr K £4,000 for the trouble and upset that has been caused throughout the 
claim.
My final decision
for the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr K's complaint against 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc trading as More Th>n.
 To put things right here Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc trading as More Th>n should:
Pay Mr K £15,000 to settle the claim under his contents policy
Pay Mr K £4,000 for the trouble and upset that has been caused throughout the 
claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman