DRN-3396461
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) changed its overdraft pricing 
structure. The meant that he would need to pay more for his overdraft going forward. 
Mr S feels that this is unfair.
He also feels that, when he complained about this, Lloyds customer service was poor.
What happened
Our adjudicator thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr S disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Mr S complaint should be upheld in part. A copy 
of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings are below in italics. These 
form part of this final decision. 
Mr S has also complained that the overdraft facility, and the bank account itself, were mis- 
sold to him. These issues are being addressed as a separate complaint and so I wont make 
a finding about them in this decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Mr S has a current account with Lloyds. A feature of this account is that he gets an interest free 
overdraft for a certain amount. Before April 2020 Mr S could borrow up to £500 without incurring 
costs. But following a review of its overdraft charging structure this interest free amount was reduced 
to £250. Lloyds says that it reduced the charges for overdraft amounts at the same time.
Lloyds informed Mr S about these changes. Mr S complained to Lloyds after it said it was about to 
change its overdraft pricing structure. He did this via a phone call, and he says the customer service 
in the call was poor. He says Lloyds representative was rude and unhelpful.
Going forward, Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint. It thought the changes to its overdraft charging 
structure were reasonable and that it had handled Mr S complaint fairly. As Mr S was dissatisfied he 
referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
Mr S complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that Lloyds hadnt acted 
unfairly here. This was because Lloyds was entitled to change the charging structure to the overdraft 
and the new charging structure wasnt unfairly applied. There was also no sign of Mr S being in 
financial difficulty.
 
She also reviewed the calls Mr S has with Lloyds and didnt think that the adviser treated him unfairly 
or provided poor customer service.
Mr S didnt agree with our adjudicator. He didnt think it was fair for Lloyds to change the overdraft 
fees and he didnt agree with them. He still thought that the customer service he received was poor. 
Particularly the amount of time he spent on hold in two calls he made to complain about the overdraft 
charges. And that Lloyds didnt register a complaint straight away when it was clear he was unhappy.
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to issue a 
decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This includes all the rules, regulations, and good industry practice we consider when looking at 
whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying overdraft charges. I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that Lloyds didnt act unfairly 
when it changed the overdraft charging structure on Mr S account.
My role here is to consider the circumstances of individual complaints and if a business has acted 
fairly and reasonably given these circumstances. The overall charging structure of a bank account 
doesnt fall into this category as it concerns all of the relevant accounts Lloyds has.
Added to this its reasonable for a bank to change its charges from time to time. This is a commercial 
decision that Lloyds took. Its entitled to make these commercial decisions. Lloyds also provided 
notice of this change.
And looking at Mr S circumstances this change hadnt caused him hardship (as it has not been 
applied when he complained). And Mr S was free to change his account to another provider if the fees 
and charges on the Lloyds account no longer met his needs.
So, Im not intending to uphold, Mr S complaint about the changes to it his overdraft charges.
However, I agree that that Lloyds customer service could have been better when Mr S made his 
complaint.
Ive listened to the two telephone calls that Mr S refers to in the complaint. Having done this, I agree 
that these interactions here didnt go well, and this clearly caused Mr S some distress and 
inconvenience.
Early on in the first call its clear that Mr S wants to make his complaint about the overdraft charges. 
And he wants a full response to the complaint  rather than continue to discuss it in the call or have a 
summary resolution letter. But Lloyds initially tells Mr S that he will need to stay on the call for 10 to 15 
mins while a complaint is set up. Its not clear why he needed to do this as Lloyds was aware at this 
point of who Mr S was, and what he was complaining about.
 
The Lloyds representative then puts Mr S on hold for about half an hour while she spoke to a 
manager. And then returned to tell him there would be nothing they would be able to do to help with 
the overdraft charges as these were not negotiable. Again, its not clear to me why this happened, 
other than perhaps some confusion on the part of Lloyds. And this clearly upset Mr S.
As both parties know the call became unproductive after this. And I think its fair to say that Mr S 
became angry and the call was terminated. But Lloyds still didnt register his complaint. And Lloyds 
says in its final response that Mr S complaint was void as it didnt complete the call. Mr S then had to 
make a second call before Lloyds would register a complaint. Which added to the inconvenience to 
him.
I dont think its right to say that Lloyds can avoid its regulatory responsibility to investigate a complaint 
due to a call going badly. Mr S had made a complaint early on in the first call. Lloyds then should 
have then registered and considered this complaint. I dont agree that he needed to take any further 
steps than this.
It seems to me that the only way Mr S could have a complaint looked at is by following a process 
Lloyds had. I dont and this is right or fair. I think it made it difficult for Mr S to make a complaint. And I 
think much of the problems later on in the first call, and the need for a second call, would have been 
avoided if Lloyds had properly acknowledged his complaint straight away.I think this caused Mr S some distress and inconvenience, he was clearly upset about this and he 
spent far too much time on this issue. That said this wasnt an ongoing problem. So, overall, I think 
£150 is fair compensation for the trouble this caused him.
Lloyds, and Mr S, confirmed that they had received my provisional decision. Lloyds agreed 
with what I said. Mr S agreed in principal. But he thought that the compensation should be 
increased to £250 to account for the poor initial contact he had from Lloyds and the poor way 
it investigated his complaint.   
Ive thought about what Mr S said below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds and Mr S didnt raise any new arguments about whether or not the complaint should 
be upheld after receiving my provisional decision. So, Ive reached the same conclusions I 
reached before about this, for the same reasons.
Mr S thinks the compensation should be higher and hes explained why. But this isnt really a 
new issue and hes not really made any new points about this. I had already considered the 
points Mr S made when coming to my provisional decision. 
I dont disagree that Mr S was frustrated by Lloyds complaint handling. But this was largely 
in the first call he made to the representative to make his compliant. And whilst its clear that 
Lloyds should have done better here, the mistakes it made happened over a relatively short 
time. 
So, having thought about all of this, I still think £150 is fair compensation. 
Putting things right
Lloyd should pay Mr S £150.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mr S complaint.
Lloyds Bank PLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman