DRN-3886615
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that he had to provide extra information to Clydesdale Bank Plc when he 
applied for a bank account in November 2021.  
What happened
Mr M applied for a bank account online that was referred for further checks. After phone calls 
and providing documents to Clydesdale he was accepted. He cant understand why he 
needed to send more documents (some of which the bank previously provided to him) as he 
has other accounts with businesses that have links to Clydesdale; along with a good salary 
and an excellent credit rating. 
When Mr M initially brought his complaint to this service he raised that each time he has 
applied for a product in the last few years there have been problems to overcome and he 
said Clydesdale has agreed it has made numerous mistakes. 
After Mr M complained to Clydesdale about the decline it said its fraud systems had referred 
his application for more checks as there were some inconsistencies. It said there had been 
no bank error and the additional documentation was requested to protect Mr M and his 
accounts. It accepted its complaint handling could have been better, apologised for this and 
paid Mr M £25 compensation for the inconvenience this caused him.
Mr M said he was already logged in to online banking so his details were automatically 
added to the application. Therefore, he asks, how could there be inconsistencies. He 
suspects there is a problem with his address  a letter was recently sent to his old address, 
and when he calls Clydesdale it can only find him using his old address, not his new 
address.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ms complaint. He said we could not challenge a banks 
decision about which applications it accepts/refers or declines. He did not find it 
unreasonable Clydesdale had requested more information.  With regards the mail going to 
the wrong address, Clydesdale had explained that Mr M had two customer numbers as he 
had at some stage said he was a new customer when he had existing accounts, so his 
change of address had only taken effect on the account(s) linked to one of his customer 
numbers. But it has now ensured all of Mr Ms active accounts are under a single customer 
number, plus it did not seem this was the cause of the referral. More likely that was due to 
data held by one of the external agencies Clydesdale uses to check applications. 
Mr M disagreed with this assessment. In summary, he said he has checked his records at 
the agencies and they are all clear. We havent commented on what he sees as the 
ridiculous need to send various ID documents (most of which are supplied by Clydesdale or 
associated businesses). He also asked why his old address gets him through security. He 
said sending mail to the wrong address is a data breach that we have overlooked. He then 
sent an update from Clydesdale after raising a separate complaint about the address issue, 
this confirmed the old address was used as a one-off in error on a letter produced manually. 
It offered Mr M £150 compensation for this error and confirmed it had reported the data 
breach to its data protection team. 
After our investigator asked Clydesdale about these seemingly contradictory explanations it 
said both were in fact correct  as part of the ongoing merger Clydesdale, Yorkshire Bank 
and Virgin Money are still bringing its systems together. This means the systems Mr Ms 
current accounts sit on are not yet linked to the mortgage or savings account systems. So 
the extra customer number on a different address was an issue for the current accounts, and 
the manual error was relevant to the savings account. It was the manual error that was 
relevant for the actual letter that was sent out. 
In terms of passing security with his old address, our investigator said this is in fact his buy-
to-let address, and as part of Clydesdales security checks it can ask information about other 
accounts. As he now only has a buy-to-let and not a residential mortgage, it makes sense 
that questions about this would be asked as part of its checks. 
Overall, he maintained he was not upholding Mr Ms complaint, confirming he found its 
responses, and the compensation offered after his complaint about the data breach, to be 
fair and reasonable. 
Mr M raised further queries  he asked how he had been allocated two different customer 
numbers; his application data in November 2021 could not vary from previous applications 
as he used the online portal so it was pre-populated  what, specifically, were the 
inconsistencies; and using his buy-to-let address was not as part of a security check. He 
accepted the £150 compensation for the address error was reasonable.
The investigator confirmed one customer number was generated when Mr M became a 
customer in November 2015 and a second when he applied for a product in April 2020 using 
a different address. Overall, he found no grounds to instruct Clydesdale to take any further 
action.
Mr M remained dissatisfied with the outcome of the investigation and so asked for an 
ombudsmans review. He also said he is unhappy with how long it has taken Clydesdale to 
respond to our queries.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully considered all of Mr Ms comments. In keeping with our role as an informal 
dispute resolution service - and as our rules allow  I will focus here on the issues I find to be 
material to the outcome of his complaint. 
He recently agreed that the scope of this complaint is to look at the most recent application 
in November 2021, and not older applications. During the investigation Mr M made a 
separate complaint to the business about the use of an incorrect address that he wanted 
incorporating into the investigation, concerned it may be a factor in the referral. Based on the 
timing of these two events and when he brought his complaint to this service after receiving 
his final response letters, this is within our jurisdiction. As Mr M feels the address issues are 
linked to the decline in November 2021, I find it is sensible to cover it here. I am aware the 
bank covered the issues in two separate final response letters but equally, it raised no 
concerns after the investigators combined assessment. I note Mr M brought a separate 
complaint to this service about one of the other declines (in April 2020). We issued a final 
decision on that matter so we are unable to look at that again. 
I can see Mr M has a concern that there is something intrinsically wrong with the data 
Clydesdale holds for him resulting in repeated declines. However, I have to complete my investigation within the rules that govern our service and this means this decision is looking 
at whether or not Clydesdale made a mistake by asking for more information prior to 
approving Mr Ms application for a bank account in November 2021. It can also consider, as 
it fell within the timings and process we must adhere to, Mr Ms complaint about the savings 
letter sent to the wrong address. 
Mr Ms application in November 2021
Mr M does not understand why his application needed more checks to be approved. 
Clydesdale has said it was because fraud refer codes meant further verification was needed. 
But this does not necessarily mean there was problematic information at say CIFAS. Indeed, 
the bank has said there were inconsistencies on the application compared to the customers 
credit file and other previous applications. The first documents Mr M sent showed another 
anomaly and so additional proof was required. I do understand this frustrated Mr M but we 
would expect Clydesdale, as a responsible lender, to complete thorough checks at the point 
of application. I havent seen any evidence that Clydesdale wasnt following its standard 
process, used for all applicants. So I do not find it acted unfairly.
I cannot know from the banks submission what the specific inconsistencies were, and I think 
it has provided as much detail as it holds about the referral. But it maybe the fraud refer code 
was triggered by the fact Mr M had two separate customer numbers. However I dont find the 
fact he had two numbers to be the banks error as they were generated by two separate 
applications he made from different addresses. And it has confirmed Mr M now has a sole 
customer number so if this was causing any issues it has now been resolved.   
Overall, however, as Mr Ms application went on to be approved I dont think he lost out: at 
times applying for a banking service can become involved and take up time. I note Mr M was 
incrementally frustrated as Clydesdale asked for documents that it was the source of  but 
its reasonable for a bank to ask an applicant to provide the documentation anew in order to 
maintain the integrity of its verification process.
Savings letter sent to the wrong address
Clydesdale explained different parts of its business are on different systems. It has told us 
this letter was sent to the wrong address as a result of human error in the savings team  an 
old address was manually selected. I find Clydesdales response to his complaint about this 
to be fair and reasonable. I know Mr M does not accept the banks explanation but he hasnt 
provided any evidence to support this claim, and I have seen nothing to make me doubt the 
banks response. If Mr M wishes to report the issue as a data breach he should contact the 
Information Commissioners Office (www.ico.org.uk).
Mr M also raised that when he calls the bank it can only find him using his old address. It 
was initially thought this was because his old address is the address on his buy-to-let 
mortgage product so it would be reasonable to use this as part of its security checks, but   
Mr M disputes this is how it has been used. He hasnt however provided any call dates and 
times to allow the bank, or this service, to review such calls. It follows I cant make a finding 
on this point, or expect the bank to comment. I dont think however that this negates my 
findings above about the November 2021 application. I would recommend that if this issue is 
ongoing Mr M should log the relevant call(s) and contact the bank with these details to allow 
it to investigate. It follows I am not instructing Clydesdale to take any further action. If it has not yet paid the 
£150 compensation for the address error, as Mr M confirmed to us he found this to be 
acceptable it should now pay this to him. Mr M told us he was unhappy with how Clydesdale 
managed his complaint about the November 2021 application as he had to chase the 
response, but I can see it apologised and paid him £25 compensation. I havent seen 
anything that makes me think it needs to do any more in this regard. 
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Clydesdale Bank Plc should now pay Mr M the compensation offered in its final response 
letter of 16 June 2022 if it has not yet done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman