DRN-3282451
The complaint
Mr D complains about the advice given by Better Retirement Group Ltd (BRG), trading as 
Fiducia Prosperity, to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational 
pension scheme to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He says the advice was flawed 
and unsuitable for him and believes it has caused a significant financial loss.
What happened
Mr D approached BRG in 2018 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. 
BRG completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ds circumstances and objectives. 
This showed that he:
Was aged 54. 
Was employed with gross earnings of £63,000. His wife earned £1,500 a year. 
Was married with two children, one child was dependent.  
Had a pension income of £1,500 a year.
He had a separate defined contribution pension scheme that had a value of £80,000. 
BRG also carried out an assessment of Mr Ds attitude to risk, which it said was low 
medium. 
On 5 April 2018, BRG advised Mr D to transfer his DB pension benefits. His 22 years of 
service provided a transfer value of around £290,000. He placed the proceeds in an 
Intelligent Money SIPP. I understand he invested in a third party Model Portfolio using a 
discretionary fund manager (DFM). 
The suitability report said the reason why the advice was suitable, and the main benefits of 
it, were:
Mr D had sufficient income from elsewhere to provide his core financial needs in 
retirement, so he could transfer this pension.
The estimated growth required to match the benefits in his existing scheme was 
reasonable when compared with the risk Mr D was prepared to take.
He wanted the full value of the transferred fund to be available to his family straight 
away, or on his death, particularly as he currently had ongoing health concerns
He wanted a flexible income to allow him to retire early. 
The transfer values being offered to scheme members were at an all-time high due to 
low gilt and interest rates. 
Mr D complained in 2020 to BRG about the suitability of the transfer advice. He said that the 
advice wasnt properly explained at the time. And he wasnt fully aware of the benefits he 
was giving up, including the spouses pension. The health concerns noted at the time of sale 
were not serious and were not a reason for an immediate transfer. He said the fact that his 
investments are illiquid (or have been) has meant that he will be unable to retire when he 
wants to. 
BRG didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. It said that he wanted flexibility with his retirement 
income which the DB scheme wouldnt offer. And his health was an immediate concern. The 
tax-free cash would enable him to help his family and in particular his son who was at 
university. It said that the fund losses, rather than its advice, were the cause of the 
complaint.
Mr D referred his complaint to our service. An investigator upheld the complaint and 
recommended that BRG pay compensation. The investigator said that the SIPP was likely to 
provide lower benefits than the DB scheme. And so, Mr D shouldnt have been advised to 
make the transfer. 
BRG didnt respond to the opinion. As no agreement has been reached the complaint has 
been referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given by 
the investigator. 
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, BRG should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Ds best interests (COBS 19.1.6). And having looked at all the 
evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best interests.
Financial viability 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The critical yield required to match Mr Ds benefits at age 65 was 11.71% if he took a 
pension on the same basis as the DB scheme, and this rose to 23.07% at age 60. And the 
transfer value analysis also said that in order to provide benefits of equal value to those of 
the DB Scheme pension at retirement would require a fund of £723,086.25. 
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 3.9% per year for 11 years to retirement. For further comparison, the regulator's upper 
projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection 
rate 2% per year.I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ds 
low to medium attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in 
Mr D giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at 
best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the lowest critical yield 
was 11.7%, I think Mr D was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value 
than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with that attitude to risk. 
BRG has provided cashflow models which it says shows Mr D wouldve been able to meet 
his needs despite the high critical yields. 
Ive considered these, but BRGs models show that if Mr D took the same benefits as he 
would from the DB scheme then, assuming a low growth rate of 2%, his fund would be 
reduced to zero at around age 79. The age his pension fund was reduced to zero, assuming 
a medium growth rate of 5%, increased to around age 86. The maximum sustainable 
income, until age 99, assuming the lower growth rate of 2% was £7,314 per year. This rose 
to £11,848 if an assumption of 5% was used.
And, in any event, as BRG will know, past performance is no guarantee for future 
performance and so I consider the discount rates and the regulators standard projections to 
be more realistic in this regard in the long term rather than projecting historic returns forward, 
particularly over such a long period of time.
So, its very likely Mr Ds pension benefits would be much lower than they would have been 
had he not transferred away from the DB scheme. 
For this reason alone, a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Ds best interests. Of 
course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as BRG has 
said in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, 
despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
I dont think Mr D required flexibility in retirement. This is because, based on the evidence 
Ive seen, I dont think he had a genuine need to access his tax-free cash earlier than the 
normal scheme retirement age and leave his funds invested until a later date. 
It was noted that Mr D wanted to use some of the tax-free cash to help his son through 
university. Whilst I dont doubt this was important to Mr D, I cant see that any other means 
to do this were explored. And Im not persuaded that Mr D needed, or wanted to, potentially 
significantly reduce his retirement income to meet this aim. 
And Mr D already had a significant sum in in a DC scheme which could provide him with 
flexible retirement benefits if he wanted these. As far as I can see it was considered if he 
could use this to provide some flexibility (if he needed it). 
I also cant see evidence that Mr D had a strong need for variable income throughout his 
retirement. This is because there was no real need for this identified. The fact find recorded 
that Mr D needed an income of £20,000 at retirement. Rather than a variable income. 
And Im satisfied Mr D could have met his income needs in retirement through the DB 
scheme at 65. Mr D needed £20,000 per year according to the information gathered by 
BRG. And under the DB scheme, Mr D was entitled to an annual income of just over 
£17,000 at age 65, which, when taken into consideration with his other pensions, and state 
pension entitlement, wouldve met his recorded objectives. Furthermore, Mr D was only 54 at the time of the advice, and based on what Ive seen he 
didnt have concrete retirement plans. As Mr D had about 11 years before he needed to think 
about accessing his pension, I think it was too soon to make any kind of decision about 
transferring out of the DB scheme. So, I dont think it was a suitable recommendation for 
Mr D to give up his guaranteed benefits now when there wasnt a pressing need to do so. If 
Mr D later had reason to transfer out of his DB scheme he could have done so closer to 
retirement.
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr D. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr D might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr D about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think BRG explored to what extent Mr 
D was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr D 
was married and had children and in particular the spouses pension provided by the DB 
scheme wouldve been useful if Mr D predeceased his wife. I dont think BRG made the 
value of this benefit clear enough to Mr D. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not 
dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal 
pension was. 
And as the cashflow analysis shows, there may not have been a large sum left particularly if 
Mr D lived a longer life. In any event, BRG should not have encouraged Mr D to prioritise the 
potential for higher death benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
Furthermore, if Mr D genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his spouse or children, which 
didnt depend on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, 
I think BRG shouldve instead explored life insurance. 
It was recorded that Mr D had some health problems. But he has recently said that these 
were routine, and they wouldnt impact on his life expectancy. He considers himself to be in 
good health. And I think the documentation from the time doesnt contradict this to any great 
degree. Whilst these problems were noted there seems to have been no meaningful 
discussion about life expectancy or any indication that Mr D had a reduced life expectancy. 
And in any event Mr D not reaching his life expectancy would only be a possibility and it was 
also possible that he would exceed this, in which case Mr D would need his pension to last 
longer. If Mr D transferred out of the DB scheme he would be relying on investment returns 
to ensure sufficient capital remained in the personal pension to provide the death benefits, 
whereas the spouses and dependents pensions were guaranteed and escalated. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to the SIPP justified 
the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr D. And I dont think that insurance was 
properly explored as an alternative, if at all.
Use of DFM 
BRG recommended that Mr D use a DFM to manage his pension funds. As Im upholding 
the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr D, it 
follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is because Mr D should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the DFM would 
not have had the opportunity to manage his funds if suitable advice had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr D. But BRG 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr D might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr D needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr D was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr D was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this.  Mr D shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the 
scheme just to help a family member out, and the potential for higher death benefits wasnt 
worth giving up the guarantees associated with his DB scheme. I dont think his health was 
such that he should have transferred away. 
So, I think BRG shouldve advised Mr D to remain in his DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr D would've gone ahead anyway, against BRG's 
advice. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr D wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against BRGs advice. I say this because Mr D was an 
inexperienced investor with a low medium attitude to risk and this pension accounted for a 
the majority of his retirement provision. So, if BRG had provided him with clear advice 
against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I 
think he wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Ds wish to help his son, or for increased death benefits was so 
great that he wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose 
expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his 
best interests. If BRG had explained that Mr D could meet all of his objectives without risking 
his guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr D 
would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think BRG should compensate Mr D for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
DFMs responsibility for the loss
I dont think BRG had sufficient oversight of the DFMs actions here. Mr D had a low medium 
attitude to risk but the DFM made investments that have significantly fallen in value and have 
at times been illiquid. As far as I can see BRG didnt question these investments and it also 
continued to take fees from the investment that it should have been monitoring. So, anything 
that the DFM might also have done wrong doesnt make it reasonable in the circumstances 
of this case for BRG to avoid compensating for the losses they may have gone on to cause.
So, I think holding BRG responsible for the whole of the loss represents fair compensation in 
this case.
FSCS compensationIm aware Mr D may be able to take his claims about the DFM to the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS).
As a scheme of last resort, its possible the FSCS wont pay out if a third party could also be 
held liable. This means requiring BRG to pay only part of the losses could risk leaving Mr D 
out of pocket. But I think its important to point out that Im not saying BRG is wholly 
responsible for the losses simply because the DFM is now in liquidation. My starting point as 
to causation is that BRG gave unsuitable advice and it is responsible for the losses Mr D 
suffered in transferring his existing pension to the SIPP and investing as he did. That isnt, to 
my mind, wrong in law or irrational but reflects the facts of the case and my view of the fair 
and reasonable position.
With this in mind  and recognising also that Mr D wouldnt have lost out at all but for BRGs 
failings and that BRG benefitted financially from advising on this transaction  I think holding 
BRG responsible for the whole of the loss represents fair compensation in this case.
Our Investigator recommended that BRG also pay Mr D £350 for the distress caused by the 
unsuitable advice. I dont doubt that Mr D has been caused distress and concern in relation 
to his retirement planning. And Im conscious this wouldnt have happened but for the 
unsuitable advice. And so, in the circumstances, I think the award the Investigator 
recommended is fair.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the BRG to put Mr D, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for BRGs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr D would have 
most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
BRG must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mr D has not yet retired, and he has no firm plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ds acceptance of the decision.
BRG may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ds 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ds SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ds pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr D as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
I understand Mr Ds SIPP may include illiquid investments, meaning they cant be readily
sold on the open market. This means it can be complicated to establish its value.
If this is the case, to calculate the compensation, BRG should agree an amount with the
SIPP provider as a commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SIPP plus any costs,
and take ownership of the investments.
If BRG is unable to buy the investments, they should give it a nil value for the purposes of
calculating compensation. The value of the SIPP used in the calculations should include
anything BRG has paid into the SIPP and any outstanding charges yet to be applied to the
SIPP should be deducted.
In return for this, BRG may ask Mr D to provide an undertaking to account to them for the net
amount of any payment he may receive from the investment in future. That undertaking
should allow for the effect of any tax and charges on what he receives. BRG will need to
meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking. If BRG asks Mr D to provide an undertaking,
payment of the compensation awarded may be dependent upon provision of that
undertaking.
In order for the SIPP to be closed (should Mr D wish to move his investment portfolio) and
further SIPP fees to be prevented, the investments need to be removed from the SIPP. Ive
set out above how this might be achieved by BRG taking over the investment, or this is
something that Mr D can discuss with his SIPP provider directly. But I dont know how long
that will take.
Third parties are involved, and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. To provide
certainty to all parties, I think its fair that BRG pay Mr D an upfront lump sum equivalent to
five years worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years fees). This should
provide a reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr D within 90 days of the date BRG receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes BRG to pay Mr D.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
BRG pays the balance.
BRG should also pay Mr D £350. My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Better Retirement 
Group Ltd to pay Mr D the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Better Retirement Group Ltd to pay Mr D any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Better 
Retirement Group Ltd to pay Mr D any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Better Retirement Group Ltd pays Mr D the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr D.
If Mr D accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Better Retirement 
Group Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding if Mr D accepts the this decision. Further, its 
unlikely that Mr D can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr D may 
want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any 
final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman