DRN-4094043
The complaint
Mr J complains that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) closed his account without notice. He would like 
an explanation as to why this was done and for it to reopen his account.
What happened
Mr Js Revolut account was blocked at the end of July 2018. He got in touch with it on the 
same day via its chat function but wasnt able to get an update until 11 September when he 
was told his account was being reviewed.  He chased Revolut a few more times and on 3 
October he was told that following a review of his account it would be unable to continue to 
offer services to him. Revolut suspended Mr Js account and returned his remaining funds 
(1.26 polish zloty- roughly £0.26 at the time) to the original source which was his top up bank 
account. 
Mr J then provided Revolut with ID documents and a photo as he said he hadnt been asked 
to provide these when he opened his account, but it repeated that his account was 
suspended. It said it wasnt able to disclose any further information and wouldnt continue to 
offer its services to him.
 
Mr J complained to Revolut on 5 July 2022 and it responded the following day but it didnt 
uphold the complaint. It said, sometimes, in order to protect its customers it has to carry out 
account reviews and also that it is bound to comply with strict legal and regulatory 
obligations. After carrying out a compliance review on Mr Js account it decided not to 
continue to offer its services. It repeated that it couldnt specify the exact reasons why and 
relied on its terms and conditions to justify this decision. It said its decision was final and that 
Mr J would not be able to create a new account or reactivate his original one. 
Mr J brought his complaint to us in September 2022. He said he didnt remember being 
asked for his photo and ID when he opened his account and thought that might be why his 
account was closed. He also said that some members of his family had had their accounts 
closed in the same way as him. He said he felt he had been treated unfairly and 
discriminated against and didnt think he had broken any rules. He wants Revolut to reopen 
his account and explain why it was blocked. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and thought it should be upheld. He didnt 
think Revolut had provided sufficient evidence to justify closing Mr Js account without 
notice. He thought it should have given him more notice and that it delayed reviewing the 
account but agreed it acted fairly and reasonably in closing it. Our investigator thought 
Revolut should pay Mr J £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused 
him. 
Revolut agreed with our investigator but Mr J didnt and so the matter was passed to me for 
a final decision. Mr J wanted to know whether his account would be restored, the reason for 
the closure and he also wanted more information regarding his familys accounts. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It might be helpful if I start off by explaining that our service doesnt punish or fine 
businesses, and its also not our place to say that a procedure the business follows is 
incorrect. Only the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), can do this. 
Businesses have legal and regulatory obligations they have to meet and they have 
processes in place in order to meet these obligations. They can broadly be summarised as a 
responsibility to protect persons from financial harm, and to prevent and detect financial 
crime. To comply with its obligations Revolut may need to review an account and/or restrict 
its customers access to accounts and funds held within them.  
So our role in cases like this one, is to look at whether the business has followed its own 
internal procedures correctly, while also meeting its legal and regulatory obligations.
Revolut closed the account on 3 October 2018 and blocked it on 31 July 2018 in order to 
conduct a review. From what I have seen, I dont think Revolut acted unreasonably in 
reviewing the account. As mentioned above, Revolut has ongoing legal and regulatory 
obligations and this means that in order for it to comply with those it may need to review its 
customers accounts from time to time which may lead to an account being closed. And, 
though it did in this case, Revolut doesnt need to give notice that it is reviewing an account.
 
Revolut has provided evidence, which I have considered but cant share with Mr J, which 
shows to me that its decision to close the account was fair and reasonable. Our rules allow 
us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat evidence from businesses as 
confidential for a number of reasons- for example if it contains security information, or 
commercially sensitive information. Some of the information Revolut has provided is 
information that we considered should be kept confidential so, as I said, I wont be sharing a 
lot of detail with Mr J but Id like to reassure him that Ive considered everything.
 
As I said above, the account was closed without notice. Revolut is relying on its terms and 
conditions which say that it can close an account immediately in certain circumstances. I 
have considered its reasons for doing so but I dont think it acted fairly and reasonably in the 
circumstances. I say this because Revolut hasnt provided sufficient information or evidence 
to show why an immediate closure was necessary. 
I also note that Revolut took over two months to review the account. Revolut has provided 
an explanation for this but, again, no evidence in support. And without this evidence I dont 
think this delay was justified. 
For the reasons above, I think Revolut should pay Mr J £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience his immediate account closure caused him. I note that there was a very small 
balance on Mr Js account (1.26 polish zloty) which was returned to his top up account when 
his account review was completed. As this was such a small amount, I wont be awarding 
interest for the period between the suspension and the closure of the account. 
I understand Mr J wants Revolut to explain why it closed his account but it is under no 
obligation to tell Mr J the reasons why it reviewed and closed the account. So I dont think its 
done anything wrong by not telling Mr J why the account was closed. Just as a customer can choose who they bank with, a bank can choose who it has (and keeps) as customers. A 
bank doesnt need to explain to its customer why its closing an account, just as Mr J 
wouldnt have had to give Revolut a reason if hed decided to leave it. As I said above, as 
part of looking at the case I have reviewed the reasons and I am satisfied that Revolut acted 
fairly. So I wont be asking it to reopen Mr Js account.
Mr J mentioned that members of his family had their accounts closed in similar ways. He 
thought this was discrimination. Though I appreciate this is his perspective, its not my role to 
make findings about discrimination; thats a matter for the courts. What I will say though is 
that I havent seen any evidence that would suggest that Revolut treated Mr J in a way that 
was different to other customers who are in a similar situation as him. Also, as Mr J may be 
aware in this decision I can only consider his complaint about his own account- not his 
familys. If any members of his family were/are customers of Revolut and wish to complain 
they must first raise their complaints with it. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided to uphold this complaint and require Revolut Ltd to pay 
Mr J £100 for the distress and inconvenience it caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman