DRN-4465017
The complaint
Mr D complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a type of personal pension plan, in 2018.
Abacus Money Management Ltd is responsible for answering this complaint and so to keep 
things consistent, Ill refer mainly to Abacus.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ds employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits to 
a personal pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ds employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which 
gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
Mr D was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do and was referred to 
Abacus which is responsible for providing the pension advice. Information gathered about 
his circumstances and objectives at the time of the recommendation were broadly as follows:
Mr D was 43 years old, married and had two dependent children. 
Mr and Mrs D owned a home with a £46,000 mortgage which had 10 years left to 
run. Mr D earned around £41,000 in total, and Mrs D was in receipt of state benefits. 
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Ds BSPS was approximately 
£86,614. The normal retirement age (NRA) was 65.
Mr D had since joined the new TATA defined contribution (DC) pension scheme as a 
consequence of the BSPS ceasing new contributions. Mr D had another DC pension, 
but this is relevant as it was very small. 
Abacus set out its advice in a suitability report on 29 January 2018. In this it advised Mr D to 
transfer out of the BSPS and invest the funds in a type of personal pension arrangement. 
Abacus said this would allow Mr D to achieve his objectives. Mr D accepted this advice and 
so transferred out. In late 2021 Mr D complained to Abacus about its advice, saying he 
shouldnt have been advised to transfer out to a personal pension. 
Mr D referred his complaint to our Service in June 2022. Im very sorry the complaint has 
taken so long to reach this stage. One of our investigators looked into the complaint and said 
in August 2022 that it should be upheld. In response, Abacus asked for a number of 
extensions to think about the investigators view. But ultimately it said it hadnt done anything 
wrong and was acting on the financial objectives Mr D had at the time. It also said that it 
didnt think he had actually lost any money however it did make an offer to settle the dispute 
which was rejected by Mr D. Abacus has also implied that any redress, if the complaint were 
to be upheld, should be calculated using the PPF rather than the BSPS2.
As it seems this complaint cant be resolved informally, its therefore time for me to make a 
final decision. 
I issued a provisional decision (PD) about this case in October 2023. In this PD, I basically 
agreed with our investigator that we should uphold the complaint. But I differed in view as 
regards the method which ought to be used to calculate the redress that might be due. I said 
the redress should be based on the assumption that Mr D would have moved into the PPF if 
he had been advised suitably. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Abacus's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Abacus should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Ds best interests. 
Ive used all this information we have to consider whether transferring away from the BSPS 
to a personal pension was in Mr Ds best interests. I have also carefully considered the final 
response letter from Abacus. Ive carefully considered too, the various other responses 
made to the points contained within our investigators view and my PD. Both Mr D and 
Abacus responded to the points Id made in the PD. 
Having done all this, Im upholding Mr Ds complaint. 
Introductory issues
As I did in my PD of last month, Id like to start by referring to the timeline of events. 
I explained that I didnt think the adviser had properly understood what was happening to the 
BSPS at the time of the advice. I say this because Abacus partially defends this complaint by 
saying the BSPS2, at the time of the advice, wasnt yet a scheme where there were enough 
details known about how it would operate. Abacus has also said that there was no 
information at the time about whether members of the BSPS who opted to join the new 
scheme (BSPS2) could retire early from that scheme.
However, these were misconceptions and I think they show that the adviser at the time didnt 
have a reasonable grip on the changes that were being proposed. I accept this was a time 
of great change  and it was certainly causing anxiety amongst BSPS members  but by the 
time Abacus was contracted by Mr D to provide advice, there were many more details known 
about BSPS2 and it was clear it was going ahead. Members had already been sent a Time 
to Choose letter many weeks before Abacuss advice sessions with Mr D. And the rules of 
the BSPS2 had also emerged and were being widely discussed. I know, for example, that 
when Abacus was meeting with Mr D, other financial businesses were providing detailed 
quotes for clients about what BSPS2 looked like.
However, Ive already described above how members of the BSPS were given until 22 
December 2017 to decide whether or not to join the BSPS2. Its not clear whether Mr D ever 
made that choice - theres no evidence that he did. Perhaps understandably, he cant now 
remember if he ever filled out his Time to Choose form, but theres no documentation, 
which Ive seen, showing he did make a choice. From experience, I know fellow members 
who were in very similar circumstances to Mr D had, by the end of 2017, opted to join 
BSPS2, if only as a precaution whilst they sought advice. But here, Ive seen nothing to 
show Mr D wanted to opt into the BSPS2, in fact the opposite was true as hed said he 
basically didnt like the thought of it. 
So, we know that if no choice was ever made by the deadline then the member would 
eventually move from the BSPS to the PPF. This is because the old scheme (BSPS) was 
no longer an option.
I dont think Mr D ever made an election to opt into the BSPS2 ahead of the deadline. I say 
this because the documentation Ive got access to overwhelmingly refers to events in 
January 2018. And unfortunately, Mr D hasnt been able to present any further evidence 
about this following me issuing my PD last month. 
I can see a Client Agreement was produced by Abacus on 15 January 2018 and signed by 
Mr D. A fact-find was also produced and this is dated the same day, as is an attitude to risk 
(ATR) questionnaire. Further to these documents, the pension analysis report is dated 25 January 2018 and the recommendation (suitability) report is dated 29 January 2018. 
Everything else Ive seen refers to dates in January 2018.
So, all this was several weeks after the hard deadline of 22 December 2017 Ive mentioned 
above and where members of the BSPS needed to make a choice. I therefore think the 
advice process was only conducted throughout January 2018 and beyond, by Abacus. 
I should say that none of this really matters to the actual suitability of the advice  it was 
clearly unsuitable in many respects. Nevertheless, it does matter to the redress that is due 
for providing the unsuitable recommendation to transfer away from a DB scheme: any 
redress calculation should be measured against as if the member would have joined the 
PPF, rather than previously electing to join the BSPS2. So redress will be based on the PPF 
as this was his only other option as of January 2018.
Financial viability 
Abacus referred in its transfer analysis and suitability report to critical yield rates. The 
critical yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required on 
the transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity 
benefits as the DB scheme. In this case, Abacus used the existing scheme (BSPS) for the 
critical yield comparisons, rather than the new BSPS2, details of which had emerged, or the 
PPF which was by that time the only alternative Mr D had. 
The critical yield comparison was a requirement from the regulator at the time when advising 
clients on DB transfers. Its also important to point out that the critical yield comparison is 
only one of a number of different metrics Ive used to compare the different schemes. And in 
my view, these all point one way  that Mr D was probably going to receive lower pension 
benefits overall, as a result of transferring to a type of personal pension plan.
As our investigator explained, Abacus said that the critical yield required to match the 
benefits at the age of 65 in the BSPS, was 7.04% if Mr D took a pension without a tax-free 
lump sum. If taking a tax-free lump sum, the critical yield was 5.75%. However, for the 
reasons Ive explained above, these werent the most relevant critical yield figures to use 
because it doesnt seem Mr D could transfer to the BSPS2 and he certainly couldnt remain 
in the BSPS because it was closing. Abacus also didnt calculate any critical yield rates for 
an earlier retirement, at the age of 60, despite Abacus saying Mr D apparently having 
expressed a desire to retire early. 
Given the circumstances, it was the PPF that was still the available option for Mr D and not 
the BSPS2. Measured against the PPF upon retiring at the age of 65, the critical yields came 
in as 5.29% (no tax-free cash taken on retirement) and 5.02% (with tax free cash) 
respectively. 
However, as Ill explain more about later, retirement was still a very long way off for Mr D 
and so I very much doubt whether retiring at 60 was anything more than something he just 
aspired to, rather than being part of a real plan. He was only 43 years old and so had over 
21 more years before retirement would come into focus, if using the NRA. Even if retiring 
early, at the age of 60, this was still over 16 years away. So, predicting things like whether 
an earlier retirement was feasible or whether or not he might take a lump-sum at retirement 
were quite obviously premature in his case. In my view, these predictions or assumptions 
from Abacus lacked credibility. 
Nonetheless, Abacus didnt really explain the full details of the critical yield analysis in its 
suitability report. In my view, even though the adviser seems to have been under the 
misplaced view that comparisons with the BSPS were relevant, the suitability report still largely avoided any explanation of the 7.04% critical yield. Instead, the report focussed on 
what it described as the hurdle rate. This was a much lower yield and so it better fitted with 
a transfer-away narrative. But this was misleading as it related to a much inferior type of 
pension and so it made transferring look much more attractive, from a financial viability 
perspective. 
But all this needed a careful explanation, not least because the BSPS was being closed and 
was no longer available. I also think the assertion the hurdle yield growth in Mr Ds case 
might be achievable was misleading as it wasnt evidenced by any analysis showing how 
even this could realistically happen. In fact, I dont think there was any reliable evidence at 
the time that achieving enough growth outside the DB scheme, to make transferring 
financially viable, was ever going to be achievable. I say this with the following in mind. 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 and 
was only 4.6% per year for 21 years to retirement (age 65), which is below all the critical 
yield figures Ive referred to above, including those for the PPF. Abacus says now that we 
shouldnt use the discount rate as a comparison. But I disagree. Whilst there was no 
compulsion on Abacus at the time to show Mr D the discount rate, I think it provides a useful 
benchmark on what growth rate assumptions were reasonable at the time. Using Abacuss 
retirement suggestion of 60, the discount rate was only 4.3%. Ive also kept in mind that the 
regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate was 5%, and 
the lower projection rate was 2%. However, these figures had been in place for many years 
and they existed unchanged through a period of extraordinary low interest rates and bond 
yields. So, if anything, these assumptions were somewhat higher than the reality of the 
economic climate in early 2018. 
Abacus simply couldnt predict a retirement age so far in advance in this case, nor could it 
reasonably judge whether Mr D would be taking a lump-sum with a pension in over 21 years 
time. We know the BSPS was already closing and Mr D had missed the deadline to join the 
BSPS2. So, what was probably more relevant here was that the discount rate of 4.6% could 
have been considered alongside the critical yield for a retirement at 65 using the PPF, which 
was 5.29%. I think these comparisons would have been a cause for caution as would the 
regulators growth assumption as they implied Mr D might receive lower (not higher) 
retirement benefits if he transferred. Thats because the discount rate for this scenario was 
below the critical yield rate thus implying that from a starting point, there was no obvious 
evidence pointing to Mr D achieving better retirement benefits by transferring to a type of 
personal pension arrangement. The opposite appeared to be true.
Also, at the time Abacus assessed Mr Ds ATR as cautious to realistic or level 5/10. But in 
reality, Mr D had no previous experience of these types of investments. There was no 
evidence he possessed any such investments at the time. Hed also never invested 
personally in shares in the past, so he had no relevant experience to draw upon. I accept 
hed joined the new TATA DC scheme which involved investing, but again Ive seen nothing 
showing this was conducted under anything other than an off the shelf investment strategy 
which required no direct investment decisions from Mr D himself. In any event, hed only just 
joined this a few months before. Ive also noted that although he had around £3,200 in savings, theres no evidence these funds were held in anything other than a cash deposit 
account. 
In my view, the adviser used a pre-populated questionnaire to arrive at the ATR 
categorisation. However, they seemed to ignore the fact that Mr D was a 43-year-old man 
with no such investments or experience and with probably very little idea of what his far-off 
retirement might yet look like. I therefore dont think the adviser had enough information or 
evidence to recommend transferring away from a DB scheme based on a financial 
comparison basis. Growth assumptions close to the lower end of the regulators projections 
and up to the discount rate were most relevant here in my view. 
So, using everything Ive set out above, I think growth assumptions of around 2-to-4 % 
were more realistic if looked at through the prism of January 2018. These were below the 
critical yield figures for the PPF. I therefore think this showed that achieving the critical 
yield(s) for the PPF, year-on-year, upon transferring out, was more unlikely than likely. Its 
also important to remember here that the effect of charges and fees associated with a 
personal pension such as the one being recommended to Mr D, would have further reduced 
the likely growth assumptions. In my view, there would be little point in transferring away 
from a type of DB scheme (or the PPF) to get financial benefits of only a similar value. But 
here, even this relatively low bar wasnt being reached. In my view, as of 2018 there was 
little chance of Mr Ds transferred funds growing by enough to make transferring a really 
worthwhile exercise over the long term. A recommendation to transfer should not have been 
made on this basis.
Ive also noted that using the NRA of 65, Abacuss own transfer analysis said that even in 
order to purchase an annuity to provide benefits of equal value to the estimated benefits 
provided by the existing scheme, assuming no spouses pension, no increases in payment 
and no guarantee at retirement, the estimated fund required at 65 was £158,940. No such 
amount was provided in respect of the PPF type benefits although I think I can safely say the 
cost could have been moderately lower. But to reiterate, the above figure is found in 
Abacuss own analysis. And because this figure is far above Mr Ds CETV, it represents, in 
my view, a revealing window into the value of the guaranteed pension Mr D could be giving 
up by transferring away to a personal plan.
I therefore think its fair to say that from a financial comparison perspective, Abacuss own 
figures, shown in its suitability report and transfer analysis documents, showed that 
transferring to a personal pension plan would mean Mr D would likely receive lower pension 
benefits in the longer term.
Ive also considered some projections Abacus used to help show that if he transferred out to 
a personal plan, the funds could last Mr D well into retirement. However, I think most of 
these were based on growth projections using past performance. Its also fair to say these 
were not comparing like-with-like. What Abacus was showing Mr D were comparisons with 
plans which lacked the guarantees and benefits of a DB scheme. 
Of course, according to Abacus, its recommendation that he should transfer out to a 
personal pension was not wholly based on the financial comparisons with his current 
scheme alone. Rather, Abacus said Mr D also had other reasons to transfer away, so Ive 
thought about all the other considerations which might have meant a transfer was suitable 
for him, despite providing the overall lower benefits mentioned earlier. 
Ive considered these below. 
Other reasons to transferAbacus recommended a transfer to a personal pension arrangement based on what it said 
were Mr Ds wider objectives. It said that he could retire early and have access to more tax-
free cash. It also promoted the flexibility of a personal arrangement and implied the death 
benefits were much better for Mr D. It also said Mr D would be able to control his pension 
and add value to it in future years.
So, I have used all the documents we still have from the advice sessions to summarise the 
rationale for the recommendation for him to transfer away. I have therefore considered all 
the issues in turn. 
Retiring early / taking tax-free cash
Ive taken into account that Mr D approached Abacus for advice because of the uncertainties 
he faced with the BSPS. 
However, I think its important to focus for a moment here on Mr Ds relatively young age by 
pension standards. The evidence Ive seen here is that Mr D  understandably - had 
absolutely no firm plans for his retirement. With over 21 years still left to when hed be 
actually contemplating retiring if using his NRA, theres simply no way that what he might 
possibly use the money for, should have been a major influence in him deciding to 
irreversibly move away from a DB scheme. Doing so involved an investment risk which Ive 
showed above could mean lower overall financial benefits at retirement and which Mr D had 
no meaningful experience of. 
So whilst Im sure, like most people, Mr D probably wanted to stop working as early as 
possible, I think what he and the adviser discussed could only ever have been vague 
retirement aspirations on his part. In reality, there was no plan to retire early. It was simply 
far too early to speculate about this. Indeed, Ive seen evidence that Mr D himself was 
sceptical that hed be able to retire early.
I therefore think that everything that flowed from predicting Mr Ds retirement was flawed. For 
example, there was no estimation from either party as to how much Mr D might need to live 
on each month when he retired; and as this was so far off Im not surprised. Mr and Mrs D 
still had very significant parts of their life ahead and its reasonable to assume theyd want to 
guide their children through school and possibly into tertiary education. They also had 10 
years more of their mortgage to pay and Ive noted Mrs D was in receipt of a disability 
related allowance. I think its also reasonable to point out that Mr D could be said to be only 
in mid-career. So, there were many years in which their personal, professional and financial 
circumstances would almost definitely change. The adviser should have seen this very 
obvious uncertainty and incorporated it into their advice. Likewise, as Ive explained, I dont 
think the adviser could have possibly determined whether or not Mr D might access a lump-
sum upon retirement or even how he would access his retirement benefits at all. I think the 
adviser should have noted a clear vulnerability here in advising someone still relatively 
young to withdraw from a guaranteed pension.
I think Abacus also promoted to Mr D that he could access more tax-free cash if he 
transferred to a personal pension plan. It said hed be able to access 25% of his pension as 
a lump-sum and then use the remaining funds more flexibly and in a personal pension the 
lump-sum could be much higher. But this needed a careful explanation. Its usually the case 
that more tax-free cash can be accessed from a personal pension when compared against a 
DB scheme; this is because the values and benefits of the two schemes are calculated 
differently. But Abacus should have been telling Mr D at the time that extra tax-free lump 
sums being removed from a personal pension, potentially from the age of 55 in his case, 
also came with consequences in that the amount left for his later retirement years would 
obviously decrease. Flexibility and control
I also cant see that Mr D required flexibility in retirement in the way the adviser suggested. 
In any event, flexibility was poorly defined by Abacus. I therefore think this was no more than 
a stock objective used to help justify the recommendation to transfer out to a personal plan. 
For example, Ive seen nothing that showed anyone could have known Mr D required 
changing how his retirement benefits ought to be paid. I dont think this could have been 
predicted whilst still so far away from retirement age. He already had a new and more 
flexible DC pension with his existing job as a consequence of the old BSPS scheme being 
closed to new contributions. This DC pension was being significantly contributed towards by 
both Mr D and his employer and still had up to 21 years left to run (over 16 years if he did 
eventually retire early). So, this secondary pension would have afforded Mr D any flexibility 
he might have needed in the years ahead.
This means Ive seen nothing explaining why Mr D wouldnt want to continue membership of 
a DB scheme and to use that scheme in exactly the way it was originally intended. Indeed, I 
think that by retirement, whenever it eventually came, Mr D could have been in a very 
agreeable position. On one hand hed have a small but meaningful existing deferred DB 
scheme. This would contain all the guarantees and benefits that such schemes normally 
bring which tend to include a promise to pay a known pension for life. Significant indexation 
guarantees also existed within the PPF. On the other hand, hed have also built up a 
substantial DC scheme over a long period of time and its not unreasonable to say hed have 
amassed a substantial six-figure sum in this by retirement. So, if Mr D ever found he needed 
so-called flexibility, then hed be able to use the latter, rather than transferring away from the 
former.
Ive also seen no evidence that Mr D had either the capacity or desire to exercise control 
over his funds. With his DB scheme, Mr D was being offered the opportunity to move to the 
PPF. Its true there were some differences in this scheme when compared to the original 
BSPS, but it remained a DB-type scheme nonetheless and was run for him by trustees. Mr D 
himself had no experience of these types of other DC money market investments and I 
think he would have found the complexity, scale and responsibility of managing over 
£86,000 of transferred funds to be onerous in the years ahead. What Ive seen tends to 
show Mr D would have required ongoing financial advice and support, all of which would 
cost him money which his DB scheme didnt require from him.
Abacus itself set out the estimated pension hed get under the BSPS. Im not going to use up 
time explaining what these figures were because retirement was still so far away in the 
future as to make these estimates irrelevant. In any event, Abacus didnt calculate what 
overall income in retirement Mr D was targeting in todays money. 
However, I dont think theres anything showing Mr Ds eventual and overall pension 
entitlements wouldnt have met his anticipated requirements, without any need to transfer 
from a DB scheme. I dont think Abacus adequately explained these things to Mr D as its 
advice simply discounted him transferring to the PPF in order to obtain flexibility which was 
poorly defined and which he didnt need.
I therefore think Mr Ds circumstances here were much more aligned to him moving to the 
PPF and retiring from that when he felt he was ready to do so. 
Death benefits 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The PPF contained certain benefits 
payable to a spouse and children if Mr D died. Mr D was married and had children.I therefore think the value of these benefits were most likely underplayed because the 
spouses pension provided by the PPF would have been useful to a future spouse and / or 
children if he predeceased them. I dont think Abacus made the value of this benefit clear 
enough. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on investment 
performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was.
I also think the adviser probably told Mr D that hed be able to pass on the value of a 
personal pension, potentially tax-free, to anyone he nominated. So, the lump sum death 
benefits on offer through a personal pension were made to look like an attractive feature to 
Mr D. 
But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr D might have 
thought it was a good idea to transfer the BSPS to a personal pension because of this, the 
priority here was to advise him about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension 
is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think Abacus explored to 
what extent Mr D was prepared to accept a different retirement income in exchange for 
different death benefits.
Mr D was only 43 and in good health. An obvious drawback with a personal plans death 
benefits is that the amount left to pass on  to anyone  may be substantially reduced as the 
pensioner starts to withdraw his or her retirement income. To this end, if Mr D had lived a 
long life there could be nothing left at all in his personal pension plan. 
Although Ive questioned the ability to forecast an early retirement whilst still so young, 
theres no real doubt that retiring at 60 was at least mentioned. The adviser should have 
therefore additionally known that a healthy male retiring at 60 would likely have many years 
ahead in which he would be drawing down his pension funds thus leaving very little left to 
pass on to someone.
I see life insurance was probably discussed as it does look like he was given some quotes. 
Some of these were whole life quotes and may well have been viewed by Mr D as 
expensive. But at 43 years old, a modest term life insurance policy would have been a 
reasonably affordable product if Mr D really did want to leave a lump sum legacy, rather than 
an annual pension, for a specific relative or someone else. But more so, it doesnt appear 
that Abacus took into account the fact that Mr D could have nominated a beneficiary of any 
funds remaining in his other (TATA) DC scheme. So, to this end, Mr D already had plenty of 
options ensuring part of his pension wouldnt die with him.
Overall, in this case I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a 
personal pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr D. I think this 
objective, listed as it was in the suitability report, was no more than a generic comment and 
not meaningful to Mr Ds situation. 
Concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme 
Its clear that Mr D, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and 
Abacus said he lacked trust in the company. Hed heard negative things about the PPF and 
Abacus said he could have more control over his pension fund. 
So, its quite possible that Mr D was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and a negative perception of the PPF. However, it 
was Abacuss obligation to give Mr D an objective picture and recommend what was in his 
best interests. I think that Abacus should have reassured Mr D that the scheme moving to 
the PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought. The income available to Mr D through the PPF would have still probably provided a significant minority of the income he would have needed 
at retirement, and he was still unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring out, given his 
ATR and the effect of pension charges and fees. And although the increases in payment in 
the PPF were lower, the income was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment 
risk. So, I dont think that these concerns should have led to Abacuss recommendation to Mr 
D to transfer out altogether.
Suitability of investments 
Abacus recommended that Mr D invest his funds in a personal pension. As Im upholding the 
complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr D and I 
dont think he wouldve insisted on transferring to a new personal pension if clear advice had 
been given to him, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment 
recommendation. This is because he should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme 
and migrate to the PPF. This means the investment in the new funds wouldnt have arisen if 
suitable advice had been given. 
Summary
I dont think the advice given to Mr D was suitable. 
His CETV may have been modest by most standards, but he was still giving up a meaningful 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the PPF. By transferring to a personal 
pension, the evidence shows Mr D was likely to obtain lower retirement benefits. And I dont 
think there were any other particular reasons which would justify the transfer and outweigh 
this. I think Abacus ought to have advised him against transferring out of his DB scheme for 
this reason, particularly as it could mean hed be worse off in retirement.
So, I dont think it was in Mr Ds best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a 
personal pension when he had the opportunity of opting into the PPF.
Mr D still had many more years before he intended to retire. Much of the rationale used to 
justify the transfer-out recommendation was irrelevant to Mr Ds circumstances. The adviser 
was being paid for this advice, so their job wasnt to simply transact what Mr D thought was 
a good idea. Mr D had no experience of these matters so the advisers job here was to use 
their experience and training to see that Mr Ds personal circumstances were considered 
and to act in his interests.
I have considered, given the circumstances of the time, whether Mr D would have 
transferred to a personal pension in any event. I accept that Abacus disclosed some of the 
risks of transferring to Mr D, and provided him with a certain amount of information. But 
ultimately it advised Mr D to transfer out, and I think Mr D relied on that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr D would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, 
against Abacuss advice. I say this because Mr D was an inexperienced investor and this 
pension accounted for most of his retirement provision at the time. So, if Abacus had 
provided him with clear advice against transferring, explaining why it wasnt in his best 
interests, I think he would have accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think Abacus should compensate Mr D for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr D, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for Abacuss unsuitable advice. I consider Mr D would 
have most likely opted to join the PPF, rather than transfer to the personal pension if he'd 
been given suitable advice and compensation should be based on his normal retirement age 
of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance. 
Mr D hasnt yet retired and Abacus should use the benefits offered by the PPF for 
comparison purposes.
Abacus must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Abacus should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr D and our Service upon completion 
of the calculation.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ds 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Abacus should:
calculate and offer Mr D redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr D before starting the redress calculation that:
- the redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
the DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr D receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr D accepts Abacuss offer to calculate how much of the redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr D for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of the redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ds end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr D as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Abacus may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Ds likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
To enable Abacus to use the most recent version of the BSPS-specific calculator to calculate 
redress, it would be useful if Mr D could give authority to his current IFA to provide details of 
his pension plan and ongoing fees and charges and confirm that Abacus can request these 
directly.
Our investigator recommended that Abacus should pay Mr D for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the unsuitable advice. I have considered the impact this would 
likely have had on Mr D in his particular circumstances. This pension at the time represented 
most of his retirement provision. In his situation I think the thought of losing material benefits 
would have impacted upon Mr D. So I agree the recommended payment of £300 for distress 
and inconvenience. Abacus should pay Mr D this amount in addition to the redress Ive set 
out above.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I am upholding this complaint and I now direct Abacus 
Money Management Ltd to pay Mr D the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above, up to a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Abacus Money Management Ltd pays Mr D the balance. I would additionally recommend 
any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr D.
If Mr D accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Abacus Money 
Management Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr D can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr D may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman