DRN-4112432
The complaint
Mr L has complained Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance, continues to hold him liable for a financial agreement despite him telling them hed 
not taken this out.
What happened
In 2021 Mr L was told by a debt collecting company (who Ill call H) that he was liable for a 
debt of £5,036.57. Mr L told H hed never taken out an agreement to buy a car. He believed 
this had been done by an ex-partners mothers boyfriend in his name.
H told Mr L they werent responsible for looking at this complaint as the agreement had been 
taken out with Barclays Partner Finance (BPF). He complained to BPF. They confirmed they 
believed the agreement had been taken out by Mr L.
Mr L brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. Our investigator was able to confirm 
that the two initial direct debit payments towards this agreement had been made from Mr Ls 
own bank account, although later payments were made by a third party. However he felt that 
Mr L had taken out the agreement so H could continue to hold Mr L liable for the debt.
Mr L provided copies of his signature to demonstrate hed never signed the initial agreement 
in 2015. He didnt agree with this outcome and has asked an ombudsman to review his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
A conditional sale agreement was taken out in Mr Ls name in September 2015, whilst he 
was quite young. He now says that his partner at the time wanted him to help her get a car, 
but he refused. He thinks that any agreement was then taken out by her mothers boyfriend 
in Mr Ls name.
Ive seen a copy of the credit agreement taken out as well as the detailed notes that BPF 
has been able to provide us. These confirm that after the first two payments were taken from 
Mr Ls account, he contacted BPF to provide revised direct debit details. I understand the 
new account details didnt belong to Mr L. Later calls to BPF about the account also seemed 
to be with the same person. Theres nothing to indicate this wasnt Mr L.
It was after then that payments became more sporadic. Arrears started to build up in 2017. 
In 2018 BPF transferred the debt to H. It was more recently that H asked Mr L to repay the 
debt.
Unfortunately because it is now more than six years since the agreement was taken out, 
there is no evidence available from the dealers about the ID they reviewed when granting 
the conditional sale agreement. Mr L has said he doesnt hold a driving licence. However 
that in itself wouldnt stop him taking out a financial agreement to help someone else get a 
car.
Id have expected the dealer to carry out ID checks to ensure that the person they were 
dealing with was the person planning to take out the financial agreement. I think its fair and 
reasonable in the absence of any evidence to the contrary that its more than likely ID 
checks were carried out and it was Mr L present taking out the agreement.
Mr L has disputed the signature on the finance agreement and has provided us with two 
copies of his signature around that time. Obviously Im not a signature expert but Im aware 
the signature on the finance agreement was signed using technology so Im not surprised 
these signatures arent identical. Id also add that the signatures arent massively different 
either.
Like our investigator, I find the evidence that the agreement was initially set up and paid by 
direct debit on Mr Ls current account convincing. I believe its more than likely that Mr L 
would have been aware of the agreement being taken out at that time so I would have 
expected him to notify BPF immediately if he believed hed not taken out the agreement.
I suspect this only became an issue when the person who agreed to make the payments 
towards the agreement failed to do so. However as I believe the evidence shows Mr L took 
out this agreement, I dont think it would be fair to ask BPF to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr L against Clydesdale Financial 
Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner Finance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman