DRN-3130707
The complaint
Mr R complains that furniture he purchased using a credit card was misrepresented to him 
and was of unsatisfactory quality. He says NewDay Ltd (NewDay) should therefore have 
supported his claim.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr R, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim or a chargeback. Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain 
circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the 
credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr R made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
Breach of contract
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the goods should have been of 
satisfactory quality when supplied, it says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
These were new goods and I dont think a reasonable person would expect them to have 
any faults.
I am persuaded by the photographic evidence, taken by the suppliers when they unpacked 
and assembled the goods, that the damage Mr R complains of wasnt present when the 
goods were supplied. Thats the point at which NewDay were responsible for the quality of 
the furniture and it would not therefore be fair to suggest theres been a breach of contract.
Mr R suggests that the damaged paintwork on the bedside units was caused by the cleaning 
fluids used by the assemblers. I havent seen evidence that the assemblers used cleaning 
fluids and I note that doesnt explain why the chest of drawers is undamaged in the delivery 
photographs. On balance Im still not persuaded the goods were of unsatisfactory quality.
In those circumstances I dont think there was sufficient evidence available to NewDay to 
support a claim under section 75 for breach of contract or for them to dispute the chargeback 
scheme providers decision not to uphold a chargeback for breach of contract.
Misrepresentation
If Mr R was told something that was false and if that false statement of fact led him to enter 
into an agreement he would not otherwise have entered into, Id consider the agreement had 
been misrepresented to him and Id ask NewDay to take some further action.
Im not persuaded there has been a misrepresentation here.
Mr R says he was promised a warranty on the goods but I can see the warranty excludes 
mirrored goods and, regardless, as Im not persuaded the goods were delivered in that 
condition and the damage is therefore likely to be accidental damage, the warranty would 
not support a claim.
Mr R also says the goods were supposed to be wood, but hes now discovered they are 
particle board. Im not persuaded this is a misrepresentation. The furniture wasnt described 
as solid wood and was a wooden product. 
Overall, Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence of either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation here and I dont think NewDay were therefore unreasonable to reject     
Mr Rs claim.
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman