DRN-1772822
The complaint
Mrs J, through her representative, complains that Standard Life Assurance Ltd arent paying 
her compensation in the appropriate way for mis-selling her a Free Standing Additional 
Voluntary Contribution Plan (FSAVC) when an in house Additional Voluntary Contribution 
Plan (AVC) wouldve been more suitable. The representative thinks that a lump sum is 
required under the relevant guidance, rather than augmentation of a pension. 
What happened
In 1991 Mrs J was advised to take out a FSAVC by an authorised representative of Standard 
Life. 
Mrs J did so and made contributions to the FSAVC up until 1999. 
Mrs J took her FSAVC benefits in late May 2013, and her occupational pension in late 
August 2015. 
In or around 2019 Mrs J, through her representative, complained about the advice to take 
out the FSAVC.
Standard Life acknowledged that at the time of the advice Mrs J had been a member of an 
occupational pension scheme that provided for additional voluntary contributions (AVCs). 
Mrs J could have done that, instead of taking out a FSAVC.
Standard Life said it didnt have enough evidence in its records that Mrs J was given 
sufficient information to make an informed choice at the time she received the advice. So it 
upheld the complaint.
It arranged for a loss calculation to be carried out to determine whether Mrs J had suffered a 
financial loss as a result of taking out the FSAVC rather than directing her contributions to an 
AVC plan with her occupational scheme. 
Standard Life said that the results showed she had suffered a loss. It offered to increase the 
pension currently received from the FSAVC by a little over £51 a year from her next pension 
date. It also offered to pay approximately £785 for the financial loss from May 2013 to 
November 2019. That sum took into account tax, and interest.
Mrs Js representative wasnt happy with the offer. It said that it didnt think the calculation 
had been carried out in the correct manner. It also said Standard Life hadnt followed the 
October 2017 guidance FG17/9 issued by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) which 
required compensation to be paid as a lump sum. It pointed to paragraph 5 of the guidance. 
Mrs Js representative said that given Mrs J had retired, it wasnt possible to augment her 
FSAVC. In line with the guidance Standard Life should be offering a lump sum for the whole 
of the redress.
Standard Life replied, saying it was unable to offer the redress as a full cash sum. It said that 
the further tax-free lump sum and an increase to her pension being offered put Mrs J in 
exactly the position she should be in. 
Mrs J, again through her representative, brought her complaint about the method of payment 
of the compensation to our service. 
Our investigator thought that Standard Lifes offer was fair and reasonable. Shed reviewed 
the loss assessment and was satisfied that the assessor had conducted it in line with the 
methodology established by the industry regulator. 
She thought the business offer was in line with what our service would recommend and put 
Mrs J in the position she wouldve been in but for the unsuitable advice.
The complaint then came to me for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think what Standard Life has offered is fair, and I wont be telling it to do 
anything further than that. Ill explain why. 
In this case Standard Life have conceded that it doesnt have enough information in its 
records to show that Mrs J was appropriately advised in relation to taking out an FSAVC 
plan rather than making AVCs to her occupational scheme. So the only issue is how any 
financial loss should be calculated and paid. 
Mrs Js representative argues that the FCA guidance FG 17/9 requires Mrs Js 
compensation to be paid as a lump sum. Although I must have regard to guidance, Im not 
bound by it. 
The main purpose of FG 17/9 was for the FCA to give guidance as to how compensation 
should be calculated where unsuitable advice had been given to transfer out of defined 
benefit pension schemes. But paragraph 2 of the guidance said it may also be relevant to 
businesses who receive a complaint about a case involving FSAVC. Paragraph 2 referred to 
Paragraph 10 which relevantly provides as follows:
10. Where a respondent upholds a complaint concerning a ..FSAVC case, the respondent 
may use this guidance as a basis for calculating appropriate redress, to the extent that it is 
appropriate to do so and subject to the particular circumstances of the case.
Mrs Js representative says that FCA guidance requires that compensation be paid as a 
lump sum where a pension cant be augmented. Paragraph 5 provides in part that:
5. If it is not possible to pay the redress amount into the customers personal pension by 
augmentation, the redress should be paid in the form of a lump sum to the customer.
Ive thought carefully about what Mrs Js representative has said  it argues that FG 17/9 
requires Standard Life to pay a lump sum to Mrs J since her pension is already in payment. 
Im not persuaded that is the case. Paragraph 10 of the guidance which Ive set out above 
indicates that for FSAVC cases a business may (my emphasis) use the guidance as a basis 
for calculating appropriate redress. This means a business isnt obliged to do so. In this case Im not persuaded it is appropriate to do so. In my view FG 17/9 is more appropriate where 
the suitable alternative to an FSAVC was added years. This is because the methodology in 
FG 17/9 is concerned with compensating for years in occupational pension schemes. 
Given I dont think Standard Life was obliged to or shouldve followed paragraph 10 of FG 
17/9, I dont think paragraph 5 of the guidance is a freestanding recommendation to pay 
redress as a lump sum where the method in FG 17/9 hasnt been applied. 
In any event, even if Im wrong about the guidance Im not bound by it. In all the 
circumstances of this case Im satisfied that the offer made to Mrs J by Standard Life is fair 
and reasonable, as it puts Mrs J in the position she wouldve been in but for the unsuitable 
advice to take out an FSAVC. Ive looked at the Assessment of FSAVC Plan Loss and 
Redress carried out by actuaries engaged by Standard Life. We expect businesses to carry 
out loss and redress calculations in accordance with the FSAVC Review guidance, as 
adjusted to use a different investment return index after 2005 (since the index used in the 
FSAVC Review didnt exist after that year). Im satisfied that the assessment was carried out 
appropriately.
Taking all of this into account, Im not going to tell Standard Life to do anything other than 
what it has already offered, although it will need to recalculate the lump sum payable in 
addition to the pension to take account of the lump sum being paid after the date in the 
assessment and its final response letter. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs J.
My final decision
Standard Life Assurance Ltd has already made Mrs J an offer to increase Mrs Js pension 
and to pay her a lump sum to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances.
So my decision is that Standard Life Assurance Ltd should increase Mrs Js pension 
payments by £51.06 a year and pay her a lump sum calculated in accordance with the 
methodology contained in the Assessment of FSAVC Plan Loss and Redress.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Helen Wheatley
Ombudsman