DRN-4058373
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs G have complained that Aviva Insurance Limited have not settled a claim Mrs 
G made for dental treatment under her travel insurance policy in full.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld  they didnt find that Aviva 
had done anything wrong. Mr G and Mrs G appealed. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive focused on what I find are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to take this approach. 
It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If 
theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Ive fully reviewed the 
complete file. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able 
to reach what I think is the right outcome.
I recognise that Mrs G and Mr G will be disappointed by my decision but having considered 
all the representations made I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for 
these reasons:
There is no dispute that Mrs G had an unfortunate accident abroad and needed 
treatment, including dental treatment. However, their travel insurance policy clearly 
provides that the most Aviva will pay for emergency dental treatment is £350 per 
person. Aviva paid this amount.
I can appreciate that Mr G was in shock when he called Aviva regarding the claim. 
But he was advised of the policy limit for emergency pain relief several times. So I 
dont agree that Aviva should have done more or failed to advise him correctly.
Mr G considers that the dental treatment here should be considered as treatment due 
to an accident and covered under another section of the policy, like a broken bone 
would be. It is not for this service to tell insurers what cover it should offer. 
Nevertheless, here Im satisfied that the policy terms were clear and Aviva have paid 
up to the limit the policy provides for dental cover.
Aviva did agree to pay for physiotherapy and massage costs because it recognised 
that it didnt advise Mr G that these werent covered. I find this was fair.
Aviva are required to handle claims promptly and fairly and not unreasonably reject a 
claim. In the circumstances here I dont find that Aviva acted in breach of its 
regulatory duties or the policy terms. This being so there is no basis for me to require 
Aviva to make any further payment to Mr G and Mrs G in respect of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 June 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman