DRN-2586926
The complaint
Mr T complains Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money irresponsibly lent to him. 
Mr T says 118 118 Money did not complete reasonable and proportionate checks before 
approving him for the loan, and had it done so it wouldve seen it was unaffordable for him.
What happened
118 118 Money approved Mr T for a loan with a capital amount of £2,000. The term of the 
loan was 12 months, with repayments of effectively £230 per month.  Mr T says at the time 
of applying for the loan he was in financial hardship and was using other high cost credit 
providers and borrowing from family to supplement his income. He says had 118 118 Money 
completed further checks it wouldve seen the loan was unaffordable to him and as such 
wouldnt have lent.
118 118 Money disagreed with Mr Ts complaint. It says it did complete proportionate checks 
before lending. 118 118 Money says it completed an income and expenditure assessment 
with Mr T, and searched his credit file. It says Mr T had declared his income at £2,200, and 
his credit file had not shown any negative markers which would prevent it from lending. 118 
118 Money also said it completed a welcome call with Mr T where it asked him to confirm his 
answers and if the loan was affordable.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She felt the checks 118 118 
Money completed were proportionate and as these showed the loan was affordable to Mr T, 
that its decision to lend was fair. 
Mr T disagreed with this assessment. He maintained 118 118 Money shouldve completed 
further checks. He highlighted that he had taken out other forms of credit shortly before 
applying for this loan; and 118 118 Money shouldve been aware of his financial 
circumstances.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has been passed to me to issue a final 
decision on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ts complaint.
Mr T says 118 118 Money didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks before 
lending to him. The regulations which applied at the time, required 118 118 Money to carry 
out an assessment on whether Mr T could repay any loan in sustainable way. 
This means 118 118 Money needed to consider if any repayments Mr T needed to make 
would cause him any financial difficulties or have any adverse consequences on his 
finances. The checks also needed to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the 
loan which was being approved.
The relevant rules dont set out which specific checks it has to complete for them to be 
reasonable and proportionate. But these checks needed to be proportionate to the amount of 
credit being provided including the total amount of credit, amount of repayments and total 
length of the term. Examples of what the checks could be include asking for details of the 
applicants income and their expenses. 
Mr T says at the time of the application he was experiencing financial hardship. He says he 
was having to supplement his income with other forms of credit and borrowing money from 
family and friends. He also says hes outgoings were higher than those he declared in his 
application.
Ive carefully considered what Mr T says about the proportionality of the checks which were 
completed, but in this instance,  Im satisfied the checks 118 118 Money completed were 
proportionate.
Ive set out above the checks that 118 118 Money completed (income and expenditure 
check, as well as searching the credit file). These searches didnt show any sufficiently 
negative markers to suggest Mr T may not be able to repay this loan sustainably. In 
particular the affordability assessment 118 118 Money completed used higher expenses 
figures than Mr T had declared and covered key expenses such as housing costs. And this 
assessment showed the loan was affordable to Mr T. This is was also combined with the 
credit file search which showed that Mr Ts recent credit commitments had been maintained 
well. In addition to this the information within report collaborated with the information he had 
provided during the assessment call.
I appreciate Mr T says he had taken out other forms of credit shortly before this loan was 
applied for, however this information was not present on the search which 118 118 Money 
completed at the time. I should point out 118 118 Money is entitled to rely on the information 
which it was presented with at the time. And as there was no contradictory information in 
there, Im satisfied 118 118 Money has acted reasonably when considering the information 
before making a decision to lend.
Mr T has provided us with copies of his bank statements too. I appreciate that he has done 
this; but as Im satisfied that 118 118 Moneys checks were proportionate, I dont think it 
needed to conduct a further information request. And as such I dont think it is reasonable to 
say 118 118 Money shouldve considered the information which is presented on the 
statements now. 
So, as Im satisfied the checks 118 118 Money completed were proportionate in this 
instance, and these seemingly showed the loan was affordable to Mr T; it follows that Im 
satisfied 118 118 Money has acted reasonably in relation to Mr Ts loan. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 Tom Whittington
Ombudsman