DRN-4514074
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Volkswagen Financial Services 
(VWFS) was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
In March 2022, Mr N was supplied with a new car through a hire purchase agreement with 
VWFS. He paid an advance payment of £5,000 and the agreement was for £37,340 over 60 
months; with monthly payments of £732.80.
The car was damaged by fire in June 2022, and it took six-months for this damage to be 
repaired. Mr N complained about this, which was dealt with under a separate reference 
number. Mr N accepted a resolution to this complaint.
In July 2023, Mr N complained to VWFS about issues with the infotainment system, 
speedometer, and four-wheel drive. VWFS didnt respond to this complaint within the 
timeframe they had to do so, so Mr N brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service for investigation.
Our investigator explained that, as the complaint about the fire had already been dealt with, 
and Mr N had accepted a resolution to this, then this wasnt something we could look at 
again. And the investigation would only consider the new faults.
The investigator thought the evidence Mr N provided showed there were faults with the car. 
Given the age of the car, and the mileage travelled, she said that the car wasnt sufficiently 
durable when it was supplied, and this made it of an unsatisfactory quality. As VWFS had 
already had an opportunity to repair the car (when the fire damage was repaired) the 
investigator said that Mr N should now be able to reject the car.
As such, the investigator recommended that VWFS take back the car and end the 
agreement; refund the advance payment Mr N paid; refund 15% of the payments hed made 
since July 2023; and pay him an additional £200 compensation.
Mr N didnt agree with the investigator. He didnt think the 15% refund was fair as it didnt 
account for the six months the car was in the garage being repaired after the fire, and it 
means hes paid over £13,000 for an unroadworthy car. He also said that the problems hes 
complaining about now started in December 2022 (although hes not been able to provide 
any evidence of this). Because of this, Mr N said he should either receive a full refund of all 
the money hes made, less a deduction for mileage, or be given a replacement car and be 
allowed to continue with the agreement.
VWFS said they hadnt seen any evidence of a fault with the car. The investigator provided 
this evidence to them, and theyve made no further comments.
I issued a provisional decision on 12 December 2023, where I explained my intention to 
uphold the complaint. In that decision I said:
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr N was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to investigate complaints about it.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, VWFS 
are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other relevant 
circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage at the 
time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless VWFS can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified after 
the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Mr N to show it was present when the car 
was supplied.
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr N took possession of it, or that the car wasnt 
sufficiently durable, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and 
reasonable to ask VWFS to put this right.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think its extremely important for me to set 
out exactly what Ive been able to consider here, and how. I note Mr N has referred to the 
time the car was being repaired after the fire and wanting some compensation for this. 
However, this has already been dealt with as a separate complaint, and our rules dont allow 
us to look at this again. So, anything that happened before the car was returned to Mr N 
following the fire damage repair hasnt been considered as part of my decision.
Ive seen the videos Mr N has sent, which show the infotainment system isnt working. Ive 
also seen a copy of an inspection carried out on the car on 12 November 2023. The car had 
done 10,163 miles at the time of this inspection. The inspection report says:
Multiple multi media issues witnessed whilst vehicle was in our custody. The touch 
sensitive functions would stop working for long periods of time with no ignition cycle 
recovery. The media interaction screen would often (not always) not react to gestures 
or touches given by the operator making it difficult to make the environment 
comfortable. The Driver Assistance (DA) systems faulted once during a test drive 
resulting in us aborting the test drive for insurance liability purposes. This happened 
during normal driving conditions, engine was at temperature so all other mechanical 
systems were assumed to be operating within tolerence.
We witnessed a failure within the all wheel drive system however, when driving under 
normal conditions however, when interrogated there were no stored fault codes.
It is unknown at this point whether the repair has been carried out to an 
unsatisfactory standard or whether there are still issues due to the damage that have 
not been repaired.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied there is a fault with the car. Ive considered whether 
this is likely to be related to the fire, but I dont think thats the case. I say this because Ive 
seen details of what work was carried out on the car after the fire. And this includes wiring loom replaced. As this is an electrical fault, and the wiring loom has already been replaced, 
Im satisfied its more likely than not the current fault relates to one of two scenarios:
1) a faulty wiring loom was fitted to the car after the fire, and this has resulted in the 
infotainment system not working correctly; or
2) the infotainment system failed much sooner than could reasonably be expected, so 
wasnt sufficiently durable.
Either of these scenarios would make the car of an unsatisfactory quality.
Section 24(5) of the CRA says a consumer who has  the right to reject may only exercise 
[this] and may only do so in one of these situations  (a) after one repair or replacement, the 
goods do not confirm to contract. This is known as the single chance of repair. And this 
applies to all issues with the goods, and to all repairs i.e., its not a single chance of repair for 
the supplying dealership AND a single chance of repair for VWFS  the first attempted repair 
is the single chance at repair. Whats more, if a different fault arises after a previous repair, 
even if those faults arent related, the single chance of repair has already happened  its not 
a single chance of repair per fault.
The CRA is clear that, if the single chance at repair fails, or if this fails to identify and fix a 
failing part, as was the case here, then Mr N has the right of rejection. 
Mr N has been able to use the car after it was returned to him following the fire damage 
repair. While I appreciate he didnt necessarily feel safe driving the car, in case it set on fire 
again, this didnt happen. And I can only consider compensation for what actually happened, 
not what might have. Because of this, I think its only fair that he pays for this usage, and for 
the availability of this car to be used.
However, given the issues with the infotainment system, Im also satisfied that Mr Ns usage 
and enjoyment of the car has been impaired. Because of this, I also think its fair that VWFS 
refund some of the payments Mr N made. And I think 15% of the payments made fairly 
reflects the impaired use caused by the car not being of a satisfactory quality.
Mr N has said the faults with the infotainment system started in December 2022, when the 
car was returned to him, but he hasnt been able to show that was the case. The investigator 
has said this refund should start in July 2023, when Mr N raised his complaint with VWFS. 
While I would normally agree with this, as in scenarios like this the complaint is the first 
evidence of any fault that can be provided, in this instance Mr N complained to us first. And 
this complaint took place in March 2023. As such, Im satisfied there was a fault with the car 
from at least March 2023, and the 15% payment refund should start from this date.
Mr N has provided evidence of the £24 costs hes incurred in having the car inspected. And, 
given that the car wasnt of a satisfactory quality, I think its only fair that VWFS reimburse 
these costs.
Finally, its clear that Mr N has been inconvenienced by whats happened and by having to 
arrange for the car to be inspected. And he was further inconvenienced by not being able to 
do long journeys in the car because of the infotainment system issue, and how it 
occasionally affected the all-wheel drive system. So, I think VWFS should compensate him 
for this. 
The investigator had recommended VWFS pay him £200, which is in line with what I 
wouldve directed had no recommendation been made. So, I see no compelling reason not 
to adopt this as part of my decision.Therefore, I intend to ask VWFS to:
end the agreement with nothing more to pay;
collect the car at no cost to Mr N;
remove any adverse entries relating to this agreement from Mr Ns credit file;
refund the £5,000 deposit Mr N paid (if any part of this deposit is made up of funds 
paid through a dealer contribution, VWFS is entitled to retain that proportion of the 
deposit);
refund 15% of the payments Mr N has paid from March 2023 to the date the 
agreement ends;
upon receipt of proof of payment, reimburse the £24 Mr N paid for the November 
2023 inspection on the car;
apply 8% simple yearly interest on these refunds/reimbursements, calculated from 
the date Mr N made the payments to the date of the refund; and
pay Mr N an additional £200 to compensate him for the trouble and inconvenience 
caused by being supplied with a car that wasnt of a satisfactory quality.
If HM Revenue & Customs requires VWFS to take off tax from this interest. VWFS must 
give Mr N a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
Responses
Mr N again said that he felt the 15% refund of the payments was unfair, as hed only done 
around 10,000 miles since the car was supplied to him, and it means he wouldve paid 
around £11,000 for this usage. He said he took out the agreement with the intention of 
owning the car at the end, and to not do so seems like robbery to me. Mr N felt he would 
be better to sell the car privately and repay what he owed to VWFS under the agreement.
VWFS again said there was no evidence of any faults with the car. They believed the only 
acceptable evidence would be a report under the VWFS warranty scheme, as they are best 
trained to investigate technical issues with the brand models and they are the ultimate 
specialists. They didnt think the report provided by Mr N was acceptable because it was 
provided in a spreadsheet format and had only cost £24. They also didnt think the video 
evidence was sufficient because we cannot verify if the vehicle is being operated in normal 
conditions.
VWFS referred to another decision by the Financial Ombudsman Service, where the 
deciding ombudsman said the main dealers workshop were the most experienced with a 
particular make and model of vehicle, and believed this meant Mr Ns report should be 
discarded.
VWFS felt that my comments about the wiring loom having been replaced meaning the 
replacement wiring loom was either faulty, or that the infotainment system had failed sooner 
than could otherwise be expected for other reasons were speculation. They said the CRA 
allowed then the right to repair and questioned why they werent allowed to carry out a 
diagnostic on the car and undertake any necessary repairs. Finally, they didnt think there 
was any evidence of a fault with the infotainment system in March 2023.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive noted Mr Ns concerns about the amount hes paid for the usage of the car. However, I 
addressed these concerns in my provisional decision. I also explained why I cant consider 
anything related to the previous fire, and that Mr N had already been compensated for this.
Ive also considered the amount Mr N financed, the deposit he put down, the term of the 
agreement, the interest being charged, and the age and milage of the car. If I were to 
consider fair usage instead of a percentage reduction, given all these factors, I would 
consider a payment of around £620 a month to constitute fair usage. Which is in line with a 
15% reduction on the monthly payments  the amount I provisionally decided should be 
refunded to Mr N. 
So, while Ive given consideration to Mr Ns comments, these dont change my view as to 
what I think is a fair remedy in the circumstances. Mr N has said he would be better off if he 
were to sell the car and clear the finance. This is an option that may be available to him if he 
were to reject my decision and is something he would need to discuss with VWFS.
Ive also noted VWFSs comments. While I recognise theyve made reference to other 
decisions the Financial Ombudsman Service has made, a crucial part of our service and the 
way we consider complaints is that we consider each complaint on its own merits and its 
own individual circumstances. So, my decision wont be impacted in any way by any 
decision made on a different complaint, no matter how similar VWFS feels the situation is.
I dont accept VWFSs view that the only acceptable report is one undertaken by their 
warranty company. While I accept they are highly trained technicians, this doesnt mean that 
other people arent sufficiently able to identify and diagnose faults. Especially when 
something like the infotainment system isnt working correctly and displays warning 
messages that certain systems have failed during a test drive. 
I also dont accept that the video evidence provided is insufficient as it doesnt show the car 
was being operated in normal conditions. I say this because I havent seen anything to show 
me under what abnormal conditions the infotainment system is designed not to work, and for 
the car to shut off systems such as all wheel drive. So, Im not convinced it was the way in 
which the car was being operated that caused the problems, to the exclusion of any other 
faults with the car.
Given this, I remain satisfied that its reasonable to rely on the report Mr N provided.
Turning to my comments on the wiring loom, I would remind VWFS that, where evidence has 
been incomplete or contradictory, the rules of our service allow me to reach my view on the 
balance of probabilities  what I think is most likely to have happened given the available 
evidence and wider circumstances. Given the evidence Ive seen, I remain satisfied that it 
was reasonable for me to conclude that either the replacement wiring loom was faulty, or the 
infotainment system was insufficiently durable, and that either of these circumstances was 
the most likely reason for the fault occurrence. And, for the reasons already provided in my 
provisional decision, either circumstance makes the car of an unsatisfactory quality.
VWFS have commented on the CRA and the right to repair. But they are aware of the fire to 
the car, and the repairs that took place following this. As the CRA only allows for a single 
chance at repair, not a chance per fault, I remain satisfied VWFS dont have a further right to 
attempt a repair on the car. However, they were able, at any point after Mr N complained to 
them in July 2023, to arrange for the car to be inspected. But they chose not to do so. Given 
the time thats elapsed, I no longer think its fair or reasonable that they now ask for this 
opportunity, when its already been available to them for nearly six months. As such, Im 
satisfied its reasonable for me to make my final decision based on the evidence I have.Finally, VWFS have said theres no evidence the infotainment system failed in March 2023. 
Except that Mr N raised a complaint with this service on 14 March 2023 about the failed 
infotainment system. I consider it highly unlikely that Mr N would raise a complaint about a 
fault that didnt exist, only to have that exact same fault manifest itself at a later date, 
completely independently. As such, I remain satisfied that the fault occurred no later than 14 
March 2023.
For the reasons given, the comments Ive received from Mr N and VWFS dont change my 
view on what happened, or what VWFS should do to put things right. So, I see no compelling 
reason why I shouldnt now adopt my provisional decision as my final decision.
Putting things right
For the reasons already stated, VWFS should:
end the agreement with nothing more to pay;
collect the car at no cost to Mr N;
remove any adverse entries relating to this agreement from Mr Ns credit file;
refund the £5,000 deposit Mr N paid (if any part of this deposit is made up of funds 
paid through a dealer contribution, VWFS is entitled to retain that proportion of the 
deposit);
refund 15% of the payments Mr N has paid from 14 March 2023 to the date the 
agreement ends;
upon receipt of proof of payment, reimburse the £24 Mr N paid for the November 
2023 inspection on the car;
apply 8% simple yearly interest on these refunds/reimbursements, calculated from 
the date Mr N made the payments to the date of the refund; and
pay Mr N an additional £200 to compensate him for the trouble and inconvenience 
caused by being supplied with a car that wasnt of a satisfactory quality.
If HM Revenue & Customs requires VWFS to take off tax from this interest. VWFS must 
give Mr N a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Ns complaint about Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited trading as Volkswagen Financial Services. And they are to follow my directions 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman