DRN-2145022
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) refused to credit them £500, 
which they say is the shortfall between the amount they paid into a Barclays cash machine 
and what was deposited to their account
What happened
Mr H went to a Barclays branch on 17 June 2020 to deposit £4,000 in cash. He says 
Barclays staff suggested he use the quick service point machine (QSP) in the branch rather 
than pay the money in over the counter. Mr and Mrs H werent happy when the machine 
showed that only £3,500 had been deposited, so they asked Barclays to open up the 
machine to check what was paid in. Barclays told them it couldnt do that straight away, as it 
needed to complete an audit of the machine.
Barclays then carried out various checks and spoke to branch staff. It later confirmed £3,500 
had been paid in and not £4,000. Mr and Mrs H werent happy with Barclays response, as 
Mrs H was sure her husband paid in £4,000. So, they complained.
Barclays looked into the complaint and responded on 29 June 2020. It said that when 
suspected errors of this kind are reported, it has to carry out a manual audit of the machine 
in a secure environment. This involves a complete audit of the machine, with staff present 
under CCTV. So, for that reason, it wasnt able to open the machine there and then as 
Mr and Mrs H suggested. Barclays invited them to provide any further information they 
thought it should consider and said they could contact our service if they werent happy. 
Mr and Mrs H complained to us a few weeks later.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and felt that based on the evidence - including the 
results of Barclays audits and accounts from senior staff, he didnt think it had done anything 
wrong. So, he didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs H werent happy with the investigators assessment  not least because they felt 
Barclays should have opened the QSP straight away and might have been able to account 
for the discrepancy. Mrs H also pointed out Mr H didnt want to use the machine in the first 
place. As Mr and Mrs H didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im really sorry to hear about Mr and Mrs Hs concerns. And I do appreciate it must have 
been very upsetting for them to realise their account balance was £500 short of what they 
thought it should be based on what they believe they had paid in.
My role in relation to a complaint like this is to say, based on the evidence Ive seen, whether 
Barclays appears to have acted fairly and reasonably. And if not, to say what Barclays needs 
to do about that. 
Mr and Mrs H are adamant they paid in £4,000. So, I can appreciate why they expected 
Barclays to take immediate action to investigate when they realised £3,500 had been 
credited to their account.
Banks have fairly stringent processes to balance their accounts and to investigate when a  
potential accounting discrepancy is highlighted. Not least because theyd want to be satisfied 
theres been no internal error or malpractice. And I think thats particularly important when 
such a large discrepancy is identified as it was in Mr and Mrs Hs case. As the auditing 
process often involves opening up cash machines, for security reasons, its not uncommon 
for it to be done outside of normal branch opening hours.
Mr and Mrs H think Barclays should have opened up the machine and investigated the 
discrepancy straight away. Whilst I appreciate their point, I dont think it was unreasonable 
for Barclays to say it would reconcile its accounts later on, once the branch was closed. I say 
that because opening up a cash machine during business hours, does potentially present a 
security risk. So, I think it was reasonable for Barclays to want to carry out the necessary 
checks in the right conditions and with the right additional security measures in place in line 
with its standard processes. For that reason, I dont think it did anything wrong in not 
opening the machine on Mr and Mrs Hs request. 
And, in any event, even if the machine could have been opened straight away, it seems 
likely Barclays would always have had to complete an audit. So, Im not persuaded doing so 
would have given Mr and Mrs H immediate answers in terms of whether something had 
gone wrong.
I also appreciate Mr H wouldve preferred to pay the cash in over the counter. Again, I dont 
think Barclays did anything wrong by suggesting he use one of the machines in branch. I say 
that because increasingly, customers are encouraged to use electronic services where 
available (in this case a QSP), rather than the traditional counter service. And I think that 
applies to many other services too - not just banks. 
Ive also thought about whether the checks Barclays carried out seemed reasonable. I can 
see from the account Ive been given that as well as the audit on the day the money was 
paid in, Barclays did a further audit of the QSP the next day. This again confirmed £3,500 
had been paid in. On top of that, Barclays appears to have conducted a weekly balancing 
exercise to ensure that what was paid in correlated with other records. And it confirmed they 
did. Its also given me an account from branch staff  including the manager  who 
confirmed that the outcome of her secure checks was that £3,500 had been paid in by Mr H 
and not the amount he thought. Im satisfied that the steps taken seem reasonable.
Apart from saying they paid in £4,000, Mr and Mrs H havent given me other evidence or 
cause to question the accuracy of Barclays auditing processes, or the accounts its staff 
gave. On balance, taking account of all the available evidence, I dont think Barclays did 
anything wrong and Im satisfied it carried out the appropriate checks when Mr and Mrs H 
highlighted the problem. So, I cant say it acted unreasonably or unfairly when it said it 
couldnt credit £500 that Mr and Mrs H feel theyve lost. 
I fully appreciate this will be disappointing news for Mr and Mrs H. But Im sorry to tell them 
that based on the evidence available to me, I wont be upholding their complaint. My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 October 2020.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman