DRN-1706561
The complaint
Mr P complains that St Andrews Insurance Plc wont accept his home insurance claim for 
water damage.
What happened
In 2016 Mr P noticed there was damp on the living room wall of his ground-floor leasehold 
flat. He reported it to the local authority/freeholder who carried out some investigations 
before telling Mr P that it didnt carry out internal repairs to flats owned by leaseholders. So, 
in October 2016, Mr P contacted his insurer, St Andrews, to make a claim. Whilst waiting for 
the local authority to investigate the external problem, Mr Ps policy with St Andrews came 
to an end and, in August 2017, he took out a policy with another insurer.
 
The local authority confirmed that water was getting into Mr Ps flat from the balcony of the 
flat above. It appeared that the tenant had put decking on top of the concrete base of the 
balcony allowing water to pool and travel down the external wall and wall cavity into Mr Ps 
lounge. Once the decking was removed, Mr Ps flat appeared to dry out. St Andrews, having 
accepted the claim under the escape of water peril, carried out repairs to Mr Ps living room 
in August 2018. 
In August 2018, Mr P placed his home insurance back with St Andrews. 
In April 2019, Mr P contacted St Andrews to report new damage  dampness to other areas 
(hallway, bedroom and utility cupboard) of his flat which had caused mould and salt stains. 
He sent St Andrews a report from a builder hed had look at the damage in which the builder 
suggested that it was possible the previous incident in 2016 was responsible for the new 
damage. The builder said it was possible water had seeped through the concrete slab that 
the building sat on and was now creeping up the walls. Mr P forwarded the builders 
comments to St Andrews. 
St Andrews appointed a surveyor to look at the damage. The surveyor didnt think the claim 
was related to the 2016 incident. The surveyor said he couldnt see how damage had spread 
from the external wall of the lounge in 2016 to internal walls in other areas of the flat without 
damaging the flooring in the process. He thought it could be caused by rising damp (which 
was excluded from cover under the policy). 
Shortly after the surveyors visit, Mr P sent St Andrews a quote for repairs. St Andrews then 
appointed a personal claims consultant to look again at the claim and a site visit occurred at 
the end of May 2019. 
Following the site visit, St Andrews stood by the report of its surveyor. It said to Mr P that his 
builders report included no evidence in support of his opinion that the 2016 water ingress 
had travelled along the concrete slab and up the wall in the hallway. And it said that its 
surveyor and consultant had found no additional damage caused by an escape of water to 
the floor or walls between Mr Ps balcony and the walls in the hallway. St Andrews also said 
that a report Mr P had sent it from a damp-proof company made no mention of what could 
be causing the damp, only that damp-proofing works should be undertaken. 
St Andrews declined the claim. It said the flat was now dry so it didnt think the damage was 
linked to the 2016 claim nor did it find any evidence of a leak in the flat now that could be 
causing the damage (such that a new claim could be raised).  
Mr P complained to St Andrews about its decision. St Andrews looked into Mr Ps complaint 
and issued its final response in August 2019. It said it didnt think itd made the wrong 
decision about Mr Ps claim. It said that dampness was the presence of unwanted moisture 
in a building either from outside or from condensation within. It said damage caused 
gradually  such as damp  was excluded from cover under Mr Ps policy. 
Unhappy with St Andrews findings, Mr P complained to this service. Our investigator looked 
into his complaint but, based on the available evidence, didnt think St Andrews had unfairly 
declined Mr Ps claim so he didnt recommend that it was upheld. 
Mr P disagreed with our investigators findings so the complaint was passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With regret for any disappointment this decision will cause Mr P, I dont think his complaint 
should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
Not all damage a home sustains is covered by a home insurance policy. Only damage 
caused by one of the insured perils (events) listed in the policy is covered  for example 
damage caused by fire, flood, escape of water, theft etc. If the policyholder can show that 
the damage he or she is claiming for is caused by one of the events listed in the policy then 
the insurer must pay the claim unless the insurer can rely on one of the policy exclusions to 
decline it. 
Here it seems to me there are two possible ways Mr Ps damage could be covered by his 
policy. Either, firstly, the damage he is claiming for has resulted from the 2016 incident and 
should, therefore, be considered as part of the claim he made to St Andrews then. Or, 
alternatively, the damage is new and has been caused by one of the insured events listed in 
the policy so would be considered as a new, second, claim. 
St Andrews is correct to say that dampness is the sign of unwanted moisture in the building. 
I can see that St Andrews has checked and theres no evidence of a leak within the property 
that could mean the new damage was the result of a current and separate escape of water. 
The property is reported as being dry. I cant see that the damage could be the result of any 
of the other insured events listed in Mr Ps policy and even if it was, St Andrews said it 
would rely on the policy exclusion for damage caused gradually to defeat the claim. So, I 
dont think St Andrews has unfairly declined to consider the damage Mr P reported as a new 
claim. 
That means that Mr P has to show that the damp is a result of the 2016 incident. Mr P thinks 
hes been able to do this and that St Andrews should consider it under his previous claim. St 
Andrews says that there is no evidence to link the 2019 damage to the 2016 claim so it 
wont be assisting Mr P. I have to decide whether the decision reached by St Andrews, 
based on the evidence available, was a fair one and I have to say I think it was. Mr Ps builder said: It could be that the water from the said balcony had encroached onto 
the slab of the property and travelled to all these areas. [my emphasis]. St Andrews said 
the builder had no evidence to support this comment. I dont think that was an unreasonable 
view for it to have formed; Mr Ps builders comment is an unsubstantiated theory about what 
has caused the damage rather than a definitive opinion backed up by any evidence.  
Ive seen the report from the environmental expert Mr P obtained in July 2016. That report 
says there was evidence of mould growth seen to the bedroom wall, the pattern and 
distribution of which indicated that it was caused by condensation. The report rules out the 
issue with the balcony as being the cause of the mould growth and says the condensation 
could be due to there being an inadequate extractor fan in the bathroom and no extractor fan 
at all in the kitchen. It recommends that a fan is installed in each room. I have no evidence if 
this was done or not. 
Ive seen the photographs taken by St Andrews surveyor and can see the presence of 
black-spot mould. Black-spot mould is typically caused by condensation. 
St Andrews own surveyor said: we cannot definitely say this damage is from the incident in 
question as rainwater was pooling onto upstairs balcony causing this to seep down into [Mr 
Ps] property at other end from where this [new] damage [is].
Taking all the circumstances into account, I cant reasonably conclude that the decision 
taken by St Andrews not to link the 2019 damage he reported to the 2016 claim was an 
unreasonable one.
I know that Mr P says that the mould and salt tests undertaken by St Andrews surveyor 
prove that the damage was caused by rainwater which means it must be the result of the 
2016 incident. But its not unreasonable to think  particularly taking the other evidence into 
account - that another possible cause of the mould is condensation.
And St Andrews has said that if the damage was caused by residue water in the concrete 
slab then it would expect to have seen damage manifesting itself closer to the original seat 
of the 2016 damage or in the kitchen which was even closer still. St Andrews says theres 
no evidence that rainwater couldve travelled under the lounge floor and bypassed the 
kitchen leaving no trace before causing mould towards the back of Mr Ps flat. That seems to 
me to be a fair conclusion for it to have reached.
I appreciate that Mr P thinks that it is St Andrews responsibility to identify what is causing 
the damage but Im unable to agree. Its the responsibility of the policyholder to show that 
the damage they are claiming for has been caused by one of the events listed in the policy 
terms. And I dont think from the evidence Ive seen, and to which I refer above, that Mr P 
has been able to do this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2020.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman