DRN-2441164
The complaint
Miss H says Provident Personal Credit Limited trading as Satsuma lent to her irresponsibly. 
She said repaying these loans each month left her in financial hardship. The worry and 
stress of the situation negatively affected her mental health.
What happened
This complaint is about seven instalment loans Satsuma provided to Miss H between 
December 2017 and March 2019.
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedterm 
(months)date ended
1 26/12/2017 £650 6 02/08/2018
2 28/01/2018 £800 9 02/05/2018
3 28/05/2018 £1,000 5 22/09/2018
4 29/07/2018 £500 9 25/10/2018
5 30/09/2018 £350 9 23/10/2018
6 30/01/2019 £1,250 9 23/10/2019
7 12/03/2019 £2,000 12 17/02/2020
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He thought that the lending pattern itself 
showed that Satsuma shouldnt have approved loans 6 and 7. Satsuma agreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and made an offer of compensation in the way the adjudicator 
recommended. 
Miss H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. She outlined what she said were the 
negative affects the loans had on her financial situation and how the borrowing had caused 
her worry and stress.  
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, 
to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss H 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Miss Hs complaint in part and have explained why below.
Miss H, and Satsuma, didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion to uphold loans 6 and 7. 
Because of this I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. And for 
the avoidance of doubt, I agree that Satsuma should pay the compensation the adjudicator 
recommended and for the same reasons. I understand Satsuma has already done this, but 
for completeness Ive outlined this compensation in my putting things right section below. 
For loan 1 Miss H needed to repay around £200 for the following six months. Going forward 
the highest amounts she would repay was around £350 for loan 3. But the repayments for 
loans 2, 4 and 5 were lower. 
Ive seen a record of the information Miss H provided when she completed her loan 
applications. Miss H said she had a monthly income of £4,800 and she had regular monthly 
outgoings of just over £3,000. This would have left her with enough money to make the loan 
repayments for loans 1 to 5. 
And from what Ive seen the further checks Satsuma did, such as obtaining information from 
a credit reference agency, also didnt show that Miss H was in or likely having financial 
difficulties. 
And so it would be reasonable for Satsuma to have assumed that Miss H could afford the 
repayments for loans 1 to 5.  
Miss H has said that she was having problems when she borrowed. But to uphold Miss Hs 
complaint for this reason I need to be able to say that either Satsuma knew about these 
problems, or it shouldve carried out a more in depth look at her circumstances to find out about them. And these more detailed checks wouldve likely shown the loans werent 
affordable. 
But as Ive outlined earlier, having looked at the information Satsuma had at the time of sale, 
I think its reasonable to say that it wasnt aware of any problems Miss H was having for the 
earlier loans. It didnt see anything that wouldve prompted it to investigate her 
circumstances further and Miss H didnt have significant difficulty making the loan 
repayments. So, I think it was reasonable for Satsuma to rely on the information it obtained 
for loans 1 to 3.
Moving forward I agree that, over loans 4 and 5, Satsuma should, perhaps, have been 
making more in depth checks into Miss Hs circumstances. But, whilst I acknowledge the 
difficulties Miss H says she was facing, I havent seen any information that would allow me to 
say for certain these loans werent affordable for her. 
So overall, I think Satsumas decision to lend for these loans 1 to 5 was reasonable. Im not 
upholding Miss Hs complaint about them. 
I can see Miss H feels very strongly about this and Im sure my decision isnt what she 
wanted. But I hope it doesnt cause any distress and that my explanation is helpful.
Putting things right
Satsuma shouldnt have given Miss H loans 6 and 7 and if it hasnt already done so, it 
should do the following to put things right.
A) Satsuma should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss H towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Satsuma should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Miss H which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss H originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Satsuma should pay Miss H the total of A plus B.
D) The overall pattern of Miss Hs borrowing for loans 6 and 7 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Miss Hs 
credit file. If Satsuma has sold any of the loans Satsuma should ask the debt purchaser to 
do the same.
F) Satsuma should provide a breakdown of how the compensation is calculated so Miss H 
can be sure it has paid the right amount. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma to deduct tax from this interest. Satsuma should 
give Miss H a certificate showing how much tax Satsuma has deducted, if they ask for one.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Miss Hs complaint.
Provident Personal Credit Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman