DRN-2007564
The complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
taken out in 1993 in connection with a secured loan. Mr H says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold 
him PPI.
What happened
Mr H took out a PPI policy in connection with a secured loan. He paid a monthly amount for 
the policy which offered accident, sickness and unemployment cover. He says he wouldnt 
have bought any insurance with his loan. So he assumes it must have been a condition of 
the loan which made him buy it. He concludes it was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be rejected. Mr H disagreed with our 
adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Lloyds Bank should have made Mr H aware he had a choice in buying the policy. He says he 
had no choice about it, and he thinks it was a condition of the loan to buy PPI. So I wanted to 
look at the documents from the time of the sale which Mr H signed. However, neither Lloyds 
Bank nor Mr H have any paperwork from the time of sale. I dont think thats surprising given 
that the sale took place around 27 years ago. But it does mean I have limited information 
about the sale, so I have to decide what I think is likely to have happened, given the 
information I do have and the broader circumstances.
Based on what I know about how Lloyds Bank sold policies like this at the time I think its 
likely the optional nature would have been made clear. And nothing Mr H has told me makes 
me think Lloyds Bank didnt follow its normal process here. So overall, I think its more likely 
Lloyds Bank made it clear to Mr H he had a choice about the PPI, and he agreed to buy it 
although I can understand why he may not remember this now.
Lloyds Bank says the sale was advised. For advised sales, the policy had to be suitable for 
Mr Hs needs. And the PPI information had to be clear enough for Mr H to make an informed 
decision. 
I think the policy probably was suitable for Mr H because he was eligible to buy PPI, it 
seemed affordable at the time and he wasnt affected by the main things the policy didnt 
cover (the exclusions).
I noted Mr H says he was self-employed at the time of the sale and he said there was little 
chance of the policy paying out to him.  Lloyds Bank has produced a copy of a sample policy 
it says Mr H would have seen at the time of his PPI sale. I have looked through the policy 
very carefully. I dont think self-employed individuals were asked to do anything more than 
employed individuals. So I cant say he was affected by the main exclusions in the policy or 
that it would have been more difficult for him to make a successful claim on it.
Also, as he was self-employed, he would not have received any sick pay. So I think he 
probably thought the policy was a valuable benefit to him.
Mr H said he had 12 months salary in savings  although he could not show any documents 
to prove this. However, he later confirmed his savings were probably used for a deposit on a 
previous house purchase. So I think it is likely his savings had been earmarked for other 
purposes and were probably not available in 1993, so I dont think his savings made the 
policy unsuitable for him.
Looking at everything Ive been given, its possible the information Lloyds Bank gave Mr H 
about the PPI cost, benefits and exclusions wasnt as clear as it should have been. But 
having decided he chose to take out the PPI - it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And 
 for the reasons Ive explained above - it looks like the policy would have been useful for 
him if something went wrong. So I think he most likely had enough information about the 
cost, benefits and the exclusions at the time of the sale and I think its unlikely that more 
information would have put him off from buying it.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties. So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship provisions 
in the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which were added to 
the Consumer Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship provisions would only apply to credit agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008.
Lloyds Bank said Mr Hs loan was taken out in 1993 and ended in 1996. So based on what 
Ive said above, I dont think the unfair relationship provisions in the Consumer Credit Act, 
the Supreme Court judgment, or the rules and guidance made by the FCA in relation to the 
non-disclosure of commission apply here. So Lloyds Bank doesnt need to refund any of the 
commission Mr H paid for the PPI he had with his loan. 
I realise that my decision is likely to be disappointing for Mr H. Its always difficult to decide a 
complaint on limited information. But Ive thought very carefully about what he said and 
about what Lloyds Bank said. And I dont think  on balance  I can fairly and reasonably 
uphold his complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman