DRN-3830906
The complaint
Mr M complains that AWP P&C SA declined a claim he made on his motor warranty.
Reference to AWP includes its agents.
What happened
Mr M holds an extended motor warranty with AWP. When his turbo failed, he made a claim 
for on his warranty. AWP declined the claim. It said Mr M hadnt serviced his car in line with 
the manufacturers warranty.
Mr M complained to AWP but it didnt change its stance. So, he brought his complaint to us. 
Mr M says the declined claim means hes not been able to use his car. This in turn has 
caused him distress, which he says has meant hes lost his job and failed in his studies. He 
says he needs the car to take his children to school and without it hes had to walk, despite 
him being asthmatic. Hes said the level of distress caused by the declined claim has 
affected his mental health. And hes said if AWP dont pay his claim, then they should refund 
him all the money hes paid to be on cover.
One of our investigators didnt recommend Mr Ms complaint be upheld. She thought AWP 
had acted in line with Mr Ms policy when not paying for this claim.
Mr M didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. So, the case has been passed 
to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. I understand this wont be the answer Mr M was hoping 
for. Ill explain my reasoning below.
A term of Mr Ms policy with AWP says he must keep his vehicle in an efficient 
and road worthy condition and regularly service it in accordance with the 
manufacturers recommendations.
The manufacturers recommendations are that the car is serviced roughly every 
18,000 miles.
The service history provided shows the car travelled 30,340 miles between the last 
two services. Therefore, its fair that AWP say its not been serviced in line with the 
manufacturers recommendations.
AWP have also stated that the failed turbo is a lubricated part and that failure to 
service the car at the recommended intervals has contributed to it failing.
Therefore, its likely the failure to comply with the condition in the policy was material 
to the failure. And so, it follows that I find it fair that AWP rely on it to decline Mr Ms 
claim. As hes breached a term of the policy, its not appropriate for him to receive a 
refund of the premium he paid AWP.
I appreciate Mr M has said hes suffered distress as a result of the declined claim. 
And Im sorry to hear the trouble and upset this has caused him. But because Im 
satisfied the decline of the claim is fair, I dont find that AWP need to compensate 
Mr M for this distress.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman