DRN-2206767
The complaint
Mr R complains that AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI)
to him alongside a store card in 2002.
I know that Mr R took this card out in a shop. But AXA is responsible for complaints
like this and so Ill refer to AXA for the rest of this decision.
What happened
Our adjudicator didnt think this complaint should be upheld and it was passed to me to 
make a final decision. 
I issued a provisional decision in which I set out why I was minded to uphold the complaint. I 
said: 
As things stand, I think the complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why below.
The first thing Ive thought about is whether Mr R would have known he had a choice about
the PPI and that he could have refused it if he wanted to.
Mr R has given us a detailed account of what happened in the store when PPI was sold to
him. He has also given us quite a bit of information about his mental health difficulties.
Mr R told us he has had mental health difficulties all of his life. He is a vulnerable adult. Mr R
was anxious in the shop when he took PPI because he did not like queueing and the queues
were particularly bad at Christmas, which is when he took the store card out.
Mr R told us that the staff member filled out the application form and told him where to sign
the application form. Looking at the application, it does appear to have been completed by
the same person who worked for the store. I can see that a cross has been marked
ostensibly where the person completing the form indicated Mr R had to sign for the PPI.
When the PPI was sold, I think that the shop probably was very busy, with the PPI being
sold two days before Christmas. I think its most likely that the person in the store completed
the form and gave it to Mr R to sign where indicated. Given Mr Rs mental health difficulties
and noting his stated anxiety whilst queueing, I dont think he would have scrutinised what
he was signing. And I dont think there would have realistically been the opportunity for a
discussion about PPI to occur.
On balance and taking account of all of the information above, I dont think Mr R would have
appreciated that he was buying a PPI policy. And subject to any further information I receive
from the parties, I intend to uphold the complaint on that basis.
I asked the parties to tell me if there was any further information or evidence they wanted me 
to consider before I issued a final decision. Both parties confirmed they had received the 
provisional decision, but did not provide anything further for me to look at.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.
As neither party provided me with any further evidence to consider, I see no reason to depart 
from what I said in my provisional decision. So for the reasons set out above, I uphold this 
complaint and require AXA to put things right for Mr R. 
Putting things right
AXA will need to:
a) remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those
premiums;
b) remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any
interest added to those charges;
c) refund the difference between what Mr R owed when the account was closed and
what he would have owed if he hadnt had PPI. If Mr R made a successful claim
under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what he got for the claim from the amount
they owe him; 
d) add simple interest (at 8% a year) on the difference between what Mr R wouldve
owed when the account was closed from the date of closure until he gets the
refund.
e) If, when AXA works out what Mr R would have owed each month without PPI, he
paid more than enough to clear his balance, AXA should also pay simple interest (at
8% a year) on the extra he paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point
when Mr R wouldve owed AXA something on the store card. 
f) Tell Mr R what its done to work out the above calculations.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must giveMr R a certificate showing how much tax AXA have taken off if he asks for one
My final decision
I have upheld this complaint. AXA France IARD must put things right for Mr R as set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman