DRN-4036518
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) declined a claim they made on 
their home insurance (contents) policy. 
The policy with Aviva is with Mr R and Mrs R as joint policyholders. Mr R has brought this 
complaint so Ill refer to him throughout for ease. 
Reference to Aviva includes its agents.
What happened
Mr R held a home insurance policy underwritten by Aviva. The policy provided cover for the 
contents of his home. In around October 2021 Mr R contacted Aviva to add accidental 
damage cover to the policy. 
Mr R says he used to do model yacht racing but hasnt done so for some time. In around 
November 2021 he took his boat out of the garage to clean it so it was on the pavement by 
his house.
The yacht was next to a water butt on a 2ft stand which was holding around 60 gallons of 
water. The water butt fell onto the yacht and crushed the side of the boat. So Mr R contacted 
Aviva in order to make a claim on his policy. 
Mr R says he took pictures of the yacht and sent them to Aviva. But you couldnt see the 
damage to the boat on the pictures. Mr R says he expected Aviva to come out and inspect 
the boat but it didnt. Instead he says the claim was rejected because he had increased the 
amount of cover on the boat the week before the accident with the boat.
Mr R says he heard about the prices of everything going up and so he got in touch with the 
model yacht association and was told the cost of replacing the model of yacht had increased 
to £3000. Since the policy only covered his yacht up to £2,500 he increased the limit of his 
cover with Aviva and paid the additional premium. 
Mr R wants the claim to be paid.  And so he complained to Aviva. Aviva said Mr R hadnt 
provided sufficient proof of the loss and it had concerns about the claim. Aviva said it wasnt 
able to validate the claim and maintained the decline. 
Mr R wasnt satisfied with the response from Aviva and so he referred his complaint to this 
service. Our investigator looked into things for him. She said she thought Avivas reason for 
declining the claim was fair and so she wasnt upholding the complaint. 
Mr R didnt agree with the investigators outcome and so the complaint has come to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all the evidence Im not upholding the complaint. I appreciate Mr R has 
been through a difficult time and I know this isnt the answer he wanted. So I will explain my 
decision below. 
My role is to decide whether Aviva handled Mr Rs insurance claim in line with the policy 
terms and conditions, and whether it handled the claim fairly in the circumstances. 
The relevant industry rules require insurers to handle claims promptly and fairly. And they 
shouldnt reasonably reject a claim. 
It is always the responsibility of the policyholder to prove they have suffered a loss which is 
covered by the policy. If they are unable to do so then the insurer neednt pay the claim. 
Insurers are entitled to ask policyholders to provide further detail in respect of the accident 
circumstances. And this is what Aviva has done with Mr Rs claim. Mr R has claimed for 
accidental damage and Aviva has asked for further information in respect of the claim. I dont 
think thats unreasonable. 
During the course of trying to validate the claim Mr R made, Aviva have uncovered a number 
of inconsistencies in the documentation and evidence provided. Having reviewed the 
evidence Mr R provided to prove his claim, I dont think Aviva unreasonably declined this 
claim. 
Mr R increased the level of cover from £2,000 to £3,000 ten days before the incident with the 
model yacht. He also added accidental damage to the policy. I accept this could have been a 
coincidence but I think it was reasonable for Aviva to make further enquiries following this. 
Mr R provided photographs of the damage at the time of the incident but those photographs 
didnt hold any data to evidence when they had been taken. The condition of the items being 
claimed for appeared to contradict the description provided by Mr R. Aviva were also not 
satisfied with the explanation of how the water butt was full when it had been emptied a few 
days before the incident, and there was hardly any rainfall in those days despite that being 
Mr Rs explanation. Mr R claimed the model yacht was worth around £3,000 but when Aviva 
made enquiries it was told the value was in the region of around £800. 
I have to decide if Aviva has unfairly declined Mr Rs claim. I dont think, taking all the 
evidence, into account that it has. Its not the responsibility of the insurer to prove the 
accident happened as it did. Rather its up to the insured to prove his claim. And I dont think 
it would be fair to conclude Mr R had done so to an acceptable level such that Avivas 
decision to decline the claim was unreasonable. 
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr R but I dont think it was unfair of Aviva to 
decline his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman