DRN-3031955
The complaint
  This complaint is about a re-mortgage transaction Mr and Mrs W arranged through HL 
Partnership Limited. The transaction was delayed after the new lender (which Ill refer to 
here as S) issued the mortgage offer for the wrong amount. A new offer had to be issued, 
which held up completion. Mr and Mrs W hold HL to blame and are seeking compensation of 
a little over £5,000 for having to continue paying their previous lender longer than planned.
What happened
 By way of two provisional decisions, I set out, with reasons, the basis on which I intended to 
determine the complaint. The following is an extract from the first provisional decision, dated 
5 August 2021.
 Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments in order to decide whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, Ive come to a different conclusion from the investigator. I set out my 
provisional findings below so that both parties can comment before I finalise my 
decision.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I 
think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to 
consider it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I 
think is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and 
decide whats fair in the round.
Its common ground that the mistake that led to the mortgage offer being issued for 
the wrong amount was not HLs. The recording of HLs phone call to S clearly 
demonstrates that HL gave S the correct amount; S repeated the amount back in the 
conversation (twice) but with two of the figures transposed. 
Its regrettable that HL didnt pick up on S mistake, but ultimately, thats not the 
reason Ive come to a different conclusion from the investigator. Thats because, 
even though S made the error, HL was responsible for ensuring Mr and Mrs W 
received the correct mortgage that they had applied for. More significantly, it was for 
HL to go through the mortgage offer with them, and make sure the terms of it met 
their needs and circumstances. It doesnt look to me that HL did that here, otherwise 
its reasonable to conclude the error would have been spotted.
That being so, I think its fair that HL accept that it is partially responsible for the 
delay in the re-mortgage completing, and for any loss Mr and Mrs W incurred 
because of the delay. Theyve said thats just over £5,000 because thats apparently 
what they paid to their old lender during the delay period. That might be the case but 
that is not their loss.
If completion had happened when it should have done, yes, Mr and Mrs W would 
have stopped paying their old lender sooner, but theyd have also started paying their 
new lender sooner. If the new mortgage is cheaper (that is, on a lower interest rate) 
than the old one, then Mr and Mrs Ws loss is the difference in interest between the 
two mortgages, between the date they should have completed and the date they did 
complete.
Id ask Mr and Mrs W, as part of their response to this provisional decision, to provide 
evidence from their solicitor of the original intended completion date and the actual 
completion date. Ill also need evidence of the interest rate they were paying on their 
old mortgage between those two dates. If the information I receive reveals that Mr 
and Mrs W paid more than they would have done if the new mortgage had completed 
when intended, HL should pay them half of the additional interest, along with £100 
compensation for their time and trouble. 
Once Ive received the information from Mr and Mrs W on the respective interest 
rates, I will make the relevant calculation to satisfy myself if an award of redress is 
due. Our investigator will then let the parties know how much, if anything at all, Im 
intending to award, so that they can comment before I finalise my decision.
I heard from both parties; Mr and Mrs W provided information from their solicitor that told me 
when the old mortgage was scheduled to be repaid, if the error with the mortgage offer 
amount hadnt happened. I also found out from their previous lender (which Ill call K) when 
the old mortgage was repaid, along with the interest it charged between those dates. 
That information, combined with the rate being charged on the new mortgage, allowed me to 
calculate the financial impact on Mr and Mrs W of the delay. But I also received a detailed 
submission from HL on why it didnt consider it fair that it should share the blame for S 
mistake, and even if it should, then 50% is too high a share.
Having considered all of the new information and submissions, I decided it would be helpful 
to issue a second provisional decision to deal with the comments from both parties and to 
provide quantum to my intended award. The following is an extract from the second 
provisional decision, dated 19 August 2021.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments in order to decide whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Dealing first with Mr and Mrs Ws comments, it seems to me that they think HL is to 
blame for the time it took for a redemption statement to be issued by their old lender. 
Theyve said that this transaction was meant to complete in the summer of 2019 and 
have based their compensation claim on that premise. Im happy to accept on face 
value that Mr and Mrs W expected the re-mortgage from K to S to happen several 
months earlier than it did, but the vast majority of the delay had nothing to do with 
anything HL did or failed to do.
HLs role was to source the new mortgage with S; beyond that, HL had no 
responsibility for arranging or in any way facilitating the closure of the old mortgage. 
The majority of the delay that Mr and Mrs W attribute to HL was down to how long it 
took to obtain a redemption statement from K, but that had nothing to do with HL. 
Whatever went wrong elsewhere in the transaction, HL only has liability for the delay 
that began once Mr and Mrs Ws solicitors were actually in a position to repay the 
mortgage with K. Based on what I have seen, that was on 9 October 2019. Thats the 
date that Mr and Mrs Ws solicitors gave in an email dated 3 October 2019 as the earliest date that the re-mortgage could have completed, but for the error with the 
new offer that had just that day come to light. Any delays prior to 9 October 2019 are 
not HLs responsibility.
Once the error did come to light, S issued a new offer for the right amount (on 
9 October 2019 by coincidence) and the evidence Ive received from K confirms that 
the old mortgage was eventually repaid on 25 October. So the relevant delay period 
for which HL has to share responsibility is the sixteen days from 9 to 25 October 
2019. Ill address quantum next.
Starting from 25 October 2019, Mr and Mrs W were charged interest on £786.250 at 
2.34%; that equates to a daily rate of £50.41. They should have been charged that 
from 9 October 2019, but instead for those sixteen days, the redemption statement 
shows they were charged interest by K at a daily rate of £136.84. That means the 
delay cost Mr and Mrs W £86.43 per day. Thats £1,382.88 over sixteen days, half of 
which is £691.44.
Mr and Mrs W are also due interest on £691.44 at 8% simple, from the date the 
mortgage was redeemed up to the eventual settlement date of the complaint. 
Now that I have quantified my award, Ill address HLs points about why it doesnt 
believe it to be fair.
HL argues first of all that it should not be held liable at all, given S has owned up to 
the mistake. But I have already addressed that in my first provisional decision. S 
made the mistake, but by not noticing it, HL didnt fulfil its duty to ensure Mr and Mrs 
W had the right mortgage for their needs. I take the point that it wasnt an easy 
mistake to spot, but not spotting it was still HLs omission. So it must share 
responsibility for the consequences of that omission.
I dont agree with HLs argument that other parties should share responsibility, and 
the redress be apportioned more widely amongst those parties. In much the same 
way that HL was not responsible for other delays in this transaction completing, other 
parties didnt have its duty to ensure the suitability of the new mortgage for Mr and 
Mrs Ws needs. Also, neither Mr and Mrs W nor their solicitors had been party to the 
conversation between HL and S in which HL had told S how much Mr and Mrs W 
needed to borrow. 
HL has referenced the complaint that was made to S, and the outcome of that. Im 
afraid that confidentially prevents me from revealing information about how another 
complaint against another business was resolved. What I can say is that I took full 
account of that when deciding that, for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
HLs omission, Mr and Mrs W are fairly due £100 compensation.
I gave the parties two weeks to respond to my second provisional decision. Those two 
weeks have now passed and neither party has said anything further. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  Ive considered afresh everything that both parties have said and provided. Having done 
so, there arent any grounds for me to depart from my provisional decision.
My final decision My final decision is that I determine this complaint by ordering HL Partnership Limited to:
reimburse Mr and Mrs W £691.44 for extra interest caused by the delay in redeeming 
their old mortgage;
pay Mr and Mrs W interest on £691.44 at 8%* from the date the mortgage was 
redeemed up to the eventual settlement date of the complaint: and
pay Mr and Mrs W £100 compensation. 
*If HL Partnership Limited considers it must deduct basic rate tax from this part of my award, 
it may do so provided it then supplies Mr and Mrs W with the relevant tax certificate.
I make no other order or award. My final decision concludes this services consideration of 
this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 October 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman