DRN-2823852
The complaint
Ms S complains that Society of Lloyds (SoL) unfairly declined a claim on her home 
insurance policy following a theft.
What happened
Ms S contacted her insurer after some jewellery was stolen from her property. But she had 
to keep chasing SoL to progress her claim. Ms S gave SoL the crime reference number and 
an initial record of the stolen items. The jewellry had been in her possession for many years 
and she no longer had any receipts. So Ms S provided photos of herself wearing the 
jewellery and an estimate of their value. 
Ms S said she updated SoL as she became aware exactly how many items had been stolen. 
And she provided a valuation based on the photos. The independent jeweller valued the 
stolen items at around £8000 - below the total claim limit on her policy. The only item above 
the single item limit of £2500 was her engagement ring. And Ms S said she wasnt aware of 
that until shed had the valuation carried out. Ms S said SoL had declined her claim because 
she hadnt provided enough evidence. But shed done everything theyd asked. And shed 
like SoL to settle her claim.  
SoL said Ms S had initially reported a theft of two jewellery boxes containing items including 
her wedding and engagement ring with an approximate value of £1500. Ms S had 
subsequently provided an updated estimate for the cash replacement of the stolen items of 
just over £8000. 
SoL said itd been unable to accept the claim due to a lack of evidence in its support. Ms S 
had a responsibility as the policyholder to demonstrate her losses within the terms of the 
policy. But shed only been able to provide some photos of the stolen items. And SoL felt itd 
acted fairly in declining the claim. 
Ms S wasnt satisfied with SoLs response. So she contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She was sorry to hear about the distressing experience 
Ms S had suffered. And she looked at the photos Ms S had provided as proof of ownership. 
But our investigator wasnt satisfied the photos were clear enough to provide an accurate 
valuation. And she didnt think SoL had acted unfairly in not relying on the photos as 
evidence of the high value of the claim. She could see the independent jeweller had valued 
the items in accordance to your visual guidance and relied on the photos Ms S had 
provided. 
Our investigator understood why SoL felt that wasnt enough evidence to support the claim  
especially as the valuation had significantly increased from the initial contact. So she didnt 
think SoL had acted unfairly in declining the claim given the photos were the only source of 
evidence. 
Our investigator could see thered been delays in handling Ms Ss claim. And she felt SoLs 
offer of £50 compensation for her trouble and upset was reasonable in the circumstances. 
But she wouldnt be asking SoL to do anything more.  
Ms S didnt agree. Shed provided SoL with photos and an independent valuation by an 
experienced jeweller as itd requested. And shed paid for her insurance to cover incidents 
such as this. So shes asked for an ombudsmans final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how distressing this mustve been for Ms S. She suffered a break-in at her 
property and valuable and sentimental items were taken that shed hoped to pass on to her 
family. But because theyd been bought many years earlier Ms S only had a few photos to 
show her insurer. And although shes provided an independent valuation of the stolen items 
SoL wont accept that as sufficient evidence to settle her claim.
Im sorry to hear of the upset Ms S has been through. Shed paid her insurance premiums in 
good faith. So she expected her insurer to accept her claim in the same good faith. But 
having looked at everything Ms S and SoL have said Im afraid Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator for broadly the same reasons.
Ive looked at Ms Ss home insurance policy and in particular the section making a claim on 
page four. When Ms S became aware of the theft she followed the policy requirements and 
provided details to SoL, including an initial value of the claim and details of the crime 
reference number. 
But the policy continues we may, however, request additional information depending upon 
circumstances and value which may include the following:
 Original purchase receipts, invoices, instruction booklets or photographs
 Purchase dates and location of lost or damaged property
I realise Ms S says she wasnt aware of everything thatd been taken until after shed first 
reported the theft. And even though the independent valuation for the stolen items was far 
greater than she initially thought it was still within the valuables limit of £10000. 
Ive looked at the photos and while they show Ms S wearing the various items of jewellery I 
dont think theyre of sufficient quality to make an accurate valuation from. I accept Ms S 
obtained a valuation from an experienced jeweller, but that valuation was made in 
accordance with your visual guidance and was based on the same photographs Ms S had 
provided to SoL.
Although the photos show Ms S previously wearing the jewellery thatd been stolen, I dont 
think its possible to obtain an accurate valuation based solely on the five photographs 
provided. And I cant say SoL has acted outside of the terms and conditions of the home 
insurance policy in declining the claim based on a lack of supporting evidence.
I do think SoL couldve handled Ms Ss claim a little better. There were delays in updating 
Ms S and she had to keep chasing for a progress report. And that wouldve added to her 
distress during an upsetting period of time. I can see SoL has offered to pay Ms S £50 
compensation for the service delays and I think thats reasonable in the circumstances.I know Ms S will be disappointed in this outcome. And I appreciate shed hoped to pass on 
the items to her family in due course. But the onus is on the policyholder to provide sufficient 
information to the insurer to show an insured event has taken place (the theft) and to provide 
confirmation of ownership and value of the stolen items (the jewellery). 
Its not unusual for insurance companies to ask for evidence of ownership and value for 
stolen or damaged items  especially when they are of a high worth. But I dont think the 
photos were of sufficient clarity to be able to obtain an accurate valuation  either by SoL or 
another valuer. 
So I cant say SoL has acted unfairly in declining Ms Ss claim due to a lack of evidence. And 
I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman