DRN-1934431
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about the amount The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance 
Society Limited (NFU) offered for their car after they claimed on their car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ms car was hit by another car, the third-party driver admitted liability, so Mr and 
Mrs M initially claimed directly from the third partys insurer. As they werent happy with the 
third-partys insurers handling of the claim they decided to claim on their own policy with 
NFU. 
NFU sent an engineer to inspect Mr and Mrs Ms car who deemed it total loss. Because of 
this NFU said it would pay Mr and Mrs M the market value immediately before the accident 
and offered them £13,000. Mr and Mrs M didnt think this was enough and complained. They 
said the car was a classic which theyd bought and been restoring, because of this they said 
it was worth around £24,000. 
NFU looked into the complaint. It had its engineers report reviewed by another one of its 
engineers, who agreed with the value of £13,000. NFU said the work carried out was needed 
to keep the car passing its MOT and in a working condition. It also said the car wasnt in a 
showroom condition so wouldnt be valued the same as the cars Mr and Mrs M had sent in 
details of. As Mr and Mrs M didnt agree with NFU they brought the complaint here. 
Our investigator looked into their complaint and didnt recommend it was upheld. She found 
that the car had rust which needed repairing and the adverts Mr and Mrs M had sent in 
werent like for like to their car. Mr and Mrs M disagreed, they said theyd spent over £10,000 
restoring the car and that a 35 year old car would always have rust on it somewhere. They 
said they couldnt replace their car with one similar with the amount NFU had offered. 
As Mr and Mrs M didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ms policy says in the event their car is deemed a total loss NFU will pay the 
market value. It defines market value as The amount it would cost to replace the CAR (or 
TRAILER) with one of the same make, model, specification, age and condition.
Our service doesnt value cars, instead we check to see that an insurers valuation is
fair and reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. In most cases we
use the trade guides as theyre based on nationwide research. In this case as Mr and Mrs 
Ms car is around 35 years old its not possible to use the trade guides. NFU has valued the 
car by having an engineer inspect the car and research the market for similar vehicles. NFU 
has also provided adverts of cars its found to support this figure. 
I understand Mr and Mrs M dont think this value is fair and have provided several adverts 
which range from around £24,000 to £38,000. They also said they bought the car for £8,250 
and have spent over £10,000 restoring it and have provided receipts to support this. From 
looking at all the evidence provided Im more persuaded by the value NFU have given. 
I say this because its engineer has inspected the car and has provided adverts which 
support the value given. These adverts are for similar cars to Mr and Mrs Ms and have 
lower mileage. Ive also seen the adverts for similar cars for more money, however in these 
adverts the cars have been described as in great condition, pristine, and amazing 
condition. When Ive reviewed the pictures of Mr and Mrs Ms car they show there is rust 
and corrosion underneath. I understand Mr and Mrs M have said all cars of this age will have 
some rust underneath, but Im not persuaded a car with rust on would be described as 
pristine, even if it is 35 years old.
From reviewing the information Mr and Mrs M have provided I can understand why theyre 
not happy with a valuation of £13,000. When theyve spent more than that buying the car 
and having work done on it. However, the policy doesnt cover work which would be deemed 
to be repairing general wear and tear. So, while Mr and Mrs M have spent more on buying 
the car and improving it, it doesnt mean it would be worth that amount. And as Im satisfied 
NFU has offered a fair and reasonable value which is in line with the policy terms, Im not 
going to instruct it to do anything more 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2020.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman