DRN-4300794
The complaint
Mr M is complaining about Moneybarn No.1 Limited.  He says they shouldnt have lent to 
him as the loan was unaffordable. A representative has brought the complaint on Mr Ms 
behalf but for ease Ive written as if weve dealt directly with Mr M.
What happened
In January 2019, Mr M took out a conditional loan agreement with Moneybarn, to finance the 
purchase of a car. He paid no deposit and borrowed £13,995, the cash price of the vehicle. 
The agreement required him to make 59 monthly repayments of £434.68. Mr M first missed 
a payment in March 2020 when a direct debit bounced. But he made that months payment 
by card and was then granted a three-month payment holiday. Mr M made further payments 
later in 2020 but these stopped in November 2020. Moneybarn terminated the agreement in 
April 2021.
In February 2023, Mr M complained to Moneybarn, saying they were irresponsible in lending 
to him. He wanted them to transfer ownership of the car to him and remove the adverse 
marker from his credit file.
In response to Mr Ms complaint, Moneybarn said theyd done a full credit search with one of 
the credit reference agencies (CRAs). They said this showed Mr M had defaulted on some 
previous borrowing but the most recent of these was 69 months prior to his application and 
he was paying back the sums owed. They said the credit report showed no County Court 
Judgments or insolvency information and it showed Mr Ms existing borrowing and monthly 
credit commitments appeared affordable. 
Moneybarn added that theyd checked Mr Ms income using one of the CRA tools. This 
check uses information from a customers current account to confirm regular income. They 
said they verified Mr Ms monthly income of £2,500 and determined that this was in line with 
his stated employment in a sales position. 
Moneybarn said they checked Mr Ms credit commitments using the CRA and calculated his 
non-discretionary expenditure each month was £521.60. On that basis they decided he had 
disposable income of £1,978.40 each month and so the agreement was affordable.
Mr M wasnt happy with Moneybarns response so brought his complaint to our service. He 
said hed discussed his financial situation and budget constraints with the sales 
representative and was assured that the agreement would be tailored to meet his specific 
circumstances but it quickly became clear that the monthly payments were more than he 
could comfortably afford. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. His view was that Moneybarns checks 
hadnt been proportionate  but if they had, Moneybarn would have been able to fairly 
decide that the repayment was affordable and it was reasonable to lend to Mr M. Our 
investigator also looked into how Moneybarn had treated Mr M once hed run into financial 
difficulties and said he thought Moneybarn had treated Mr M fairly.
Mr M rejected our investigators view, saying that the amount of disposable income hed 
calculated wasnt enough given the nature, age and mileage of the vehicle. He said these 
vehicles were renowned for being expensive to run and maintain. Because our investigator 
and Mr M couldnt reach an agreement, the complaints come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and acknowledging itll be disappointing for Mr M, Im not upholding his 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator - Ill explain below.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out in a part of its handbook known as CONC 
what lenders must do when deciding whether or not to lend to a consumer. In summary, a 
firm must consider a customers ability to make repayments under the agreement without 
having to borrow further to meet repayments or default on other obligations, and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers financial situation. 
CONC says a firm must carry out checks which are proportionate to the individual 
circumstances of each case. 
Did Moneybarn carry out proportionate checks?
Moneybarn said they carried out the following checks:
reviewed Mr Ms credit file; 
verified his income using a CRA tool; and
calculated his monthly non-discretionary expenditure at £521.60.
Whether or not these checks were proportionate depends on various factors, including the 
size and length of the loan, the cost of credit, and what Moneybarn found.
Moneybarn havent kept a copy of the credit file they looked at but theyve told us it showed 
Mr M had three outstanding defaults at the time but the most recent of these was 69 months 
old and the default balance had reduced significantly, from £3,600 to £1,300. Because 
Moneybarns copy of Mr Ms credit report isnt available, Ive looked at the credit report Mr M 
provided.
Because of the time thats passed this only gives an indication of Mr Ms credit status for the 
last 18 months prior to his application for this agreement but Im satisfied thats enough to 
form an idea of Mr Ms financial circumstances at the time. Mr Ms credit report shows he 
had an existing hire purchase agreement at the time of taking out this new one. Mr Ms copy 
of the credit report doesnt show anything else of any significance  I cant see any indicators 
that Mr M might have been in any financial difficulties at the time of his application to 
Moneybarn.
As well as checking Mr Ms credit file, Moneybarn used a CRA tool to verify his income and 
ONS data to estimate his expenditure. CONC allows the use of statistical data, but in this 
case the statistical data Moneybarn used included no expenditure for housing costs. Ive 
havent seen any evidence of Mr M telling Moneybarn he had no housing costs. Even if Mr M 
didnt have housing costs at the time, it would be reasonably foreseeable that that wouldnt 
remain the case for the five-year term of the loan. In addition, given the size and term of the 
loan and the fact that Mr M already had a hire purchase agreement in place, Im not satisfied 
it was proportionate for Moneybarn to use the CRA tool to determine Mr Ms income. On balance, Im not satisfied Moneybarn carried out proportionate checks when assessing 
Mr Ms application for finance.
What would Moneybarn have found if they had done proportionate checks?
A proportionate check would have involved Moneybarn finding out more about Mr Ms 
income and expenditure to determine whether hed be able to make the repayments in a 
sustainable way.
Ive looked at statements for Mr Ms main bank account for the two months leading up to his 
application to Moneybarn. Im not saying Moneybarn needed to obtain bank statements as 
part of their lending checks. But in the absence of other information, bank statements 
provide a good indication of Mr Ms income and expenditure at the time the lending decision 
was made.
The bank statements show that in the month to 14 December 2018, Mr M was still 
withdrawing funds from his business bank account, with the total being around £1,400. On 
top of this he had income of £1,300. On the statements this payment appears to come from 
a personal account, but the individual named is the director of the company Mr M was 
working for, so Im satisfied it was employment income. In the following two months, Mr M 
received £2,100 and £2,300 respectively from the same source (but none from his business 
which had stopped trading). So it would have been reasonable for Moneybarn to determine 
Mr Ms monthly income was at least £2,100.
Looking at regular payments from Mr Ms bank statements, I can see he was spending £675 
per month on rent. This appears to have included rates and bills as I cant see any other 
spending on those. He spent on average £200 per month on fuel, £120 per month on car 
insurance, and £28 per month on road tax. He was also spending around £180 per month on 
TV and mobile phone costs, and £40 per month on a gym membership. It appears that Mr M 
was no longer making payments for his existing hire purchase agreement  there was a 
single payment of £30 in January 2019 and the agreement was shown as settled on his 
credit file not long after. 
In summary, Mr M had committed or non-discretionary expenditure at the time of around 
£1,250. Adding on the monthly repayments for this agreement of £434 takes his expenditure 
to £1,684. Deducting this from Mr Ms income of £2,100 left him with £416 per month to 
cover food and discretionary spending. Mr Ms argued that the car he was financing under 
the agreement was known for being expensive to run and has given an example of a new 
set of tyres being £800. But I think theres enough headroom in my income and expenditure 
assessment to cover the maintenance costs of the car. Im satisfied that Moneybarn could 
have fairly decided the lending was affordable.
Did Moneybarn act unfairly in any other way?
Ive reviewed Moneybarns statement of account for Mr M and their detailed notes of their 
contact with Mr M. I can see Moneybarn granted Mr M a three-month payment holiday in 
March 2020 when Mr M advised them of his financial difficulties. And I can see that when he 
asked for a further payment holiday the following year, Moneybarn asked Mr M to provide 
documents proving his redundancy. He didnt provide the documents so I cant say 
Moneybarn should have allowed him the payment holiday. I can see Moneybarn tried to maintain contact with Mr M but were unable to get hold of him 
on a number of occasions. In the end they terminated the agreement and marked the 
account as defaulted. I cant say this was unfair  from what Ive seen, Moneybarn gave 
Mr M enough notice and treated him with forbearance and due consideration over the 
duration of the agreement. 
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint about Moneybarn No. 1 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman