DRN-2418526
The complaint
Ms G took out a mortgage with Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax. To keep things 
simple, Ill refer mainly to Halifax in this decision. The application process seems to have 
begun in 2005 and continued into 2006.
Ms G says that during this application, she was mis-sold mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
We now know that Ms G was actually sold a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP). A 
TMPP is a type of product that can include several different insurance policies such as PPI, 
life cover and critical illness cover. Consumers can accept or reject all or certain elements of 
the insurance as they see fit. Her complaint is about the PPI.
I can see Ms G has already been offered some money back for part of the commission 
Halifax got from the PPI part of the sale. However, one of our adjudicators has assessed the 
mis-sale element of the case and told Ms G its unlikely to be upheld. 
She disagreed because she still thinks she should never have been sold the PPI policy and 
has asked for the complaint to be passed for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided not to 
uphold this mis-sale complaint. 
Ms Gs central complaint point is that she was told the PPI was something she needed to 
have. She gives a detailed recollection of the mortgage interview which Ive looked at and 
considered with care.
Whilst I have no reason to doubt Ms G is being genuine in her recollections, these events 
were around 14 years ago and as Im sure she would expect, I take account of her 
recollections - but also of the actual paperwork we still have from the sale. Ive also seen 
quite a few of these TMPP sales and so have considerable experience of the usual Halifax 
processes and the documentation that was generally used.
Ms G implies she was told many things about the PPI being compulsory, or at least, that 
shed be otherwise disadvantaged if she didnt agree to have it. However, Im afraid that the 
paperwork points very strongly the other way. It was set out on her mortgage illustration, for 
example, that she was being offered Optional Insurance and within this section the PPI 
was clearly indicated, and its cost was comprehensively set out. The other types of 
insurance were also included, again clearly, in my view. 
Obviously, I cant say with certainty what was discussed during the mortgage interview, but 
my experience of these sales is that various products were often discussed and an 
illustration then drawn up as a result of that conversation. Consumers were also usually 
given a schedule summarising which products had been accepted by them, and which 
rejected. I see such a schedule was issued in this case outlining that Ms G had accepted 
three insurance products, only one of which was the PPI.
On this basis, I think Ms G was given enough information about the policy being optional. 
As well as clearly being described as optional, I see her Mortgage Offer also said that she 
didnt have to buy any Halifax insurance products and the only insurance she needed to 
have (with any provider) was buildings cover.
I therefore think there is substantial evidence that Ms Gs proper consent was obtained.
Ms Gs other point of complaint can be summarised as her not really needing PPI because 
of her wealth or means elsewhere. Halifax had a duty to see that any PPI it was 
recommending was suitable for Ms G. 
I think it was.
Ms G has submitted a large amount of information about her financial resources which she 
says shows the PPI was unsuitable. However, Im afraid I cant agree. Im not going to 
cover all the details she sent in, but again, Ive taken great care in reviewing everything 
shes sent to us and I fully understand the points being made.
Nevertheless, some of the information about her finances post-dates the sale so isnt 
relevant. Other financial resources mentioned by Ms G such as pensions, overseas 
investments, foreign currency holdings and transfers from property sales(s) simply arent 
directly comparable with insuring oneself against being unable to work. Many of the 
investments mentioned are complex and generally illiquid. In short, these are long-term 
assets which cannot easily be sold.
So, the question here is whether Halifax was wrong to recommend the PPI to Ms G. 
Ive looked at her investments and her wider financial circumstances. And, whilst she is 
clearly implying she had very substantial financial resources elsewhere, Ms G nonetheless 
had taken on a mortgage  a normally long-term and important financial responsibility. 
Insuring this type of product against being unable to work isnt uncommon, nor in my view, 
is it unreasonable even in her circumstances. Being unable to pay for the repayments on a 
primary home on which a mortgage is secured is a serious consideration and so Halifax 
recommending it PPI to her in her circumstances was not unfair. I note Ms G also agreed to 
other forms of insurance protection within the wider TMPP package. In my view, there is 
therefore good reason to say she wanted to protect herself and her family against 
unforeseen circumstances in this context. In my view, having both assets and insurance 
wasnt incompatible as far as it related to Ms Gs situation.
I therefore consider the PPI recommendation as a suitable one for her consideration.
Halifax also had a duty to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. 
Obviously, I cant confirm if she was told everything she ought to have been. But I can see 
the cost of the cover was set out on the forms Ive mentioned above, as were some brief 
details about what was protected. I think theres good, solid, evidence to suggest there were significant discussions with a 
mortgage adviser in this case, given Ms Gs family and financial situation of that time, and I 
see a demands and needs assessment was carried out, implying this would have taken 
some time to complete. So, I think Ms G most likely had access to enough information on 
which to make an informed decision about whether or not she wanted to accept the 
recommendation to have PPI.
Im grateful to Ms G for the effort shes gone into in bringing her complaint to us in a clear 
manner. Im sorry to disappoint her though, all the evidence Ive seen points very strongly to 
the PPI being portrayed as optional. She appears to have been given clear information about 
the costs and features of the cover and I dont think the recommendation to protect herself 
was unreasonable.
The PPI was not mis-sold.
My final decision
I do not uphold Ms Gs complaint. 
Providing it has paid the commission element Ive mentioned at the beginning, I do not direct 
Bank of Scotland plc to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman