DRN-2727215
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds GI) unfairly 
declined a claim they made on a home insurance property.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K insured a property with Lloyds GI. Mr and Mrs K made a claim on their policy 
after a section of a wall at the property collapsed.. After carrying out enquiries into the cause 
of the damage, Lloyds GI declined cover for the claim. It said that the wall had collapsed due 
to a landslip and that the policy excluded cover to this wall where there wasnt also damage 
to the main building of the property. 
Mr and Mrs K were unhappy with this and complained to UKI. They also submitted a report 
from an engineer whod attended their property. The engineer considered that the wall had 
collapsed due to excessive pressure on the wall due to the build up of water. The engineer 
also outlined various sections of the policy which they thought should cover the 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ks claim.
Lloyds GI appointed an engineer to undertake enquiries in light of this report. Their report 
concluded that the build up of water had contributed to the collapse of the wall but that the 
wall was also inadequately constructed and had hidden deterioration. Lloyds GI confirmed 
that the policy didnt cover the claim as the policy excluded damage caused by wear and 
tear.
As Mr and Mrs K remained dissatisfied they referred their complaint to our service. They 
were unhappy not only that Lloyds GI maintained their position to decline cover for the claim 
but also about the way the claim was handled. They said that Lloyds GIs appointed 
representatives hadnt been diligent in their enquiries. Our investigator didnt think Lloyds GI 
had done anything wrong. He considered that the evidence was that the various sections of 
the policy referred to by Mr and Mrs K didnt provide cover for the claim, and that any failings 
in the way the claim was handled had already been addressed appropriately by Lloyds GI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs K have raised concerns about the decision to decline cover for the claim and 
also the way the claim was handled. Ill look at these separately.
The decision to decline cover
Mr and Mrs Ks policy provides cover for damage caused in various ways. For the purposes 
of this complaint, the relevant ones are:
Landslip
Storm
Flood
Accidental damage
It seems that Mr and Mrs K accept that the circumstances of their claim and the specific 
terms and conditions in relation to landslip and storm mean that the claim isnt covered 
under either of these sections. Ill cover the reasons for this briefly.
In respect of landslip, the policy excludes cover for damage to garden walls, gates, fences, 
hedges, driveways, balconies, decking, gardensunless the main building of your private 
residence is damage at the same time by the same cause
It isnt disputed that the main building of Mr and Mrs Ks property wasnt damaged in this 
incident. It had previously been argued that this wall wasnt a garden wall, but a retaining 
wall. But I think the intent of the policy is clear  it doesnt intend to cover damage to external 
walls and grounds of a property where the main building isnt damaged. So I agree that this 
damage to the wall (however classified) isnt something which is covered under the landslip 
section of cover.
Similarly, in respect of the storm section of the policy, the circumstances leading to the claim 
arent covered. The policy terms and conditions define a storm as A period of violent 
weather defined as: strong winds with gusts of at least 55 mph; and / or hail or snow of such 
intensity that it causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass, and also specifically states 
Rain alone is not a storm. 
Before the collapse occurred there was a prolonged period of heavy rainfall in the area of Mr 
and Mrs Ks property. Theres no evidence to show that the wind levels were above 55mph 
or that there was hail. The weather wouldnt be considered a storm based on the wording of 
the policy. This means theres no cover for the damage under the storm section of the policy. 
Mr and Mrs K appear to accept this.
This leaves the other two sections of the policy which Mr and Mrs K argue their claim should 
be considered under. Their engineer puts forward that the circumstances preceding the 
collapse amounted to the area around the wall becoming flooded. Or, in the alternative, its 
suggested that the collapse was caused by the build up of water pressure amounted to 
accidental damage as defined by the policy.
While a flood isnt defined in the policy terms and conditions, accidental damage is defined 
as an accident that causes physical damage which is caused suddenly by an outside force 
and is not expected or deliberate.
The argument advanced that this should be considered under the flood cover appears to be 
that in the months leading up to the collapse there was much heavier than usual rainfall at 
the property, and then the final period of very heavy rainfall meant that water built up behind 
the wall and the pressure of this caused the collapse. 
The argument in favour of accidental damage is that the very high level of rainfall directly 
before the collapse meant that the water built up behind the wall and the pressure caused by 
this amounted to a sudden outside force.
But theres an important caveat to this, and one which means Im not persuaded that I need 
to make a finding about whether the collapse was due to a flood or an accident (as defined 
by the policy). Both the accidental damage and flood sections of the policy (as indeed are 
the landslip and storm sections) are subject to a number of general conditions and 
exclusions.The relevant exclusion here is that the policy excludes from cover any damage that 
naturally occurs as a result of normal wear or ageing.
This is relevant here because the engineer appointed by Lloyds GI concluded that the cause 
of the collapse was on balance, a result of inadequate construction and hidden deterioration 
of the wall. They agreed that the collapse was partially caused by excessive water pressure 
on the wall due to high water levels, but thought that the wall was deficient in terms of 
resisting water pressure.
Their reasons for this were related to the age of the wall (which was over 100 years old) and 
that maintenance carried out over the life of the wall had meant that it was no longer able to 
allow the easy flow of water through its structure. In particular, reference was made to 
inadequately located weep holes and the use of a cementitious pointing. The engineer also 
noted the effect of repeated exposure to low temperatures and freezing and thawing on 
water trapped in the wall, and the resulting reduction in stability.
The result of this, Lloyds GI says, is that the condition of the wall had deteriorated over time 
and this was the primary reason for the collapse. 
I do think that this is a persuasive argument. I know Mr and Mrs K point to a previous 
incident of heavy rainfall around 6 months before when there was no damage to the wall, but 
this doesnt mean that the wall hadnt been subject to deterioration at that time. All Lloyds GI 
needs to do is satisfactorily demonstrate that the damage here arose because of wear and 
tear. I think that its done so. 
It seems to be accepted that the wall has previously undergone maintenance and routine 
repairs. Lloyds GIs engineer noted areas of the wall which have been repaired at various 
times, and Mr and Mrs K have provided evidence of work previously carried out on the wall. 
The fact that maintenance has been carried out does indicate that this wall was subject to 
deterioration which necessitated repair and maintenance throughout its life. A mechanism for 
wear and tear and deterioration has also been identified by the engineer and the same 
engineer identified issues with the walls structure following previous maintenance which 
would have meant that the wall was less able to withstand water pressure. 
I think Lloyds GI has done enough to show that the wall was subject to deterioration and that 
its more likely than not that this deterioration caused the wall to collapse when the pressure 
on it increased due to an increase in water levels in the area around the wall. I conclude that 
Lloyds GIs decision to decline cover for this claim was fair in the circumstances.
The claim handling
Lloyds GI has recognised that there were aspects of the claim which could have been 
handled better. It has made payments totalling £175.00 to Mr and Mrs K for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. Mr and Mrs K consider that Lloyds GIs failings go beyond what its 
admitted.
Lloyds GI has said that it should have appointed an engineer to fully investigate the 
circumstances surrounding the collapse of the wall prior to the claim being declined and after 
Mr and Mrs K had provided an engineers report. It seems that the representative appointed 
by Lloyds GI to carry out the initial enquiries informed them that the claim was not covered, 
and this was what prompted them to seek the advice of the engineer. Lloyds GIs position 
appears to be that further discussions should have taken place with Mr and Mrs K, with them 
being given the opportunity to provide an engineers report before any decision was taken on 
the claim. Mr and Mrs K also point to conflicting information being provided to them about the existence 
and provision of a report from the representative at the time of initial decision to decline 
cover for the claim. It seems to be accepted that Mr and Mrs K were informed a report would 
be provide in relation to the decision to decline cover for the claim but were then told that no 
report was available. A summary of the findings of the investigations was provided however, 
and formed the basis of the rebuttal subsequently put together by their appointed engineer. 
I understand Mr and Mrs Ks frustration here and why the actions of the representative 
caused them to lose faith in that representative and Lloyds GI. They were told that the claim 
wasnt covered, and would receive a report about this. Such a report wasnt provided. But 
they were provided a summary of the findings and this enabled them to receive advice from 
an engineer which enabled them to challenge Lloyds GIs initial decision. So I cant say they 
suffered a significant detriment because of this. 
In light of the report from Mr and Mrs Ks appointed engineer, further enquiries were 
conducted and the end result was that Lloyds GI maintained its decision to decline cover. 
That point is important here. Lloyds GIs position that the claim wasnt covered didnt 
change, but additional explanations and reasoning was given following the further enquiries. 
Ive also not seen any evidence that Mr and Mrs K were ever informed that the claim would 
be covered, only for the decision to change. Mr and Mrs K have referenced correspondence 
which was left at the address following inspections carried out on Lloyds GI, but I dont think 
these led to a position where they could reasonably have assumed cover was confirmed. 
One in particular, according to their account, made specific reference to cover not being 
accepted until all of the insurers enquiries had been completed.
So while I agree there were aspects of the claim which could have been handled better, 
particularly around the communication and correspondence of the original decision to 
decline the claim, I cant agree that the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs K 
was of a level that additional compensation beyond the £175 which has already been paid 
would be appropriate. The outcome of the claim, and their expectations around cover, 
werent affected by these matters.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman