DRN-1516162
The complaint
Mr H says hes been treated unfairly because even though he made his payments to his 
debts Link Financial Outsourcing Limited (LINK for short) still defaulted him.
What happened
Link says it bought this pre default status debt (relating to a credit agreement) from a bank 
in February 2015. Mr H has been paying the debt back through a debt management plan 
with the assistance of a debt charity.
Link says it didnt receive payments toward this debt between August 2018 and January 
2019, so it defaulted him. Mr H says he paid the money towards the debt management plan 
throughout. So its unfair for him to have been defaulted. And the default has impacted his 
credit file which has severely hampered his business. So Mr H complained to Link. But Link 
feels it hasnt done anything wrong.
Mr H disagreed, so he complained here. The Investigator did not agree with Mr H. As Mr H 
remains unhappy this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Link and Mr H dont agree on some of the key issues here. So I can only make my decision 
based on the evidence provided to me by the parties. In short I must decide what is most 
likely to have happened. Or in other words, what happened on the balance of probabilities.
Having considered all of Mr Hs arguments Im not persuaded to uphold this complaint. I say 
this for the following reasons.
This service has been provided with a letter from the debt charity which says that Mr H was 
reviewing his debt management plan in August 2018 using its online service. It says during 
this review there was a request to change the Link debt level. This debt was zeroed a 
couple of days later. It says it sent Link a letter about this at the time.
Link has provided its correspondence records from the time. It shows much earlier 
correspondence with the debt charity some months before. But it doesnt show receipt of the 
letter the debt charity says it sent around August 2018.
The correspondence records go on to show that in October 2018 Link wrote to Mr H. I can 
see in that record is Mr Hs postcode which is the postcode we have for him. So it seems 
unlikely it was sent to the wrong place. And there is no record of Mr H responding to this 
letter.
Then in January 2019, because Link hadnt received a number of payments it sends a 
default notice to Mr H -a copy of which Ive seen. This default notice has Mr Hs address on it 
(the same as above) and sets out the arrears amount and what Mr H has to do and by when. 
Ive also seen a copy of the letter it sent after the time period in the default notice had run 
out. That is also addressed to Mr Hs address. Links correspondence record doesnt show 
any correspondence being received between August 2018 and January 2019 from either Mr 
H or the debt charity.
Mr H has provided statements from his debt management plan showing that no payments 
were made to Link around the time and that the balance had been put to zero (and later 
returned to the amount owed after he was defaulted).
Link has said Mr H has advised that (the debt charity) informed him that we had confirmed 
the balance was £0 and this is why the payments stopped however we also spoke with (the 
debt charity) and they advised the reason for the arrears were that the customer had 
incorrectly cancelled the plan on their online portal.
It has to be remembered that this decision is a not a decision to discover what happened 
between the three parties in the round. It is a decision which can only consider whether Link 
has done something wrong and if so how to put it right. 
Ive seen no persuasive evidence of the email Mr H says Link sent saying that the debt had 
been cleared. And the debt charity make no mention of this in their letter to Mr H. Its clear 
the debt wasnt cleared and there appears to have been no reason to send any email at that 
time (never mind such an erroneous email). As neither party has provided a copy of the 
email and the debt charity points to Mr H changing the debt amount on the debt plan, Im not 
persuaded Link sent such an email. 
And even if it had I think it must have been clear to Mr H and the debt charity that it was a 
mistake. Both knew the debt amount as it was shown on his debt management plan 
statements each month. And neither the debt charity or Mr H would have had reason to 
believe the debt had been paid off as neither of them had paid it off. And ultimately the debt 
charity is acting on behalf of Mr H. And it says that the debt to Link showed as being zeroed 
as a result of Mr H managing the account online. And it says this was done before the date 
Mr H specifies for the email he says Link sent was sent. So whether or not Link sent such an 
email, it seems to me that the cause of Link not getting paid stemmed from things that 
happened before the email is supposed to have been sent. 
Whatever happened it is clear that Link werent paid for some months. Im satisfied based on 
the records available that it sent letters to Mr H which were correctly addressed. Mr H says 
he never got these. But Ive seen copies of some of these letters including crucially the 
default notice and I can see its correctly addressed. And Ive seen nothing to persuade me it 
wasnt sent. So I dont think Link has made a mistake here.
Mr H says he continued to pay towards the Debt Management Plan. And this maybe so. But 
his debt was with Link and he was obliged to pay it on a monthly basis. Link didnt make Mr 
H make payments through an intermediary. So I dont think Link is at fault for any failing by 
either Mr H or the intermediary or any combination of the two. So when it didnt receive 
payments for some time and having written to Mr H I dont think it had done anything wrong 
in beginning the default process by issuing a notice of default.
Ive considered the default notice and the termination notice and note that Mr H didnt 
contact it until after the date that Link stipulated he needed to contact it. So I dont think Link 
has done anything wrong in terms of placing the default on file.
Mr H points to other companies changing their stance towards him as a result of information 
put on his credit file. This maybe so-but those are decisions taken by those businesses and Link isnt responsible for such commercial decisions. It is responsible for reporting payments 
and defaults on credit files accurately and fairly. And as this is what happened I think it has 
done this.
As stated earlier this decision only looks at what Link has done and not what other parties 
have done. I have decided Link has acted fairly so I am not upholding this complaint. Mr H is 
at liberty to take his complaint to other parties who are involved if he wishes. And as Mr H 
has stated, he has the option of taking matters further. Whether that be through the courts or 
complaining about other parties to this service (which are within our jurisdiction).
I appreciate Mr H will be disappointed with this decision. But this decision brings to an end 
our process regarding this complaint about Link. So, in short, this complaint does not 
succeed.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint against Link Financial 
Outsourcing Limited. It has nothing more to do with regard to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman