The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about a block placed on their current account with The Royal Bank 
of Scotland Plc ("RBS"); and the service they received in relation to this.
What happened
In May 2019, Mr C used his online banking with RBS to try to make a number of Faster 
Payment transfers from his joint account with Mrs C. These payments were being made to 
pay off credit cards and so needed to be made on time to avoid interest charges. But he 
found he was unable to process these online; so he called RBS to make them over the 
phone. He was asked to go through his security details and gave all the relevant information 
about the payments he wanted to make.
But the following day, Mrs C received a text message from RBS addressed to Mr C. The 
message told him his payments had been blocked and asked him to contact a freephone 
number. Mr C did this, but he was wary of giving the requested digits from his debit card so 
didnt pass the required security.
Mrs C then phoned RBS and gave authorisation for the two transfers that had been stopped 
to go ahead. But the delay meant that Mr C incurred interest on the credit card.
Mr C then had to visit a branch of RBS with identification so his account could be unblocked.
Mr C complained about what had happened, including that the message addressed to him 
had been sent to his wife.
RBS said that a restriction had been placed on Mr Cs account as a fraud prevention 
measure. It said Mr C had been unable to successfully answer security questions when 
asked over the phone, so hed been referred to the branch. It apologised for the 
inconvenience Mr C had been caused by the unhelpful service he had when he spoke 
with RBSs fraud team, and for the text message being sent to Mrs C causing her stress. 
RBS credited their account with £27 for call costs and £100 compensation for the 
inconvenience.
Mr C said that it wasnt the case that he was unable to answer the security questions, but 
he wasnt willing to do so until he was sure who he was speaking to. Mr C didnt think 
the compensation RBS had offered was enough, considering the data breach he felt 
had occurred by RBS texting his wife about his transactions and the interest hed incurred.
The investigators opinion
DRN-1881106One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. 
He said that it was in line with the terms and conditions of the account for RBS to have 
flagged the transactions as suspicious and block them, as Mr C was making a number of 
high value transfers from his accounts.
The investigator said that RBS hadnt been able to explain why a text message asking Mr 
C to call a number had been sent to his wifes mobile phone. But he said this wasnt a 
data breach as the account is a joint account; so they both had access to the information on 
it.
The investigator said he understood that Mr C had been concerned about who he 
was speaking to when returning this call and giving his personal, financial details over the 
phone. But he said this too was part of its security processes. Overall, the investigator 
thought that the compensation RBS had paid was reasonable.
Mr C didnt accept the investigators findings. He said hed been promised a call back from 
a manager a number of times, which didnt happen, and a complaint he made about 
a representative was dealt with by that same representative. He felt he had reasonable 
doubt about calling RBS on a number sent to the wrong persons mobile, and he said hed 
spent an over an hour on the phone with the specialist faster payment team, and went 
through additional security verification. Mr C asked for the complaint to be reviewed.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in May 2020. In summary, I thought it 
should be upheld.
I said that, in the main, I thought RBS is entitled - and right - to place a hold on an outgoing 
payment that it feels may be suspicious; the result of a fraud; or is one that it considers could 
put itself or its customer at risk.
And this is included in the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Cs account, which say:
Well always follow your instructions, unless:
We reasonably believe that you didnt authorise the instruction;
We reasonably suspect the instruction is fraudulent;
Its necessary to reject your instruction to protect you or us from a crime.
 
However, in the particular circumstances, I thought that relying on this to place a hold on two 
of the transfers Mr C was making that day seemed excessive. This was because he'd tried 
to pay them online, but was prevented from doing so. He then called RBS and spoke in 
detail to a representative about the transfers he was making; the reasons for them; and the 
details needed to complete the transfers. This was all after clearing the relevant security 
questions to be able to speak with that representative about his account.
I listened to the recording of the call he made on that Friday, and Mr C was left with the 
reassurance that the payments would be going through. He expressed that one in particular 
needed to be made that day to avoid any interest being incurred, and the 
representative checked this with a manager. They then told Mr C that the recipient would be 
able to see on its systems that the payment had been made that particular day.
So I said there seemed to be no reason why RBS may have believed that Mr C hadnt 
authorised the transactions; and little reason for it suspect they were fraudulent or a result of a criminal activity. I said I realised that RBS may have been following its processes and that 
its systems likely flagged these payments in line with these. But, that led to an unfair 
outcome for Mr C in the circumstances. He had explained that he would be making these 
payments  giving his clear authority that it was him making them. He also sought and 
gained RBSs reassurance they would be made. In the circumstances, I didnt think it was 
fair that RBS then blocked the payments.
And the consequence of it blocking two of these payments, when others were 
authorised, was that a text message was sent telling Mr C about the restriction put on his 
account and asking him to contact a number. But this message was sent to Mrs Cs mobile. 
So I said I could see why it may have given Mr C pause or doubt about contacting that 
number, when it hadnt been directly received by him. It was clear that RBS did have Mr Cs 
mobile number for contact.
He told us that this caused Mrs C stress and worry, and I said I could understand this. But 
I wouldnt consider this text message gave Mrs C access to information she wouldnt 
otherwise have had, as the transactions in question were from an account they hold jointly.
Mr C then contacted the number in this message on the Saturday, and I listened to the 
recording of this call. RBS acknowledged that the service he received during that call was 
unhelpful and that he was given incorrect information.
Mr C was concerned about giving some digits from his debit card number, but said he was 
willing to answer other security questions. He asked to be passed to a supervisor however 
the representative wouldnt do this because he hadnt passed security through not giving the 
digits from his debit card. Mr C was told he would need to visit a branch with identification to 
have the blocks removed from his accounts. So Mr C was left without knowing that the 
payments he wanted to make would go through and didnt have access to his online 
banking.
I also listened to the call where Mrs C spoke to RBS to confirm that the payments were 
genuine; and they were then processed the next banking day, which was the Monday. The 
blocks were removed from Mr Cs accounts when hed shown his identification in a 
branch, which was also on that Monday.
Overall, I said it seemed that Mr and Mrs C were caused a great deal of upset; 
inconvenience and worry about these payments being blocked, particularly because they 
were time sensitive and the problems with them occurred over a weekend period.
I thought there were a number of opportunities for these issues to have either been avoided 
or resolved sooner by RBS. For example; if the circumstances of the transaction payments 
had been taken into account rather than relying on a computer-based reason for blocking 
them; if the text message had been sent directly to Mr C it may have reassured him that he 
could give security details to allow RBS to remove the block; or if RBSs representative was 
more helpful within that call and possibly suggested he call back on a number for RBS that 
he knew to be genuine.
RBS paid Mr and Mrs C a total of £127 to recognise their inconvenience and call costs. But I 
didnt think this fairly reflected the upset they were caused or the trouble they were put to, 
particularly when it seemed that this may have been prevented had RBS taken different 
action earlier.
Mr C told us that the delay in the payments reaching his credit cards meant that he incurred 
£152.60 in interest that he wouldnt otherwise have done. However, I said I understood that 
he no longer had the information to show this, as he closed the account down. So I wasnt able to see when his payment was due in relation to when it was sent; or to know whether 
any of this amount was residual interest after paying off a credit card balance.
Taking everything into account, I thought a further sum of £150 would be a more 
appropriate level of compensation in the particular circumstances. I said I realised that this 
was less than Mr C had asked for. However, taking into account RBSs recognition of the 
poor service Mr and Mrs C received; its apology and action to give feedback to the relevant 
representatives; together with the payment already made, I said I thought that a total amount 
of £250 for their distress and inconvenience, and £27 for their call costs was a fair and 
reasonable settlement.
The responses
Mr and Mrs C responded to say that they were happy with the decision, as it was not about 
the compensation level but that Mr C was poorly treated.
RBS responded to say that it had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As RBS had nothing further to say in response to my provisional decision, and Mr and Mrs C 
accepted it, I see no reason to change the conclusions that I reached. 
Putting things right
RBS has already paid Mr and Mrs C £100 for their inconvenience, and £27 for their call 
costs. I consider that a further sum of £150 to give a total amount of £250 for the distress 
and inconvenience Mr and Mrs C were caused represents fair compensation.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to 
pay Mr and Mrs C a further £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 July 2020.
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman