DRN-3921776
The complaint
Mr B is a sole trader. He complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) unfairly 
appointed receivers to sell property given as security for a loan.
What happened
In 2008, Mr B borrowed £885,000 from RBS to support the purchase of a property.
In September 2021 RBS issued a final demand for the outstanding debt on the loan. 
Receivers were appointed in October 2021.
Mr B complained to the bank about the appointment of receivers, but the bank didnt change 
its position. Unhappy with the banks response, Mr B referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think that RBS had acted unfairly. He gave these reasons, in 
summary:
Following an event of default and a demand for immediate repayment (which has 
been considered in another complaint from Mr B), the bank was entitled to appoint 
receivers, in line with the terms of the loan and the terms of the security. There was 
little chance of the mortgage getting back on track. In the circumstances, it wasnt 
unfair or unreasonable to appoint receivers.
Mr B is critical of the receivers actions. But although receivers are appointed by the 
lender, they act on behalf of the borrower. The receivers actions arent within the 
scope of the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators conclusions. He didnt think RBS had acted fairly and 
reasonably by seeking repayment of the loan debt. He also asked whether it was fair or 
reasonable for the bank to pursue the sale of the property while the complaint was being 
considered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator, and for largely the 
same reasons.
Im satisfied that there was an event of default on Mr Bs loan, as no repayment had been 
made for several years. The loan agreement between RBS and Mr B said that if a default 
event occurs, the bank may require immediate repayment of the loan, with interest accrued, 
and terminate the banks obligations under the loan. The loan was secured with a legal 
charge on property. Im satisfied the terms of the charge gave the bank the power to appoint 
receivers in order to recover funds due. I therefore find that it wasnt unfair or unreasonable 
for the bank to appoint receivers.
Mr B feels that it was wrong for the bank to continue with the sale of the property while his 
complaint was being investigated. But theres no requirement on banks to cease recovery 
action while this service is considering a complaint. 
Mr B argues that RBS shouldnt have sought any repayment of the debt. But thats the 
subject of another complaint to this service, for which Mr B has also received a decision. Im 
therefore not considering that point here.
I agree with the investigator that the receivers were formally acting on behalf of the 
customer, not the bank, and their actions are not something I can consider.
I realise that Mr B will be disappointed by my decision and I recognise the strength of his 
feelings about the complaint. But I find that the bank didnt act unfairly or unreasonably.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman