DRN-3625025
The complaint
This complaint is about an application Mr and Mrs T made to Barclays Bank UK Plc for a 
further advance on their mortgage to pay for the renovation of and extension to, their 
newly-acquired home. Theyre unhappy that it initially turned them down after carrying out a 
valuation, and with the amount of time it took before eventually agreeing to lend the money. 
They say this resulted in them incurring additional costs, most significantly two months extra 
rent. 
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr and Mrs T and Barclays Im also 
aware that the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, which has been 
shared with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mr and Mrs T being identified. Instead Ill provide a brief summary and then focus on 
giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive 
ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. My 
remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
Mr and Mrs T were buying a new home, which they intended renovating and extending 
before moving into it. They applied for the new mortgage on 20 May 2020, Barclays issued 
its offer on 22 June 2020, and the purchase completed at the end of July 2020. At this stage, 
Mr and Mrs T were living in rented accommodation. 
Towards the end of August 2020, they approached Barclays about a further advance, and an 
application was started on 2 September 2020. The application required fresh underwriting 
information; Barclays was slow to organise this and it was not until late October that it 
assessed the application and commissioned a fresh valuation. The valuer visited the 
property on 5 November 2020 to discover that in the meantime, work had already begun, 
and that an existing extension had been demolished. The valuer declared the property in its 
current condition to be uninhabitable and un-mortgageable. Barclays refused the further 
advance application.
Mr and Mrs T funded the renovations from savings, and extended the tenancy on their rental 
accommodation. The works were eventually finished in early 2021, Mr and Mrs T moved in, 
and a fresh further advance application was made to Barclays. It issued an offer on 
16 April 2021 which Mr and Mrs T accepted. They then complained that Barclays poor 
handling of the application had cost them money. 
Barclays accepted it had delayed matters for a period during October 2020, and offered an 
apology and £250 compensation. But it said the main problem was the state of the property 
at the point its valuer inspected it. Our investigator agreed, but Mr and Mrs T have asked for 
the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mortgage underwriting isnt an exact science; nor is it a mechanical process. Lenders 
generally have anticipated timescales for how long an application might take, but 
occasionally things take longer than expected. If Im to order Barclays to pay Mr and Mrs T 
the compensation theyre seeking, I have to be satisfied that Barclays unduly and 
excessively delayed the further advance application by way of specific errors or omissions, 
and that the delay was the sole or over-riding cause of loss, financial or non-financial, to 
Mr and Mrs T. Looking at the overall progression of the case, Im not persuaded that the 
latter applies. 
I accept that Barclays did cause some delay in the early handling of the further advance, and 
its entirely right that it should have apologised and offered compensation for that. But 
ultimately, thats not the reason the application was rejected and Mr and Mrs T spent another 
two months in rented accommodation. The uncomfortable truth for Mr and Mrs T is that the 
application was turned down because they had rendered the property un-mortgageable by 
having their builders demolish a substantial part of it. 
Im aware of the reliance Mr and Mrs T have placed on the assertion they claim to have been 
given about the extra lending being a formality. The reality is that no one is entitled to borrow 
money, even where they have borrowed before. What they are entitled to is to fair treatment. 
In the context of an application for lending, that means assessing it fairly in accordance with 
the banks lending criteria. Lenders criteria are commercially sensitive and not generally 
made public. Also, generally speaking, its not the role of an ombudsman to interfere with a 
lenders commercial judgement on how much it will lend, and I see no reason to depart from 
that position here. 
Mr and Mrs T says, at one point in their evidence, that the mortgage adviser told them 
additional borrowing would be straightforward because the affordability was there. I dont 
know, and wont speculate on, exactly what assurances were given about Mr and Mrs Ts 
capacity to borrow more money once the first mortgage had been completed. The reality is 
that I dont need to.
I say that because its important to remember the further advance application wasnt refused 
on affordability grounds. It was turned down because the valuer  an independent expert 
whose opinion Barclays could reasonably rely on  had declared the property unfit to act as 
security for the lending. This was the result of actions Mr and Mrs T had taken. Furthermore, 
theyd done so without Barclays knowledge or consent, which is itself a breach of the 
conditions of the mortgage Mr and Mrs T already held.
I realise Mr and Mrs T think differently but I dont find there to be a case for ordering 
re-imbursement of the costs they incurred between the further advance being declined and then subsequently being agreed once the property had been made mortgageable again. As 
I said earlier, no one is entitled to borrow money.
When youre as close to a situation as Mr and Mrs T have been here, its easy to see things 
from just one point of view. But I have a different remit. I have to be objective, and impartial, 
and sometimes that means stepping back from the fine detail, taking an overview and 
deciding what is fair, reasonable and pragmatic in all the overall circumstances of the case. 
It also means that Im not required to provide answers to every specific question that comes 
up if I dont consider doing so will affect the overall outcome. When I do that, for all of the 
reasons Ive set out, I cant find in Mr and Mrs Ts favour, however much they think I should. 
Having considered everything that both parties have said and provided, I think that the £250 
already offered is fair compensation for the impact of what Barclays actually got wrong.
Mr and Mrs T dont have to accept my conclusions, and if they dont, then neither they nor 
Barclays will be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions a 
court might impose, Mr and Mrs Ts right to take legal action against Barclays over the 
subject matter of this complaint wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of it.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 September 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman