DRN-1573024
 
The complaint
Mr L complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (trading at the time as C&G) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy which Mr L took out with a mortgage 
in 1998. He increased the amount of cover under the policy when he took out a further 
advance on the mortgage in 2002.
If Mr L had made a successful claim for accident, sickness or unemployment, it would have 
paid his monthly mortgage payments, plus £3 for every £1,000 of his initial mortgage, for up 
to 12 months. 
Our adjudicator didn't uphold the complaint. Mr L disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ls case.
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen Mr Ls signed application for the original mortgage in 1998. It includes a 
section on insurance. Under a clear sub-heading Payment Protection Insurance it 
says I have received information about C&G Payment Protection Plus. I wish to 
apply for cover and have completed the relevant proposal form. Next to that are 
equally prominent Yes and No options. The yes box is ticked. Mr L also signed a 
separate application and direct debit instruction for the PPI, so I think it would have 
been clear that it was a separate product.
 
The application form for the further advance in 2002 also included equally prominent 
options to take or decline the PPI. Again, the box was ticked to indicate that Mr L 
wished to take the cover. And once again, he completed a separate application form 
and direct debit mandate for the PPI.  
 
I think it was clear from the way the mortgage application forms were set out that PPI 
was optional. And I think Mr L decided to take it out, and then to increase his cover, knowing that he had a choice  although I can understand why he may no longer 
remember this, so many years later.
 
Mr L applied for both the mortgage and the further advance at meetings with the 
bank. Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr L. This means it had a responsibility to 
check that the PPI was suitable for him. But it doesn't look as if it was unsuitable, 
based on what Ive seen of Mr Ls circumstances at the time.
 
I acknowledge that Mr L has told us that he was working for a family firm, with 
sufficient funds to cover any time he took off work. But even if the firm would have 
been willing, in principle, to pay Mr L indefinitely if hed been off sick, the financial 
health of the business couldn't have been guaranteed. Whats more, the PPI would 
have paid out in addition to any sick pay or redundancy pay Mr L received. So he 
could have used that to meet other expenses at what its likely would have been a 
difficult time. And repeat claims would have been possible, giving Mr L long-term 
protection for his monthly mortgage payments.
 
Ive borne in mind that Mr Ls mortgage was a major financial commitment. It was 
due to run for a long time. And his home would have been at risk if he didn't keep up 
with his mortgage payments. So taking everything into account, I think the PPI  could 
have provided him with a useful benefit.
 
Its possible that Lloyds could have explained the cost of the PPI better than it did. 
But it was competitively priced, and I think that Mr L chose to take out the cover 
because he wanted the protection that it gave him, even if hes understandably 
forgotten this now, so long after the event. So Im not convinced that better 
information about the cost of the policy would have put Mr L off taking it out. Ive also 
borne in mind that the monthly cost of the policy was shown clearly in the policy 
schedules that were sent to Mr L both after he took out the policy in 1998 and after 
he increased the cover in 2002. And as he was paying for the PPI monthly, he could 
have cancelled it at any time without further cost if he changed his mind, or if his 
circumstances changed.
 
Its possible Lloyds didn't point out the main things the policy didn't cover  for 
example, unusual working arrangements or existing medical conditions. But based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, its unlikely Mr L would have been 
affected by any of these. I acknowledge that Mr L says he wasn't told about 
exclusions for working for a family company. But Im satisfied that the policy didn't 
make it harder for him to make a successful claim than it would have been if hed 
been employed elsewhere. So I dont think that better information about the policys 
exclusions would have changed his mind about taking the PPI. On balance, I think 
hed still have wanted it.
 
Ive taken into account all Mr Ls comments, including what hes said about having been told 
hed stand a better chance of getting the mortgage if he took out the PPI. But as Ive 
explained, Im satisfied that it would have been clear to Mr L that the PPI was optional. I 
cant fairly rely purely on his recollection of a conversation that took place so many years 
ago. And Ive seen nothing else to make me think that he was told the chances of his 
applications being approved would be increased if he took out the PPI. Mr Ls also commented that he complained about PPI he took out on a credit card in 2002, 
when his circumstances were the same as when he took out the PPI on his mortgage. He 
says that in that case, his complaint was successful and he received compensation. But we 
consider each complaint on its individual merits. And the fact that Mr L may have made a 
successful complaint about a different PPI policy doesn't affect my view about this complaint.
So Im sorry to disappoint Mr L, but these points dont change my conclusion. I dont find that 
the PPI was mis-sold.
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2020.
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman