DRN-1424233
The complaint
Mr G complains about the decision made by Stripe Payments UK Limited to close his 
payment services account. 
What happened
In 2015 Mr G opened a payment services account with Stripe to support payments via his 
website. In 2018 Stripe contacted Mr G to let him know that some of the goods sold via his 
website were in violation of Stripes service agreement  namely weapons and ammunition.
Stripe gave Mr G notice that his account would need to close, and it was closed later in 
2018.
Mr G logged a complaint with Stripe, as he said other websites have been able to continue 
to use Stripes payment facility, selling the same type of goods. He went on to say that most 
items on sale are not restricted by UK law  and he is fully licenced to sell the items. Mr G 
said that he had lost business due to the closure of the card payment facility. 
Stripe looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. It said that the terms and conditions of 
its service agreement are clear, and these were agreed to by Mr G when he opened the 
account. They reiterated that weapons and munitions were listed under restricted 
businesses. So, Mr G brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into he complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He found Mr G 
was in breach of the terms and conditions of the account. As he was satisfied Mr G agreed 
to these terms when he opened the account, he didnt find the business had acted unfairly 
by closing the card payment facility. 
As Mr G didnt agree with the investigators view, the complaints been passed to me to issue 
a decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find myself coming to the same outcome as the investigator, for largely the 
same reasons. Ill explain why. 
Its clear from the information supplied by the business, that Mr G signed up to a set of terms 
and conditions within the service agreement when he took out the card payment account. Mr 
G also doesnt appear to be disputing that these terms and conditions exist as requirement 
of the account. 
Its clear from reading the list of terms, that the sale of weapons and ammunition is on the list 
of prohibited businesses. So, Im satisfied Stripe have not acted unfairly when they have 
reviewed Mr Gs account and found that he is breach of these terms. 
Mr G hasnt said that he doesnt sell these products, but he has said that these products are 
legal under UK law and he is fully licenced to sell them. I can understand the point Mr G is 
making here and Ive considered it carefully, but Im afraid it doesnt change my decision. 
Stripe have made a commercial decision that they dont want to support any businesses that 
sell these products, regardless of the particulars on how they are sold  and unless theres a 
very good reason to do so, our service wont usually say that a business must keep a 
customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
Businesses should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. On this 
occasion Stripe gave Mr G 14 days notice and recommended another business that may be 
able to provide the service he needs. Given the reason for closing the account, I find this fair 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
In summary, I appreciate that it was inconvenient and upsetting for Mr G when Stripe closed 
his account. So, I realise Mr G will be disappointed by my decision. But it wouldnt be 
appropriate to make an award of compensation for that, since I dont believe Stripe acted 
unfairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2020.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman