DRN-3015485
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, reduced the credit 
limit on his credit card account.
What happened
Mr W received a letter from Barclays which advised that the credit limit on his credit card 
account would be reduced from £12,000 to £2,000. Mr W wasnt happy about this, so he 
raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at Mr Ws complaint, but they noted that the terms and conditions of the 
account allowed them to reduce the credit limit available on an account if they choose to do 
so. Because of this, Barclays didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Mr W wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that the reduction of the 
credit limit on Mr Ws account was a commercial decision that Barclays were entitled to 
make, so they also didnt uphold this complaint.
Mr W remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must have been disappointing for Mr W to have learned that Barclays 
would reduce the credit limit available on his account when such a credit limit reduction 
wasnt wanted and hadnt been requested by himself. 
However, its up for a business to decide whether it will offer credit to a customer or not, and 
if so, how much and on what terms. As such, Im satisfied that Barclays choosing to reduce 
the available credit limit on Mr Ws account was a commercial decision that Barclays were 
entitled to make. 
What this service would expect in these circumstances would be that the Mr W was given 
fair notice of the impending change by Barclays so that he could make alternative 
arrangements if he wished to do so, and that the reduction of the credit limit wouldnt have 
an immediate material effect on the credit account, i.e. that it wouldnt mean that the balance 
of the account was now in excess of the reduced credit limit. 
In this instance I note that Barclays wrote to Mr W on 26 March 2021 informing him that the 
credit limit on his account would be reduced on 7 April 2021. While this notice period was 
relatively short, I do feel that it provided Mr W with a reasonable time to receive and act upon 
the notice given within the letter and to make alterative arrangements if he wanted to do so. 
Additionally, the letter that Mr W received explains that the new, reduced limit has been 
selected by Barclays following a review of the historical usage of the account, and I note that 
the balance on the account at the time of the credit limit reduction was lower than the new 
credit limit amount such that the account wasnt immediately placed into a position of being 
over limit.
Mr W has expressed his dissatisfaction that he wasnt consulted by Barclays before they 
made the decision to reduce the credit limit on his account, or that he wasnt given an 
opportunity to appeal the decision before it was implemented - as Mr W understands other 
Barclays customers were given the opportunity to do. I can appreciate Mr Ws frustration in 
these regards, but Barclays were under no obligation to consult Mr W or accept an appeal 
from Mr W before implementing their decision to reduce the credit limit on his account, and 
so I dont feel that I can fairly censure Barclays for how they managed the reduction of the 
credit limit on Mr Ws account in this instance. 
Furthermore, while it may have been the case that Barclays elected to invite certain 
customers to appeal the decision to reduce their credit limit, it doesnt follow from this that 
Barclays should have provided this opportunity to all of their customers, and it can be the 
case that a business will take different approaches to an implemented change dependent 
upon the specific circumstances of each customer.
Finally, Im aware that Mr W is unhappy that the reduction in his credit limit appears to have 
led to a reduction in his credit score. I can understand how this would be frustrating for Mr 
W, but the calculation of a credit score is an independent endeavour undertaken by credit 
reference agencies and Barclays are under no obligation to undertake actions or make 
commercial business decisions with the maintenance of a customers credit score in mind. 
As such, while I acknowledge that Mr W may have been adversely affected by the reduction 
in the credit limit on his account, I dont feel that it follows from this that the reduction of the 
credit limit on the account by Barclays was unfair such that any form of apology or 
compensation would be warranted.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr W was wanting here, but it follows that I wont 
be upholding this complaint or instructing Barclays to take any further action at this time. I 
hope that Mr W will understand, given what Ive explained above, why Ive made the final 
decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman