DRN-3569251
The complaint
Mr K complains National House-Building Council (NHBC) hasnt treated him fairly following a 
claim on his building warranty policy.
What happened
Mr K own a new-build apartment thats covered by a ten-year building warranty policy. The 
policy started in 2005. In 2013, the managing agent raised various issues with NHBC, 
relating to the windows throughout the development. 
During the final eight years of cover (i.e. years 3-10), section 3 covers any physical damage 
to the property if caused by a defect in certain parts of the building. A defect is defined as 
a breach of any mandatory NHBC requirement during construction.
NHBC undertook investigations and works to some of the apartments. By 2019, it had been 
determined that not all the apartments were affected by defects, and those that were, had 
differing levels of damage. NHBC says some windows simply needed adjusting as part of 
routine household maintenance, whilst others required alterations or had to be replaced.
NHBC asked the managing agent for a list of the remaining apartments that had reported a 
concern, so it could complete its inspections and produce a scheme of works. Mr K wasnt 
included on the managing agents list.
Following NHBCs inspections of the remaining apartments, and after its scheme of works 
had commenced, Mr K advised the managing agent he had raised concerns in the past 
about his windows and he still had issues. His concerns were passed to NHBC, but it 
explained it wouldnt now consider his apartment as he had previously failed to come 
forward.
NHBC later agreed with the managing agent that the managing agents own maintenance 
contractor could carry out an inspection for Mr K. The findings could then be passed to 
NHBC for consideration. Mr K remained unhappy, so he complained.
NHBC explained its remedial works on site were reaching a completion, so it didnt have any 
capacity to organise its own inspection. However, the managing agents own maintenance 
contractor has a background in windows and doors, and where claims have been rejected 
due to there not being a defect, the managing agents contractor is undertaking the 
necessary work.
Mr K brought his complaint to our service, but one of our investigators didnt think it should 
be upheld. Mr K disagreed, so his complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept Mr K had raised concerns about his windows and patio door with the original builder 
and various managing agents over the years. As such, I can understand his upset that his 
apartment was missed from NHBCs inspections and scheme of works. 
However, I dont find it unreasonable that NHBC asked the latest managing agent to collate 
and present the list of apartments with reported issues, so it could carry out the remaining 
inspections. That managing agent has confirmed it didnt receive a response from Mr K, 
when it wrote to all the leaseholders asking for details of the issues. Mr K doesnt recall 
receiving the correspondence from the managing agent, but thats not something I can 
reasonably hold NHBC responsible for.
In my view, NHBC has offered a fair way forward. NHBC has confirmed it will now consider a 
claim relating to Mr Ks apartment once the managing agents contractor has reported back 
with its findings. NHBC isnt required to inspect itself. Whats important is that it gives fair 
consideration to any reports it receives.
Therefore, Mr K needs to allow the managing agents contractor to inspect, so matters can 
be moved forward. If Mr K is unhappy with NHBCs claim decision following the inspection, 
he can raise a new complaint about that.
Mr K says NHBC treated him rudely and with disdain. I accept NHBC could have been more 
open to finding a pragmatic solution from the outset, rather than telling Mr K the opportunity 
to consider his apartment had now passed. However, I havent seen NHBC was 
unprofessional or discourteous to Mr K. 
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr K, but for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman