DRN-2966031
The complaint
Mr C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) insisted that he take out two protection 
policies alongside his mortgage lending and failed to tell him the policies were optional. Mr C 
also complains that HSBC later delayed the cancellation of the policies.
What happened
In 2009 Mr C met with an HSBC adviser regarding a ten-year capital repayment mortgage 
for his first property. The mortgage started in 2010 and was fully repaid by September 2014.
Mr C took out two HSBC Life Choices policies, named LifeChoice and TraumaChoice. These 
provided life assurance and critical illness benefit respectively for the term of the lending.
Mr C complained in 2019, as hed recently discovered he was still paying for both policies 
and no longer needed them. Mr C questioned the suitability of the policies and thought 
HSBC hadnt made it clear that they were optional by hiding this fact within the paperwork.
Our Investigator issued their opinion on the merits of the case that could be considered. 
They found that both policies were a suitable recommendation, that the optional nature was 
made clear and that it wouldnt be fair to say HSBC should have cancelled the policies in 
2014 without a request from Mr C to do so. They also felt that it was reasonable for HSBC to 
respond to Mr Cs complaint before confirming if he wanted to continue with cancelling the 
policies. 
Mr C accepted that the policies werent unsuitable, but still felt that the optional nature of the 
policies had not been made clear by HSBC and that their cancellation had been delayed. He 
asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our Investigator has explained why the policies were suitable, and Mr C has accepted this 
opinion. I also agree with our Investigator - there was a clear need for protection which had 
the primary purpose of covering Mr Cs mortgage, and Im satisfied the advice was suitable 
in the circumstances. So, I wont go over that aspect of the complaint again in my decision.
The key considerations are instead whether HSBC did enough to effectively communicate 
that both policies were optional in nature, and whether it shouldve cancelled either policy 
sooner than it did.
Was it clear that both policies were optional?
Mr C has said he only agreed to take out the policies because HSBC insisted that he did. I 
recognise Mr Cs recollections about the time of sale, but I must weigh his recollections 
against the consideration of any documentary evidence available and decide what is most 
likely to have happened. Having done so, Im not satisfied that there is enough evidence to 
persuade me that, more likely than not, Mr C was told or led to believe that either policy was 
compulsory.
This is in part because I havent seen anything to suggest the policies were a compulsory 
part of an application for Mr Cs mortgage. Section 9 of Mr Cs mortgage offer shows there 
was no requirement to obtain any type of insurance with HSBC. It clearly states that Mr C is 
not required to take out any insurance through HSBC. The only type of insurance that is 
listed as compulsory, but that still did not have to be taken with HSBC, is building insurance.
Both policies also had quotations separate from Mr Cs mortgage, and these prominently 
stated:
where the policy is in connection with other goods or services, such as a 
mortgage, this policy is not a requirement of purchasing those other goods or 
services.
Mr C was also sent a letter on 6 February 2010 explaining that the policies could be 
cancelled within 30 days. Whilst I appreciate that I cant say with certainty what was 
discussed verbally at the time, all the documentation available explains how the policies 
were not a requirement of the lending. Mr C has suggested that he may well have 
overlooked these items, which is understandable, but isnt something I can say is the fault or 
responsibility of HSBC.
Mr C feels strongly that a potential error in setting up his home insurance at the same time is 
indicative that the sales documents for his protection policies arent fully representative of 
how the sale was presented to him. I appreciate Mr Cs point, but due to the length of time 
that has passed Im satisfied these documents are the most reliable representation of what 
happened available to me in present day. Im not persuaded that a potential administrative 
error made after these documents were issued indicates that they should be disregarded.
I cant reasonably conclude that HSBC misled Mr C about the optional nature of his 
protection policies as the balance of evidence doesnt support this. Im satisfied that Mr C 
was given a choice about whether to take out both policies.
Was it made clear that Mr C would have to cancel the policies himself?
Im satisfied that HSBC made it clear Mr C would have to cancel the policies himself. I say 
this because the mortgage redemption letter sent to Mr C on 26 September 2014 explained 
that HSBC would not automatically cancel any cover and that premiums would continue to 
be collected. Im also satisfied that none of the documentation at the point the policies were 
taken out suggested they would be cancelled should Mr Cs mortgage end early.
I think HSBC acted reasonably in the circumstances by notifying Mr C that cancelling the 
cover was his choice to make. Customers dont always wish to cancel existing cover as 
there are times where existing protection has an alternative use, so it would be unfair to 
expect HSBC to automatically cancel it without a request from Mr C. It also isnt the 
responsibility of HSBC to decide whether Mr C still has a need for his protection policies  so 
Im satisfied it acted correctly in this instance.
Did HSBC delay the cancellation of Mr Cs policies in 2019?
Mr C initially requested the cancellation of both policies in his complaint letter dated            
14 August 2019, but at the same time I note Mr C also wrote However if a benefit can be 
demonstrated to me, then I would reconsider this decision. HSBC chose to investigate      Mr Cs complaint and provide a response including the potential benefits the cover still 
provided. This response also included instructions for how Mr C could cancel his policy. 
Once these instructions were received from Mr C the policies were cancelled in a timely 
manner.
 
I do think this was a reasonable course of action to take in the circumstances for much the 
same reason that our Investigator previously explained  the policies could not be reinstated 
if they were cancelled and so HSBC first attempted to demonstrate the benefits of the cover 
so that Mr C had an opportunity to reconsider. Im satisfied that HSBC acted reasonably in 
this instance.
As I think HSBC acted correctly, I wont be asking them to do any more.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont think HSBC UK Bank Plc needs to do 
anything to settle the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Paul Clarke
Ombudsman