DRN-4054132
The complaint
Mr T complains that a car he acquired, via a hire purchase agreement with RCI Financial 
Services Limited, wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In February 2019, Mr T entered into a four-year hire purchase agreement for a new car with 
RCI. The car came with a three-year, 100,000 miles warranty. The annual milage allowance 
under the agreement was 20,000 miles.
In May 2022, the car broke down and Mr T arranged for it to be taken to a local garage. Mr T 
says that the garage, on removing the cylinder head, informed him that it should be looked at 
by the manufacturer as there were heavy deposits in the cylinder block which had caused 
the car to overheat. Photos of the cylinder block were taken.
Mr T spoke with the manufacturer, and it was arranged for the car to be taken to an 
approved dealership for diagnostics. Mr T says he didnt hear from this garage or the 
manufacturer nor did he receive a report as to the faults that were found.
In July 2022, Mr T complained to RCI. RCI contacted the dealership and was informed that 
the car required a new engine due to a cracked water housing, which had caused the engine 
to overheat. The dealership said there was no evidence that the problem with the car was 
due to a manufacturing fault, or to previous bad workmanship. It was reported that the cars 
mileage was around 106,000 which was in excess of the expected pro-rata mileage 
allowance by around 26,000.
RCI didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint about the quality of the car. It said there was no evidence 
that the car had any inherent fault or had been the subject of poor workmanship in the past. 
It said that as the warranty had now expired repairs were for Mr T to cover, although it would 
contact the manufacturer to see if it was open to make a gesture of goodwill towards these 
costs. RCI also said that it wasnt its responsibility to keep Mr T mobile, as the provision of a 
courtesy car was either covered by the warranty or offered by the dealership. As the 
warranty had expired, and Mr T hadnt authorised repairs, a courtesy car hadnt been 
provided.
Mr T disagreed with the decision of RCI and complained to this service. He said that the car 
clearly either had an inherent defect or that there had been poor workmanship, due to the 
failure to replace the head gasket after 100,000 miles as per a recall notice. Mr T said he 
was unhappy at the lack of service provided by the manufacturer and the authorised 
dealership. He said he had never been sent a report as to what was wrong with the car, only 
being told it required a new engine at the cost of around £12,000.
Our investigator didnt recommend Mr Ts complaint should be upheld. She said she couldnt 
look at Mr Ts complaint about the service hed received from the manufacturer or 
dealership, but she didnt think RCI had acted unfairly. 
Our investigator said, although there was a current fault with the car, she didnt think that, in 
light of the mileage and time Mr T had had the car in his possession, she could reasonably 
say that it hadnt been of satisfactory quality at its point of supply.
Mr T disagreed with the view of our investigator. He said that the car should be able to travel 
further than 100,000 miles before developing a serious fault and that he had taken proper 
care of it, always having it serviced by a manufacturer authorised dealership. Mr T said he 
had never seen a condition report for the car and no comments had ever been made as to 
the photos hed provided about the head cylinder. He said RCI had failed to check if the car 
been the subject of any recalls.
Mr T also raised issues about the end of contract charges that he had been invoiced 
following his voluntarily termination of the agreement, after having made his own 
arrangements for the car to be repaired.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at this complaint I need to have regard to the relevant law and regulations, 
but I am not bound by them when I consider what is fair and reasonable.
As the hire purchase agreement entered into by Mr T is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. RCI is also the supplier 
of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about their 
quality.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 there is an implied term that when goods are 
supplied the quality of the goods is satisfactory. The relevant law says that the quality of 
the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory, taking into account any description of the goods, price, and all other 
relevant circumstances.
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state 
and condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, 
freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the 
goods.
Here, the car was new so it would be reasonable to expect it to be fault-free for a significant 
period of time. Ive seen that the car was just over three years old and had a mileage of 
about 106,000 when it broke down and was found to require a new engine. While I accept 
this is a substantial repair that doesnt necessarily mean that this car was faulty at its point of 
supply. Faults with cars can arise over time for a number of different reasons and not just 
due to an inherent manufacturing fault.
Ive seen Mr T has raised three possible causes for the fault. It appears he originally 
reported that the car had been found to have a blocked hose due to an excess of radiator 
sealant and this had caused the engine to overheat. I havent seen any evidence that 
supports this and so I cant reasonably say that the car had been the subject of poor 
workmanship. I therefore dont have sufficient evidence to say this was the cause of the fault 
that led to the car requiring a new engine.Mr T has also raised that the cars head gasket should have been replaced in accordance 
with a recall notice once the car had done 100,000 miles. Mr T says he didnt receive this 
recall notice but found it on the internet. However, the manufacturer has confirmed that Mr 
Ts car didnt have any recall notices issued. Im satisfied on the evidence Ive seen that 
there wasnt a recall notice pertaining to this car that hadnt been acted upon.
Mr T has provided photos of the condition of the head cylinder and says these have not been 
commented on by RCI. RCI says that, when it consulted the authorised dealership as to the 
fault with the car, it was informed the fault was due to a cracked water housing leading to the 
engine overheating and that this wasnt due to any inherent defect. I dont have sufficient 
evidence to say that the cause of the engine overheating was due to a manufacturing fault. 
And I dont think its reasonable to say that due solely to the age and mileage of the car, this 
fault must have been inherent. I think there could be a number of reasons why this fault 
developed which would include wear and tear. 
I also think that due to the length of time Mr T has had the car, it wasnt for RCI to establish 
independently whether what it had been told by the authorised dealership regarding the 
water tank was correct or not. I think RCI acted reasonably when it said that it was for Mr T 
to prove the fault with the car was an inherent one. And I dont think the photos were enough 
to show that what the authorised dealership had said wasnt right. So, I dont have sufficient 
evidence to find that the car had an inherent defect with its engine when it was supplied to 
Mr T. 
Looking at the durability of the car, Im satisfied that a reasonable person would consider this 
car had been reasonably durable. Mr T had driven the car for three years and for around 
106,000 miles and Ive seen there werent any other warrantable repairs carried out. I think 
that wear and tear to parts would be expected at this age and mileage, so I dont think 
repairs would be unexpected when the car broke down in May 2022.
Mr T has raised a complaint that, despite not being able to drive the car from May 2022 until 
it was eventually repaired in or around October/November, he wasnt assisted by the 
provision of a courtesy car to keep him mobile. But I dont think RCI has acted unfairly here, 
as it wasnt responsible for keeping Mr T in a car. I understand no courtesy car was offered 
as the warranty had expired and Mr T hadnt authorised the repairs with the dealership. In 
these circumstances it would be for Mr T to arrange replacement transport for himself. And 
so, Im not going to ask RCI to provide compensation for that.
I also think RCI requiring Mr T maintain his payments under the agreement was in line with 
the terms and conditions. Again, this was not unreasonable of RCI.
Mr T has raised that he is unhappy about the end of contract charges hes been invoiced, 
having now voluntarily terminated the agreement and handed the car back. Im not able to 
look at this part of his complaint as he needs to raise this with RCI first and give it an 
opportunity to investigate and respond. Should Mr T remain unhappy after it has responded 
then he can of course bring that matter to this service.
For the reasons given above and although I appreciate this will be of disappointment to Mr T, 
Im not upholding his complaint.
My final decision
As set out above, Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman