DRN-3334461
The complaint
Mr W complains that the loans he had from Loans 2 Go Limited were unaffordable to him.
What happened
Mr W had two loans from Loans 2 Go between December 2018 and July 2019 as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Max Monthly 
RepaymentDue Repaid
13 Dec 2018 £500 18m £113.28 3 Jun 2020Withdrew
10 Dec 2018
223 Jul 2019 £500 18m £114.28 23 Jan 2021Sold
15 Dec 2020
Mr W says he contacted Loans 2 Go when he struggled to make the repayments, but it 
didnt offer him any help. He said he had to borrow further and ended up in a worse 
financial situation. Mr W says Loans 2 Go didnt sufficiently check his finances and his 
credit file would have shown further lending was unaffordable.
Loans 2 Go says it carried out a thorough affordability assessment which included 
verifying Mr Ws declared income and checking his credit file. It says its calculations 
showed the repayments on both loans were affordable to Mr W.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld. She found that the 
available information indicated Mr W was already struggling to manage his money before 
loan 1 and that Loans 2 Go should have realised that further lending was unsustainable. 
She recommended that Loans 2 Go should deduct any payments Mr W made from the 
total money he received and refund any overpayments plus 8% interest. She said it should 
also ensure that any associated negative information is removed from Mr Ws credit file.
Loans 2 Go responded to say, in summary, that it agreed with the recommendation for 
loan 2, but not for loan 1. It said that, based on the circumstances, it considered the checks
were proportionate for loan 1 and there was nothing to indicate further checks were 
necessary or the lending was unsustainable. Loans 2 Go adds that, given the type of product 
it offers, customers sometimes have adverse information on their credit files.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision to Mr W and to Loans 2 Go on 27 January 2022. Ive 
summarised my findings:
I was satisfied that Loans 2 Gos checks went far enough for loan 1 because:
This was Mr Ws first loan with Loans 2 Go and the scheduled repayments were less 
than 7% of his verified income;
Loans 2 Go verified Mr Ws income and found it to be around £1,700 per month, as 
compared with the £2,500 hed declared;
Loans 2 Go used statistical averages for Mr Ws expenditure as the figures were 
higher than those hed declared;
Even though Loans 2 Gos analysis showed discrepancies between its checks and 
Mr Ws declared income and expenditure, the affordability calculations still showed 
the repayments were sustainable:
oBased on Mr Ws verified income, his credit file and his self-declared 
expenditure, Mr W was left with almost £700 of monthly disposable income;
oUsing Loans 2 Gos estimate for Mr Ws expenditure gave him a disposable 
income of over £360 per month;
The credit check showed:
oNo defaults or County Court Judgements;
oFive credit cards at or slightly above their limit, but with up-to-date payments;
oMonthly credit expenditure of around £450;
oOne account on a payment arrangement  making higher payments to cover 
one months arrears;
I didnt consider there was anything in the above information that should have indicated to
Loans 2 Go that it needed to carry out additional checks or that Mr W was already struggling
to manage his money.
So, taking into account the evidence Id seen, I considered Loans 2 Go carried out 
reasonable and proportionate checks and made a fair lending decision for loan 1.
As Loans 2 Go agreed with the adjudicators assessment for loan 2, I didnt consider it 
further.
Loans 2 Go responded to say, in summary, that it accepted the provisional decision.
Mr W called in to discuss the provisional decision and ask further questions. He did not 
provide any further information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to Mr Ws call I sent him the following information:
I explained that lenders are expected to carry out proportionate checks when 
assessing a loan application but that this does not mean it needs to look at bank 
statements in every case:oThe provisional decision outlined why I considered Loans 2 Go did enough 
checks for loan 1 and why those checks gave it no reason to decline his 
application at that stage;
I addressed his wifes concerns about the 100% price cap, and explained this applies 
to loans of 12 months or fewer (high-cost, short-term credit);
As Mr W repaid loan 1 within a week of taking it out, he only paid £19.66 in interest;
I confirmed the response date was 24 February 2022.
As neither party provided any additional information, and Loans 2 Go accepted my 
provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from it.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. If loan 2 remains with a debt collection 
agency, then Loans 2 Go should buy it back if it is able to do so and then take the following 
steps. If it is not able to buy the debt back, then Loans 2 Go should liaise with the new debt 
owner to achieve the results outlined below.
Loans 2 Go Limited should:
Remove any interest and charges still outstanding on loan 2 and treat all the 
payments Mr W made towards this loan as payments towards the capital;
If reworking Mr Ws loan 2 account as Ive directed results in Mr W effectively 
having made payments above the original capital borrowed, then Loans 2 Go 
should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on them, from 
the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*;
If reworking Mr Ws loan 2 account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then 
Loans 2 Go should take a sympathetic view when seeking to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Mr W;
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ws credit file in relation to loan 2  
up to the date the complaint is settled.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to take off tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman