DRN-3169097
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs H have complained that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited 
(Red Sands) unfairly declined a claim under their home contents policy.
What happened
Mr H and Mrs H contacted Red Sands to make a claim when two bikes were stolen from a 
balcony at their home. Red Sands declined the claim because the bikes hadnt been secured 
to an immovable object.
So, Mr H and Mrs H complained to Red Sands. When Red Sands replied, it said it had 
looked again at the claim but maintained its decision to decline it. Red Sands said the terms 
and conditions of the policy required the bike to be secured to an immovable object when 
unattended.
When Mr H and Mrs H complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint. He said Red Sands had acted fairly by declining the claim, as the bikes werent 
secured to an immovable object, which was a requirement in the policy.
As Mr H and Mrs H didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Red Sands considered the claim and declined it because it said the bikes were on a balcony 
so needed to be secured to an immovable object. The policy said it provided cover for:
The contents of the flat known as [the property address] that remain in the flat and
the specified and unspecified Personal Possessions below that You own or are legally 
responsible for
It also provided Personal Possessions cover up to the insured value of each bike:
for any sudden, unforeseen loss or damage over and above £350 that We agree to cover 
once suitable proof of ownership has been received while used riding recreationally and 
within the United Kingdom and caused by:
 Theft while left unattended and locked through the frame to an immovable object with a 
rigid bicycle or motorcycle lock
I also read the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID), which said:
Theft of bikes outside the flat is only covered while locked through the frame to an 
immovable object with a rigid bicycle or motorcycle lock.
And 
Contents are covered while inside the flat known as [the property address] and specified 
personal possessions anywhere in the United Kingdom 
The bikes were on a first-floor glass balcony. So, Ive thought about whether it was 
reasonable to say the bikes were outside. In my view, it was. The balcony was on the 
outside of the building and was open to the elements. I dont think that can fairly be regarded 
as being inside the flat.
Ive also thought about whether the bikes were unattended. This word isnt defined in the 
policy. So, we would generally say that something was unattended if the policyholder (or a 
trusted person) isnt in a position to be able to prevent someone interfering with it. The bikes 
were stolen in the middle of the night while Mr H and Mrs H were asleep. So, I think its fair 
to say the bikes were unattended. As a result, they needed to be secured to an immovable 
object.
Mr H and Mrs H have said there was no immovable object on the balcony to secure the 
bikes to. Im also aware that Mr H and Mrs H were unable to make any changes because 
they rented the flat. However, I dont think that affects the requirement to secure the bikes to 
an immovable object. Instead, it seems to show that the balcony was an unsuitable place to 
store the bikes if Mr H and Mrs H wanted cover under the policy.
So, thinking about all of the above, I dont uphold this complaint or require Red Sands to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman