DRN-4158448
The complaint
Ms S complained, through her representative Mr S, that Scottish Friendly Assurance Society 
Limited (Scottish Friendly) failed to fully acknowledge its responsibility for the delays and 
shortcomings in the service it provided when Mr S was trying to arrange to pay money into 
Ms S Junior Individual Savings Account (JISA). 
What happened
In brief outline, Mr S mainly said that Scottish Friendly: 
 would only allow cheque payments into Ms S ISA
 failed to contact him by his preferred method of email
 made it difficult for Mr S to get through on the phone 
 failed to correspond within eight weeks of his complaint.
Scottish Friendly acknowledged that, in some respects, it shouldve handled things better 
and offered Mr S £25 by way of an apology.
Mr S was unhappy with this response. To put things right, Mr S said he wanted a meaningful 
apology and he felt that £25 was insufficient redress to properly reflect the time he spent 
dealing with the matter. So he brought the complaint to us and one of our investigators 
looked into what happened.   
Whilst our investigator was sympathetic, she felt overall that Scottish Friendly had done 
enough to put things right. 
Mr S disagreed with our investigator. The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a 
provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
The background facts arent disputed so Ill just briefly outline these here. Mr S had wanted 
to make an online payment to Ms S JISA but Scottish Friendly said the payment could only 
be made by cheque. It told Mr S he could cancel the current JISA and change to a policy 
that allowed electronic payments. Although Mr S felt that involved a lot of unnecessary red 
tape he did arrange a transfer to a new JISA for Ms S. Unfortunately, there were still delays 
paying in his lump sum. Mr S spent a lot of time trying to get through on the phone to sort 
things out. And he was frustrated that Scottish Friendly sent letters through the post rather 
than communicating by email.
Although Mr S engaged with Scottish Friendly as a person with parental responsibility and 
he was involved in dealing with matters on a day to day basis, he was representing Ms S 
interests rather than his own. The JISA belonged to Ms S and Scottish Friendly owed a 
duty of care to Ms S, as its customer. This means that whilst it was Mr S who was put to the 
trouble of trying to sort things out with Scottish Friendly, under the rules governing our 
service, Mr S (as representative) isnt entitled to any personal compensation for distress 
and inconvenience.
I can tell Scottish Friendly to pay compensation or take other steps to put things right if I am 
satisfied that Scottish Friendly did something wrong or acted unfairly or unreasonably and 
this led to Ms S suffering some detriment and/or financial loss. So I've approached the 
complaint with this in mind and Ive concentrated on assessing the impact on Ms S of what 
happened. 
The relevant JISA terms and conditions make clear that single payments and top-up 
contributions could only be made to Ms S original JISA by cheque payments into the 
account. And whilst other payment methods have become more commonplace since the 
original JISA was set up, payment by cheque continues to be an available payment option. 
So it doesnt seem unreasonable to me that Scottish Friendly required Mr S to make the 
one-off lump sum payment he wanted to make into the JISA by cheque. And whilst I can 
appreciate why Mr S personally found this frustrating from his point of view, it isnt a reason 
for me to uphold the complaint.
Im sorry that Mr S got caught up in problems trying to get through on the phone to 
Scottish Friendly but I havent seen any evidence to show how this impacted detrimentally 
on Ms S. Scottish Friendly explained that, at the time, it was experiencing significantly 
higher call volumes and hold times were longer. It put measures in place to improve things, 
which included recruiting additional contact centre staff. 
The main potential impact on Ms S, as far as I can see, was the risk that delays in 
connection with setting up the new JISA and Mr S being able to make the payment-in could 
have led to financial loss for Ms S. Mr S returned the completed JISA transfer document on 
15 December 2021. Scottish Friendly said it aimed to process transfers within 5 working 
days. The new policy was set-up and the transfer-in payment was made on 24 December 
2021  so this took around a week or so. I dont think thats an unreasonable timescale 
overall. Scottish Friendly has said it sincerely apologised for any stress and inconvenience 
caused which I think is sufficient redress in the circumstances so far as Ms S is concerned. 
I havent, for instance, seen anything to make me think that Ms S was made anxious or was 
even aware that Scottish Friendly had overrun its timetable by a couple of days. So I dont 
find that this short delay would support any award of compensation to Ms S for distress and 
inconvenience. 
Scottish Friendly has confirmed that the relevant fund prices were higher on the transfer 
date than they were on 15 December  so I dont find that Ms S suffered any financial loss 
as a result of the transfer happening on 24 December. And although there was a delay in 
the payment Mr S wanted to make going into the JISA, this wasnt Scottish Friendlys fault 
as his own bank had cancelled the payment.
To sum up, I havent seen enough to be able to say that Ms S has lost out as a result of 
anything that Scottish Friendly did wrong and I dont find it has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Ms S so as to warrant any award of redress.
Mr S raised several different complaint points. I have not referred to each point hes raised 
where this didnt affect Ms S or commented on matters where theres nothing further I can 
usefully add to what our investigator has said already. I have concentrated on what 
I consider to be the main points that affect the outcome of Ms S complaint. And I hope that 
setting things out as I've done is helpful in explaining my decision.What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr S disagreed with my provisional decision. 
Scottish Friendly didnt comment further. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to dealing with complaints on our website and Ive kept this in 
mind while deciding this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr S feels strongly about what happened and he holds a different view to 
me. I would like to assure Mr S that Ive taken carefully into account all the information I've 
been able to see and everything thats been said, including his comments sent in response 
to my provisional decision. 
Im very sorry that Mr S had problems when dealing with Scottish Friendly in his capacity as 
representative for Ms S in connection with this matter. But for the reasons I've explained 
more fully in my provisional decision, what Mr S has told me about what happened isnt 
enough for me to be able to uphold Ms S complaint on the grounds that it acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards her in a way that resulted in loss or other detriment.  
As no further comments have been received in response to my provisional decision that 
change what I think about this case, I still think its fair not to uphold this complaint for the 
reasons I explained in more detail in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman