DRN-2907647
The complaint
Mr L has complained about a mortgage with Oakwood Homeloans Limited that was taken 
out in his name. He says he was coerced into taking it out and had no control over it or the 
property.
  
What happened
The events giving rise to the complaint are sensitive and unusual. Our decisions are 
published, so its important that I dont say anything in this decision that might identify Mr L. I 
confirm Ive read and taken note of everything but I will not set out all the details here, to 
preserve Mr Ls anonymity and privacy.
Ive read and understood everything Mr L has told us and Ive a great deal of sympathy for 
what hes been  and is going  through. As Ive said, I wont reveal any details about his 
circumstances to protect his privacy, but I have taken it all into account when reaching this 
decision.
Our investigator said Oakwood should:
start the repossession process and sell the property.
pay any left-over equity to Mr L, once Oakwood had taken all its costs into account.
remove the mortgage record from Mr Ls credit file.
pay £300 for the distress and inconvenience for a failure to support him when he first 
made it aware of the situation.
Oakwood accepted that recommendation, albeit it said after taking legal advice it would need 
to pay the left-over equity to the courts so it could be decided legally who was entitled to the 
equity. Our investigator agreed that was fair and put the offer to Mr L.
Mr L didnt accept it as he feels he should receive more than £300 compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
As Ive already explained, I wont mention the background to this complaint in this decision to 
protect Mr Ls privacy. Our investigator sent both sides a very detailed background and Im 
satisfied that explained everything clearly and correctly. 
Oakwood agreed to take possession of the property and sell it. It also agreed to remove any 
trace of the mortgage from Mr Ls credit file. All that, put together, resolves the underlying 
issue of this property and mortgage being held in Mr Ls name, and the impact that has on 
him.
So all I need to decide is what should happen with the remaining equity, and what 
compensation should be paid to Mr L.
Having considered everything, I agree with Oakwood that any funds that remain after the 
mortgage and costs are paid should be placed with the courts. Once the funds are with the 
courts it will be up to Mr L and/or the other people (that he has told us controlled the property 
and mortgage) to sort that out. Oakwood will have met its duty by placing the funds with the 
courts so a legal resolution can be reached. 
Mr L has said that the equity isnt his, and it would be like stealing to take it. I cant comment 
on that as that would be a matter for the courts to decide, but to be clear there is no 
requirement for him to pursue the equity via the courts if he doesnt want to. That is entirely 
his choice to make.
That leaves me to decide what compensation should be paid to Mr L. This is a very complex 
case, and it is clear that Mr L has had  and still has  some considerable difficulties, both 
with his health and in his life. Hes had a lot to try to overcome, and Id like to thank him for 
how open and honest he has been with us. It cant have been easy to recount it all.
But I also have to consider what I think Oakwood ought reasonably to have known, and 
when it should have known it. 
It is clear from the contact notes that Oakwood knew the property was being rented out 
(contrary to the mortgage contract). But that - in itself - isnt a red flag. We see many cases 
where a property is rented out when it shouldnt be, and there arent the underlying issues 
that we see here.
There was also a lot of contact with the other people, but there were plausible reasons given 
for that and at various times Mr L gave his authority for Oakwood to deal with those people. 
Again, this isnt something that is unusual with mortgage accounts, and wouldnt  in itself  
raise concerns. 
With hindsight, now Mr L has told us everything, I can see the picture that built over the 
years which supports what he has said. But I cant use hindsight when deciding a complaint. 
I need to decide the compensation due for this complaint based on what Oakwood ought 
reasonably to have known, and I dont think Oakwood did anything wrong in not 
realising Mr L had been coerced into buying  and had no control over  this mortgage and 
property at any point before he told it that was the case. 
The original advice was given by an independent mortgage broker, and Oakwood was 
entitled to rely on the information provided by that company. Oakwood wouldnt have needed 
to have any contact with Mr L when the mortgage was taken out, and it would have had no 
reason to suspect there was anything untoward. It is possible Oakwood could have queried 
things earlier as there were a few anomalies, but I cant hold it liable for not doing so as 
there was nothing clear cut.
All that said, I think Oakwood could have handled things better once Mr L had disclosed his 
circumstances. It seems Oakwood wanted to follow a process, but this was a very unusual 
set of circumstances that needed more bespoke handling. Mr L is clearly vulnerable and he 
told Oakwood about his personal circumstances. Ideally Oakwood would have taken that on board and thought about the best way to handle things to ensure the least possible amount 
of distress was caused to Mr L. 
Im pleased to see Oakwood eventually agreed to move things forward, but I think that 
should have happened sooner than it did. Mr L first told Oakwood about what had happened 
in September 2020, and it wasnt until February 2021 it said Mr L could voluntarily surrender 
the property.
Our investigator felt £300 compensation was fair for that delay and I agree with her. I 
understand Mr L feels that isnt enough as he thinks Oakwood discriminated against him and 
harassed him, causing a detrimental effect on his health. Mr L refers to a period of almost 
two years this occurred over. 
As Ive explained above, I dont think Oakwood did anything wrong in not being aware of Mr 
Ls situation before September 2020, and it offered to take the property and sell it in 
February 2021. I cant hold Oakwood liable for Mr L not accepting that offer at the time, so I 
can only consider that five-month period (between September 2020 and February 2021). 
Having looked at that time I cant see anything to show Oakwood discriminated against Mr L, 
or that it harassed him. As Ive said, Oakwood tried to follow a process that wasnt 
appropriate here, but I dont consider its actions amounted to discrimination or harassment; 
instead I think it was clumsy in how it handled things. Ive no doubt things could have been 
handled better, but were not the regulator and it isnt our role to fine or punish businesses. 
Clearly nothing can change how Mr L feels, and what has happened to him throughout his 
life, but I can only consider compensation in terms of what Oakwood did wrong. Having 
considered everything Im satisfied the £300 recommended by our investigator is fair and 
reasonable and so that is the award Im making.
Putting things right
I order Oakwood Homeloans Limited to:
Take possession of the property and sell it. I would urge Mr L to cooperate with this 
process as that will keep costs down as much as possible. It may be a voluntary 
surrender is still possible, but Ill leave the sides to explore that.
Once the property is sold, the funds should be used to redeem the mortgage and pay 
any costs involved in the sale. Any surplus that remains after the mortgage and all 
costs are paid (plus any other charges there may be on the property) should be 
lodged with the courts. If there is a shortfall after the property is sold then Oakwood 
has confirmed it wont hold Mr L liable for that.
Remove any record of this mortgage from Mr Ls credit file.
Pay £300 compensation to Mr L.
 
 My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Oakwood Homeloans Limited to 
put things right as Ive set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman