DRN-2516979
The complaint
Ms C complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) failed to process her 
ISA transfer in a timely manner and she suffered a financial loss as a result.
What happened
Ms C posted her ISA transfer forms to Halifax on 10 May 2020. This request was to transfer 
£15,600.00 held in her current Cash ISA to Halifax. Ms C didnt hear anything from Halifax 
and she called them on 22 May 2020 to ask for an update. Halifax said that the transfer 
forms had been received by them but hadnt been scanned onto the system correctly. 
Halifax said they would do this and process the transfer.
Ms C called Halifax again on 29 May 2020 to ask for an update and was told that the transfer 
hadnt been actioned. On 2 June 2020, Halifax sent Ms C a letter saying that they had 
received her transfer request and it may take two-three weeks to process.
Ms C called Halifax on 4 June to complain about the transfer and said she was unhappy at 
the length of time that it was taking. Halifax apologised and offered £75.00 for the trouble 
and upset caused. Ms C told Halifax that she was intending to place trades but was unable 
because of the delays.
On 5 June 2020, Halifax sent Ms C confirmation that they had processed her transfer. On 9 
June, Ms C placed two purchases using the cash within her ISA. Ms C called Halifax to 
complain and said that she had been financially disadvantaged by the delay caused by 
Halifax and had incurred a loss of £1800.00. 
Halifax investigated Ms Cs complaint but did not uphold her complaint for loss and referred 
her to the £75 which they had already offered.
Ms C referred her complaint to the service and one of our investigators reviewed her 
complaint. The investigator upheld Ms Cs complaint and thought that Halifax had acted 
unfairly in processing the transfer and asked them to calculate how much it would have cost 
Ms C to purchase the shares had they acted on the transfer quicker.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Halifax have asked for an ombudsman to look at the 
complaint.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator and will be upholding Ms Cs complaint. 
I know that Halifax may be unhappy so I will explain why I have reached this decision.
Halifax agreed that the service Ms C received did not meet their normal expectations and 
they had upheld this part of the complaint, but they said that the transfer had been 
completed in accordance with normal timescales and that they could not compensate Ms C 
for any perceived loss.
In their submission to the service, Halifax have said that although there was clearly an 
administrative issue, they felt that no consideration had been given to the environment that 
their business was operating at the height of the Pandemic. They said that they do not feel 
that they should be punished for not being as efficient as they could have been.
Halifax have also said that the transfer was completed in line with regulatory timescales. I 
have reviewed these timescales and can see that Ms Cs transfer was processed within the 
maximum time permitted but I think that Halifax should have processed the transfer sooner. 
I have considered what Halifax have said but I think that there were clear delays due to their 
handling of Ms Cs transfer request and she had been disadvantaged as a result. I have 
looked at what happened and what should have happened and think on balance, Halifax 
have acted unfairly in how they have treated Ms Cs claim for the loss she has incurred.
Ms C says that she sent the transfer form to Halifax on 10 May 2020 and this was received 
by Halifax on 18 May 2020. At this point, the transfer form wasnt scanned correctly, and the 
transfer process could not start. Im not persuaded by Halifaxs argument that that this was 
down to the Pandemic and how they were adapting to different ways of working. 
If I assume that Halifax had scanned the transfer form correctly then I think that the transfer 
could have been completed quicker and Ms C would have been able to purchase her trades 
at a lower price. The investigator has suggested that Halifax should consider the price of Ms 
Cs investments on 4 June to see if there is a difference in price. I think that this is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
In their response to the investigators view, Halifax have said that they dont think it is 
appropriate to honour a hypothetical set of circumstances in the market. I am taking this to 
mean that they cannot be held responsible for any hypothetical set of trades that Ms C may 
have wished to make.
I have considered this, but I am persuaded that Ms C wished to purchase investments and 
made this known to Halifax on 4 June when she called them and said she was unhappy with 
the time her transfer was taking. I think that on balance, Ms C knew what stocks she wanted 
to purchase at this point. Ms C made two purchases the day after her cash was available 
within her ISA.
 
Putting things right
I require Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax to undertake the following actions:
Calculate the closing prices on 4 June 2020 for the stocks that Ms C purchased on 9 
June. 
If the prices on 4 June are 2020 are lower, pay Ms C the difference 
Pay Ms C £150 for the trouble and upset caused 
  
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I uphold the complaint.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman