DRN-1567977
 
Complaint
Mrs B says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mrs B bought the policy in 1998, at the same time as taking out a credit card. It covered her 
in case she was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Bs case.
Having done that, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mrs Bs credit card application had a section for optional features, one of which was PPI. It 
gave a brief overview of the policys purpose and cost. Then there was a box that could be 
ticked if Mrs B wanted PPI, or which could be left blank if she didnt want it. The box for PPI 
was ticked, and Mrs B signed the application to confirm her choices. So I think that Lloyds 
made Mrs B aware she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it at 
the time  though I can understand if she no longer recalls doing so after so long.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs B, which means they had to check it was right for her. 
And based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it 
looks like Mrs B was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions 
or limitations. While she had sick pay through work, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of her 
work benefits and offered her more comprehensive cover  especially when her sick pay 
reduced to just a fraction of her normal pay. And Mrs B doesnt seem to have had any 
equivalent cover to PPI in case she lost her job. So it looks like the policy couldve been 
useful for Mrs B in case she needed to claim.
Its possible that the information Lloyds gave Mrs B about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed 
her mind. Here, it looks like Mrs B chose to take out the policy, which indicates she wanted 
this type of cover. As I explained above, it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the 
policys main exclusions or limitations, and it could have been useful for Mrs B if something 
went wrong. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mrs B could cancel it at any 
time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think better information about the PPI was likely to 
have put her off taking it out.My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman