DRN-3867085
The complaint
Ms C complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) has refused to refund her the amount 
she lost as the result of a scam.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary, Ms C was contacted by a friend of hers that I will call X. X explained how to 
invest in Bitcoin and persuaded Ms C that she could make profits investing. X helped Ms C 
setup an account with a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange called Moonpay. On 23 April 
2022 Ms C made a debit card payment of £650 to Moonpay as instructed by X to be 
invested in Bitcoin.
Ms C was able to access a trading platform that showed she had made a profit on her 
investment, but when she tried to make a withdrawal X asked Ms C to make further 
payments. Ms C refused to make further payments and has been unable to recover any of 
the funds she invested.
It appears Ms C has fallen victim to a scam and the trading platform she viewed was fake. 
After she made a payment to Moonpay her funds were sent to X and were unable to be 
recovered.
Ms C contacted Santander to recover the funds she lost to the scam, but it refused to refund 
any of the money. 
Our Investigator considered Ms Cs complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Ms C 
disagreed, she though Santander should have stepped in to prevent the scam from taking 
place.
As Ms C didnt agree this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances of this complaint are not in dispute and the evidence provided by both 
Ms C and Santander set out what happened well. What is in dispute is whether Santander 
should refund any of the money Ms C has lost because of this scam.
Santander was unable to process a chargeback for the payment Ms C made in relation to 
the scam.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
Ms C was dealing with X, which was the person that instigated the scam. But Ms C didnt 
make the debit card payments to X directly, she paid a separate cryptocurrency exchange 
(Moonpay). This is important because Santander was only able to process chargeback 
claims against the merchant she paid (Moonpay), not another party (such as X).
The service provided by Moonpay would have been to convert or facilitate conversion of
Ms Cs payments into cryptocurrency. Therefore, Moonpay provided the service that was 
requested; that being the purchase of the cryptocurrency.
The fact that the cryptocurrency was later transferred elsewhere  to the scammer  doesnt
give rise to a valid chargeback claim against the merchant Ms C paid. As Moonpay provided 
the requested service to Ms C any chargeback attempt would fail.
Ms C has accepted she authorised the payment she made to Moonpay, so the starting point 
here is that Ms C is responsible. However, banks and other Payment Services Providers 
(PSPs) do have a duty to protect against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to 
undertake due diligence on large transactions to guard against money laundering.
The question here is whether Santander should have been aware of the scam and stepped 
in to prevent the payment Ms C was making.
Ms C made a one-off payment to Moonpay on 23 April 2022. Moonpay is a legitimate 
business so its unlikely Santander would have any concerns about Ms C making a payment 
to it. And while Ms C hadnt previously made a payment to Moonpay it wouldnt be 
reasonable for me to suggest Santander should step in to prevent its customers from making 
payments every time they attempt to pay a business, they hadnt previously paid. The 
payment amount was also for a relatively low value that I wouldnt expect to cause concern.
Overall, I dont think it was unreasonable that Santanders fraud prevention systems were 
not triggered by the payment Ms C made to Moonpay, So, I dont think it would have been 
able to prevent this scam from taking place. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman