DRN-2961219
The complaint
Miss B complains that Hamsard 3225 Limited, trading as CLC Finance (CLC), lent to her
irresponsibly. Miss B is represented by a third party.
Miss B has also complained that CLC failed to advise her or provide her with appropriate
advice towards free debt management which may have prevented a further increase in her
debt and adverse credit history.
 
What happened
Using information about the approved loans received from CLC, here is a brief table.
Loan Approved Principal 
AmountAny refinancing 
of another 
loan?Term and repay 
rate (weekly)repaid
1 14 February 2014 £100 - £7.50 x 19 6 June 2014
2 18 April 2014 £90 - £8.70 x 15 18 July 2014
3 6 June 2014 £160 Repays 1 £11.04 x 25
4 18 July 2014 £160 Repays 2 £12.40 x 2119 December
2014
5 £160 £11.04 x 25
6 £160 £11.04 x 2529 May 2015
719 December 2014
£150Repays 3, 4
£7.50 x 32 31 July 2015
8 £200 £13.80 x 25
929 May 2015
£160Repays 5, 6
£11.04 x 25
10 14 August 2015 £120 £9.30 x 2127 November
2015
11 £200 £10 x 32 April 2018*
12 £176 £12 x 26
1327 November 2015
£132Repays 8, 9,10
£9 x 2622 April 2016
14 £220 £15 x 26
1522 April 2016
£176Repays 12 ,13
£12 x 26April 2018*
*The statements of account for these loans appear as Adjust Balance. Miss B entered
bankruptcy on 13 June 2016.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that CLC should have ceased
lending at loan 6 because in her view Miss B now appeared to be becoming reliant on this
form of lending, was unsustainable or otherwise harmful as youve shown she had by now
had six loans in ten months with no breaks yet you continued to approve further borrowing
often multiple loans at a time.
Our adjudicator did not really address the other part of Miss Bs complaint.
CLC responded to say that it disagreed and gave reasons why, all of which have been
reviewed by me. The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision on 10 August 2021 with a reply date of 24 August 2021. This 
was extended to 8 September 2021.
 
The back ground to the complaint and my provisional decision 
Miss Bs representative has not disagreed with our adjudicators view and so it seems that 
loans 1 to 5 are not disputed. So, I am reviewing loans 6 onwards which were the ones upheld by our 
adjudicator and about which CLC disagrees.
CLC has had other decisions from this Service which detail our approach to complaints of this nature 
and what we think about the rules and regulations that surround the sale of this type of credit. So CLC 
should be aware of our approach to these issues. And our general approach to complaints about 
irresponsible lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  are on 
our website. So, I dont intend to go into detail about those here. But a brief summary is below.
Miss B has sent to us a copy of her personal credit file dated September 2020 and so it covers most 
of the CLC lending period.
CLC has sent us explanations and assertions that it carried out full affordability assessments and 
that its procedures are robust, but it has not sent much evidence to substantiate these claims. 
Theres some evidence from the original loan approvals. CLC has sent to us copies of the 
applications Miss B made, the handwritten notes of Miss Bs income and outgoings, the statements of 
account and some information which appear to be instructions to its agents on the pre-contract 
process.
CLC has provided a table to show Miss Bs weekly repayments, her disposable income each week 
and what it terms Miss Bs headroom. This term seems to be CLCs way to describe the amount of 
money each week CLC says Miss B would have had after she had paid her fixed costs and other 
commitments had been deducted, minus the weekly repayments to CLC.
Miss Bs credit file sent to us by her does show that her credit commitments to other lenders (home 
credit, credit card, mail order and others) were more each month than she had declared to CLC. And 
I do think that by December 2014 when CLC was approving her for three loans at the same time, I 
think that a full financial review ought to have been carried out to verify the details she was giving it. 
To continue to rely just on what Miss B had told the CLC agent seems to be a brief affordability 
assessment. And as the CLC Headroom table seems to be based on information Miss B had given to 
it, without further checking or verification, then I think that this table is meaningless. Its simply a 
different way to present the same, unverified, information Miss B had given to the agent.
So, I am not persuaded that this table by CLC demonstrates to me that Miss B could necessarily 
afford the loans after she had been indebted to CLC for almost a year.
CLC needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this meant 
that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss B could repay the loans in a 
sustainable manner.
These checks could consider several different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts, and the consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that CLC should fairly and reasonably have done more to 
establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer.These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan repayments to 
a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time 
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or 
was becoming, unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also suggestive of 
the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be an 
indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow 
this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being without undue difficulties and the 
customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; 
as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should 
realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing 
further.
Turning to the approval of loans 6 and 7 in December 2014, Miss B completed an application form, or 
the CLC agent assisted her to complete it. Her application was for £470 which was to include the 
repayment of two outstanding loans which had a total balance of £42.90. For a reason which only 
CLC will be able to explain, the agent issued her with three separate loans with differing terms. The 
total principal credit sum extended to her that day was £470 and she settled two other loans. There 
must have been a significant reason for it as it was three sets of paperwork and three sets of 
agreement terms. But the reality is that Miss B was applying for £470 and got it. So, the 
creditworthiness assessment ought to have been for £470 (plus interest). But it looks like it may have 
been three smaller loans for which the creditworthiness assessments were done, which I am not 
certain that this was the correct approach.
The same approach was repeated in May 2015, when Miss B applied for £360 of which repay two 
other outstanding loans, and she was issued with two 00 and £160 respectively.
In November 2015 Miss B applied for a loan of £508 of which £128.05 was to be used to settle three 
earlier loans. Miss B was issued with three loans for £200, £176 and £132.
In April 2016 Miss B applied for £396, of which £179.93 was to repay two other loans. Miss B was 
approved for that sum over two separate loans of which she received £216.27 as cash to use going 
forward.
So, although CLC may see these as individual and relatively small loans, I can see that the amounts 
Miss B was applying for were quite large and proportions of them were being used to refinance earlier 
loans. I have set out the loan table to demonstrate this pattern.
I have reviewed Miss Bs credit file and I can see that in 2014 she had the CLC loans and two with 
another home credit provider. One of those other loans started in July 2014 and the second 
overlapped the first and started in August 2014. The combined repayments for that other lender, 
according to the credit file Miss B has provided, came to around £86 a month.
Ive no evidence that CLC knew of those other loans with another provider. And Ive no other financial 
evidence from Miss B from that time for me to adequately assess Miss Bs financial position. So, 
although I find it odd that the agent should have issued three loans at once in December 2014, Ive 
made a provisional decision that on current evidence I dont think Ive enough to uphold those loans  
loans 5, 6 and 7.And I do not agree with our adjudicator that upholding two of the three loans from that one date 
(December 2014) is the right approach. I think that they all needed to be upheld as irresponsibly lent, 
or none and Ive provisionally decided that its none in December 2014.
But from loan 8 my view is different. After such a long time of lending CLC ought to have been doing 
more when Miss B applied for loans which I do not think that it did. With the loan table, I have used 
the information CLC has provided and set it out to demonstrate that this pattern of refinancing of 
earlier loans and the issuing of two or more loans on the same date was duplicated several times. Ive 
looked at the overall pattern of CLCs lending history with Miss B, with a view to seeing if there was a 
point at which CLC should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise 
harmful. And so CLC should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. Given the 
circumstances of Miss Bs case, I think that this point was reached by loan 8. I explain why I think this 
in the following paragraphs.
By the time that Miss B applied to CLC in May 2015, she was applying for two loans, repaying two 
with the monies from the new loans and still had another outstanding with CLC. She had been in debt 
with CLC for over 15 months and was applying for her eighth loan.
I think that loan 8 is the point at which CLC ought to have realised that this repetitive pattern was 
established. Miss B was already showing signs of additional overlapping of loans, increase in weekly 
payment commitments, likely borrowing to repay earlier loans, and her indebtedness had grown from 
loan 1 over 15 months earlier.
And although I realise that CLC has not given us details of any credit searches it carried out or may 
have carried out, I have been able to review Miss Bs credit file covering that period. And I am using 
this information from Miss Bs credit file as additional information to give me a picture of Miss Bs 
overall financial situation in 2015 which demonstrates to me the underlying picture. It tells me that 
2015 was a particularly difficult year for her. It was that year in which her credit file demonstrates she 
had multiple loans, of different types (mail order, gift, credit card, HP and home credit with CLC and at 
least two other home cred lenders) and I think that she was not able to sustainably afford these loans 
from CLC.
CLC is not the only lender who cites regular repayment success as an indication of overall financial 
stability. I dont consider that to be a solid foundation on which to base an affordability assessment. It 
can have a bearing but its not the only feature. And in Miss Bs circumstances, even with CLC, I think 
that she was borrowing to repay borrowing. Miss B had informed CLC that she had other credit. And 
so, I dont think that CLC was able to rely on Miss Bs ability to repay with its own fresh loans as being 
strong evidence of being able to afford the loans it was issuing to her. And this point also goes to 
answer the fact that according to CLC it says it had no indications of her being in any financial 
difficulty. Miss B was constantly asking for more credit and a pattern had developed to repay earlier 
loans with new borrowing. These would, in my view, have been an alert to a professional lender that 
Miss B was having difficulty.
The loan table demonstrates that the debt was being restructured regularly and she was not really 
making any real inroads into the amount she owed CLC.
I have provisionally decided that CLC ought to have realised it was more likely than not that Miss Bs 
indebtedness was unsustainable.
I think that Miss B lost out because CLC continued to provide borrowing from loan 8 onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Bs indebtedness by allowing her to take 
expensive credit over an extended period; and
the length of time over which Miss B borrowed was likely to have had negative implications on 
her ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these high-cost 
loans.
So, overall, Im upholding the com ll go on to set out what CLC should do to put things right.Miss Bs other part of her complaint
I dont have enough evidence from either party to determine whether CLC did, or ought to have, given 
Miss B advice. The customer leaflet CLC has sent to me is undated and, I think it most likely post-
dates Miss Bs loans. I say this because the logo for this Service is quite a distinctive one and I know 
that was changed relatively recently. I think that the leaflet post-dates Miss Bs last loan of April 2016. 
So, I attach little weight to it. I do not accept it, without more evidence from CLC, that it was the one it 
says Miss B would have received. And Miss B has not explained more about this part of her 
complaint. So, I make no findings on this part.
Other submissions made by CLC
CLC has referred to the comprehensive documents it submitted to gain its licence and that the FCA 
has not had any issues on its customer lending policies and procedures. This is not relevant to Miss 
Bs complaint as I am not part of the regulatory body governing CLC.
CLC has advocated the benefit of the agent visiting Miss B at her home to collect and to arrange the 
loans. It says we can build strong relationships with our customer base and therefore become 
aware of any difficulties they may be facing week to week, more immediately than other types of 
lenders. That may have been the case and so I find it unusual that just a few weeks before Miss B 
became bankrupt in June 2016 CLC was continuing to lend.
I do not consider it necessary to address the issue  largely academic  of unregulated lenders as 
being the option available to Miss B if it had not lent to her. It is a hypothetical scenario suggested by 
CLC and does not relate to the loan approvals which are the basis of this complaint. I am being asked 
to look at the regulation of lending, as it was at the time Miss Bs loans were taken, and to consider 
whether CLCs actions were compliant with that regulation.
CLC has referred to Miss Bs option to withdraw from a credit agreement within 14 days. The 14 day 
withdrawal period point is noted but does not alter my views on whether it was right for the loans to 
have been approved in the first place.
CLC has made a point about any compensatory award. CLC needs to understand that any reduction 
in redress due would have to be predicated on a third party lender providing lending fully in line with 
the rules and regulations. In my view, it follows that another lender couldnt have lent to Miss B 
compliantly either, if it had done proper creditworthiness assessments required by the FCA. I deal with 
this in the next section.
How have both parties responded?
Despite asking for an extension of time, nothing has been received from CLC. 
Miss B accepted all that had been said in my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has submitted any further evidence or arguments, then I see no reason to 
depart from the findings I made in my provisional decision and for the same reasons. So, 
I uphold Miss Bs complaint in part.
  Putting things right
In its submissions to us, CLC has talked about the 2020 High Court judgement in the case of 
Kerrigan vs Elevate Credit International Limited. CLC drew on the Courts findings to 
question assumptions about what might have happened had it declined the lending in 
question, and so Miss B had had to apply to a third-party lender. In deciding what redress 
CLC should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might have happened had it 
stopped lending to Miss B from loan 8, as Im satisfied, on current evidence, it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. For 
example, having been declined this lending Miss B may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this lender which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt a viable 
option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that 
was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct.
From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real 
and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Miss B in a 
compliant way at that time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Miss B would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mutuals liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has 
done wrong and should put right.
CLC shouldnt have given Miss B loans 8 to 15. My understanding is that these have been 
repaid (or written off) and there are no outstanding balances. Miss B was discharged from 
her bankruptcy on 30 June 2017.
A) CLC should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss B towards interest, 
fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything already refunded; and
B) CLC should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Miss B 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date she originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled; and
C) CLC should pay Miss B the total of A plus B; and
D) the overall pattern of Miss Bs borrowing for loans 8 to 15 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so CLC should remove these loans entirely from her credit 
file.
*HM Revenue and Customs requires CLC to deduct tax from this interest. It should give Miss 
B a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted, if she asks for one.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Bs complaint in part and I direct that Hamsard 3225 
Limited, trading as CLC Finance, does as I have outlined above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman