DRN-3483036
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs W complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the 
claim they made under sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in 
relation to a solar panel system they say was misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mr C and Mrs W are represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around November 2015, Mr C and Mrs W were contacted by a representative of a 
company Ill call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be 
installed at their home. After being visited by a representative of P, Mr C and Mrs W decided 
to purchase the system and finance it through a ten year fixed sum loan agreement with 
Shawbrook. The system was subsequently installed.
In June 2021 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr C and Mrs Ws behalf under 
section 75 of the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr C and Mrs W to enter into the contract with P. The 
CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
the system would generate free electricity which could be sold to the national grid;
the system would be self-funding;
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on their electricity bills would provide enough 
income to cover the monthly loan payments;
the system would pay for itself within five or six years (but it will take 38 years); and
the system would not require maintenance (but in fact the inverter would have to be 
replaced at least once during the systems 25-year lifespan, at a cost of £1,500).
The CMC also said that P had failed to explain that interest would be charged during the 
deferred payment period, and that the system would deteriorate over time, generating less 
energy each year.
In July 2021 Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree that the 
system had been misrepresented to Mr C and Mrs W or that there were any other reasons 
for the claim to be upheld.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr C and Mrs W and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
the salesman had not shown Mr C and Mrs W Ps quote during the meeting, and the 
adjudicator had placed too much weight on it;
the adjudicator had said that the quote had made it clear that the system would take 
14 years to pay for the loan, but since the loan term was 10 years, the only 
reasonable conclusion to draw was that Mr C and Mrs W must have been misled, or 
else they would not have purchased a system that would not pay for itself within the 
loan term;
the adjudicator had not been sufficiently sceptical of Ps evidence to the effect that 
the quote had formed a central part of its normal sales process; and
where a person is unaware that a representation is false, the fact that they could 
have found out it was false by taking reasonable care is not a defence in law.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr C and Mrs W paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees 
that section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr C and Mrs W could claim 
against Shawbrook (the creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the 
same way they could have claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into 
account when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr C and 
Mrs W and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In 
this case, the CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system, and also on the 
possibility that Shawbrook paid P commission or gave P some other financial incentive to 
broker the loan. Shawbrook denies paying commission, and I have seen no evidence to 
show the contrary, and so I accept that no commission was paid.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr C and Mrs W say that during a sales meeting they were told that the system would be 
entirely self-financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both parties. These include the 
credit agreement and two versions of the solar quote, both titled Your Personal Solar 
Quotation and both with the same date. I will explain the difference between them later; in the meantime, since one of them is incomplete I have mainly focused on the complete one. 
But Ive considered all of these documents, along with Mr C and Mrs Ws testimony and 
recollection of the sales meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to have happened.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (i.e. the cash price of the system), 
the interest to be charged, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with Mr C and Mrs W, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to them agreeing to enter into the contract.
But I dont think its likely or plausible that Mr C and Mrs W simply took the salesmans word 
for it when they were told that they could buy thousands of pounds worth of equipment  
paid for with an interest-bearing loan  without it costing them a penny, without at any point 
asking to see something to that effect in writing. Its more likely that Mr C and Mrs W have 
simply forgotten seeing the quote over the five and a half years between the sale and the 
bringing of their claim.
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with Mr Cs and 
Mrs Ws version of events, when considering if there have been any untrue statements of 
fact.
The quote differs from what Mr C and Mrs W say they were told by Ps salesman. I agree 
with the CMC that if the salesman lied to them, then it would not be a defence for P or 
Shawbrook to say that they would have known that as soon as they read the quote. But 
I think that the evidential value of the quote is that it makes it implausible that the salesman 
told them something different to what the quote said; I find on the balance of probabilities 
that the salesmans sales pitch was consistent with the quote, and that he showed it to them 
during the meeting.
FIT payments and savings
Mr C and Mrs W have said that they were told their monthly loan repayments would be 
covered, or self-funded by the FIT payments and the savings on their energy bills. Ive 
considered the quote that was provided by P as well as Mr C and Mrs Ws recollections of 
their meeting with Ps representative to decide what is most likely to have been said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr C and Mrs W could 
expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected 
FIT payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT 
scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period.I think that the first of these tables is clear (in both versions of the quote) that Mr C and 
Mrs W could expect to receive a total FIT income in year one of £409.43, which results in an 
average monthly income of £34.12. Im satisfied that the same document set out that there 
would be a monthly loan repayment due of £118.22. As a result, Im not able to conclude 
that Mr C and Mrs W were told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the 
FIT payments alone.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr C and Mrs W could expect from the 
system. In one version, the expected year one electricity savings is £240.01 and, when 
taking into account the optional extras chosen by Mr C and Mrs W, the combined income 
and savings in year one is shown as £732.77. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all 
together.
The other version has a different figure for the allowance for personal usage of electricity, 
which results in the figure for the expected year one electricity savings being £320.99. This 
means that the total income and savings for year 1 comes to £813.75.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 120 months as this is the 
length of the loan that Mr C and Mrs W entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the 
loan as repayable in 120 monthly payments of £118.22. (This is incorrect; the loan 
agreement gives the correct monthly figure of £120.17, but the difference  £1.95  is too 
small to affect the following observations.) For each year of the ten year loan it shows the 
expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, 
and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £118.22, to give an average difference 
between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
This gives a negative figure for every year of the loan, meaning that the system would never 
make enough money to cover the loan payments.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr C and Mrs W could expect to receive from 
the system, by way of FIT payments and savings, as well as their expected contractual 
monthly loan repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT 
income and savings to the monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall 
income they could expect to receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings would 
not be immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. (This supports my 
finding above that Mr C and Mrs W werent told that the FIT payments alone would cover the 
loan repayments.) Ive carefully thought about Mr C and Mrs Ws version of events. 
However, as Ive found that the quote did form a central part of the sales process which the 
salesperson went through at the meeting, I dont think I can reasonably find that they were 
told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income and savings.
I am reinforced in my view by the graph below, on page 6 of the quote, which plainly showed 
that the system would not make enough to cover the loan payments. (The orange line shows 
the monthly loan payments; the blue and green lines show the FIT income and savings with 
and without the optional extras.)
Self-funding, and system deterioration
Ill now consider whether P told Mr C and Mrs W that the system would be self-funding from 
the outset. In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely 
to have happened.
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand (notwithstanding the £1.95 
discrepancy in the monthly payments figure). On balance Im also satisfied that the 
salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start. 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr C and Mrs W were told by P that the system would be self-
funding over a certain period of time.
The Key Facts page of the quote states in large font that it would take ten years for the 
overall benefits that Mr C and Mrs W could expect to receive to match the cash price of the 
system.
I think the ten-year estimated payback time is clear and prominent, being in large print on 
page 2. The smaller print underneath explains that this refers to how long it will take to 
recover the cash price. This timescale also appears in the Putting it all together section.
The other version of the quote gives an estimated payback time for the cash price of nine 
years instead of ten.
Going back to the other quote, a later page has a table detailing the estimated performance 
of the system over 20 years. This too shows that during year ten the overall benefits that 
Mr C and Mrs W could expect to receive would reach the cash price of the system, £8,983. 
So I dont accept that the salesman told them it would only take five or six years.
 
The same table shows that the total amount payable under the loan agreement, £14,420, 
would be reached by the end of year 14 (although that amount is not shown in the quote but 
only in the loan agreement).
This table also shows, in the first column (which is titled Panel degradation), how the 
panels will reduce in efficiency year on year. This is shown as a percentage which reduces 
each year, ending in year 20 at 93.2%. So Im satisfied that the quote did take into account 
that the panels would deteriorate over time, and that this would have been factored into the 
table, and into the quote generally.
So Im satisfied that P told Mr C and Mrs W that the system would pay for its cash price in 9 
or 10 years, and for the loan in about 14 years, as supported by the graph and the table 
above, which were included in the quote. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im 
satisfied that this was what induced them to enter into the contract, and they subsequently 
suffered a loss, then that could amount to a misrepresentation.
The CMC says it is untrue because it will actually take 38 years for the system to pay for the 
loan. So Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line 
with the contract between P and Mr C and Mrs W.
Performance: energy generation
The MCS certificate and quote set out that the system is expected to produce 2,748 kWh a 
year. I have looked at Mr C and Mrs Ws FIT statements and can see that his system, on 
average, has generated 2,389 kWh a year. This is significantly less than estimated by P at 
the point of sale (87%), so I agree that the system is not performing as well as expected.
However, I do not know if that is because the system was misrepresented at the point of 
sale, or if it is because the system was defective at the point of sale (which would be a 
breach of contract), or if it is because the system subsequently developed a fault (which 
would not necessarily be Shawbrooks responsibility).
This issue was not raised with Shawbrook in the claim under section 75 in 2021, and so I do 
not think that Shawbrook can be faulted for not having upheld that claim on this basis. 
Shawbrook was only dealing with a complaint that Mr C and Mrs W were told that the system 
was supposed to be self-funding from the start, when it wasnt, and that the salesman had 
misrepresented the system by telling them things which were contradicted by the written 
quote. And Shawbrooks answer was that the quote had made it clear all along that the 
system would not be self-funding from the start, and that it did not accept that the salesman 
had departed from the quote. Shawbrook didnt have to go further than that and investigate 
whether the system was generating as much energy as P had estimated.
So I think that the under-performance issue needs to be raised with Shawbrook in a new 
section 75 claim. That will enable Shawbrook to investigate the reason for the under-
performance. Then, if Mr C and Mrs W are still not satisfied, they may bring a new complaint 
to our service about Shawbrooks response. I am not in a position to deal with that issue 
now, except to say that Shawbrook did not mishandle Mr C and Mrs Ws section 75 claim.
Performance: financial returns
However, I do think that Mr C and Mrs Ws original section 75 claim did include a complaint 
to the effect that the system was not generating the estimated financial returns, and that the 
system had therefore been misrepresented on that basis. So I have considered whether the 
estimated financial returns were exaggerated, independently of the systems failure to 
generate as much energy as estimated.
I also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, expected 
annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. I am 
satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2005 and 2014 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think 
this explains why Mr C and Mrs W havent been receiving the financial returns they may 
have been expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than 
the modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system 
have been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr C and Mrs W could 
have expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may 
not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due 
to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr C and Mrs W entered into the 
contract.
The inverter
I dont think it is likely that the salesman would have told Mr C and Mrs W that the system 
would require no maintenance over its estimated lifespan of 25 years. It is possible that the 
salesman did not tell them during the meeting that the inverter would need to be replaced, 
but that is not the same thing as a misrepresentation.
I also note that the quote says, in a section titled Inverter:
The Inverter is the one part of PV system that has a higher chance of failure and 
may require your attention within the 25 years.
So I dont uphold this complaint point.
Interest during the deferred payment period
The loan term was 123 months, with 120 monthly payments beginning in the fourth month, 
so that no payment was due for the first three months. Interest was charged for those three 
months, and I cannot agree that this was not made clear in the credit agreement. On page 1 
of the agreement it says:
Fixed Rate of Interest: This rate applies from the date we advance the Amount of 
credit to the supplier of the goods and services Interest at the Fixed Rate of 
Interest is calculated from the date we advance the Amount of credit to the supplier 
of the goods and services.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr C and 
Mrs W to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold 
this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman