DRN-3400771
The complaint
Mrs W complains that NewDay Ltd (NewDay) added markers to her credit file.
What happened
Mrs W had a Debenhams card (issued by NewDay). The limit was £500. It had a nil balance 
until February 2020  when purchases of £125.99 were made. Further purchases were 
made in March 2020 which increased the balance to £180 as shown on the statement issued 
on 2 April 2020. No payments were made to the account until November 2020. On 6 April 
2020, NewDay wrote to Mrs W to say a payment had been missed. On 28 April 2020, 
NewDay wrote again to say the account was in arrears. On 9 May 2020, they sent a Default 
Notice with the balance at £196.76 and arrears of £25.81. On 11 June 2020, Mrs Ws 
account was passed to a debt collection agency (DCA) to collect the payments. New Day 
agreed a payment holiday under the pandemic support scheme  from 10 July 2020 to 2 
November 2020. In November 2020, payments of £10 per month commenced and these 
continued to be paid after that.
Mrs W complained. She said shed moved to a new house in May 2020 and called NewDay 
to tell them her new address. But due to NewDays error, they didnt change her records and 
therefore all statements and letters went to her old address. It was only in July 2020 that she 
was passed the letters by the new occupant of her old property. She told the DCA about her 
change of address in July 2020, but it wasnt changed in NewDays records until August 
2020. Mrs W said that because she hadnt received any letters or statements, she couldnt 
make any payments, and she didnt know what her situation or balance was. She said the 
default was unfair and the markers added to her credit file should be removed. Because of 
the markers, her credit score had reduced and she couldnt easily get any credit. Mrs W also 
complained that NewDay were slow to respond to her challenge to their final response  she 
called them on 22 October 2020 and didnt get a reply for more than three months. 
New Day said they didnt have any record of Mrs W having contacted them in May 2020. If 
she had, the request hadnt been actioned. For this, they apologised and paid £10 
compensation, and additionally, refunded two late payment charges totalling £24  as a 
gesture of goodwill. But they said Mrs W must have been aware of her balance  as shed 
contacted NewDay in May 2020 to change her address. And following further contact from 
her, Mrs Ws address was changed by NewDay on 28 August 2020. But they said that no 
payments had been made since the purchases were made on February 2020 and March 
2020  and so the markers on her credit file must remain. 
Mrs W brought her complaint to us and our investigator said NewDay had acted fairly. He 
could see that Mrs Ws account was already in arrears after she missed the payment in 
March 2020, and letters were sent to her in March 2020 and April 2020  before she told 
NewDay of her change of address. So, she must have been aware of her situation then. He 
couldnt see any evidence that Mrs W had contacted NewDay in May 2020. Even though the 
payment holiday (from July 2020 to October 2020) would not have affected her credit file, 
Mrs W was already in arrears by that time  by four months  and so that was why her credit 
file was marked throughout the payment holiday period. NewDays late response to Mrs Ws 
challenge to the final response letter was unfortunate but in his view, it was unlikely to have 
changed anything.
Mrs W didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
[Mrs W argues that she didnt make any payments to her NewDay account because she 
didnt get any statements or letters about it. And, because of that, she wasnt aware of the 
arrears or default placed on her account. She therefore says that this was unfair; and she 
says NewDay should remove the markers from her credit file.
Mrs W told us that she called NewDay in May 2020 to advise she had moved then. 
NewDays records dont show any contact was made by Mrs W, but they accepted that Mrs 
W did contact them and they should have changed her address then.
Ive looked at what happened. Mrs W made purchases totalling £180 in February 2020 and 
March 2020. These were shown on her statements dated 2 March 2020 (balance £125.99) 
and  2 April 2020 (balance then £180). Both statements were sent to Mrs Ws address in 
NewDays records and asked for minimum payments of £5 by 27 March 2020 and then 
£20.81 by 27 April 2020, plus the arrears of £5. These would have presumably been 
received by Mrs W  as they were sent before she moved. So, I think its reasonable to say 
she must have received the statements. The statements gave seven ways to pay money into 
the account  by direct debit, post, in-store, phone, or internet banking, online or at a bank.
Then, I can see there were further letters sent to her old address  prior to her move in May 
2020. A letter advising a missed payment was sent on 6 April 2020. An arrears letter was 
sent on 28 April 2020. This said the balance was £180, and the arrears were then £5. It said 
We may also ask a debt collection agency to collect the amount you owe usWe will send 
you a Default Notice and if you still don't pay your full balance will become dueIf you 
continue not to pay we may then report the default on your account to the credit reference 
agencies. This will stay on your file for six years and may make it harder for you to get credit 
in the future. The letter also gave details of several ways to pay the account.
So, I think its reasonable to assume that Mrs W wouldve received these letters as well. And 
the default letter was sent on 9 May 2020  so while Im not aware of Mrs Ws actual moving 
date it may have been that she got that also. And so, I think its reasonable to say that Mrs 
W must have been aware of her account balance then.
And as Mrs W says she called NewDay in May 2020  she must then have been aware of 
her account situation. I say this as I think it would be unusual for a customer to call a bank or 
lender without knowing what their account balance was, or at least an awareness that a debt 
existed and needed to be paid. 
And Mrs W also told us that that she asked for the payment holiday which ran from July 
2020 to November 2020  by speaking to the debt collection agency who by then were 
collecting her debt. I can see in NewDays records that a payment holiday was agreed on 10 
July 2020  so again, I think it was reasonable to say she must have been aware of her 
balance and position on her account then.
Mrs W argues that she didnt make any payments because she didnt get a statement or any 
letters. But I think its reasonable to say that a customer should know they had a debt with a 
lender if theyd spent money on the credit card  and in Mrs Ws case, she must have received a number of statements and letters before she moved. And when she later got in 
touch with NewDay and the debt collection agency, she must have also known she owed the 
money. And if she wasnt aware of how to make payments - she couldve called NewDay to 
ask what to do.
Mrs W hadnt made any payments since she spent money on her card in February 2020 and 
March 2020 and so  I think it was reasonable for NewDay to default her account and put 
markers on her credit file. NewDay told us that no missed payment markers were placed on 
Mrs Ws credit file for the period of the payment holiday between July 2020 and October 
2020  which is what we wouldve expected to see as part of the pandemic support scheme 
which was then available. But they did say that as Mrs Ws account was already in arrears 
when the payment holiday started, her credit file would still show those arrears during the 
payment holiday period. Again, thats a fair approach for NewDay to take.
Mrs W has also said that NewDay were slow to respond to her when she challenged their 
final response in October 2020. I can see that by 2 February 2021, NewDay hadnt replied. I 
can see that this must have been frustrating for Mrs W. But Im afraid this isnt something I 
can look at. Thats because this service is governed by strict rules about what complaints we 
can, and cannot, look at. These are covered in The Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook. 
This defines a complaint as being about a financial product or service. So, complaints 
specifically about a businesss complaint handling or processes arent included. And so  I 
must set that issue to one side here.
And so, my decision is that NewDay dont have to do anything here. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman