DRN-4251271
The complaint
Mr H complains FUND OURSELVES Limited trading as Fund Ourselves (Fund Ourselves) 
gave him a loan without carrying out appropriate checks. Had appropriate checks been 
carried out Mr H says Fund Ourselves wouldve discovered his other outstanding loans and 
a poor credit history and so shouldnt have been granted this loan. 
What happened
Mr H was advanced one loan of £790 on 26 December 2022 and Mr H was due to make 5 
monthly repayments of £316. Mr H repaid the loan early on 28 January 2023.  
Mr H referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman after it has been reviewed by 
Fund Ourselves who didnt uphold it. 
The complaint was considered by an investigator, and she didnt think Mr Hs complaint 
should be upheld as proportionate checks were conducted by Fund Ourselves and there 
was no indication that Mr H was in financial difficulties.
 
Mr H didnt agree, saying at the time he wasnt financially stable and has been using funds to 
invest and gamble  and he provided copy bank statements to show this. Had 
Fund Ourselves reviewed his bank statement from December 2022 it wouldve seen that he 
had already taken loans from 4 other providers totalling more than £10,000. Mr H also said 
the interest rate was too high and he was lent to even thought he had a poor credit score. 
The investigator explained why these comments hadnt changed her mind about the 
outcome she had reached. Mr H didnt agree and instead asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me.
Later, Mr H gave details of another complaint he had reviewed at the Financial Ombudsman 
and was upheld so he said  surely this complaint should upheld as well. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Fund Ourselves had to assess the lending to check if Mr H could afford to pay back the 
amount hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Fund Ourselves checks couldve taken into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, 
and Mr Hs income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Fund Ourselves should 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr H. These factors 
include:
Mr H having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr H having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr H coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr H. But as there was only one loan, I 
dont think this applied in Mr Hs complaint. 
Fund Ourselves was required to establish whether Mr H could sustainably repay the loan  
not just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr H was able to repay 
his loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Hs complaint.
As part of his application, Mr H declared a monthly income of £2,400 per month from full 
time work. Fund Ourselves says that this income was verified using a tool provided by a 
credit reference agency. And the result of that check indicated the income declared by Mr H 
was likely to be accurate. 
Mr H was also asked to declare his outgoings across a number of different categories, such 
as travel, rent, utilities, food and credit commitments. Mr H declared his outgoings were 
£1,200 per month. As this was the first loan, I think it was, at this time, reasonable for 
Fund Ourselves to have relied on the information Mr H had provided. 
Fund Ourselves believed, based on the information Mr H provided that he had enough 
disposable income to afford the monthly loan repayment of £316. Therefore, it wouldve 
been reasonable for Fund Ourselves to believe the loan to be affordable for Mr H. 
Before the loan was advanced Fund Ourselves also carried out a credit search and it 
provided the results it received from the credit reference agency. It is worth saying here that 
although Fund Ourselves carried out a credit search there wasnt a regulatory requirement to 
do one, let alone one to a specific standard. But what Fund Ourselves couldnt do is carry 
out a credit search and then not react to the to the information it received  if necessary.  
The results of the credit search showed that Mr H had 7 active accounts owing other 
creditors just over £8,000. Fund Ourselves was also told he hadnt opened any new 
accounts within the last 6 months  this means Fund Ourselves wasnt aware of the other 
loans that Mr H says were taken in December 2022. 
There could be a number of reasons for this, such as the other lenders reporting the loans to 
a different credit reference agency or there being a delay from when the accounts were opened to when the other lenders reported the data to the credit reference agencies. 
Whatever the reasons, the recently opened loans Mr H says he had, Fund Ourselves were 
unaware of them.  
Fund Ourselves knew that there hadnt been any defaults within the last three years, and the 
one default Fund Ourselves did know about occurred in October 2018. This was too far 
removed from the loan application date for Fund Ourselves to have been concerned that 
Mr H may have struggled to repay the loan. 
I appreciate Mr H says that he had another complaint about a loan taken out a month after 
this one which has been upheld. But my remit is to consider the individual circumstances of 
this complaint. And there are a number of factors that go into deciding whether a complaint 
about a loan should be upheld, or further checks ought to have been carried out. 
I have already outlined earlier on in this decision some examples of what may led the lender 
to carry out further checks. But as always it will also depend on the individual circumstances 
of each loan application. And some of the factors that are considered  but not limited too, 
are what the lender knew about Mr H (and what he had declared) the number of loans 
granted, the monthly repayment amount Mr H was due to make and the results of any other 
checks that may have been carried out. 
In this case, a first loan, where proportionate checks were conducted, which showed 
Fund Ourselves that Mr H would likely be able to afford his repayments. Means, in my view, 
it wouldnt have been proportionate for Funds Ourselves to have either declined his loan 
application or to have prompted it to carry out further checks such as reviewing his bank 
statements.
I understand that Mr H says that Fund Ourselves took advantage of him and charged him a 
high rate of interest. Firstly, I havent seen anything to suggest that Fund Ourselves hasnt 
charged the interest it said it would. 
Secondly, from January 2015 the industry regulator introduced a cost cap for these types of 
loans. This in short, means that Fund Ourselves cant collect more than 100% of the amount 
lent to Mr H in interest fees and charges. This means for Mr Hs complaint the absolute most 
Fund Ourselves could collect could be as high as £1,580. But its worth pointing out, that 
Mr H settled the loan much earlier than planned, so Mr H didnt pay as much contracted 
interest as he couldve.
Overall, Fund Ourselves carried out proportionate checks before the loan was approved 
which showed Mr H could potentially afford the repayments he was committed to making. Im 
also satisfied it was entitled to rely on the information Mr H declared about his income and 
expenditure. There also wasnt anything else to suggest the loan would either be 
unaffordable or unsustainable for him. So, I dont think Fund Ourselves did anything wrong 
when it approved the loan for Mr H and it therefore follows that I cant uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Hs compliant. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman