DRN-4531549
The complaint
Mr T complains about how esure Insurance Limited (esure) told him about a claim and 
decided liability under his car insurance policy. The incident in question involved a named 
driver on Mr Ts policy, but for ease Ill refer to him throughout.
What happened
Mr T had a motor insurance policy with esure covering his car.
In May 2022 Mr T reported an incident to the police in which he said he was hit from behind 
by a third party on a motorcycle. esure was then approached by a third party who alleged Mr 
T had been involved in a collision with them.
On 1 June esure wrote to Mr T to tell him about the allegation. It gave him five days to 
respond.
Mr T didnt respond in time so Esure handled the third-party claim and decided Mr T was 
likely at fault. It handled the third-party claim by agreeing a payment on 16 June.
Mr T responded to the letter on 18 June to esures fraud reporting email address. He said he 
thought the claim was a scam taking place against him.
In May 2023 Mr Ts policy automatically renewed and he paid in full. His premium had more 
than tripled due to the claim. He called esure and spent a considerable amount of time on 
several calls to try and find out what had happened.
He complained to esure. It apologised for the call waiting times and that it hadnt updated Mr 
T about the claim. It paid him £75 compensation. But esure said it had investigated the claim 
correctly, and that it had the right to decide lability for the incident under the terms of its 
policy. The claim remained open and was paid on a without prejudice basis which means 
that payments can be recovered if new information comes to light.
Mr T remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. He doesnt agree with 
esures decision about the liability for the claim which he says was probably a scam. He says 
esure didnt investigate the claim properly and asks for it to pay his increased premiums for 
the next seven years.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ts complaint and thought it would be upheld. She thought 
esures communication with Mr T hadnt been very good and it hadnt investigated the 
situation sufficiently. She thought esure should pay Mr T £200 compensation for his distress 
and inconvenience. She also said esure should defend the claim and if its costs werent 
recoverable then esure should mark the claim as non-fault on Mr Ts record.
esure didnt agree with the view. Because it didnt agree, this complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision.
I issued a provisional decision to allow the parties to consider the matter further:
Having read the file of evidence, Im upholding Mr Ts complaint in part. Im issuing this as a 
provisional decision because the outcome I intend to reach is different from our 
investigators.
The role of this service is an informal alternative to the courts. We dont have the power to 
punish businesses for doing the wrong thing or making mistakes. Instead, we look at the 
impact of those mistakes on customers and aware compensation for distress and 
inconvenience caused.
The collision behind this complaint happened in early May 2022 and Ive briefly described it 
above. The named driver on Mr Ts policy alleged they were stopped when a motorcycle hit 
them. The claim from the motorcyclist was that the named driver reversed into them.
Mr T reported the incident to the police around the time it happened. I understand there was 
some video evidence provided as well.
esure pointed out that its policy requires that:
You must tell us within 7 days of becoming aware of any incident resulting in death, 
injury, damage or loss, irrespective of whether this may lead to a claim under your 
policy, even if there is no damage to your car.
It says Mr T didnt comply with this requirement. This type of condition can be used by 
insurers to defend their customers position if a third party brings a claim.
About three weeks later, esure received a claim from a claims management company acting 
on behalf of the third-party motorcyclist. It wrote to Mr T giving him five days to respond or it 
would settle the third-party claim. I can see Mr Ts preferred method of correspondence was 
by email, but esure didnt use this method or try to ring him. Wed normally say using two 
different methods would be a suitable way of contacting a customer when critical information 
is needed.
Insurance companies often need to work quickly to handle claims, but a five-day deadline 
seems very short to me given that post may take a few days to arrive. Then Mr T would have 
to receive it, and deal with it.
The letter sent by esure says Mr T should make an urgent call to a named person about the 
claim being made against him. It also contains some wording about fraudulent claims and 
says Mr T can contact it by that method. Mr T did this, because he was concerned that the 
original incident was an attempt at a scam  in other words a fraudulent claim.
I dont know why Mr T didnt call esure and speak to the named person  but I can 
understand his alternative course of action because the letter does say he can report 
concerns to the particular email address.
Around this time, esure inspected the third-party motorcycle. I can see it had concerns about 
how the claim might progress because the engineers report mentions them.
From that point, esure didnt update Mr T about his claim at all. I also cant see that it 
responded to his fraud report.
Nearly a year later, Mr T was told about his premium increase in the renewal documents, but 
he didnt respond to esure until full payment was taken by it.
He then spent several hours calling esure. It has apologised to Mr T for its call waiting times being a problem.
Ultimately, esure (like other insurers) have the right to decide how it will handle a claim. The 
appropriate part of the policy wording is this:
We have full discretion in the settlement of your claim or any legal proceedings 
which may arise and we may take over, defend or settle the claim in your name for 
our own benefit. You and anyone covered by the policy must provide all the 
information, documentation and help we need to do this.
This wording is common in the industry and I think its use is fair here.
What this means is that esure are able to deal with the claim as it sees fit. I know Mr T feels 
strongly about this, but its esures right to adopt this approach.
That said, I dont think esure handled Mr Ts claim fairly. In its final response to him, esure 
said it had carried out the necessary validation checks and considered all available 
evidence in the case.
At the time, it hadnt tried to obtain further information from Mr T, or inspected his car. Mr T 
had responded to its letter, albeit later than the deadline, and had raised his concerns to 
esure. And as Ive said above, esure clearly had some concerns about the third party claim 
following the inspection of the motorcycle.
Taking everything into account, I dont think esure has acted fairly in how it dealt with Mr Ts 
claim. It sent one piece of communication to him, with a very short deadline, then proceeded 
to handle the third-party claim. Mr T reported concerns, but esure seems to have failed to act 
on them further. Then it didnt contact Mr T with any information about how the claim was 
progressing. Mr T was then left at the following renewal to make a series of calls to esure 
over a few hours, with several calls dropped or not transferred.
Ive thought carefully about Mr Ts distress and inconvenience. Because esure didnt update 
him about the claim, I cant fairly say he suffered distress over a long period. I think I can say 
that his inconvenience was focused around one particular month in May 2023 when hed 
paid for his renewal. Of course, he was distressed in May/June 2022 as well, but Id expect 
some level of disturbance to normal life following the collision that had taken place.
But the most important part of Mr Ts complaint seems to be about his liability for the 
collision and subsequent claim. And I dont think esure has acted unfairly in making its 
decision here. The policy wording talks about the decision its able to make.
Its important that I say even if esure had investigated the claim more thoroughly at the time, 
for example by inspecting Mr Ts car, its likely to only say that a collision took place rather 
than who was at fault for it. So its likely some element of fault may still apply to Mr Ts policy 
and continue to affect his No Claims Discount and premiums.
That said, if esure had investigated or responded to Mr Ts fraud report then it would have 
been better placed to defend the claim.
Likewise, if Mr T had reported his initial concerns to esure in early May as well as the police 
then esure may have been able to respond more effectively.
I appreciate Mr T will find my provisional decision disappointing, but I propose to uphold his 
complaint and require esure to pay him an additional compensation of £200 for his 
inconvenience and distress, in addition to the amount it has already offered to him. But Im not proposing to require it to do anything else.
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither party responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties didnt respond to my provisional decision, my final decision and reasoning 
remain unchanged. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
esure Insurance Limited should pay Mr T total compensation of £275 for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused him because of its poor claims handling and communication. This 
includes the £75 already awarded.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 January 2024.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman