DRN-4379471
The complaint
Mr S is complaining about Moneybarn No.1 Limited.  He says they shouldnt have lent to him 
as the loan was unaffordable. Mr Ss complaint was brought to our service by a 
representative but for ease Ive written as if weve dealt directly with him.
What happened
In October 2017, Mr S took out a conditional loan agreement with Moneybarn, to finance the 
purchase of a car. Mr S paid a deposit of £400 and borrowed £9,755, to pay the cash price 
of £10,155. The agreement required him to make 59 monthly repayments of £362.73. Mr S 
first missed a payment in October 2021 when a direct debit bounced. He made most 
payments after that by card and made a final payment in October 2022, settling the balance 
in full.
In February 2023, Mr S complained to Moneybarn, saying they shouldnt have lent to him 
because the loan was unaffordable. He said Moneybarn hadnt conducted thorough, 
appropriate and reasonable checks when deciding to lend to him. Mr S said hed been 
repeatedly using a payday lender immediately prior to taking out the loan which should have 
led Moneybarn to consider his bank statements. And if theyd looked at those theyd have 
seen that he didnt have £362 spare each month with which to make the necessary 
payments. Mr S added that hed had to borrow further to pay for the vehicle.  
In response, Moneybarn said theyd checked Mr Ss monthly income at the time by reviewing 
his payslips. And theyd done a full credit search with one of the credit reference agencies. 
They said theyd made reasonable considerations for his non-discretionary expenditure 
before calculating Mr Ss monthly repayment. 
Moneybarn said these checks suggested Mr Ss borrowing levels appeared affordable. They 
could see Mr S had previously defaulted on some borrowing  but the most recent of these 
was 19 months prior to his application and he was making contributions to pay off the debts, 
so this didnt cause concern.
Mr S wasnt happy with Moneybarns response so brought his complaint to our service and 
one of our investigators looked into it. His view was that Moneybarn had carried out 
proportionate checks and that theyd made a fair lending decision. Mr S disagreed and 
asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint  and its come to me.
My view was a little different from our investigators, so I issued a provisional decision on 
31 August 2023. In that decision I said:
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out in a part of its handbook known as CONC 
what lenders must do when deciding whether or not to lend to a consumer. In summary, a 
firm must consider a customers ability to make repayments under the agreement without 
having to borrow further to meet repayments or default on other obligations, and without 
the repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers financial situation. 
CONC says a firm must carry out checks which are proportionate to the individual 
circumstances of each case. 
Did Moneybarn carry out proportionate checks?
Moneybarn say they checked Mr Ss credit file. Theyve not kept a copy of the credit file so 
I cant see what they looked at. Theyve told us Mr S had five outstanding defaults, the 
most recent of which was 19 months old at the time of the lending decision  but no active 
credit commitments. Theyve said the credit file showed Mr S had around £2,000 
outstanding on his defaults, against original default balances totalling £3,300. 
Mr S hasnt disputed what Moneybarn said about his credit file but he has told us he was 
using a payday lender at the time. Because Moneybarn havent provided the credit report 
they looked at its difficult to say whether or not the payday lending appeared on the credit 
file. 
Moneybarn also checked Mr Ss income by looking at his payslips. They verified his 
average income was around £1,640 per month. They said the loan repayments were low 
compared to Mr Ss income so the agreement was affordable for him  but I cant see they 
made any assessment of Mr Ss likely expenditure in determining this.
When considering whether these checks were proportionate, I have to think about things 
like the total amount Mr S would have to repay and the cost of the credit, and what 
Moneybarn knew about Mr Ss financial position and his credit history at the time. This 
agreement required Mr S to pay nearly £22,000 to Moneybarn over a 5 year period, so it 
was a significant financial commitment for someone on a relatively low income. In addition, 
the cost of the credit was high, with an APR of 44.4%.
Moneybarn knew Mr S had previous defaults, and that he was making repayments against 
those defaults. Ive seen no evidence that they tried to establish how much he was paying. 
And, as mentioned above, I cant be sure they werent aware that Mr S was using a payday 
lender. On balance, Im inclined to say Moneybarns checks werent proportionate  the 
amount lent was significant and at a high interest rate, and Mr S was using a payday lender 
at the time as well as making regular payments against his defaulted debts.
If Moneybarn had carried out proportionate checks, what would they have found?
A proportionate check would have involved Moneybarn finding out more about Mr Ss 
income and expenditure to determine whether he would be able to make repayments in a 
sustainable way. 
Ive looked at statements for Mr Ss bank account for the three months preceding his 
application to Moneybarn  August, September and October 2017. Im not saying 
Moneybarn needed to obtain bank statements as part of their lending checks. But in the 
absence of other information, bank statements provide a good indication of Mr Ss financial 
circumstances at the time the lending decision was made.
These statements confirm Mr Ss income was, on average, around £1,640 per month. They 
also show he was paying £130 per month to debt collection agencies, £22 per month for 
insurance, £16 to the DVLA and an average of £65 per month for his mobile phone. These 
monthly commitments total around £230. I couldnt see any amounts on Mr Ss bank 
statements for rent or bills so asked him about this. He told us he was taking cash out to 
pay a friend he was staying with, as well as contributing to the household by paying for 
various sundries. Hes not given us an amount but on average the total of this cash and 
sundries looks to have been around £400 per month. He also sent an average of £275 per 
month overseas to repay a personal debt.In total, then, Mr S had commitments of around £900 per month before the hire purchase 
agreement, and £1,270 including the repayments under the new agreement. Taking this 
total from his income of £1,640 would have left him with around £370 per month for food, 
fuel, and other essentials. Im inclined to say it would have been reasonable for Moneybarn 
to decide this was enough for a single person in shared accommodation and therefore that 
the loan was affordable for Mr S. 
Im aware Mr S has said he didnt have £363 to spare each month. And its true that his 
bank statements show his outgoings broadly matched his incomings each month rather 
than having any significant amount of surplus. But I dont think this is a fair reflection of 
what would have been affordable for him  his statements appear to include a reasonable 
amount of discretionary expenditure.
Im also aware Mr S was using a payday lender. He was consistently borrowing around 
£400 - £500 each month and repaying it each month before borrowing again. Although I 
appreciate payday lending was an expensive form of credit, I dont think this is enough to 
say Moneybarn shouldnt have lent to Mr S  people have different ways of managing their 
finances and it wouldnt have been fair to refuse to lend to Mr S simply because he was 
using payday lending as a form of revolving credit.
In conclusion, although Ive not seen enough evidence to say Moneybarn did proportionate 
checks, Im inclined to say it would have been reasonable for them to decide to lend to Mr 
S if theyd found out more about his financial position at the time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has responded to my provisional decision  so my findings remain unchanged.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint about Moneybarn No. 1 Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman