DRN-4379070
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F are unhappy with how Advantage Insurance Company Limited (AIC) has 
proposed to settle a claim under their building and contents insurance policy. 
Mr and Mrs F are being represented on this complaint, so any reference to Mr and Mrs F 
includes the comments of their representative. Any reference to AIC includes the actions of 
its agents.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
whats happened.
Mr and Mrs Fs home insurance policy is underwritten by AIC. They made a claim in 
January 2023 when their garage and its contents was damaged by a fire. And they 
appointed a loss assessor (LA) to deal with the claim on their behalf.
The claim was accepted, and AIC attended the property to survey the damage and 
speak to Mr and Mrs F. The LA said doing so, caused Mr F a great deal of stress 
owing to his health concerns.
At the end of January, AIC appointed an expert to forensically examine the damage. 
At the end of March, Mr and Mrs F told AIC theyd instructed a surveyor (Surveyor A) 
to provide an estimate for the remedial works. And theyd instructed their own to 
ensure the findings were independent.
AIC said its own surveyor (Surveyor B) was independent and local - and therefore, 
more cost effective. It said Mr and Mrs F would receive a copy of any reports and 
could comment on these.
Mr and Mrs F said AIC could appoint a surveyor, but that doing so, should not hinder 
their ability to instruct their own surveyor. They also raised concerns about the 
competency of Surveyor B. 
In response, AIC asked to be provided with Surveyor As qualifications. On the same 
day, Mr and Mrs F instructed Surveyor A as they said it was necessary due to Mr Fs 
vulnerabilities. 
It appears there was some delay due to a change with the LAs Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) status, and AIC needing to satisfy itself it had authority to continue 
speaking to them. Whilst this was being dealt with, it wrote to Mr and Mrs F directly 
explaining that it wanted to use its own surveyor. 
Having reviewed the claim, AIC said it would only pay up to £2,000 for the contents in 
the garage as it considered the garage to be an outbuilding, and this was the 
respective policy limit. 
Mr and Mrs F disagreed with AICs decision. It said the garage should be considered 
part of the building - which had a higher policy limit. They also complained that AIC 
said it wouldnt cover Surveyor As fees. 
AIC maintained its position saying the key factor for determining if the garage is part 
of the building is whether its attached to it  which Mr and Mrs Fs garage isnt. And 
so, it was satisfied it had correctly defined it as an outbuilding. It said it wouldnt cover 
Surveyor As costs because these werent necessary. It recognised it could have 
been clearer about things though and so, offered £30 compensation. 
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs F brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator 
considered it and upheld it. He said the policy terms were unclear and so, AIC should 
reconsider the claim without relying on the policy limit applicable to outbuildings. 
He thought AIC could have done more to better serve Mr F who is a vulnerable 
consumer and said it should pay £400 compensation in total. He wasnt satisfied 
appointing their own surveyor was necessary and so, he didnt ask AIC to reimburse 
Mr and Mrs F these costs.
The parties disagreed and so, the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our Investigator reached. Ill address each 
complaint issue in turn. But before I do, its important to explain that Im only considering 
events up until the date of AICs final response - 14 June 2023. So, any new concerns after 
this time would need to be dealt with as a separate complaint. 
Is it fair for AIC to apply the outbuildings policy limit?
The crux of this issue is whether AIC is correct to consider the garage an outbuilding in line 
with the policy terms. The impact of this being that the garages contents would be subject to 
a £2,000 indemnity limit. 
In justifying its position, AIC has said that whilst the garage is in the boundary of the 
property, it isnt attached to the main building and therefore, doesnt form part of its structure 
 which it says is required for it to be considered part of the main building. So, Ive looked at 
what the policy document says. 
The policy defines buildings as:
 The structure of the home including fixtures and fittings which form part of the 
property, including permanently installed garages within the boundaries of your 
property. 
This satisfies me that permanently installed garages within the boundary of the property form 
part of the buildings. It does not specify the garage in question needs to form part of the 
main building. And so, as Mr and Mrs Fs garage is permanently installed and within the 
boundary of the property, I think its reasonable to consider it as part of the building. 
The policy doesnt define property, but it defines home as: The private residence shown in your policy schedule including its garages and 
outbuildings within the boundaries of your property, occupied by you and used for 
domestic and clerical business purposes.  
This definition satisfies me that home will include both garages and outbuildings within the 
boundaries of the property. I note here the policy distinguishes between the garages and 
outbuildings, which satisfies me such a distinction was intentional.
The term garage is not defined. But the policy defines outbuildings as:
Sheds, greenhouses, summer houses, other permanent buildings which dont form 
part of the main building, are within the boundaries of the property and used for 
domestic purposes. This does not include car ports or any structure that is open on 
one or more sides, caravans, mobile homes or motor homes, structures made of 
canvas, PVC or any other non-rigid or inflatable material.
AIC suggests that Mr and Mrs Fs garage falls within this definition of outbuilding. Having 
reviewed the policy definitions, Im not persuaded the policy makes it clear that garages 
which are not attached to the main building are to be considered outbuildings. 
Whilst its possible that what is considered an outbuilding isnt an exhaustive list, notably, it 
does not include garages not attached to the main property as an example of an outbuilding. 
And when I consider this, with the fact outbuildings and garages are listed separately under 
the home definition  Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs Fs garage should be considered an 
outbuilding in line with the policy terms  and moreover that it is simply a garage. 
It seems AIC recognises the policy isnt clear in this respect either, having said in its final 
response: We would agree that our policy wording more indicates that this is the case rather 
than providing a more clear definition of each.
And so, with the above in mind, I dont consider it fair and reasonable for AIC to consider the 
garage an outbuilding  and therefore subject the claim to the respective outbuilding policy 
limit. It follows therefore, that it must reconsider the claim without classifying the garage as 
an outbuilding, and instead apply the contents policy limit  as specified in the policy 
schedule  which is applicable to buildings.
Should AIC cover Mr and Mrs Fs surveyors fees?
Mr and Mrs F say their surveyors fees are covered under the policy and so, AIC should 
reimburse them these costs. In respect of surveyors costs, the policy says:
Your insurer will only pay for any necessary expenses incurred when rebuilding or 
repairing the buildings following a valid buildings claim under sections 17 and 10, 
including: 
Architects, surveyors, consulting engineers and legal fees.
 The cost of clearing debris from the site or demolishing or shoring up the buildings. 
The cost to comply with government or local authority requirements.  
So, its clear surveyors fees can be covered under the policy, but only if they are necessary 
 and so, for me to say AIC is responsible for paying Surveyor As costs, I need to be 
satisfied that they were incurred necessarily. AIC has said Surveyor As costs werent necessary because it could appoint its own, local, 
and therefore, more cost-effective surveyor. Whilst AIC seems to have accepted Mr and Mrs 
Fs surveyor was independent, it has said that it was able to fulfil its obligations under the 
policy by appointing its own. 
From what Ive seen AIC may have incurred some delay in places, but these were not to the 
extent that Im persuaded it was necessary for Mr and Mrs F to instruct a surveyor based on 
AIC not, for example, having taken prompt action. 
Rather, it seems to me a surveyor was appointed by Mr and Mrs F because they considered 
it a reasonable course of action given Mr Fs vulnerabilities. I dont doubt such a service may 
have eased the claim experience for Mr and Mrs F. But Im not satisfied this meant 
appointing their own surveyor was a necessary cost, nor one AIC should in turn bear, given 
it was appointing its own expert. 
Mr and Mrs Fs representative has said insurers dont routinely share the surveyors and 
contractors reports and so, it was necessary for Mr and Mrs F to instruct their own so a fair 
assessment could be carried out. But I dont agree. Insurers must handle claims fairly, and in 
doing so, I would expect them to share findings which have been material to their decision 
making so that the consumer can challenge this if necessary. But, in any event, AIC 
expressly said it would share its surveyors report with Mr and Mrs F and give them the 
opportunity to comment on this. So, Im not persuaded by this argument, and I dont think it 
is supported by AICs comments. 
Mr and Mrs Fs representative has also raised concerns about the surveyor Bs competency. 
But I note this is anecdotal and relates to other consumers claims, so Im not persuaded this 
argument carries any weight. 
Whilst Mr and Mrs F might disagree with AICs position regarding the claim  and wanted to 
use their own surveyor to challenge these findings, as is their right  it doesnt automatically 
follow that AIC should bear these costs. Cover for surveyors fees isnt an absolute right 
under the policy  and as Im not persuaded their actions were material to the claims overall 
progression nor that they were necessary, Im not persuaded its fair and reasonable to 
direct AIC to cover these costs. 
I realise Mr and Mrs F will say AICs agent told them Surveyor As costs would be covered, 
but when I consider this email in the context of the communications as a whole  along with 
the fact Mr and Mrs F instructed Surveyor A a month prior - Im more persuaded they were 
determined to use their own surveyor. And so, whilst unhelpful, Im not persuaded the 
misinformation from AICs agent had any bearing on their decision to appoint Surveyor A. 
With this and the above in mind, I wont be directing AIC to cover Surveyor As costs.
Compensation
When determining compensation, I must keep in mind that AIC is only responsible for the 
impact on Mr and Mrs F which is due to its handling of the claim. And so, whilst the fire at 
their property was undoubtedly a difficult event for Mr and Mrs F, it wouldnt be reasonable to 
hold AIC responsible for stress and worry which would ordinarily be associated with such an 
event. But what I can consider is whether AICs handling of the claim added to what was 
already a stressful time for Mr and Mrs F. And from what Ive seen, it has. 
Whilst I accept dealing with Mrs F and the LA would have mitigated some of the impact on 
Mr F, ultimately, because Im satisfied AIC unfairly applied the £2,000 policy limit, Mr and 
Mrs F have had to deal with the ongoing stress of this situation for longer than necessary. 
And owing to Mr Fs health concerns, this has been felt more greatly by him. And so, to recognise this AIC must pay compensation. 
I note Mr and Mrs Fs say AIC caused some avoidable delays in respect of determining 
whether it could continue to liaise with their LA in light of the change in FCA status, but I 
think this was reasonable due diligence on AICs part and so, Im not persuaded it acted 
unfairly in doing so.  
So, considering the above, Im satisfied £400 compensation in total is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances.  
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and direct Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited to: 
Reconsider the claim without classifying the garage as an outbuilding and applying 
the respective policy limit  in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions.
Pay Mr and Mrs F £400 compensation in total. If AIC has already paid Mr and Mrs F 
£30  in line with their final response  it can deduct this amount from the payment it 
needs to make. AIC must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell it Mr and Mrs F accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this. it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the deadline date for settlement to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman