DRN-4044799
The complaint
Mr H complains that Accelerant Insurance Europe SA/NV has settled his property owners 
claim on a proportionate basis. 
What happened
Mr H holds a property owners policy with Accelerant. He made a claim after a fire happened 
at the insured property. Accelerant assessed the claim, and noted that part of the property 
had a flat roof. It said Mr H hadnt told it this when taking out the policy, and if he had done, it 
would have charged a higher premium. It therefore settled the claim on a proportionate 
basis. Unhappy with this, Mr H brought a complaint to this Service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought it had been 
reasonable for Accelerant to say that Mr H hadnt made a fair presentation of the risk when 
taking out the policy, and for it to therefore settle the claim proportionately. 
Mr H didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me to 
consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr H holds a commercial policy, the relevant law I need to consider is the Insurance Act 
2015 (the Act). This says that before a contract of insurance is entered into, the insured 
must give a fair presentation of the risk to the insurer. That means disclosure of every 
material circumstance which Mr H knew or ought to have known.
Accelerant has provided a copy of the statement of facts. One of the statements said, flat 
roof % and the answer given was 0%. 
The main section of the building has a pitched roof. However, at the rear of the building is a 
large single storey structure which has a flat roof. Accelerant says the flat roofed section 
makes up approximately 43% of the overall roof area. Its unclear who built this section of 
the property. Though I understand it has been in place for a number of years, and was there 
before Mr H purchased the freehold. 
The policy covers damage to property. That is defined in the policy as the buildings at the 
address(es) shown in your schedule. 
Buildings is defined in the policy as:
The buildings at the property shown in your schedule, including:
1. Landlords fixtures and fittings (forming a permanent part of the structure);
2. Outbuildings, annexes, private garages, gangways, foundations or footings, 
swimming pools, tennis courts, squash courts; 
3. Walls, gates, fences and hedges;
4. Yards, car parks, roads, pavements, paved terraces, patios, paths, drives;
5. Underground pipes and cables belonging to you or which you are responsible for;
6. Tenants improvements which you are responsible for
7. Fixed glass in windows, doors, fanlights, skylights, partitions and fixed sanitary ware.
Mr H says the areas which have the flat roof are standalone and are not part of the main 
structure. He explains they were constructed by a previous tenant and could easily be 
removed without causing damage to the main building. Mr H maintains that the flat roofed 
areas should be considered equipment and belong to the current tenant. 
Ive looked at the latest lease from November 2018 arranged between Mr H and his tenant. 
This says that it was Mr Hs responsibility (as the landlord) to procure insurance of the 
property against loss or damage by insured risks. The property is stated to be the risk 
address, the outline of which is shown in a diagram edged in red, and this includes the flat 
roofed areas. 
Based on Mr Hs description, it seems that the flat roofed area wasnt a permanent part of 
the main structure. However, I dont agree that the flat roofed area could be described as 
equipment owned by the tenant. It was a structure at the risk address, which Mr H had 
insured under the policy (as he was required to do under the lease). It seems to me it would 
be covered under the policy either as a building, or an outbuilding or annexe. 
I therefore agree with our investigator that Mr H failed to make a fair presentation of the risk 
when taking out the policy, as he ought to have advised Accelerant that part of the property 
to be insured had a flat roof.
Ive considered what Accelerant would have done differently if it had known that part of the 
property had a flat roof. Accelerant has provided its underwriting criteria which shows that it 
would have still offered cover to Mr H, but for a higher premium. This is commercially 
sensitive so I cant share this information with Mr H, but Im satisfied that Accelerant has 
shown that it would have charged Mr H a higher premium. That means there was a 
qualifying breach of the duty of fair presentation.
I note that Accelerant said it would have applied an additional 1% increase to the premium 
because Mr H didnt disclose that the attic room was being used. Mr H hasnt complained 
about that, so I havent considered it here. But Ive taken it into account when checking 
Accelerants calculations for the proportionate settlement. 
Accelerant accepts that the qualifying breach wasnt deliberate or reckless. In these 
circumstances, the Act says that the insurer may reduce proportionately the amount to be 
paid on a claim. 
Im satisfied that Accelerant has done this. I find this was reasonable and in line with the 
remedy available to it under the Act. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman