DRN-3130603
The complaint
Mrs K is unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE has declined to offer her with a full refund, 
after cancelling her travel insurance policy. 
What happened
On 27 February 2020, Mrs K purchased a single trip travel insurance policy, which provided 
her with cancellation cover from this date. The policy also provided additional cover for Mrs 
Ks trip, including post- departure cover, with her going on holiday from 11 November 2020 
to 9 December 2020. 
The premium Mrs K paid for the policy was £208.29 in total, which included £7.06 for an 
additional cover option  excess waiver cover, as well as insurance premium tax. The policy 
included cover for one medical condition Mrs K declared.
Mrs K has explained that she found out her holiday had been cancelled on 11 August 2020, 
when her travel provider sent her an email to say her holiday was no longer going ahead. 
Following this, on 7 September 2020, Mrs K contacted Great Lakes, to ask for her insurance 
policy to be cancelled, and a full refund provided to her, as she would no longer be travelling.
Great Lakes told Mrs K it wouldnt be providing her with a full cash refund for her policy. It 
said this was because the policy had been cancelled after the 14-day cooling-off period the 
policy provided. But Great Lakes said it would allow Mrs K to move her travel insurance 
dates, at no extra charge. As long as the new cover dates selected were within 18 months of 
when Mrs K originally purchased her travel insurance policy.
Alternatively, Mrs K could be given a pro-rata credit voucher of £65.45 for the unused part of 
her original travel insurance policy. She would then be able to use this to purchase a new 
travel insurance policy with Great Lakes - so long as she did so within 36 months.
Mrs K didnt accept this offer. And because she remained unhappy with Great Lakes 
position on the matter, she referred her complaint to this service for an independent review.
Our Adjudicators opinion
Our adjudicator considered this complaint and provided their opinion on the matter. They set 
out the details of the relevant cancellation rights  and how they applied in the 
circumstances of this case. They also explained that it is a fundamental principle of 
insurance law, that if the insurer has started to bear risk  for however short a time  the 
premium paid is not returnable. The adjudicator said that this meant its not unreasonable for 
an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. 
The adjudicator also explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of 
insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started on 27 February 2020, and 
the policy covered various risks during from that point, and cover would have been available 
under the policy until the date the holiday was cancelled on 11 August 2020.
However, the adjudicator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of 
Covid-19. And they thought that in this instance, it would be fair for Great Lakes to provide a 
pro-rata refund to Mrs K, from the date her holiday was cancelled, which was 11 August 
2020, rather than 7 September 2020, until the end date of the policy on 9 December 2020. 
Our adjudicator also noted that the calculation already completed by Great Lakes didnt 
factor in the additional cover option Mrs K had purchased  the excess waiver. So, they also 
said the recalculation completed by Great Lakes should also include the premium paid for 
the excess waiver cover  as well as for the proportionate amount of insurance premium tax 
paid on this.
Great Lakes agreed to our adjudicators opinion, and it recalculated the voucher value for 
Mrs K in line with this. So, the offer to Mrs K was then a credit voucher for £87.82.
Mrs Ks response
Mrs K didnt agree. She explained that she didnt find the offer of a voucher, for £87.82 
acceptable. She said this was because;
The holiday was cancelled through no fault of her own, and she felt she was being 
penalised for this by being offered a voucher;
The insurance policy was paid for in money, not vouchers, and the vouchers were of 
no use to her;
She had no plans to travel abroad in the new future, given the global coronavirus 
pandemic.
Mrs K also clarified the nature of the disclosed medical information in relation to her knee.
Because Mrs K didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our adjudicator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of 
your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund you any premium you have paid, 
less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or made, or intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period no premium will 
be refunded, however in exceptional circumstances such as bereavement or a change to the 
policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical conditions.
Im satisfied Great Lakes offer to refund Mrs K £87.82 in the form of the above-mentioned 
credit voucher is fair and reasonable. And so thats what I require Great Lakes to do. I say 
this because; 
Mrs Ks policy was cancelled outside the cooling-off period and there is no requirement 
under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer any refund to Mrs K, 
regardless of the reasons for cancelling the policy after the 14-day period had ended.As Ive outlined above the contract of insurance says that it wont provide any refund after 
the cooling-off period, unless in exceptional circumstances. And, it gives examples of what 
would be considered exceptional circumstances. 
I can appreciate why Mrs K wanted to cancel her insurance policy. Her holiday would no 
longer be going ahead as a result of the coronavirus pandemic. But I dont think Mrs Ks 
reasons for cancelling her policy reasonably fall into what would be considered exceptional 
circumstances. I say this because Mrs K cancelled her policy due to the pandemic. And I 
dont think the global coronavirus pandemic, which affected many of Great Lakes 
policyholders, is one which the policy term relating to discretion is intended to cover. The 
examples of exceptional circumstances given in the policy terms relate to bereavement or 
changes in the policyholders health. And this wasnt the reason for cancelling the policy in 
September 2020. 
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint, 
including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-19. And in the 
circumstances of this case, I think Great Lakes offer is now fair and reasonable. 
Mrs K was covered from the date she purchased her policy, for any cancellation claim she 
may have needed to make. And the premium she paid included this cover. As Great Lakes 
were on risk for any potential claim during this time, Im satisfied its reasonable that Mrs K 
pay for Great Lakes acceptance of this risk. 
Mrs K didnt need to make a claim for the cancellation of her holiday. Instead she contacted 
Great Lakes to cancel the policy as it was no longer needed, given her holiday had been 
cancelled on 11 August 2020. Because there was nothing left for Great Lakes to insure from 
11 August 2020 when the holiday was cancelled, and this was an unprecedented situation, I 
do think Great Lakes offer to now provide a pro-rata refund, from the date of the holiday 
cancellation is fair. It means Great Lakes isnt charging a premium when it knows there is 
nothing left to cover.  
I also think a voucher for the remaining time left on the policy (from 11 August 2020 to 9 
December 2020) is a fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances of this case. I 
appreciate Mrs K did pay in money, and not vouchers. But as above, no refund at all under 
the policy is due  according to the rules, regulations, law or policy terms. And I think the 
offer of a voucher is a fair acknowledgment of the unique and unprecedented circumstances 
surrounding Covid-19, and the fact that as a result Great Lakes ceased to carry any risk 
following the holiday cancellation.  
I understand Mrs K may not want to travel abroad in the near future. But I dont think the 
terms of the voucher Great Lakes has offered Mrs K are unreasonably restrictive. The 
voucher is valid for 36 months. And it does provide Mrs K with a number of options, including 
the ability to purchase a single or annual multi-trip policy, or gift the voucher to someone 
else. And it allows Mrs K cover to go on the same holiday at a later date than originally 
planned.  
When Great Lakes initially calculated the value of the voucher, it did this from 7 September 
2020, rather than the date Mrs Ks holiday was cancelled  11 August 2020. And, it didnt 
include a pro-rata refund for the optional excess waiver Mrs K had purchased. However, 
Great Lakes has now recalculated this, so that the voucher includes a pro-rata refund from 11 August 2020 and includes the excess waiver. Both of which I think is fair  given there 
was nothing for Great Lakes to insure from 11 August 2020.
The recalculated value of this voucher is £87.82. From 11 August 2020 to 9 December 2020 
there would be 121 days of the policy unused, and this does equate to £87.82 of the 
premium paid. As this offer reflects the fact Great Lakes was not on risk for the 121 days 
after the policy was cancelled, Im satisfied Great Lakes offer is now fair. And so, I wont be 
requiring it to do anything more. 
My final decision
Given the above, Im satisfied that the re-calculated offer of a pro-rata voucher, for £87.82 is 
fair. And so, I require Great Lakes Insurance SE to provide this to Mrs K. I dont require it to 
do anything more than this.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman