DRN-2277391
The complaint
Mr H says that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) increased his credit limit by £5,000 in the 
space of eight months and that this was irresponsible lending as it didnt do any affordability 
checks. He wants Barclays to refund all the interest and any charges he has paid, plus 
statutory interest, and for it to delete any negative information from his credit record.
What happened
Mr H applied for his credit card online in May 2013 with a credit limit of £3,700. The credit 
limit was increased to £5,700 in October 2014 and was increased again to £8,700 in June 
2015.
Mr H says that his financial position wasnt checked sufficiently to make sure hed be able to 
pay back the £5,000 increase in his credit limit. He says that he was only making minimum 
payments on his credit card for a long time and was using a high level of his credit limit. Mr H 
says this should have shown Barclays that he couldnt repay the balance within a reasonable 
period of time, so it shouldnt have let him borrow more. 
Mr H says that by increasing the credit limit, Barclays has made his financial position worse. 
He says that hes still paying the credit card back on minimum repayments which has 
resulted in persistent debt and paying extra interest. He says he shouldnt have been lent the 
money without affordability checks being done.
Barclays says that it carried out an internal review on the way it set some customers credit 
card limits and identified that a credit limit may have been set which was higher than it 
should have been for some customers. It wrote to Mr H explaining this in March 2020 and 
inviting him to get in contact if this had had an impact on his circumstances or he had 
incurred any losses.
Mr H contacted Barclays following the letter. However, Barclays didnt agree that it had lent 
irresponsibly. It says that the original credit limit was set after taking into consideration the 
information provided on Mr Hs application and a credit check. Barclays says the increases 
were offered as Mr Hs account was managed satisfactorily with Mr H having a good 
repayment history and having always paid the minimum payment and often more. There was 
also no adverse information on Mr Hs credit file and he met its lending criteria when the 
increases were offered. There is no evidence of missed payments or contact from Mr H to 
request support with financial difficulties.
As a gesture of goodwill, Barclays refunded Mr H £264 to cover the late payment fee and 
over limit charges he incurred. It also paid him £75 to recognise the distress and 
inconvenience of him having to contact Barclays. 
Barclays says that interest and charges applied to Mr Hs account are correct and have been 
applied in line with the terms and conditions of the account, agreed by Mr H prior to opening 
his account. Therefore it didnt agree to refund any interest charged or to change any 
information reported to credit reference agencies.
Our investigator looked into the matter and found that Barclays had gathered data from 
credit reference agencies about Mr Hs financial situation and reviewed how hed been 
managing his account, which calculated a score which was within its lending criteria. She 
also reviewed Mr Hs account statements prior to the credit limit increases and didnt find 
anything to indicate these would have been unaffordable. The investigator concluded that 
Barclays had reviewed enough information and didnt feel that it had acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in increasing Mr Hs credit limit. She didnt recommend that they should take 
any further action.
Mr H disagrees with this. He says that a lender should make sure a higher credit limit is 
affordable before they increase it and going from £3,700 to £8,700 is a significant increase, 
especially when the customer hasnt requested this. He says the increased limit was a 
disproportionate amount of his annual salary. Mr H says that his credit file would have shown 
that he had a high amount of debt with other lenders when the increases were applied and 
has provided details of loans he had around the time of the credit limit increases. He feels 
that it was unfair of Barclays not to do reasonable checks or ask for income and expenditure 
and that this is a prime example of irresponsible lending.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the relevant regulations and industry good practice in place at 
the time of the increases to Mr Hs credit limit. 
When Barclays told Mr H that it was increasing his credit limit, I would expect it to have given 
him sufficient notice of the increase along with the option not to have the increase, in line 
with the regulations. Ive looked at the sample letter Barclays says was sent to Mr H and Im 
satisfied that it would have given him the option to keep the current limit if he didnt want it to 
be increased. Theres nothing to indicate that Mr H wanted to opt out of the increases.
Ive also thought about the checks Barclays should have done when offering to raise the 
credit limit. The regulations required Barclays to carry out an assessment of Mr Hs 
creditworthiness when setting a credit limit, establishing his ability to afford and sustain 
repayments without experiencing significant adverse consequences. The assessment 
needed to be proportionate to factors which could include the amount of the credit, Mr Hs 
financial position, his credit history and his existing financial commitments. It should have 
been based on sufficient information obtained from Mr H, where appropriate, and a credit 
reference agency, where necessary.
I can see from Barclays records that Mr H took out the credit card with a limit of £3,700 in 
May 2013. It remained at this level until October 2014 when the limit was increased to 
£5,700. The limit was then raised again in June 2015 to £8,700.
Whilst the increase in the credit limit was significant on each occasion, this in itself doesnt 
mean that this was irresponsible lending. Ive looked at the evidence Barclays considered 
when making the decision to increase Mr Hs limit in 2014 and 2015. Barclays has indicated 
that it reviewed information provided by credit reference agencies and also its internal data 
on Mr Hs account. 
Ive looked at the result of the credit checks Barclays carried out with the credit reference 
agencies before increasing Mr Hs limit on each occasion. These did not indicate that there 
were any defaults or any over-indebtedness. Barclays says the data from the credit 
reference agencies also suggested that the proposed increases were affordable. Barclays used recognised credit reference agencies to undertake these checks so I think it was 
entitled to rely on the results and that this was an appropriate way of assessing affordability 
and sustainability.
The information already held by Barclays also showed that Mr H was managing his account 
well, making more than the minimum payments on his credit card and remaining within the 
credit limit. Having looked at Mr Hs credit card statements, I can see that prior to both of the 
credit increases, Mr H was paying off significantly more than he needed to. For example, in 
August 2014 he paid off £1,600 when the minimum payment was less than £50 and in May 
2015 he paid off £535 when the minimum payment was around £140. He also continued to 
make payments over the minimum payment after the second increase in credit limit, for 
example in October 2015 he paid off £2,200 when the minimum payment was less than 
£200. So I dont think the account information held by Barclays would have indicated that the 
credit increase was unaffordable or caused any cause for concern.
Mr H says he had high amounts of debt with other lenders at the time of the increases and 
has provided copies of his loan statements. Whilst I can see the amount of loans was 
significant, Mr H doesnt appear to have any defaults on these from the information Ive 
seen. On a number of occasions during 2015 and 2016 I can see that he has made 
additional payments on the loans to reduce the balance and Ive seen nothing to suggest 
that he was only able to do that by borrowing elsewhere. So the fact that Mr H had other 
debts in addition to the credit card doesnt indicate to me that the credit increases were 
unaffordable for him in this case.
In light of the above, I agree with the investigator that for both of the credit limit increases, 
the creditworthiness checks Barclays carried out were reasonable and proportionate. And I 
think Barclays decision to increase lending was fair on each occasion. Even if Barclays 
didnt do everything which might have been expected, I dont think that the lending decision 
would have been any different if it had done more in the circumstances of this case. 
I should add that Mr H has provided a letter from August 2019 showing that he took a 
repayment holiday for one of his loans. This is some time after the credit increases were 
applied, so it doesnt affect my decision above in relation to whether these were applied 
fairly. However, if Mr H is now in financial difficulties, he should contact Barclays in the first 
instance as it may be able to offer assistance if he is currently struggling to meet his 
repayments. 
I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr H, but I can't fairly say that Barclays 
acted unreasonably or unfairly in increasing Mr Hs credit limit in the circumstances of this 
case and I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint and dont require 
Barclays Bank UK PLC to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Rachel Ellis
Ombudsman