DRN-3412826
The complaint
Mr H complains, with the help of a representative, that Mr D of Wealthwise CFM Ltd (WCFM) 
an appointed representative (AR) of ValidPath Limited (ValidPath) gave him unsuitable 
advice to invest in Stirling Mortimer 6 (Morocco). 
What happened
WCFM advised Mr H to switch existing pension provision to a SIPP. The SIPP application 
form, signed on 17 July 2007, confirmed that Mr H was: 
Married 
Employed
Intending to retire at 75
56 years old 
His funds were to be allocated to a deposit fund. Mr D of WCFM was listed as the financial 
adviser in respect of the SIPP, the FCA (then FSA) number recorded in this section was 
ValidPaths. It was also recorded that WCFM was to be paid 5% initial commission and fund-
based renewal commission at a rate of 0.4%. 
Mr D of WCFM also confirmed Mr Hs identity and signed a declaration confirming the sale 
was advised and non-distance (face-to-face). 
On 10 August 2007, Mr Hs ceding scheme wrote to the SIPP provider enclosing a cheque 
for £69,120.08, the transfer value of his existing pension. The plan had a protected tax-free 
cash payment of £31,927 (in excess of 25%). 
A subscription contract for preference shares in Stirling Mortimer was issued in May 2008, 
the agent copy was sent to Mr D of WCFM. 
Background to the complaint
One of our investigators looked into Mr Hs complaint, he concluded that this complaint was 
one we could consider and that it should be upheld. Briefly he found that: 
The complaint had been brought in time. 
Mr Hs complaint was about the advice to invest in Stirling Mortimer.
On balance, WCFM advised Mr H both in relation to the pension transfer and the 
subsequent investment in Stirling Mortimer, both were regulated activities.
WCFM was acting as AR of ValidPath when undertaking the activities complained 
about. 
ValidPath accepted responsibility for the activities that are the subject of this 
complaint. 
WCFM didnt follow the processes ValidPath had in place but this was a matter of 
how it conducted business not what business it conducted  and, this didnt stop 
ValidPath from being responsible in this instance. 
The advice to invest in Stirling Mortimer wasnt suitable. 
Mr H accepted the investigators findings. ValidPath disagreed and made further 
submissions. Ive considered these submissions in their entirety, here Ive just included a 
brief summary of what I consider to be the key points. Broadly speaking, ValidPath has 
raised two key objections a) the complaint has been brought too late and, b) its not 
responsible for the activities that are the subject of this complaint. In relation to each 
ValidPaths raised a number of points. Ive summarised the crux of these, including 
ValidPaths most recent submissions, in turn below. 
The complaint has been brought too late: 
The issues that plagued Stirling Mortimer were well known, documented and 
publicised more than three years before the complaint was raised.
Due to WCFMs ongoing relationship with Mr H, its implausible that he wasnt 
reasonably made aware of the problems with the Stirling Mortimer investment more 
than three years before the complaint was raised.
Based on the annual statements sent to him by the SIPP provider, it was clear that 
the Stirling Mortimer investment hadnt grown significantly over a number of years 
and then dropped sharply.
A benchmark property index had gone up by around 94% between April 2008 and 
July 2015. So, Mr H ought reasonably to have become aware that he had cause for 
complaint more than three years before this complaint was raised. 
Two similar complainants, who invested in Stirling Mortimer around the same time, 
confirmed they became concerned about their investment in 2014 on receiving 
statements from Sanlam. 
Its clear Mr H ought reasonably to have become aware he had cause for complaint 
more than three years before he made the complaint in 2018. 
The complaint had therefore been brought too late. 
It provided copies of the information sheets completed by the complainants relating to them 
becoming aware of a problem in 2014. The sheets have been anonymised. These do 
confirm that they both became aware of problems with the fund in early 2014. I would note 
that the forms are almost identical not only in circumstances but also in the precise wording 
used to describe what happened and when. 
ValidPaths not responsible for the activities complained about: 
WCFM wasnt acting as its agent in relation to the activities complained about and 
Mr H wasnt ValidPaths client. The only reference to him on its system is WCFM 
recording him as a potential client. None of the documentation that wouldve been 
completed in the course of a regulated advice process was completed. 
WCFM wasnt permitted to undertake this type of business. And ValidPath didnt 
accept responsibility for this business.  
All product provider agencies were administered at network level, ValidPath didnt 
have an agency with Stirling Mortimer  WCFM took steps to circumvent this 
process. 
Schedule 3 of the AR agreement simply lists all of the investments listed in the 
relevant definition, this doesnt mean that ARs were permitted to advise on any of 
these investments. 
WCFM were limited to providing services in line with the bespoke terms of business 
provided to it by ValidPath, this excluded unregulated investments. 
None of the processes put in place were followed and WCFM actively hid these 
activities from ValidPath.I sent my provisional decision to Mr H and ValidPath explaining that I thought this complaint 
is one we can consider and that it should be upheld. I invited both parties to make any 
further submissions they would like me to consider. Mr H accepted my provisional decision. 
ValidPath confirmed that it didnt have anything further to add, beyond the submissions it 
had already made. 
This case has now been passed back to me for a decision. Neither party had anything to add 
in response to my provisional decision. I took into account all of the submissions made 
previously and my findings remain as set out within my provisional decision. Ive broadly 
reiterated these below. 
As Ive previously noted, theres little in the way of documentary evidence available in this 
case, based on what weve been told, this appears to be because the file the AR had was 
destroyed. 
What Ive decided  and why
I must decide whether we can consider a complaint on the basis of the jurisdiction rules that 
apply. Ive concluded the complaint is one we can consider. 
The parties to this complaint have provided detailed submissions to support their position 
and Im grateful to them for taking the time to do so. Ive considered these submissions in 
their entirety. However, I trust that they will not take the fact that my decision focuses on 
what I consider to be the central issues as a discourtesy. The purpose of this decision isnt to 
address every point raised in detail, but to set out my findings, on what I consider to be the 
main points, and reasons for reaching them.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
When we receive a complaint about the acts or omissions of an appointed representative, 
the usual jurisdiction tests apply:
Did the actions being complained about take place when the representative was an 
appointed representative of the principal?
Does the complaint relate to an activity we cover?
Do we have territorial jurisdiction?
Is the complainant eligible?
In this case, Im satisfied these tests are met. Mr H is an eligible complainant, we have 
territorial jurisdiction and WCFM was an appointed representative of ValidPath at the time of 
the acts complained about. Ill now turn to the issues of jurisdiction that are in dispute, 
namely whether Mr H complained in time and whether ValidPath can be held responsible for 
the actions of its appointed representative.
Has the complaint been brought in time?
Our jurisdiction is set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook. These rules are 
referred to as DISP.
DISP 2.8.2:The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service:

(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or 
ought reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for 
complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the 
Ombudsman within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some other 
record of the complaint having been received;
unless:
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in 
DISP 2.8.2 R or DISP 2.8.7 R was as a result of exceptional circumstances; 

In line with the above, we cannot consider a complaint where it has been brought:
More than six years after the event took place; or, if later,
More than three years after the complainant became aware, or ought reasonably to 
have become aware, that they had cause for complaint; unless
The business consents to us looking into the complaint despite it having been 
brought out of time; or
Exceptional circumstances apply, for example, where the complainant has been 
incapacitated  and, as a result of this, was unable to bring the complaint to this 
service within the applicable time limits.
It isnt in dispute that the event happened more than six years before the complaint was 
raised. So, Ive focused on whether or not Mr H became  or ought reasonably to have 
become  aware of his cause for complaint more than three years before he raised the 
complaint. 
ValidPath says that the press coverage, drop in value of the investments and the meetings 
that Mr H ought to have been having with WCFM ought reasonably to have led to Mr H 
becoming aware that he had cause for complaint more than three years before he raised the 
complaint. 
The press coverage ValidPath referenced are predominantly articles in the financial press. I 
wouldnt necessarily expect a retail client to be aware of these. There may have been a few 
articles in more mainstream press. But, there wasnt a national press campaign or prolific 
coverage to the point that it would be reasonable to conclude Mr H ought reasonably to have 
become aware of the problems faced by the investment  or that the investment wasnt 
suitable for him  via media coverage. 
ValidPaths arguments as to why the complaint should be time-barred focus heavily on what 
WCFM ought to have known and relayed to Mr H and what shouldve been discussed in 
meetings WCFM ought to have had with Mr H. The test is what Mr H knew or ought 
reasonably to have known  this is based on information available to him. I cant decide what Mr H knew  or ought to have known  based on what WCFM ought to have done, in the 
absence of evidence that it actually did this. I havent been provided with any evidence that 
Mr H had meetings with WCFM within which he was told about any problems with the 
investment more than three years before the complaint was raised. 
In making the above findings, I acknowledge there may have been an ongoing relationship 
with WCFM. However, I havent seen any evidence that WCFM actually held regular reviews 
with Mr H or that it discussed the problems with Stirling Mortimer during any such meetings. 
To be clear, I dont disagree with ValidPath that under the circumstances WCFM shouldve 
held meetings with Mr H and that it shouldve at least informed him about the issues with 
Stirling Mortimer. But, thats not evidence that this happened  or, in turn, that Mr H knew or 
ought reasonably to have known that he had cause for complaint. 
We have copies of the annual statements Mr H received in respect of his SIPP. Based on 
these, the SIPP provider didnt drop the value of the investment on the annual statements 
provided to Mr H until around a year before he complained. In the absence of evidence that 
Mr H was otherwise made aware of the issues with the Stirling Mortimer investment, I think 
these wouldve reassured him that the investment retained significant value. Mr H 
complained to ValidPath within a reasonable timeframe of the SIPP provider dropping the 
value of the investment significantly. 
Most recently ValidPath submitted that based on the statements provided, the Stirling 
Mortimer investment didnt increase substantially over the years in value and then dropped 
significantly. This compares to a benchmark property index which went up by 94% between 
April 2008 and July 2015. So, its not feasible that Mr H reasonably didnt become aware that 
he had cause for complaint.
It also provided copies of the information sheets completed by two complainants in support 
of their position. The sheets have been anonymised. These do confirm that they both 
became aware of problems with the fund in early 2014. As noted in the background to this 
complaint, the forms are almost identical not only in circumstances but also in the precise 
wording used to describe what happened and when. 
I wouldnt expect a retail client, like Mr H, to actively check a benchmark or compare one of 
his investments to others that may be a reasonable comparison, to assess its performance. 
It hasnt been suggested that Mr H wasnt willing to accept any risk or that he was led to 
believe the investment was capital protected, such that any drop in the investment shouldve 
led him to become aware that he had cause for complaint on the basis that the investment 
was unsuitable or mis-sold. I dont think the fact that it may have been clear that the 
investment wasnt performing as hoped is sufficient. 
Whilst its possible that there were investors who may have become aware earlier that they 
had cause for complaint, I dont think this means that Mr H should necessarily have become 
aware at that stage. There are numerous reasons why different individuals may reasonably 
become aware of a problem/their cause for complaint at different times, such as their:
experience/knowledge
expectations of the investment 
reasons for having concerns 
receipt of different information about the investment 
Im not persuaded that Mr H ought reasonably to have become aware that he had cause for 
complaint more than three years before he complained in this instance. Taking everything into account, I think the complaint has been brought in time.
Other jurisdiction considerations
The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) Section 22 (Regulated Activities) 
provides that: 
(1) An activity is a regulated activity for the purposes of this Act if it is an activity of a 
specified kind which is carried on by way of business and 
(a) relates to an investment of a specified kind; or
(b) in the case of an activity of a kind which is also specified for the purposes of this 
paragraph, is carried on in relation to property of any kind.
DISP 2.3.1R says:
The Ombudsman can consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it 
relates to an act or omission by a firm in carrying on one or more of the following 
activities:
(1) regulated activities (other than auction regulation bidding); 
or any ancillary activities, including advice, carried on by the firm in connection with 
them.
And
DISP 2.3.3G, which is guidance for the interpretation of our compulsory jurisdiction, says:
Complaints about acts or omissions include those in respect of activities for which 
the firm
is responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for which 
the firm has accepted responsibility).
Under section 39(3) of FSMA:
The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if 
he had expressly permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative in 
carrying on the business for which he has accepted responsibility.
Exemption of ARs
FSMA says under Article 19, The general prohibition, that:
(1) No person may carry on a regulated activity in the United Kingdom, or purport to do 
so, unless he is   
(a) an authorised person; or
(b) an exempt person.
(2) The prohibition is referred to in this Act as the general prohibition.Article 39 of FSMA sets out the exemption of ARs to the above, in so far as relevant, it says:
(1) If a person (other than an authorised person)  
(a) is a party to a contract with an authorised person (his principal) which  
(i) permits or requires him to carry on business of a prescribed description, and
(ii) complies with such requirements as may be prescribed, and
(b) is someone for whose activities in carrying on the whole or part of that business 
his principal has accepted responsibility in writing,
he is exempt from the general prohibition in relation to any regulated activity 
comprised in the carrying on of that business for which his principal has accepted 
responsibility.
The business for which an AR can be exempt is set out in FSMA 2000 (Appointed
Representatives) Regulations 2001 (2001 No. 1217) this includes advising on investments 
and arranging deals in investments. 
So, for me to conclude that this is a complaint that we can consider I need to consider three 
questions:
1. What are the acts that are the subject of this complaint?
2. Were the acts about which Mr H complains done in the carrying on of a regulated 
activity, or an ancillary activity carried on in connection with a regulated activity?
3. Were those acts the acts of the principal firm, ValidPath?
What are the acts that are the subject of this complaint?
Mr H complains that, given whats happened in respect of Stirling Mortimer, the investment 
wasnt suitable for him.
In a complaint letter to ValidPath, it was confirmed that: 
The complaint is about the suitability of the investment advice received by our client 
[Mr Hs full name] when he was advised to invest monies that were invested into the 
SIPP with [name of SIPP provider] into the Stirling Mortimer No 6 Morocco Fund on 
or around the 15th April 2008.
And
[Mr Hs full name] was not at the time of advice (and never have [sic] been in the 
past) an Experienced investor or a Professional investor and could not of [sic] 
been classified by your firm as a High Net Worth Individual and/or a Sophisticated 
Investor. So why was [Mr Hs full name] advised by a ValidPath Limited CF30 to 
invest in an Unregulated Collective Investment Scheme (UCIS). The Stirling Mortimer 
No 6 Morocco Fund was classified as a UCIS.
Based on his submissions, I think his complaint is focused on the advice to invest in Stirling 
Mortimer not the wider transaction. In particular, that the fund wasnt suitable for him and 
shouldnt have been recommended to him.Were the acts about which Mr H complains done in the carrying on of a regulated 
activity, or an ancillary activity carried on in connection with a regulated activity?
Regulated activities are set out in Part II of FSMA (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (RAO). 
They include:
Advising on investments where the advice relates to buying, selling, subscribing for 
or underwriting a particular investment which is a security or a contractually based 
investment (article 53 RAO).
Arranging deals in investments for another personto buy, sell, subscribe for or 
underwrite a particular investment which is a security or relevant investment (article 
25 RAO).
Theres limited evidence from the point of sale, as Ive explained in the background to the 
complaint. I think its clear that WCFM was acting as Mr Hs adviser in respect of the initial 
transfer and, on balance, the subsequent investment in Stirling Mortimer. 
WCFM and Mr H had an ongoing advisory relationship. The SIPP application listed WCFM 
as Mr Hs adviser in respect of the transaction. WCFM was acting as Mr Hs adviser on an 
ongoing basis. The subscription contract for the purchase of shares in Stirling Mortimer was 
sent to WCFM as agent in respect of the purchase. Theres no evidence that Mr H was an 
experienced investor or that he came across the Stirling Mortimer investments himself or 
through the involvement of another party. Based on Mr Hs circumstances and what hes told 
us, I think its more likely than not that Mr Hs investment in the Stirling Mortimer fund came 
about as a result of advice given to him by WCFM to invest in that fund.
Indeed, WCFM doesnt appear to dispute that it recommended this investment to Mr H.
Taking all of this into account, I think that it is more likely than not that WCFM did advise 
Mr H to invest in Stirling Mortimer.
Further, its my view that this activity qualifies as the regulated activity of advising on 
investments, as defined in the RAO. 
It isnt contested that the Stirling Mortimer investment was a specified investment. There is, 
unfortunately, very little information available now regarding the details of the fund and how it 
operated. Im aware that the fund was part of the Stirling Mortimer Global Property Fund 
PCC Ltd (SMGPF), a protected cell company with limited liability based in Guernsey. My 
understanding is that the fund had at least some of the features of a collective investment 
scheme (funds were pooled together and investors didnt have day to day control over their 
management) but it was neither authorised nor recognised by the FSA or FCA (in other 
words, if it was a collective investment scheme, it wouldve been a UCIS). Im also aware 
that investors like Mr H were effectively purchasing shares in the fund and Ive seen Mr Hs 
subscription contract which showed the subscription on his behalf of preference shares in 
the Stirling Mortimer fund. I accept that there is, in turn, likely to be more than one possible 
basis on which the activity was regulated under the RAO.  
Overall, I am satisfied that Mr Hs complaint relates to activities done in the carrying on of the 
regulated activity of advising on investments.
The next question is whether that business was business for which ValidPath had accepted 
responsibility. To the extent that it was merely the purchase of shares, I can see no effective 
restriction on the carrying on of that activity in the AR Agreement. ValidPath has said that the Stirling Mortimer investment was business that was expressly restricted by operation of the 
Terms of Business that wouldve been applicable between Mr H and WCFM. It maintains 
that the Terms of Business restricted WCFM from advising on such investments. And, 
overall, that this wasnt business that WCFM was permitted to undertake or for which it, in 
turn, had accepted responsibility. Ive given careful thought to what ValidPaths said in this 
regard in the following section of this decision. 
Were those acts the acts of the principal firm, ValidPath?
As set out above, DISP 2.3.3G says:
Complaints about acts or omissions include those in respect of activities for which 
the firmis responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent 
for which the firmhas accepted responsibility).
It follows that the question then is: was the advising activity conducted by WCFM for Mr H an 
activity for which ValidPath is responsible?  
When Im considering responsibility by way of s39 FSMA, the test is: was that activity done 
in the carrying on of business for which ValidPath has accepted responsibility?  
ValidPaths adamant that it isnt responsible for the sale of the Stirling Mortimer investment 
and any advice given in respect of this. Its assertions are based on a number of arguments, 
in particular:
WCFM wasnt acting as its agent in relation to the sale of the Stirling Mortimer 
investment complained about. 
It didnt authorise WCFM to undertake the type of business thats the subject of this 
complaint. 
The way in which WCFM went about undertaking the business is in breach of the 
compliance and procedural requirements in place.
WCFM actively hid its activities.
At the time of the advice WCFM was an AR of ValidPath. This is confirmed by the FCAs 
register and Ive not seen any evidence that would lead me to conclude that WCFM was 
acting in any capacity other than as AR of ValidPath at the time of the activities in question. 
Its clear from the available paperwork that WCFM was and had been acting as Mr Hs 
investment adviser in respect of his pension. 
Mr H did have a client profile on ValidPaths systems albeit it wasnt activated. It recorded 
Mr D as the adviser and listed various products Mr H held, including the SIPP. ValidPath 
also told us there was a record of the receipt of commission in respect of the SIPP. 
Im satisfied its clearly documented that WCFM, as AR of ValidPath, was acting as Mr Hs 
adviser in respect of the switch that made the investment in Stirling Mortimer possible. And, 
confirmation of the purchase of the shares was sent to WCFM as agent. 
Its clear that WCFM as AR of ValidPath was appointed adviser in respect of the SIPP and, 
on balance, I think its most likely it was acting in this capacity when it recommended the 
Stirling Mortimer investment. Im satisfied that WCFM was acting as AR of ValidPath when 
undertaking the acts complained about.So, Ive gone on to consider if the acts that are the subject of this complaint comprise 
business for which ValidPath had accepted responsibility.
To answer this, Ive carefully considered the scope of the authority provided by ValidPath to 
WCFM by means of the appointed representative agreement.  
ValidPath says it sent WCFM an agreement for it to execute, but WCFM didnt return this 
and in turn it doesnt have a copy of a signed agreement. 
Instead, ValidPath has provided a copy of an agreement which another of its ARs was 
subject to and said that the same terms applied to WCFM. Ive seen nothing to indicate that 
might not be the case. I therefore consider it reasonable to accept this standard agreement 
as indicative of the appointed representative contract agreed between ValidPath and WCFM.  
That contract set out the business for which ValidPath accepted responsibility. Ive reviewed 
the agreement carefully. In short, my view is that ValidPath had accepted responsibility for 
the activities of WCFM that are the subject of Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain my view below.  
In so far as relevant, the agreement provided that:
2. The Company accepts responsibility for the activities of the Member carrying on 
investment business of the kind and for the purposes for which the Member is hereby 
appointed.
3. The Member hereby agrees to act as an agent on behalf of the Company in respect 
of the  Products (as defined herein) pursuant to the written Terms and Conditions 
and hereby confirms he/she has read and fully understood to the same Terms and 
Conditions.
The functions of the member are defined as:
2.1 The member is appointed for the purpose of procuring or endeavouring to 
procure clients and prospective Clients to enter into Contracts and (for that 
purpose) giving advice to clients and prospective clients about entering into such 
Contracts.
The relevant terms of the clause are defined as:
Contracts are defined as contract(s) for the Products entered into or to be entered 
into by the client with the Institutions. 
Products are defined as policies of assurance, annuity contracts, pensions plans or 
policies and such other products and services (including but without limitation critical 
illness and permanent health insurance policies) and term assurance policies as shall 
from time to time be dealt in by the Company subject (in the case of investment 
business) to the provisions of Schedule 3.
Institutions are defined as any insurance or assurance company, life office, broker, 
unit trust manager, stockbroker, building society, bank, finance house or other 
financial institution.
The members duties are set out under clause 4:
The Member and the Controller(s) shall have the following obligations to the Company and shall abide by and procure that Registered Individuals abide by the 
following rules and regulations:
the Member and the Controller(s) agree and covenant to carry on investment 
business activities strictly in accordance with paragraph 10, and Schedule 3 (see 
also FSA Scope of Permission).
Clause 10.2 limits the ARs activities: 
The Member shall limit its activities in relation to investment business and conduct 
and transact only those classes of investment in relation to which the Company has 
authorisation, as detailed in Schedule 3
Schedule 3 sets out that: 
In accordance with paragraphs 4.1 and 10 above, the Member, its Controller(s), 
Officers and Registered Individuals agree to partake in the following investment 
business activity only, for which the Company is authorised to transact by the FSA 
under its scope of permissions notice
Schedule 3 states that the relevant Regulated Activity is Advising on investments and the 
Investment Types are as follows:
Certificates representing certain security
Debenture
Government and public security
Life Policy
Rights to or interests in investments (Contractually Based Investments)
Rights to or interests in investments (Security)
Share
Stakeholder pension scheme
Unit
Warrant
It follows that in order for ValidPath to accept responsibility, the relevant activity by WCFM 
must be of a kind for which WCFM was appointed and for a purpose for which WCFM was 
appointed. Clause 2.1 explains the purpose of the appointment, namely procuring clients to 
enter into Contracts and (for that purpose) giving advice to clients and prospective clients 
about entering into such Contracts. It follows that any advice to actual or prospective clients 
about entering into a Contract thats directed towards procuring the client to enter into a 
Contract is within the AR agreements purpose. Its therefore important to establish what 
are, and arent, Contracts under the AR agreement and this turns on the definitions of 
contracts, institutions and products (above). 
Contracts are defined within the AR agreement, as set out above, as contract(s) for the 
Products entered into or to be entered into by the client with the Institutions [my 
emphasis].
Its clear from Schedule 3 that permitted investment types included a unit. A unit is defined 
in the FCA Handbook Glossary as units in a collective investment scheme (article 81 RAO), 
which, if it met the definition of a UCIS, would cover the Stirling Mortimer investment. 
However, even if it doesnt meet the definition of a UCIS, permitted investment types also 
include shares. As Ive said above, Mr H purchased preference shares in the Stirling 
Mortimer fund. An institution is defined as including a financial institution. This is further defined in the AR 
agreement, but its given a broad definition generally and its meaning will depend on the 
context in which it is used. In this case, it seems fairly clear that a financial institution was 
intended to cover the range of institutions that might provide the type of investment contract 
permitted by Schedule 3. From this, it seems reasonable to say that either Heritage 
International Fund Managers Limited, as administrators of Stirling Mortimer Global Property 
Fund PCC Limited, or Stirling Mortimer itself would qualify as an institution as required.   
In its submissions to this service, ValidPaths referred to its product provider agencies. It 
says it didnt have an agency with Stirling Mortimer and that it was for it as the authorised 
firm to enter into agency agreements. ValidPath says that because it had no agency 
agreement with Stirling Mortimer  because WCFM hadnt followed the established process 
 this wasnt business for which it had accepted responsibility. The AR agreement didnt limit 
the institutions WCFM could deal with to those with which ValidPath had an agency 
agreement. Ive carefully considered what ValidPaths said but Im not persuaded that the 
terms of the AR agreement preclude WCFM from advising Mr H to invest in Stirling Mortimer 
or that this wasnt business for which it accepted responsibility. 
All in all, in my view, advice to Mr H to invest in Stirling Mortimer is advice on investments in 
line with ValidPaths permissions as set out in Schedule 3 and theres nothing within the 
definitions of contracts, products or institutions respectively which would preclude this advice 
from being in line with the purpose and scope of WCFMs appointment.  
Taking all of this into account, I think that by way of the AR agreement, ValidPath permitted 
WCFM to advise Mr H on its behalf on the merits of utilising a portion of his pension to invest 
in Stirling Mortimer. 
The next question is whether there are any other provisions which may restrict the scope of 
that permission.  
The Terms of Business 
I note that the Terms of Business submitted by ValidPath as applicable between WCFM and 
Mr H provided that:
Wealthwise Corporate Financial Management Ltd is permitted to arrange (bring 
about) deals in investments and advice on investments. The particular investment 
types relate to life assurance, pensions, investments in authorised collective 
investment schemes, Unit Trust PEPs and ISAs [my emphasis].
ValidPath has told us this meant that bringing about deals in unauthorised collective 
schemes was prohibited under the relevant terms of business. And, that even if Stirling 
Mortimer wasnt a collective investment, it maintains that, unregulated/unauthorised 
investments  such as Stirling Mortimer  werent permitted under its Terms of Business 
provided to WCFM. 
At the outset, I note of course that the Terms of Business were distinct from the appointed 
representative agreement. When signed they were agreed between WCFM and its client and 
were designed to set out the services and obligations offered by WCFM to its client. They 
were directed at the relationship between WCFM and its client. The appointed representative 
agreement on the other hand, was a contract that spoke to the obligations and duties in the 
relationship between WCFM and Validpath.  It follows that, because they were distinct agreements, the apparent restriction on the scope 
of the permissions (outlined above) will only have the effect ValidPath says it has if we can 
reasonably say that the restriction was incorporated into the AR agreement (if it isnt, then 
the restrictions in the Terms of Business will merely regulate the dealings between WCFM 
and Mr H and not between ValidPath and WCFM).  
With this in mind, I note that the Terms of Business are referenced in the AR agreement, in 
that it specifies that these needed to be provided to every client in a timely manner, in the 
format prescribed by ValidPath and in compliance with the FCAs (then FSA) rules. Clause 
4.4 reads: 
The Member shall conduct business with a client only on the Companys Terms of 
Business (which shall be supplied timeously to every client) in the format prescribed 
by the Company and in compliance with the FSA rules as amended from time to 
time. 
Ive therefore considered whether that clause might have effectively incorporated the Terms 
of Business into the AR agreement.  
Clause 4.4 appears to be directed at two matters: 
(a) It requires that the client agreements entered into between WCFM and its clients 
shall be provided in good time on ValidPaths prescribed Terms of Business. It is in 
turn aimed at the establishment of the contract in the prescribed form  i.e. WCFM is 
only to use ValidPaths Terms of Business and must provide those to the client at an 
early stage. It doesnt seem to create a duty owed by WCFM to ValidPath to comply 
with the provisions contained in that form.  
(b) It requires that in conducting business with clients, WCFM must comply with FSA 
Rules. 
Neither of those matters specifically concerns either the kinds of products that can be sold or 
the purpose for which they can be sold. Given that those matters are both the subject of very 
specific delimitation in the AR agreement and Schedule 3, it seems doubtful to me that 
Clause 4.4 is intended to impact them. If that were the case, I would expect to see clear 
language to that effect. I recognise that ValidPaths interpretation might be implied from the 
words shall conduct business with a client only on the Companys Terms of Business, but I 
consider the plain, sensible interpretation is that the clause is aimed at compliance with the 
form and timing of the Terms of Business and not with the scope of responsibility, which is 
more clearly expressed with some particularity in Schedule 3 of the AR agreement.  
In making this point, I also note that in any event, the relevant clause under our Services in 
the Terms of Business, which tells the client the particular investment types to which 
WCFMs arranging and advice will relate, appears to me to be informational, rather than 
prescriptive and binding on WCFM   i.e. it can more readily be interpreted as an informal 
summary for the client of the kinds of products identified in the AR agreement. It doesnt 
have the force of an operative contractual condition that prohibits WCFM from giving the 
customer other kinds of advice.
In any case, I tend to think that if there were any conflict between the AR agreement and 
Terms of Business as to the scope of the former, I would expect the AR agreements terms 
and conditions to be definitive rather than the more informational terms in the Terms of 
Business, as they are specifically and clearly aimed at establishing the permitted kinds of 
products. All in all, its my view that the scope of the permissions is confined to the relevant provisions 
in the AR agreement and that the meaning of those provisions isnt affected by the operation 
of the Terms of Business, which regulates the relationship between WCFM and the client 
and, in doing so, merely provides information about the type of investments that may be 
recommended to them.  
Compliance breaches 
ValidPaths also argued that a number of its internal processes hadnt been followed by 
WCFM when conducting the activities in question, and that in turn the activities fell outside 
the scope of its accepted responsibility. However, I should make it clear that a failure to 
follow a requirement that regulates the manner in which an authorised activity is conducted 
doesnt necessarily put that activity outside the operation of s39 (as an activity for which the 
principal firm didnt accept responsibility).  
I accept that there are processes that WCFM didnt follow when transacting the relevant 
business for Mr H. For example, it didnt complete the appropriate paperwork and the 
business wasnt reported to ValidPath, amongst other things. In my view these requirements 
are standards to be met in respect of how an AR should go about undertaking business on 
behalf of ValidPath rather than effective restrictions on the type of business they can 
undertake.
Failure to follow such processes in this instance doesnt mean that ValidPath isnt 
responsible for the advice complained about. In Anderson v SenseNetwork [2018] EWHC 
2834, in the High Court decision that was later upheld by the Court of Appeal, the judge said 
that:
139. I  agree with the Claimants that the authorities indicate that it is appropriate 
to take a broad approach when seeking to identify the "business for which he has 
accepted responsibility". The fact that there may not be actual authority for a 
particular transaction, for example because of breach of an obligation not to 
offer an inducement (Ovcharenko), or because there was no authority to advise 
on a related transaction (TenetConnect), or because certain duties needed to 
be fulfilled before a product was offered, does not mean that the transaction in 
question falls outside the scope of the relevant "business" for which 
responsibility is taken [my emphasis]. Equally, the approach must not be so broad 
that it becomes divorced from the terms of the very AR agreement relied upon in 
support of the case that the principal has accepted responsibility for the business in 
question.
Taking everything into account, Im of the view that WCFMs failure to follow certain 
procedures doesnt alter the effect of s39 in this case and Im satisfied that we can consider 
Mr Hs complaint against ValidPath.
Ive taken into account everything ValidPath has submitted about WCFMs behaviour  and 
its clear that there have been problems in the relationship  but, Im satisfied that this 
doesnt mean that ValidPath isnt responsible for its former ARs activities which are the 
subject of this complaint.
Merits of the complaint
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.When considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive taken into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and codes of practice; and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time.
WCFM was required to follow the relevant rules set out by the regulator. These include the 
overarching Principles for Businesses  principles 1 (integrity), 2 (due skill, care and 
diligence), 6 (customers interests) and 9 (reasonable care) are of particular relevance here.
Amongst other things, to fulfil its duties WCFM had to know its client, act in his best interests 
and give suitable advice.
As Ive mentioned on a number of occasions, there isnt a lot of paperwork from the point of 
sale. Based on this, Ive not seen enough to conclude WCFM gathered enough information 
about Mr Hs circumstances and knowledge to satisfy the above requirements. However, I 
do acknowledge the possibility that there was further paperwork that is now not available. 
Mr H says that the Stirling Mortimer investment wasnt suitable for him and shouldnt have 
been recommended to him because he wasnt an experienced investor or high net worth 
individual. 
The Stirling Mortimer investment was an esoteric, high-risk investment. The fact it was an 
unregulated investment also meant Mr H wouldnt be covered by the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS) if it failed. While I think the evidence indicates Mr H was 
willing to accept some risk with the money in his SIPP, I dont believe he was a particularly 
knowledgeable or sophisticated investor who shouldve been advised to put substantial 
monies from within his pension in an investment of this type.
Mr Hs pension provision was intended to provide him with an income in retirement, investing 
a large proportion of this pension in a high-risk esoteric investment put his pension provision 
at significant risk. 
Taking everything into account, I think the Stirling Mortimer investment was most likely 
unsuitable for Mr H and that he shouldnt have been advised to make it. Its for this reason 
that Im upholding his complaint.
It hasnt been suggested that Mr H was an insistent client or that he was otherwise likely to 
go against suitable advice from his adviser. But, for the sake of completeness, Ive 
considered this  and, I havent seen anything that would lead me to conclude that Mr H was 
likely to disregard suitable advice. I find that Mr H wouldnt have invested in Stirling Mortimer 
had suitable advice been given by WCFM. 
Under the circumstances, I find that its fair and reasonable for ValidPath to compensate 
Mr H for the financial losses hes suffered as a result of the unsuitable advice to invest in 
Stirling Mortimer. In addition to the financial loss established, I think that the loss of a 
significant amount of his pension provision caused Mr H distress and inconvenience and that 
ValidPath should compensate him for this. 
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr H should be put as closely as possible into the position he would 
probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr H would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr H's circumstances and objectives when he invested.What must ValidPath do?
To compensate Mr H fairly, ValidPath must:
Compare the performance of Mr H's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
ValidPath should add interest as set out below:
ValidPath should pay into Mr H's pension plan to increase its value by the total 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If ValidPath is unable to pay the total amount into Mr H's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr H wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr H's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
For example, if Mr H is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr H would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay to Mr H £750 for the distress caused by the loss of a significant portion of his 
pension.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If ValidPath deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr H how much has been taken off. ValidPath should give Mr H a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr H asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Stirling 
MortimerStill exists 
but illiquidFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return IndexDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement 
(if not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the complainant'
s 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an 
asset is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case. 
ValidPath should take ownership of any illiquid assets by paying a commercial value 
acceptable to the pension provider. The amount ValidPath pays should be included in the 
actual value before compensation is calculated.
If ValidPath is unable to purchase illiquid assets, their value should be assumed to be nil for 
the purpose of calculating the actual value. ValidPath may require that Mr H provides an 
undertaking to pay ValidPath any amount he may receive from the illiquid assets in the 
future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on 
drawing the receipt from the pension plan. ValidPath will need to meet any costs in drawing 
up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the Stirling Mortimer investment should be deducted from the fair 
value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if ValidPath totals all those payments and deducts that 
figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr H wanted Income with some growth and was willing to accept some investment 
risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr H's circumstances and risk attitude.
SIPP feesBased on Mr Hs more recent statements, Mr H holds little in the SIPP other than the illiquid 
investment. If Mr H wishes to but is unable to close his SIPP, because of the Stirling 
Mortimer investment once compensation has been paid (which is possible due to the 
ongoing uncertainty with Stirling Mortimer), ValidPath should pay an amount into the SIPP 
equivalent to five years worth of the fees (based on the most recent years fees) that will be 
payable on the SIPP. I say this because Mr H wouldnt be stuck with an illiquid investment 
but for ValidPaths unsuitable advice. So, it wouldnt be fair for him to have to pay fees to 
keep it open. And Im satisfied five years will allow sufficient time for things to be sorted out 
with Stirling Mortimer, and the SIPP to be closed.
My final decision
Ive found that this is a complaint we can consider, and I uphold the complaint. My final 
decision is that ValidPath Limited should pay the amount calculated as set out above.
ValidPath Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr H in a clear, simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2022.
 
Nicola Curnow
Ombudsman