DRN-2746838
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited didnt notify them of 
a Unit Price Adjustment which affected the value of their Individual Savings Accounts. 
What happened
In mid-March 2020 Mr and Mrs T instructed their financial adviser to cash in their Individual 
Savings Accounts (ISAs) which were invested in a fund. A request was submitted to 
Prudential on the same day.
The next day a Unit Price Adjustment (UPA) was applied to the fund in which the accounts 
were invested before they were cashed in. This meant that Mr and Mrs T received a lower 
amount than they expected. Mr and Mrs T complained to Prudential saying they and their 
financial adviser werent given sufficient notice about the UPA being applied.
Prudential looked into things and said they aim to publish details of a UPA by close of 
business on the day it is applied; which they did. They went on to say their account 
managers aim to follow up the UPA notification providing further clarity, however this didnt 
happen. So to apologise for the upset and lack of clarity Prudential offered Mr and Mrs T £50 
each. 
Mr and Mrs T remained unhappy so brought their complaint to our service. They said werent 
complaining about the UPA applying, but about the process of communicating it to their 
financial adviser, which they say led to their financial loss. One of our investigators 
considered everything and thought the request to cash in the accounts was done in line with 
the instructions. They didnt think Prudential had any obligation to inform Mr and Mrs Ts 
financial adviser about the UPA sooner than they did. Mr and Mrs T disagreed so the 
complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs T arent complaining about the application of the UPA itself as they understand it 
can be applied, rather they are complaining about how it was communicated. So I wont go 
into detail about how a UPA works other than to say that its an adjustment made to protect a 
fund when the market isnt performing as expected. It ensures theres enough money to pay 
out if all the unitholders cashed in their investments at the same time.
Mr and Mrs T say that Prudentials system should automatically notify clients with pending 
transactions about a UPA in enough time to either continue or abort withdrawals. I can 
understand why they say this as the UPA has meant they received less money from their 
ISAs than they were expecting.
Prudential should notify customers of the any UPA but they dont have to do so within a set 
time frame or automatically. And considering the number of customers that Prudential have I 
also dont think it would be practical for them to do so within such a short time frame. This is 
particularly the case as customers are aware that a UPA could be applied. I also dont think 
Prudential has any duty to change the process they already use for notifications. 
Prudential say their process is to publish information about the UPA on the day it is applied. 
And thats what happened here. The UPA was applied in the morning and information about 
it was published on the afternoon of the same day. Its unfortunate timing for Mr and Mrs T 
as their cash in requests were processed after the UPA had been applied but before 
information was published. But that doesnt mean Prudential has done anything wrong.
Mr and Mrs T were offered £50 each from Prudential as they didnt follow up the UPA 
announcement with further clarity. By this time the UPA had already been applied and the 
cash in requests had been processed so there was nothing Mr and Mrs T couldve done 
even if the clarity had been provided. So Im satisfied that £50 each is a fair and reasonable 
amount for the upset caused by Prudential when not providing the clarity they shouldve 
provided.
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied Prudential acted fairly 
and reasonably when both applying the UPA and when sending notification.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 July 2021. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman