DRN-2271688
The complaint
Ms I is unhappy with the standard of service Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) provided 
when dealing with her home emergency claims.
What happened
Ms I had home emergency cover with IPA. She made claims under the policy for a leaking 
roof and IPA attended to complete temporary repairs. But, because the leak reappeared, Ms 
I complained that IPA hadnt carried out effective repairs. 
IPA told Ms I that the repairs were only meant to be temporary. While she acknowledged 
that, she felt the repairs shouldve lasted longer.
Ms I reported another leak, but IPA told her it wouldnt fix any more roof leaks because she 
needed to arrange a permanent repair.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He saw that IPA had appointed an independent 
roofing contractor on a few occasions, so it had responded to Ms Is claim in line with the 
policy. However, the job sheet reported that the roof showed signs of wear and tear, and it 
needed replacing. Our investigator thought it was reasonable that IPA refused to cover the 
same issue until Ms I had a permanent repair or replaced her roof. 
Ms I didnt agree but she didnt make any specific comments about the findings.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint and Ill explain why.
The issue here is that Ms I thinks IPA hasnt provided her with emergency cover for her 
leaking roof in line with the terms of her policy and of the quality she expected. I havent 
detailed each incident because the overriding issue is the same. 
Ive looked at what the policy covers, and I can see that Ms Is Gold Home Emergency cover 
includes roofing emergencies up to a maximum of £1500. The policy defines an emergency 
as, The result of a sudden and unforeseen incident.
In response to an emergency, IPA will arrange for an emergency repair, which the policy 
defines as, Work undertaken by an approved contractor to resolve the emergency by 
completing a temporary repair. And a temporary repair is defined as, A repair that will 
resolve an emergency but will need to be replaced by a permanent repair. I note that 
emergency repairs are guaranteed for three months from when the emergency is first 
reported.
It seems that IPA covered the claim in line with the terms of the policy. But as the repairs 
wouldve been guaranteed for three months, I can see why Ms I thinks that the leak 
reoccurring after two days for one repair, and two months for another, suggests that the 
temporary repairs werent of sufficient quality.
Ive thought carefully about whether IPA shouldve carried out a longer lasting repair, or 
returned to complete another temporary repair given the three-month guarantee. But the 
condition of the roof more generally leads me to think that the quality of IPAs repairs wasnt 
the problem. The roofing contractor, who I accept is an expert on this matter, reported that 
Ms Is roof showed wear and tear and needed replacing. Because of this, repeated 
temporary repairs wouldnt resolve the problem.
Turning to the policy again, under the General Exclusions, it states:
What is not covered
2. b) the cost of replacement parts due to natural wear and tear.
And under the General Conditions, the policy states:
5. You must take all reasonable precautions to prevent an Emergency. This insurance does 
not cover normal day-to-day maintenance at your property. You must ensure that it is 
undertaken and that your property is in good condition. Nor does it pay for replacing items 
that wear out over a period of time.
I think the terms are clear  Ms I is not covered for ongoing repairs to her roof which are 
needed because of wear and tear. And, although a temporary repair is guaranteed for three 
months, that term only applies if Ms I meets her responsibilities under the policy. She made 
several claims for her leaking roof and, while the leaks were in different areas, the underlying 
issue seems to be that the roof has deteriorated and needs a permanent repair or 
replacement. So I dont think Ms I has taken all reasonable precautions to prevent an 
emergency.
In summary, Im satisfied that IPA responded fairly to Ms Is claim by carrying out temporary 
repairs to the leaks she reported. As it advised her that she needed to carry out a permanent 
repair, and theres no evidence that she did, I think it was reasonable, and in line with the 
policy, for IPA to decline further claims for the same problem.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms I to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman