DRN-3850440
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited (AXA) didnt make them aware
of an offer to cancel and receive a pro-rata refund of the premium theyd paid for their travel
insurance policy in or around June 2020. Theyre also unhappy that when they contacted
AXA in March 2021, after receiving their renewal notice, AXA wouldnt offer a substantial
discount of the premium for the policy year 2021/2022.
What happened
For many years, Mr and Mrs M had the benefit of an annual insurance policy, underwritten
by AXA (the policy). Mr and Mrs M were both named policyholders, but they were entitled to
a discounted premium because the policy was offered as part of a particular alliance and
was arranged for the members of the alliance through an independent broker, acting on
behalf of those members.
Mr and Mrs M renewed the policy for one year with effect of April 2020.
In February 2021, AXA sent Mr and Mrs M a renewal notice. Shortly after, Mr and Mrs M 
contacted AXA because their annual premium increased by around £60 even though they 
hadnt had much opportunity to travel during the period of the policy 2020/2021 due to the 
Covid-19 pandemic. At various times during that period the Foreign and Commonwealth 
Office had been advising against all but essential international travel and there had been 
long periods of time when the government had imposed restrictions limiting travel from 
where theyd lived. 
As well as being unhappy with the premium increase, Mr and Mrs M wanted a refund of the 
annual premium theyd paid for the policy year 2020/2021.
It was after Mr and Mrs M contacted AXA that they say they were first made aware that
members of the alliance  who had similar policies to Mr and Mrs M  had been offered the
opportunity to cancel their policies in or around June 2020  along with the opportunity to re-
join AXA within three months if they wanted (and to pay for another yearly policy). This was
communicated to the alliance and AXA had issued a statement through the alliances
website asking members to contact AXA directly if they wanted to take advantage of the
offer.
AXA said that because Mr and Mrs M didnt contact it before the start of August 2020, it
wasnt able to offer a pro-rata refund of the premium paid. However, it did offer to reimburse
Mr and Mrs M for one months premium  going back to 1 March 2020 as a gesture of
goodwill. This was declined.
AXA maintained that it had acted fairly and, unhappy, Mr and Mrs M complained to our
service. Since raising a complaint, AXA has made a payment to Mr and Mrs M of around £79 
in accordance with its customer promise that any reduction in claims costs compared to 
2019 due to the Covid-19 pandemic would be refunded in proportion to premiums paid 
(price promise).
AXA also accepted that Mr and Mrs M werent sent a gift card in the sum of £25 to be
redeemed with certain retailers (the gift card), which they ought to have been. This had
been sent to members whilst AXA was working through the price promise proposal. It has
since sent the gift card to Mr and Mrs M.
Our investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
They disagreed. So, this complaint was passed to me to consider everything afresh to
decide. 
I issued my provisional decision in October 2022 explaining why I was intending to uphold 
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. An extract of my provisional decision setting out my proposed 
reasons for upholding the complaint is set out below:
..
The policy terms say that if the policy is cancelled outside the 14 days cooling off
period, there will be no return of the premium. However, AXA took the decision to
offer members of the alliance (which Mr M was part of) to cancel their policies in or
around June 2020 and receive a pro-rata refund of the premium paid. AXA had
notified the alliance of this offer and details were put on the alliances website 
asking members who wanted to take advantage of this offer to contact AXA before 1
August 2020.
Its accepted that Mr and Mrs M didnt contact AXA to take up this offer before then.
However, Mr and Mrs M say they werent aware of this offer until March 2021 when
they contacted AXA about the renewal notice theyd received and the increase in
premium for the next policy year 2021/2022. They say they werent in the habit of
visiting the alliances website. Ive seen nothing to say that Mr and Mrs M were
directed to visit the website around this time. I also find their submissions to be
consistent, plausible and persuasive. So, I dont think they were aware of AXAs offer
before March 2021.
The contract of insurance was between AXA and Mr and Mrs M. The policy also
confirms that AXA is the administrator. AXA sent Mr and Mrs M the insurance
renewal notices and Ive seen sample letters on AXA letterhead which it says Mr and
Mrs M ought to have received enclosing the gift card and letting them know about the
price promise. So, I think AXA ought to have directly told Mr and Mrs M about the
offer in or around June 2020 rather than just informing the alliance.
Had AXA done this, on the balance of probabilities, I think its more likely than not
that Mr and Mrs M wouldve cancelled the policy then and claimed a pro-rata refund
of the annual premium from 1 July 2020 to 31 March 2021. The communication Ive
seen from the time says that option is available if Mr and Mrs M hadnt claimed after
the policy had renewed in April 2020  which I understand they hadnt  and they
didnt wish to retain cancellation cover due to Covid-19 for any existing trip theyd
booked before 14 March 2020.
Before 14 March 2020, Mr and Mrs M had booked trips in the UK for April and July
2020. And had intended to travel in October 2020 but theyd only made a restaurant
reservation for that month. They say by the end of June 2020, theyd rearranged the
UK breaks booked for April and July 2020 for similar dates in 2021. Ive got no
reason to doubt what they say about that, and I intend to accept their submissions of
this point.Given the local restrictions that were still in place in June 2020 around domestic
travel and social distancing  and that Mr and Mrs M had no trips booked for the
remainder of the policy year (ending 31 March 2021) which mightve resulted in a
travel insurance claim being made on the policy -  I think its likely that they wouldve
cancelled the policy then.
AXA has said that it wasnt offering any new travel insurance policies at the time but
was willing to allow alliance members to re-join within three months of cancellation.
But I dont think its likely Mr and Mrs M wouldve taken up AXAs offer to re-join 
within three months and pay for another annual travel insurance policy  given that it
wouldve cost over £500 and the prevalence of Covid-19 was increasing again
towards the end of September 2020, and some restrictions were still in place where
they lived.
I know Mr and Mrs M are also unhappy about the premium theyd been quoted for the policy
year 2021/2022 but given that I dont intend to find that they wouldve taken out the policy
again, had it been cancelled in June 2020, I dont intend to make any findings about the 
price they were quoted in February 2021.

I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs M said they had 
nothing further to add. AXA, replied disagreeing with my provisional decision. In summary, it 
said:
The 2020 renewal letter sent to Mr M explained on page 3 (under the question: can I 
change my cover mid-year?) that it offers different levels of travel insurance cover to 
choose from and to contact it if travel cover no longer met his needs and to discuss 
his options. Mr M didnt contact AXA until March 2021.
Without evidence that Mr and Mrs M werent aware of the offer until March 2021, 
AXA says its difficult to reconcile why Ive provisionally found Mr and Mrs Ms 
submissions to be consistent, plausible and persuasive. It said it was making 
enquiries with the alliance about what information they included in their group 
circular.
AXA says it did write to members whose policies had lapsed or expressed concern 
about being able to use their policy to explain that the mid-term lapse / pro-rata 
refund offer was an available offer. It didnt contact all travel members as travel 
insurance  particularly cancellation cover - couldve been valuable for many 
members. Its the members responsibility to let AXA know of any concerns they had 
about not being able to benefit from the policy. 
Theres no evidence to suggest what Mr and Mrs M wouldve done in the June 2020, 
or that they wouldve chosen to cancel the policy then. Nor is there any evidence that 
by the end of June 2020, Mr and Mrs M had rearranged UK breaks originally booked 
for April and July 2020 to the same months in 2021. 
Theres no evidence that Mr and Mrs M wouldve cancelled the policy and then not 
opted to re-join within three months of cancellation. 
During the policy year April 2020 to April 2021, AXA was on risk to pay any eligible 
claims Mr and Mrs M might have needed to make. And the fact that they renewed the 
policy in 2020 shows that they still wanted the cover. AXA wouldnt have known Mr and Mrs M had cancelled their trips in 2020.
Any insured person can have cover for a year and then at the end of that year 
confirm as they didnt need to (or couldnt) use the policy and request a refund. This 
goes against the principles of insurance; in that the insurer is on risk all year, 
irrespective as to whether claims are made or not. 
It agreed to Mr and Mrs M keeping the gift card issued to them. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
As the policy wasnt cancelled during the policy year, I accept that AXA was bearing the risk 
of Mr and Mrs M making a claim throughout the period of the policy; the start of April 2020 to 
the end of March 2021. And that Mr and Mrs M had the benefit of the policy during that 
policy year  even if they didnt need to make a claim on it. 
However, I think the more relevant issue for me to determine is whether Mr and Mrs M 
wouldve cancelled the policy and obtained a refund of the premium paid for the policy, had 
they been notified of the announcement that had been made in June 2020. 
AXA says that theres no evidence to support that Mr and Mrs M werent made aware of the 
announcement. However, AXA hasnt provided any evidence that they had been notified or 
ought to reasonably have been aware of the announcement at the time. In response to my 
provisional decision, AXA has said that its checked with the alliance and information about 
the offer was contained in a group circular. But the alliance has said that its doubtful that Mr 
M wouldve received the group circular as its not cascaded beyond members who attend 
local meetings. So, unless Mr M is an active member he probably wouldnt have seen it. Mr 
M says hes not an active member and didnt attend meetings. Ive got no reason to doubt 
what he says about that, so I dont think he was made aware of the offer by way of circular. 
Mr and Mrs M have been consistent in what theyve said; that they werent aware of the 
announcement and Ive seen no reason why they wouldve needed to check the 
associations website at the time to discover the information contained on there. So, 
weighing everything up, Im persuaded on the balance of probabilities that Mr and Mrs M 
werent aware of the announcement at the time  and during the period when the offer to 
cancel the policy for a pro-rata refund was open. 
I accept that Mr and Mrs M renewed the policy in April 2020 and at the time the pandemic  
and the global impact - was a known event. However, they had trips booked. So, I can see 
why they mightve wanted to renew the policy. But that doesnt mean that by June 2020, had 
they been made aware of the announcement, they wouldnt have contacted AXA to take 
advantage of the offer to cancel the policy and receive a pro-rata refund. 
AXA says theres no evidence that Mr and Mrs M had booked trips for 2020 or that by June 
2020 they had been rearranged for 2021. But Mr and Mrs M have provided documentary 
evidence of bookings confirming that trips had been booked for April and July 2020. They ve 
also provided documentary evidence that the July 2020 reservation had been rearranged for 
July 2021. So, overall, Im persuaded that they did have trips booked for April and July 2020, 
which didnt go ahead. But Mr and Mrs M didnt have cause to claim on the policy for those 
trips being cancelled.I, of course, dont know for sure what would have happened if Mr and Mrs M had been made 
aware of the offer to cancel the policy for a pro-rata refund in around June 2020. But, on the 
balance of probabilities, given that Mr and Mrs Ms trips had been rearranged to take place 
after the policy year was due to expire and they hadnt needed to make a claim on the policy 
in connection with those trips, I think its more likely than not that they wouldve cancelled the 
policy to get a pro-rata refund. 
The renewal letter did set out information about how Mr and Mrs M could contact AXA to 
enquire about mid-year adjustments which they didnt do. But this letter doesnt specify that 
the policy could be cancelled with a pro-rata refund, if it no longer met Mr and Mrs Ms 
needs. And immediately before that the letter says the policy can only be cancelled without 
cost in the first 14 days (the cooling off period). The policy terms also reflect that if the 
policy is cancelled at any time after the cooling off period, there will be no return of premium. 
Whereas if Mr and Mrs M had specially been told about the option to cancel the policy in 
June 2020 and obtain a refund, given the individual circumstances of this case, I think they 
wouldve done so. I see no reason why they wouldve then opted to take out the policy again 
within three months, at that stage, and pay a new yearly premium.
So, for these reasons and for reasons set out in my provisional decision (an extract of which 
appears above and forms part of my final decision), I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Putting things right
I direct AXA to pay Mr and Mrs M a pro-rata refund of the annual premium they paid for the 
policy to cover the period 1 July 2020 and 31 March 2021 (the pro-rata refund).
AXA can deduct from the pro-rata refund the sum of £79.02 its paid to Mr and Mrs M as
part of its price promise.
I also intend to direct AXA to pay Mr and Mrs M simple interest on the pro-rata refund at a
rate of 8% per year*:
- from 1 July 2020 to the date it refunded them £79.02. And then:
- on the difference between the pro-rata refund and £79.02 from the date on which Mr 
and Mrs M were paid £79.02 to the date on which AXA makes further payment of the 
outstanding pro-rata refund.
*If AXA considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any
interest paid, it should tell Mr and Mrs M how much its taken off. It should also give them a
certificate showing this if asked for one. That way Mr and Mrs M can reclaim the tax from HM
Revenue & Customs, if appropriate.
Mr and Mrs M have more recently received the gift card. AXA says that this was only offered
to policyholders who hadnt cancelled their travel insurance policies in 2020. Mr and Mrs M
might not have received the gift card had they cancelled the policy in June 2020, but I think 
its fair and reasonable for them to keep this as compensation to reflect the distress
and inconvenience caused by AXA because it didnt notify Mr and Mrs M directly of its offer
to allow policyholders like them to cancel their policy in around June 2020.
My final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. I direct AXA PPP Healthcare Limited to put things right 
as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman