DRN-3920137
The complaint
Mrs P complains about how Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros (Oscaso) and 
its agents handled and settled her claim on her home insurance following a fire.
Throughout the claim and complaint Mrs P has been represented by a third party. However 
for ease of reading all references to Mrs P include the actions of her representative. 
What happened
Mrs P had residential property insurance for a property she owned and rented out to tenants. 
In May 2021 there was a fire at the property and she made a claim. 
When Ocaso accepted the claim it noted that the property was underinsured, as it said the 
rebuild cost exceeded the sum insured. However it said it wouldnt apply the average clause 
in the policy to reduce the settlement, but would instead pay the full limit.
In the months that followed Ocasos contractors commenced repairs on the property. 
However the total repair cost exceeded the sum insured, so Ocaso said it would only cover 
the cost of repairs up to the policy limit and Mrs P would have to pay for any additional costs.
Mrs P was unhappy with this as she said Ocasos contractors had unnecessarily inflated 
costs and had caused delays. Further she was unhappy with how Ocasos agents had 
managed the claim and the quality of their work. And she said Ocaso had failed to cover her 
loss of rent claim for the time she was unable to have tenants because of the fire damage. 
She made a complaint. 
Ocaso responded and didnt uphold it, so she asked this service to investigate. 
Our investigator considered the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He 
thought Ocaso had done all it could to control costs but the price increases werent within its 
control. And he thought it had acted fairly by only paying up to the policy limit. 
Mrs P wasnt happy with our investigators outcome and asked for her complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs P has provided a large amount of information in relation to her complaint. As this is an 
informal service, Ive not responded to each point individually. Instead I have focussed on 
those I consider most relevant. However I want to reassure Mrs P that I have considered 
everything she has said when reaching my decision. 
Costs and handling 
The sum insured on a policy is the amount an insurer is required to pay up to when covering 
a claim. It is therefore the total amount the policyholder is entitled to claim for under that 
policy. Mrs Ps policy has a limit for buildings of £100,000, therefore the policy only covers 
her for up to this amount for a buildings claim. So in order to meet its liability under the 
policy, Ocaso is only required to pay up to this limit. 
I appreciate Mrs P has complained about the increase in costs and that she feels charges 
from contractors could have been less. However it isnt uncommon for the cost of repairs to 
change throughout a claim, based on evolving work that needs to be completed. And as she 
is only entitled to the limit of the policy, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to ask Ocaso 
to exceed this just because the claim cost more than originally projected.
Mrs P has said she believes Ocaso and its contractors inflated costs by producing an over 
complicated scope of works and not selecting the lowest priced tender. Ocaso instructed an 
expert in building work to put together a detailed scope of work as there were substantial 
repairs that needed to be completed. This isnt unusual and I dont consider it unreasonable. 
Ive also seen nothing to show that the level of detail had an impact on the overall cost of the 
work. Further, I can see that Ocaso did attempt to reduce the cost of the works at Mrs Ps 
request, so I cant see that it could have done anything more in this regard.
I can see Mrs P has questioned various costs that Ocasos contractors included in their 
scopes and some of the work that was completed, such as moving asbestos from areas of 
the property where repair work wasnt taking place. While I appreciate her interest in the cost 
of the claim due to the sum insured, I dont think Ocaso has acted unreasonably. It instructed 
experts to inspect the damage and report on what work was required based on their 
expertise. While Mrs P has questioned many aspects of the scoped and completed repair 
work, she hasnt provided any expert evidence to show that the work was inflated or 
unnecessary. And as Ocasos scopes were based on expert reports, Im more persuaded by 
their conclusions. I therefore havent seen enough to persuade me that repair work was 
inflated beyond what was needed. 
Mrs P has said that she thinks the claim has been poorly managed by Ocasos contractors 
from the start. And this has delayed repairs which has caused costs to increase further. 
While I can see there were times when work had to be revisited, when issues were raised 
Ocaso dealt with them promptly. And for substantial repair work, it isnt unusual that some 
items wont be carried out as originally planned or additional work is required as the claim 
progresses. Overall, the claim took around the amount of time I would expect for repairs of 
this nature, so Ive not seen enough evidence to persuade me that Ocaso caused significant 
delays. So I dont agree that Ocaso has caused the cost of the overall work to increase. I 
therefore think its fair and reasonable that it has paid for repairs up to the policy limit.
Loss of rent
Mrs P has said that Ocaso hasnt paid enough to make up for the rental income she lost due 
to the house being unhabitable because of the fire. Ive looked at the payments Ocaso has 
made towards loss of rent and I think these are reasonable. It has covered the time that the 
property has been uninhabitable due to the fire and repairs and this is what it is required to 
do under the policy. 
I note Mrs P has said that it should also pay the full rent for the month of May 2021, rather 
than just the last seven days that it has paid. However I can see that shes confirmed the 
tenants did pay rent for the first part of May, but she used this to cover the cost of uninsured 
damage from the fire and other damage the tenants had caused to the property. Therefore 
while the rental income was used to cover other costs, these arent costs that would be 
covered by the insurance policy. So it wouldnt be fair to ask Ocaso to cover these costs, as these would always have needed to be paid by Mrs P, whether she used the rental income 
to cover them or not. And as the rent was paid by the tenant, it is fair that Ocaso has 
declined Mrs Ps request that the full rental income for May is included in her loss of rent 
claim. Due to this, Im satisfied Ocaso has met its obligation under the policy in regards to 
loss of rent. So I wont ask it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman