DRN-4022891
The complaint
Miss T complains that Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited (SF) gave her incorrect 
information when she was deciding how to access her pension, which caused delays and a 
financial loss.
What happened
Miss T had a Group Personal Pension with SF. In February 2022, when Miss T was 
approaching her 60th birthday, SF sent her a retirement options letter, which included the 
current value of her pension - £7,478.43 - and some information about how she could 
access her benefits.
On 27 April 2022 Miss T called SF. During the course of this call Miss T decided that she 
wished to transfer her pension into a product with SF which allowed flexible drawdown 
withdrawals. SF said it would send out details of her options and said she would need to 
select one of SFs funds for her pension to be invested into.
On 4 May 2022 SF sent Miss T a letter giving her details of the current value of her pension, 
which was £7,038.16 and the three options she had if she wished to access it. They were:
Purchasing an annuity (with the option of taking some tax-free cash).
Taking income drawdown (with the option of taking some tax-free cash) by 
transferring to a pension product which allowed drawdown.
Taking benefits in full or in part as a lump sum.
SF included with this letter further details of each of the options.
On 14 May 2022 Miss T completed her options form, and selected 
ii) Transferring to a product that provides Income Drawdown.
On 27 May 2022 SF emailed Miss T and attached the forms required to transfer her pension 
to another provider. Miss T replied on 29 May 2022 asking why she had been sent these 
forms as she didnt want to transfer out, she wished to change to a product with SF which 
provided income drawdown, as advised in the call on 27 April 2022.
SF responded on 2 June 2022 and explained that Miss Ts current pension scheme did not 
allow the income drawdown arrangement for its members. It apologised if it hadnt provided 
clear information about her retirement options, but transferring to another provider was her 
only option if Miss T wished to go ahead with drawdown.
Miss T emailed SF later the same day. She said she had been clearly advised that the 
drawdown option was available with SF, both in the letters shed received on 18 February 
2022 and 4 May 2022, and in her phone call on 27 April 2022. She asked for a manager to 
respond to explain the contradictory information urgently as her fund value was decreasing 
during the delays.
Miss T followed this up on 8 June 2022 and raised a formal complaint as shed not had a 
response. She said the information shed been given was late, confusing and contradictory, 
and left her unable to make properly informed decisions. And during the delays the value of 
her pension fund had dropped by 17% which caused her distress. She said she wished to 
withdraw all of her pension as a small pot lump sum and asked to be told how this would be 
actioned as soon as possible.
On 10 June 2022 SF emailed Miss T with confirmation that she was unable to take income 
drawdown whilst remaining with SF, and she would have to transfer to another provider 
should she wish to choose this option. It included the required transfer forms. 
On 27 June 2022 SF sent Miss T details of the small pot lump sum option, and said her 
pension was currently worth £6,385.73. It included an application form for her to complete 
should she wish to take this option.
On 17 August 2022 SF emailed Miss T its final response to her complaint. It apologised that 
its communications had been confusing, resulting in changes to the way Miss T wished to 
access her funds, but it said it did not provide advice on how benefits could be paid. It also 
apologised for the delay in responding to her complaint. It said that it was disappointed with 
the experiences Miss T had encountered whilst trying to withdraw her funds, and agreed the 
service she had received had not been to the level she should expect. But whilst it was sorry 
shed had this experience, SF did not uphold Miss Ts complaint as she hadnt returned the 
forms for it to process the small pot withdrawal. But it arranged for £200 worth of vouchers to 
be sent to Miss T by email as an apology for the inconvenience caused. 
Miss T sent the completed application form for the small pot lump sum payment to SF on 
22 September 2022, and SF confirmed on 3 October 2022 that the current value of her 
pension - £5,204.84 - would be paid to her on the next payroll date, 24 October 2022.
On 5 October 2022 Miss T complained to our service. She said that she had been wrongly 
advised that she was able to transfer to a product with SF which allowed drawdown from her 
pension. She had experienced very confusing messages from SF and was worried about the 
value of her pension so had requested to withdraw her entire fund. She had made a formal 
complaint but had not received a final response from SF. She said she had delayed 
returning the form for withdrawal as she had wanted to see how SF responded to her 
complaint, but having not heard anything she went ahead and sent the form back.  She said 
the delays caused by SF had meant her pension fund value had dropped by over 26%.
Having considered Miss Ts complaint our Investigator thought SF hadnt treated her fairly. 
He thought that it was likely that Miss T would have decided to take the small pot lump sum 
during the phone call with SF on 27 April 2022 had she been correctly told that drawdown 
was not possible with SF. He thought SF should complete a calculation to establish if Miss T 
had suffered a financial loss, and set out the basis on which he thought the calculation 
should be carried out. This discounted the period where Miss T had delayed in returning the 
application form required to receive the lump sum. He also thought the £200 SF had offered 
Miss T was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Miss T replied and said she thought the whole period should be considered in the 
calculation, as the whole circumstances had exacerbated the significant health problems she 
was experiencing, and she hadnt returned the form as she was waiting for SF to respond to 
her complaint. She also expanded on how she had been personally affected by SFs 
mistakes. She also told us how she felt the messaging system SF had used was confusing 
and added to her stress.SF also replied. It explained that it thought the timeline the Investigator had set out was 
unfair. It agreed to conduct a loss calculation but thought the dates to be used should reflect 
the service level agreements (SLA) of five working days it had in place for the provision of 
documents, and not the arbitrary 24 hours the Investigator had thought should be used. 
The Investigator reconsidered everything in light of these submissions. He didnt agree with 
Miss T that the whole period between 27 April 2022 and when she submitted the form should 
be used in the calculation. He didnt think SF were responsible for the period between when 
Miss T had been sent the required form and when she actually sent it back. But he did think 
there was some merit in SFs argument that a turnaround period of 24 hours for the provision 
of documents was unfair. He thought that four working days was acceptable, so amended 
his proposed calculation dates to reflect this. He didnt think that it was unreasonable for SF 
to use the messaging system it had, but explained that he thought SF should pay Miss T a 
total of £500 for the distress and inconvenience shed been caused as this more fairly 
reflected the impact on her.
Miss T maintained that the whole period should be considered. SF argued that its SLA of five 
days had been agreed at a high level within its organisation so should be accepted in this 
complaint. As no agreement could be reached this matter came to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree that Miss Ts complaint should be upheld, as I dont think SF have 
treated her fairly. Im satisfied that SF should undertake a calculation to establish if Miss T 
has suffered a financial loss, and I will set out the methodology it should use. This is broadly 
in line with what was proposed by the Investigator, but does take into account the SLA in 
place at SF with regard to document production. I understand Miss T will be disappointed 
that I dont think SF should use the entire period of the complaint when undertaking the 
calculation, so Ill explain my reasoning.
Miss T was approaching her 60th birthday, and was considering taking the benefits from the 
pension she held with SF. She had obtained some advice from an independent pension 
advisory service before speaking to SF on the phone on 27 April 2022. Ive listened to a 
recording of this call. Having done so Im satisfied that Miss T already knew that she was 
unable to take her pension in the form of an annuity as its value was too small. Im satisfied 
that she wished to take her benefits, and knew that this could only happen by drawing an 
income from her pension, or taking it as a lump sum.  But Im also satisfied that Miss T knew 
that taking a lump sum or income from the pension could affect the state benefits she was in 
receipt of, so this was a serious consideration for her. 
Having listened to the conversation I can see that SF mistakenly told her that she was able 
to take the benefits from her pension in the form of drawdown without transferring to a 
different provider. And transferring was something that Miss T wanted to avoid as it would 
incur transfer fees which would deplete her already relatively small pot value. So once 
Miss T heard that drawdown was possible with SF, she decided to take this option as a 
variable income suited her circumstances. But this was an error by SF  drawdown was 
never available to Miss T due to the specific nature of her pension plan. As she wished to 
take the benefits of her pension, her only options were to transfer to another provider and 
enter a drawdown arrangement, but this would incur transfer fees, or take the entire pot as 
cash from SF. 
As Miss T discounted transferring to another provider due to the fees involved, Im satisfied that had she been given the correct information in the call on 27 April 2022, Miss T would 
most likely have elected to receive the full value of her pension as a small pot lump sum. 
But the incorrect information meant that she wrongly selected the option of drawdown on her 
application form. And she was caused confusion when she was sent forms to enable her to 
transfer to another provider. Miss T wasnt told until 2 June 2022 that she was unable to take 
drawdown from her pension whilst it was with SF.
I can see that she emailed SF about the contradictory information on 3 June 2022, and then 
made a formal complaint on 8 June 2022. In this second email she also requested to take 
the value of her pension in the form of a small pot lump sum. But this request wasnt 
responded to until 27 June 2022, when SF sent the necessary form for Miss T to complete. 
So the incorrect information given to Miss T by SF on 27 April 2022 has caused delays here. 
Im satisfied that the small pot lump sum application form which was sent on 27 June 2022 
ought to have been sent following the call on 27 April 2022. And as the value of her pension 
on 27 June 2022 (£6,385.73) was less than the value SF quoted on 4 May 2022 (£7,038.16), 
I can see Miss T has most likely suffered a financial loss due to the error by SF.
So I need to decide when, had Miss T been given the correct information on 27 April 2022, 
the relevant forms would most likely have been sent by SF; when these would most likely 
have been received, completed and returned by Miss T; and when the lump sum would most 
likely have been paid to Miss T.
The request for the lump sum form ought to have been made on 27 April 2022. The timeline 
as set out by the Investigator hasnt been challenged by Miss T or SF, except that SF has 
explained that it has an SLA of five days for this type of form to be sent out, as opposed to 
the four days proposed by the Investigator. And I dont consider this five-day SLA 
unreasonable. The form itself would need to be requested, sent to the relevant department, 
personalised and then sent for posting. So I have amended the time-line, outlining how 
matters should have progressed had an error not been made by SF, proposed by the 
Investigator by one working day to reflect this reasonable SLA. 
27 April 2022: Form requested (+5 working days)
4 May 2022: Form despatched (+5 working days)
12 May 2022: Form received by Miss T
15 May 2022: Form returned by Miss T (+3 working days)
19 May 2022: Form received by SF (+4 working days)
26 May 2022: Withdrawal instruction put in place by SF (Value A)
So, Im satisfied that had Miss T been given the correct information during her call with SF 
on 27 April 2022 it is likely that she would have requested to take the small pot lump sum, 
and the withdrawal instruction would likely have been put in effect on 26 May 2022.
SF didnt dispatch the required form until 27 June 2022. But the form wasnt returned to SF 
by Miss T until October 2022, and by this time the value of her pension fund had dropped 
further. So I need to decide if this further delay, between June 2022 and October 2022, and 
the subsequent loss in pension value, was due to any errors on the part of SF, and I dont 
think it was. Im satisfied that SF should not be held responsible for this additional delay and 
the associated loss in pension value. I can see from the original call, and from Miss Ts correspondence with SF and our Service, 
that Miss T was concerned about the drop in value of her pension. All the valuations SF sent 
her between April 2022 and when it sent the application form on 27 June 2022 showed 
continual reductions in value. 
Miss T has explained that during the summer of 2022 she was experiencing significant 
health problems, and I thank her for her candour about these very personal circumstances. 
She has also explained that she was waiting for SFs final response to her complaint, which 
she didnt seem to receive. But whilst I have considerable sympathy for her health issues, I 
cant see that SF were aware of these, or could have done anything else in the 
circumstances. The resolution of her complaint against SF wasnt required for her to take her 
pension funds, and as Ive said above, there was a steady decline in the funds value during 
this time so Miss T had some responsibility to mitigate any losses that occurred. The transfer 
couldnt be completed until Miss T returned the required form, which SF had sent to her on 
27 June 2022. And it needed this form completed and returned before it could do anything 
else, and I dont think it would be reasonable to expect SF to follow this up with Miss T in the 
event she didnt return it in a timely manner. 
So it is for these reasons I do not agree that the entire period until when Miss T actually 
returned the form should be used in the loss calculation. Im satisfied it should be calculated 
using a theoretical date worked out from the point she was sent the form, and reasonable 
turn-around times, as set out below:
27 June 2022: Form despatched (+5 working days)
5 July 2022: Form received by Miss T
8 July 2022: Form returned by Miss T (+ 3 working days)
14 July 2022: Form received by SF (+4 working days)
21 July 2022: Withdrawal instruction put in place by SF. (Value B)
In addition to any loss calculated I also think Miss T should receive compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience shes been caused. And I agree with the Investigator that £500 is 
fair and reasonable. SF have not commented on this point, so for completeness I will explain 
why I think it is reasonable. 
Miss T told SF during the call on 27 April 2022 that she was long-term disabled and was 
going to retire on ill-health grounds. This was never explored further by SF to see if there 
was anything further, or indeed different it could do to assist Miss T in the process, and I 
think this ought to have been done. Miss T has given our service a great deal of detail about 
how her illness affects her life. I can see from her testimony that the incorrect information 
she was given, and the subsequent forms and emails shes received have all taken a 
considerable effort for her to deal with, and taken alongside seeing the value of her pension 
fund fall, I agree that this is likely to have caused her significant distress. 
Miss T has told us that she never received the £200 shopping vouchers that she was sent by 
SF. Given the problems shes described which caused her difficulty in accessing emails I 
think it likely that she didnt get them. And this has not been disputed by SF anyway. So Im 
satisfied that SF should pay Miss T the full £500 as compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience shes been caused.Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for SF to put Miss T as far as possible, into the 
position she would now be in but for the incorrect information, and the subsequent delays it 
caused.
Im satisfied that Miss T would have taken the small pots lump sum at the outset, and this 
would have been put in place (not necessarily paid) on 26 May 2022.
To compensate Miss T fairly, SF should:
Calculate the value of Miss Ts pension fund on the date the withdrawal instruction 
ought to have been actioned  26 May 2022 (Value A)
Calculate the value of Miss Ts pension fund on the date the withdrawal instruction 
could have been actioned had Miss T returned the form in a timely manner  21 July 
2022 (Value B)
If B is less than A then there is a loss, and the difference should be paid to Miss T. If 
B is more than A then there is no loss to Miss T, and no compensation would be 
payable.
Any loss calculated should be paid directly to Miss T. However, tax would have been 
payable at Miss Ts marginal rate on 75% of the total. Therefore, the compensation 
should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have 
been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it 
isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Miss T wont be able to reclaim any of the 
reduction after compensation has been paid.
It is reasonable to assume that Miss T is a basic rate taxpayer, so the reduction 
would equal 20%. However, Miss T would have been entitled to take 25% of the 
lump sum tax-free, so the reduction should only be applied to 75% of the 
compensation. This results in an overall reduction of 15%.
Details of the calculation should be provided to Miss T in a clear, simple format.
Interest should be added to the compensation amount at 8% simple per year. This should be 
calculated from the date payment would have been made (taking into account the next 
payroll date following 26 May 2022) until the date of settlement. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If SF consider it is required by HMRC to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it will need to tell Miss T how much it has taken off. It 
will also need to provide Miss T a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest should 
Miss T ask for one, so she can reclaim the tax on interest from HMRC if appropriate.  
My final decision
I require Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited to pay redress to Miss T as calculated 
using the methodology set out above.
In addition, I require Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited to pay Miss T £500 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience shes been caused.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2023.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman