DRN-2487472
The complaint
Mr J complains that a car he acquired, via a conditional sale agreement with Close Brothers 
Limited, wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In July 2019, Mr J entered into a conditional sale agreement for a used car, which was 
around 10 years old and had a mileage of 72,000.
Mr J says that he collected the car around two weeks after taking out the financial 
agreement and on the way home, the engine warning light illuminated. The car then blew a 
cylinder a short time later and had to be returned to the dealership, who agreed to fix it. 
The car was returned to Mr J in August 2019, but Mr J complained again to the dealership 
that it was misfiring, and that the cars oil consumption was excessive. And as a result, he 
took the car back to the dealership for repairs.
The dealership kept the car from August to October 2019. Mr J says the dealership told him 
that the top half of the engine had been rebuilt but didnt provide any work sheets for him 
setting out the repairs that had been carried out. 
On the day the car was returned to Mr J it broke down. Mr J called out roadside assistance 
and was informed that a turbo had blown. Mr J also says he was advised the engine hadnt 
been put back together correctly. The dealership agreed for the turbo to be repaired at a 
garage local to Mr J and covered that cost. 
However, shortly after getting the car back, it again broke down. Mr J called out roadside 
assistance, who said that a radiator clip had been incorrectly fitted. The car was repaired at 
the scene.
In November 2019, the car broke down and had to be recovered by roadside assistance 
back to Mr Js address. The dealership agreed to collect the car. It was then diagnosed as 
having problems with the timing chain. After Mr J had spoken to the dealership about the 
faults with the car, he said he thought it was cancelling the financial agreement with Close 
Brothers. 
Mr J complained to Close Brothers about the condition of the car. It said that the dealership 
had confirmed the car was currently undergoing repairs on the timing chain and engine. 
Close Brothers said it couldnt authorise rejection until the dealership had had an opportunity 
to carry out the repairs.
Close Brothers then said that the dealership had informed it that internal damage had been 
discovered and that this had been caused by the timing chain fault. Close Brothers 
requested that the car be independently inspected.
Mr J agreed to the request for an independent engineer to examine the car and this was 
arranged for March 2020. The independent engineer reported that, at the time of their 
inspection, the timing chain and camshaft had been removed but, on examining these parts, 
the damage found was consistent with engine overspeed and the car being put in the 
wrong gear upon changing down in the gearbox. The engineer said this had caused over 
revving and valve to piston contact or valve bounce causing displacement of the rocker unit. 
This had then caused consequential camshaft lobe damage. The engineer concluded that, 
on the balance of probabilities, this hadnt been developing at the point of sale.
In light of the independent engineers report, Close Brothers said it wasnt upholding Mr Js 
complaint and couldnt agree to the car being rejected. Nor could it request that the 
dealership repair the car for Mr J.
Mr J was unhappy at Close Brothers response and complained to this service. Our 
investigator recommended that Mr Js complaint should be upheld. She said that she thought 
the car hadnt been of satisfactory quality at the point of sale.
Our investigator said that, due to the faults with the car, it had spent a significant amount of 
time in the garage and, in the seven months Mr J had had the car, hed driven 3,300 miles in 
it. Looking at the independent engineer report, this had been based on the visible 
evidence, and it didnt appear they had taken into account the full extent of the cars fault 
and repair history. The car had been subject to several repairs, and a roadside assistance 
engineer had confirmed that the turbo and cylinder problems appeared to be due to incorrect 
refitting. She said a reasonable person wouldnt have expected the car to have required 
such significant issues to arise so soon after acquisition.
Our investigator said that a fair outcome to Mr Js complaint would be to allow him to reject 
the car and have his deposit repaid; be reimbursed two months payments to reflect the 
period when the engine had been rebuilt; refund all repayments made since February 2020, 
as the car hadnt been usable since then; be reimbursed £120 that Mr J had to spend having 
the car recovered and receive £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused dealing with the faulty car.
Close Brothers said that it accepted the car hadnt been of satisfactory quality up to 
November 2019 but, on each occasion it had broken down, Mr J had agreed to the car being 
repaired and hadnt sought rejection. It said that by seeking repairs Mr J had forgone the 
right to reject and it would now been unfair to apply that right retrospectively.
Close Brothers said the current issues with the car were new, and the reports from both the 
independent engineer and the dealership had said the car had been over revved on missed 
gears. It said damage had, therefore, been caused by the car being used incorrectly over a 
prolonged period.  It said the independent engineer had also said the car couldnt have 
driven the number of miles it had if the fault had been present at the point of sale.
Close Brothers said it accepted that Mr J would be due some compensation for the previous 
repairs.
Our investigator responded that, although Mr J had agreed to the car being repaired, she 
didnt think the issue of the car not being of satisfactory quality had been resolved. So, she 
disagreed Mr J had forgone his rights to reject the car as the repairs hadnt been successful.
Close Brothers disagreed with our investigators view, saying that the previous repairs had 
fixed the car, and the new fault that had developed was caused by the manner in which Mr J 
had used the car, and not due to any inherent fault with it. 
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at this complaint I need to have regard to the relevant law and regulations, 
but I am not bound by them when I consider what is fair and reasonable.
As the conditional sale agreement, entered into by Mr J, is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. Close Brothers is 
also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement and is responsible for a 
complaint about their quality.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, there is an implied term that when goods are 
supplied "the quality of the goods is satisfactory". The relevant law says that the quality of 
the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory, taking into account any description of the goods, price and all other 
relevant circumstances.
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state 
and condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, 
freedom from minor defects, safety, durability can be aspects of the quality of the 
goods.
Here, the car wasnt new, being around 10 years old, and with a mileage of 72,000. I think 
that, taking into account these things, a reasonable person would expect that over time 
there would be issues with maintenance and repair, since components of the car would 
have been subject to wear and tear through use. However, Ive seen that the car has 
required a number of repairs within a short time of Mr J acquiring it.
I dont think its disputed that the car wasnt of a satisfactory quality at the point of sale. 
Close Brothers says that Mr J agreed for the dealership to repair these faults, and so it 
would be unfair for him to now reject the car on that basis. It says the cars current fault is 
due to Mr Js driving style and so isnt linked to the earlier repairs, or the standard of the car 
at the point of sale.
Close Brothers relies upon the independent engineers report, and one from the dealership, 
that set out the cause for the fault that has been found. Looking firstly at the independent 
engineers report, Ive seen that the engineer was investigating the cylinder and timing chain 
having blown. They also say that there was no evidence of previous unsuccessful repairs, 
but dont mention that the car had been subject to recent repairs, in particular that the car 
had required the top half of the engine to be re-built. Nor did it mention that the rebuilding of 
the engine appeared to also have resulted in further issues with the car breaking down and 
having to be further repaired. Ive seen that the roadside assistance engineer, called to the 
radiator clip issue at the end of October 2019, reported that it was possible the engine was 
"still pressurising. So, I dont think I can reasonably say the independent engineer was 
appraised of the cars true fault and repair history.
And, while I can see that the point of sale mileage is noted on the report, as is the mileage at 
the time of the report (an additional 3,300 miles), I havent seen where the engineer has 
categorically stated that the car couldnt have been driven for this number of miles had the 
fault with the timing chain and cylinder been present since the point of sale. What the 
independent engineer has said was that the fault with the car was not due to any sudden 
mechanical failure and on the balance of probability was not developing at finance 
inception. However, even if they did make that statement, I would still need to take into 
account it was said without knowledge of the work the car had already undergone. Its possible these repairs impacted on how quickly the fault with the timing chain came to light.
The report from the dealership, prepared in January 2020, also sets out that the only 
possible cause for failure was due to excessive RPMs or an over rev causing an issue 
known as valve bounce and so ejecting rocker bar 3 and causing catastrophic failure. But 
again, this report does not provide any information as to the previous repairs undertaken to 
the car. And I also havent seen any job sheets from the dealership setting out what this 
previous repair work was, although it appears that none of the previous work was disputed, 
including the rebuilding of the top half of the engine. 
From August until November 2019, Ive seen that the car spent the majority of its time in the 
garage being repaired. So, Mr J wasnt using the car throughout this period.
Looking at the evidence that I have, I dont think I can rely on the independent engineers 
opinion as to when this fault was present. The engineer does not address the full history of 
the car since the inception of the agreement, and I cant ignore that the car had undertaken 
significant repairs over the period Mr J had it. I also have to take into account that, despite 
the repairs taking from September to October 2019 to complete, the car continued to have 
faults and had a further breakdown during October needing more repair work that was linked 
to that first repair. 
The report prepared by the dealership says that the car was performing faultlessly prior to 
issue but does not acknowledge the repairs required during the previous month. The 
dealership has not included in their report an opinion as to whether the timing chain and 
cylinder fault could have been present or developing at the point of sale.
I think its reasonable to consider that the car wasnt of satisfactory at the point of sale, and 
that these faults werent resolved following the repair work. I think its reasonable for me to 
consider that its likely the current fault with the timing chain and cylinder were present or 
developing at the point of sale. Im satisfied that its now fair for Mr J to reject the car and 
cancel the agreement. I am upholding his complaint.
I think its fair that, in addition to rejecting the car, Mr J is compensated for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to him dealing with the faulty car. Ive seen that the car had to be 
taken to the garage for repairs on a number of occasions, and he was also without it for a 
number of weeks while it was being worked on by the dealership. I also understand that the 
car hasnt been usable since February 2020. 
Putting things right
 Im asking Close Brothers to do the following:
Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay and mark it as settled on Mr Js 
credit file.
Collect the car at no cost to Mr J.
Reimburse Mr J with two monthly instalments to cover the period the car was at the 
dealership being repaired.
Reimburse Mr J all monthly instalments made since February 2020, as the car has 
been unusable due to the timing chain and camshaft being removed.
Refund Mr Js deposit together with interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the 
date of payment until the date of settlement.Refund £120 to Mr J being the cost of having the car recovered in November 2020, 
together with interest at the yearly rate of 8% from the date of payment until the date 
of settlement.
Pay Mr J £200 compensation for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience 
dealing with the faulty car.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im upholding Mr Js complaint. Im asking Close Brothers 
Limited to do the following: 
Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay and mark it as settled on Mr Js 
credit file.
Collect the car at no cost to Mr J.
Reimburse Mr J with two monthly instalments to cover the period the car was at the 
dealership being repaired.
Reimburse Mr J all monthly instalments made since February 2020, as the car has 
been unusable due to the timing chain and camshaft being removed.
Refund Mr Js deposit together with interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the 
date of payment until the date of settlement.
Refund £120 to Mr J being the cost of having the car recovered in November 2020, 
together with interest at the yearly rate of 8% from the date of payment until the date 
of settlement.
Pay Mr J £200 compensation for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience 
dealing with the faulty car. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 07 April 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman