DRN-3780086
The complaint
This complaints about a mortgage Mrs and Mr L hold with Barclays Bank UK PLC. Theyre 
unhappy that Barclays didnt allow them access to a new interest rate deal when their 
existing fixed rate ended. They were already in arrears, and the increase in the monthly 
interest payment since the mortgage reverted to Barclays standard variable rate (SVR) has 
caused further financial strain. Both borrowers have joined the complaint, but all of our 
dealings have been with Mrs L.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so Ill merely summarise them
here.
Mrs and Mr L have been struggling financially since the businesses Mrs L operated stopped 
trading in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic.  Barclays allowed a payment holiday, and a 
temporary switch to interest-only; the latter ended in April 2022. Mrs and Mr L asked for the 
switch to interest-only to be made permanent, but Barclays concluded it was unaffordable.
In the meantime, Mrs and Mr Ls existing fixed rate had expired in January 2022, and the 
mortgage reverted to SVR. Mrs and Mr L believe Barclays should have capitalised the 
arrears that existed at that point, and put them on a new fixed rate. Barclays rejected this 
too.
The investigator who looked into the complaint didnt recommend it should succeed. Mrs L 
asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. Whilst the case has been with us, 
weve learned that Mr L has been made bankrupt. Under our rules, his eligibility to complain 
now vests in his trustee-in-bankruptcy. 
We advised Mrs L that we need the trustee to consent to the complaint in lieu of Mr L; she 
informed us the trustee would contact us but that hasnt happened. Overall fairness requires 
that this dispute should not remain hanging, but should be brought to a conclusion without 
further delay. I have therefore decided to proceed with my determination which, as it turns 
out, isnt impacted by the absence of consent from Mr Ls trustee-in-bankruptcy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill make some general observations before dealing with the substance of the complaint.
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority.
We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we
dont replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides
instructions on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our
conclusions without interference from anyone else.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a starting point, no borrower is entitled to a lower rate; lenders have to consider context 
and individual circumstances in all cases. Most lenders, when asked to provide a new rate to 
a borrower with an arrears history, require the arrears to be cleared in full before theyll 
consider offering a new rate.
Thats because most rate deals come with an early repayment charge (ERC) if the mortgage
ends during the term of the deal. If a borrower still couldnt afford the payment under a new 
deal, they might still be at risk of the property being taken into possession and then sold. Or, 
the borrower might decide the mortgage is unaffordable and that they need to sell the 
property, either to downsize or to go to living with family or friends, or into rented 
accommodation. If a sale happened for either of those reasons, then the ERC clause would 
be activated resulting in an extra amount being added to the closing balance on sale. 
So lenders typically guard against that risk by insisting on an arrears-free period before 
considering a new rate deal. They generally take a similar view with regard to capitalising 
arrears. Thats because capitalisation means paying the arrears off over the remaining life of 
the mortgage, which requires the monthly payment to go up permanently, separate from any 
other variable factor. Even a switch to interest-only, which reduces the monthly payment, 
requires a rigorous affordability assessment, because the lender needs to know what 
provision the borrowers are able to make for repaying the capital when it falls due. 
The key thing any lender is looking for when assessing whether to make one or more of the 
above changes to a mortgage, is stability. When borrowers have been in financial trouble, 
the lenders will typically only agree a change if its satisfied the instability that caused the 
arrears in the first place has now passed, and the proposed change is about recovering from 
a financial shock that has now passed, even though its effects have not. 
By any reasonable assessment, that cannot be said to be the case here. Mrs Ls businesses 
have ceased trading, Mr L has been made bankrupt, and we have been advised they are 
getting divorced. The latter situation makes it likely that one or other of the borrowers will 
move out of the mortgaged property and incur the cost of living elsewhere, whilst still being 
responsible for the mortgage.
Mrs L has told us that the mortgage payments are only affordable at present if all members 
of the family - so in addition to her and Mr L, that means their two adult children - contribute 
to the household budget. But Barclays isnt willing to factor the childrens financial situations 
into the affordability assessments it makes, and I wouldnt expect it to.  Mrs and Mr Ls 
children arent parties to the mortgage, and havent given their personal covenants to pay 
the mortgage; so Barclays has no recourse against them in the event the mortgage isnt 
paid.
Mrs L has told us Barclays has recently agreed to accept monthly instalments of £6,000 per 
month. Thats not part of what Im considering here, as it has happened since the complaint 
was referred to us and so isnt covered by the final response Barclays provided. It seems 
likely that what Barclays is doing is giving Mrs and Mr L an opportunity to demonstrate the 
stability I referred to earlier as being a pre-requisite to considering a request for a change to 
the mortgage. 
If thats the case, then to be clear, nothing I say here obliges Barclays to agree to a future 
request for a change, and nothing of that nature should be inferred. Any future request for a 
long-term change to the mortgage, such as capitalisation of arrears, a new rate or a switch 
to interest-only will still be subject to Barclays assessment of its long-term viability at the 
relevant time.Whilst not directly impacting on the outcome of the complaint I make one final observation, 
largely for completeness. Mrs L has said the long-term plan, once she and Mr L have 
divorced, is to transfer the mortgage to their son. Im afraid thats not how it works; a 
borrower cannot simply transfer their debt to a different person. 
That other person needs to apply for a new mortgage of their own, and to convince the 
lender theyre applying to that they can afford the mortgage theyre applying for. Theyd also 
need to persuade the prospective lender theyre in a position to offer up the property as 
security for the mortgage, so in practical terms, that would most likely require the other party 
to become the beneficial owner of the property. Assuming all of that could happen 
successfully, Mrs and Mr Ls existing mortgage with Barclays would be repaid. Going back to 
what I said earlier, in the event they were in a new fixed rate when that happened, that would 
mean paying an ERC.
In summary, Im not persuaded Barclays has acted unreasonably, or treated its customers 
unfairly, by not offering Mrs and Mr L a fixed rate when the payments werent affordable, and 
still wouldnt have been even on a lower rate.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint or make any order or award against Barclays Bank UK PLC. My 
final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 November 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman