DRN-3061590
The complaint
Ms F complains that Think Money Limited wont refund the money she lost when she was 
the victim of a scam.
What happened
Ms F met a man through an online dating app and their relationship developed to the point 
where she believed they were romantically involved. Unfortunately, we now know the man to 
be a scammer. Ms F says the man would frequently ask her for money and that she 
ultimately bought several items for him, which he collected from her, and made several 
payments to him for a holiday he said he was booking for them.
Ms F made two purchases using her Think Money card at a catalogue retailer, totalling 
£458.95. She then later made five online transfers from her Think Money account to the 
scammer, totalling £2,563.20. But after the online transfers, the scammer blocked her on 
social media and didnt respond to her communication attempts. So Ms F reported the 
payments to Think Money as fraud and asked that they be refunded.
Think Money investigated and was able to return £150.20 of the transfers as they hadnt yet 
been processed. But it said Ms F had authorised the payments, and it hadnt been able to 
recover any of the funds from the account the transfers were sent to, so it didnt agree to 
refund them. Ms F wasnt satisfied with Think Moneys response, so referred her complaint 
to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint and felt Think Money had acted reasonably 
in not refunding the payments. They said most of the payments werent unusual enough that 
Think Money should have asked further questions and that, even if it had asked further 
questions, they thought Ms F would have made the payments anyway. Ms F disagreed, so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that Ms F authorised the payments herself. She accepts she made them, 
either by purchasing items with her card or by sending money from her account. So, while I 
recognise that she didnt intend for the money to go to a scammer, the starting position in 
law is that Think Money was obliged to follow her instructions and process the payments. So 
Ms F isnt automatically entitled to a refund.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I think Think 
Money should fairly and reasonably:
 Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of 
terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
 Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This 
is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
 In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers 
from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
From looking at the statements for Ms Fs account, I dont think the card purchases would 
have seemed unusual or out of character in comparison with her usual spending on the 
account. Ms F used her account frequently, making payments of similar amounts to the card 
purchases and at similar retailers. So I wouldnt expect Think Money to have identified that 
she could be at risk of fraud as a result of the card purchases.
Its possible that Think Money should have identified that Ms F was at risk of fraud as a 
result of the first of the online transfers she made to the scammer, as this was for a higher 
amount than any of the other transactions on her account in the previous months and was 
preceded by a large transfer into her account. But, even if Think Money had identified that 
Ms F was at risk of fraud as a result of this transfer and asked her further questions about it, 
I dont think this would have prevented the scam from taking place.
Its not for our service to dictate the checks Think Money should do or the questions it should 
ask. But Think Money should take steps designed to protect its customers from the risk of 
financial harm. And, in these circumstances, I think it would be reasonable to expect those 
checks to include questions about the purpose of the transfer and the customers relationship 
to the person they were sending money to.
At the point she was making this transfer, Ms F had been speaking to the scammer for 
several months, believed they were romantically involved and had met them in person  
when the scammer collected the items shed bought with her card. So I dont think it would 
have been obvious to Think Money that this could be a scam and I think its likely Think 
Money would have been satisfied by Ms Fs answers to its questions.
Think Moneys notes also show Ms F said her mother told her not to send money to the 
scammer, but she sent it anyway. So, even if Think Money had identified that this could be a 
scam and warned Ms F about that possibility, I think its likely she would have gone ahead 
with the payments anyway. So I dont think anything Think Money could reasonably have 
been expected to do would have prevented the scam from taking place.
Ms F has mentioned that she was suffering from a number of medical conditions at the time, 
which may have made her more vulnerable to this kind of scam. And I appreciate that this 
was the case and that this will have been a difficult time for her. But Ive not seen anything to 
suggest Think Money was made aware, or ought to have been aware, of Ms Fs 
circumstances before the scam took place. So I dont think it would be fair to have expected 
it to have done anything differently as a result.
Where a customer has been the victim of a scam, wed also expect the bank to take 
reasonable steps to recover the money that was lost. Think Moneys notes show it contacted 
the bank the money went to as soon as Ms F told it about the scam, but was told there were no funds left in the receiving account. So, unfortunately, I dont think theres anything further 
Think Money could have done to recover the money.
I sympathise with the position Ms F has found herself in and I appreciate how she feels 
about this case and that this decision will come as a disappointment to her. Im also not 
suggesting she did anything wrong herself. But I dont think it would be fair to say any further 
action Think Money could reasonably have been expected to take would have stopped her 
going ahead with the payments and so losing her money. And so I dont think it would be fair 
to require Think Money to refund the money she lost.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman