DRN-3807626
The complaint
Miss L complains that SteadyPay Limited lent irresponsibly when it approved her loan 
application.
What happened
Miss L applied for a loan with SteadyPay in September 2020. The loan agreement was for 
£300.
Miss L complained that SteadyPay had lent irresponsibly. SteadyPay didnt uphold the 
complaint and Miss L approached this service.
Our adjudicator looked at everything and said she didnt think SteadyPay had lent 
irresponsibly. 
Miss L didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, the rules say that SteadyPay had to complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure that Miss L could afford to repay the debt in a sustainable 
way. These affordability checks need to be focussed on the borrowers circumstances. The 
nature of whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on various 
factors including the amount of credit, the total sum repayable, the amount of repayments, 
the cost of the credit and the consumers individual circumstances.
Theres no set list of checks a lender must complete. But lenders are required to consider 
the factors Ive mentioned above when deciding whats reasonable and proportionate.
SteadyPay obtained details of Miss Ls income and carried out a credit check when deciding 
whether to approve the loan. It found no CCJs on Miss Ls credit file.
Ive looked at the information SteadyPay obtained when it approved the loan application. 
Miss L has told this service that she was a student at the time of the loan application. I can 
see that the checks carried out by SteadyPay showed that Miss L had regular earnings, 
which wouldve been a factor in its decision to lend. Ive also looked at the information which 
was obtained from Miss Ls credit file. This showed no recent defaults or significant advsers 
information. 
Looking at the amount of the loan in relation to Miss Ls income, I think the checks carried 
out by SteadyPay were reasonable and proportionate. I dont think there was anything in the 
information it obtained which mightve given it a reason to think that Miss L was in financial 
difficulties, or that she would find the loans unaffordable. I think the decision to lend was fair.
Ive gone on to consider whether SteadyPay acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other 
way. Ive taken into account what Miss L has said about the way she was treated after she 
informed SteadyPay that she was experiencing financial difficulties. Miss L is unhappy that 
shes received letters and threats of legal action. 
Ive reviewed Miss Ls account and I can see that it had fallen into arrears. A lender is 
obliged to inform a borrower if an account is in arrears, so Im unable to say that SteadyPay 
did anything wrong by sending arrears letters to Miss L. In terms of the number of letters, Im 
satisfied that this was proportionate given the length of time the account was in arrears.
Ive also reviewed Miss Ls agreement. This contains information about what could happen if 
payments are missed and include a warning that missing payments could lead to legal 
proceedings. So, Im unable to say that SteadyPay did anything wrong by defaulting the 
account and advising Miss L about the possibility of legal action to recover the debt.
I appreciate that Mis L says shes been able to agree payment arrangements with other 
creditors. Ive looked at how SteadyPay responded to Miss L and I can see that it agreed a 
payment arrangement with her, which was subsequently broken. In the circumstances, Im 
unable to say that SteadyPay has treated Miss L unfairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman