DRN-2072206
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) unfairly recorded a late payment
marker against her credit file when she was late in making a monthly payment.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is
known to both Mrs B and Tesco, so there is no need for me to repeat it here in any great
detail. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not mentioned
something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its of direct
relevance to the issues I need to deal with.
Mrs B was due to make a payment to her loan account with Tesco on the 25 June. Believing
she would have sufficient funds from an investment to repay her loan in its entirety, she
cancelled her direct debit for the June payment. Unfortunately Mrs B had been the victim of
a financial scam and didnt receive the anticipated funds. However by the time she realised
this she was already overdue on her payment and rang Tesco on the 3 July to explain and
make a manual payment.
Tesco have said that they were required to make a late payment report to the credit 
reference agencies (CRAs) because as a fact Mrs B was late in making the payment, 
and the only time they would consider removing such a marker was if there had been an 
error on their part in making the report in the first instance.
Mrs B was unhappy with Tescos final response and so approached this service to see if 
we could assist in resolving the dispute. An investigator looked into the complaint, and 
having done so, came to the conclusion that the late payment marker wasnt a fair reflection 
of how Mrs B has managed her loan account and as such didnt think Tesco had acted fair 
and reasonably and that it ought to remove the marker from her credit file. 
Tesco didnt agree with our investigators view and asked for the complaint to be passed 
to an Ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate. Our service 
doesnt have the power to make rules for financial businesses, assess or direct that they 
change their policy or procedures, or indeed punish them. We only look at what happened in 
the circumstances of the individual complaint and check that Tesco followed its rules and 
procedures and is applying them fairly to all customers.
Having issued my provisional decision on the 30 June 2020 I have heard nothing further 
from either Tesco or Mrs B. In these circumstances there is no further evidence or information which causes me to change my provisional view, which I now make final as 
below. 
Part of the terms and conditions of the loan agreement Mrs B had with Tesco deal with 
what might happen if payments to the loan are missed. It states quite clearly that missing 
a payment could have severe consequences for Mrs Bs finances. It also states that Tesco 
 are likely to report non-payment to the credit reference agencies  
In this case I am very sorry to hear that Mrs B fell victim to a fraud, and whilst she has 
my immense sympathy I have to focus on whether Tesco have acted fairly and 
reasonably following its procedures as it would for all its customers. 
The terms and conditions make it clear that a report to the CRAs will be likely if a payment 
is missed. That of course means there must be occasions when such a report is not made, 
and Tesco have explained that those circumstances would be only when they have made 
an error in the original report to the CRAs. Here they have not made any such error since 
Mrs B was, as a fact, late in making her payment. I have noted that Mrs B managed her 
loan account extremely well prior to this incident, and had not missed a payment, but that is 
not the relevant point. 
The essential point is that businesses like Tesco have a responsibility to record correctly 
the status of any account, and are obliged to report factual information to the CRAs. In this 
case that is all they have done and I therefore cant say they have acted unreasonably in 
notifying the CRAs on the late payment to Mrs Bs account. I am satisfied that they would 
have done that on any other customers account in similar circumstances, and so I must find 
that they have treated Mrs B fairly in that regard. I am therefore unable to recommend that 
Mrs Bs credit file be amended.
My final decision
I cant say Tesco has acted unfairly or unreasonably here and my final decision is that Im 
not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman