DRN-3418199
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with Specialist Motor Finance Limited (SMF).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs B, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs B acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then SMF, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mrs B. The car here was about 
seven years old and had already covered about 64,869 miles. So, I dont think the car was 
likely to have been fault free and I think a reasonable person would expect some wear and 
tear, and that they would consider that some components may be reaching the end of their 
serviceable life.
I think that can be said for the clutch. The independent inspector thought the clutch was 
going to need replacing soon and he suggested that as the car hadnt completed much 
mileage since Mrs B took receipt of it, it was likely the clutch was failing when the car was 
supplied. 
But the independent inspector recorded the wrong inception mileage so I dont think it would 
be fair to consider his comments accurate. He had assumed that the car had travelled only 
3,232 miles in Mrs Bs possession, when it had in fact travelled almost twice that. I dont 
think it would have been likely that Mrs B would have been able to cover that amount of 
mileage in the car if the clutch was failing when the car was supplied to her. The inspector 
has suggested that it is not unusual for clutches to fail between 60 and 70,000 miles and that 
should be considered a normal lifespan. So, Im persuaded its most likely the clutch on the 
car failed as a result of normal wear and tear and Im not asking SMF to take any action 
about it.
SMF had offered to consider quotes to have the clutch replaced but theyve explained that 
Mrs B has now left the car with the dealership and isnt paying her finance instalments. In 
those circumstances, theyve explained they will not be extending their offer to consider 
quotations. As I dont think theres evidence the car was sold in an unsatisfactory condition it 
is for SMF to decide whether to extend that offer or not.
The inspector also noted that there was a fault with the seat belt tensioner, and a crack on 
the windscreen, which meant the car wouldnt pass an MOT. I can see the car passed an 
MOT around the date it was supplied to Mrs B. So, I dont think its likely either of these 
issues were present when the car was supplied. Theyre not therefore issues that I could 
fairly hold SMF responsible for. 
Mrs B has also suggested the car was of an unsatisfactory quality because it was supplied 
with a towbar and she hadnt been told it had been used for towing. I dont think it would be 
fair to suggest a car was of unsatisfactory quality because it had been used to tow, and I 
dont think thats something SMF needed to inform Mrs B of. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman