DRN-2767284
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Santander UK plc closed her account without permission.
What happened
Mrs S says Santander closed her account without her permission in October 2020. She says 
initially Santander told her she asked for it to be closed before later accepting it made a 
mistake. Mrs S says she was worried she was the victim of fraud and says she was 
questioned by Santander about the account balance. She says she was caused a significant 
amount of stress and inconvenience and would like compensation for what took place. She 
also says the mistake affected her health.
Santander accepts it made a mistake and closed Mrs Ss account instead of another 
customers. It says it explained what took place and paid £150 compensation and has also 
given feedback to the staff members involved.
Mrs S brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought the compensation was 
appropriate. The investigator thought Santander had explained what took place and didnt 
think there was any evidence of fraud. The investigator also thought Mrs S didnt suffer any 
financial loss and the account was reinstated within a relatively short time period.
Mrs S doesnt accept that view and in summary says the mistake caused illness and 
significant distress as the account balance was over £100,000. She would like one percent 
compensation of that amount.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Santander has paid a fair and 
reasonable compensation amount and I dont require it to increase that amount. I appreciate 
Mrs S will be disappointed by my decision.
There is no question here that Santander made a mistake by closing Mrs Ss account which 
contained a significant balance which Mrs S says was for her retirement. I have no doubt 
that Mrs S was caused distress in not knowing what happened to her money and why the 
account had been closed. I also accept that initially Santander told Mrs S that she closed the 
account when Mrs S would have known that wasnt the case. I also have no doubt Mrs S 
was caused inconvenience in speaking to Santander about what took place and in making 
sure the account was reinstated.
Im satisfied that Santander has fairly apologised for what took place and has told Mrs S 
what took place. I think it likely this was a genuine mistake by Santander, and I have not 
seen any evidence that the actions were an attempted fraud.
The key issue is the level of compensation. And Im satisfied that Santander has paid a fair 
and reasonable level of compensation of £150. I dont think Mrs S suffered any financial loss 
and I think the account was reinstated within a relatively short time period. Im also satisfied 
that award is within the range of awards we would normally consider for this sort of 
complaint and think that the amount of compensation Mrs S would like is unrealistic and not 
appropriate for what took place. I cant fairly hold Santander responsible for Mrs Ss health 
issues without evidence of a direct link.
I make clear to Mrs S that we are not Santanders regulator and so its not our role to punish 
it and its not our role to take further action on Mrs Ss behalf as she suggests we should do.
I find this brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this dispute informally can do and of 
course Mrs S is free to pursue her complaint in a court if she wishes.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman