DRN-4338726
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with the settlement amount offered by Astrenska Insurance 
Limited after they made a claim on travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S purchased a single trip travel insurance policy on 27 January 2023. It was to 
cover them for a trip they were making abroad  with the policy covering them between 
11 February 2023 and 8 March 2023. The policy provided cover for various pre-departure 
and post-departure risks.
Mr and Mrs S went on their trip as planned. They spent the first part of their trip abroad in 
one location. And were due to catch a flight to their next destination on 19 February 2023. 
However, they received notification from the airline they were due to fly with, that the flight 
was cancelled. 
Its my understanding Mr and Mrs S were offered places on a flight with their original airline, 
leaving the next day instead. But Mr and Mrs S have explained it wasnt possible for them to 
wait to take this flight  as they needed to be at their next destination in time to pick up a 
scheduled cruise. So, they purchased new flights with a different airline, to ensure they 
made it to their cruise in time.
Mr and Mrs S made a claim under their travel insurance, given the above situation, and their 
need to have purchased an additional flight. 
Astrenska considered the claim and accepted it. It offered Mr and Mrs S £180 in total, in 
settlement of their claim. Astrenska said this was because the claim was dealt with under the 
travel delay section  which provided a fixed benefit for delayed journeys, up to a maximum 
of £90 per person. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt feel this was the correct way to deal with their claim. They said 
Astrenska should have been settling their claim under the missed departure section of their 
policy, and increasing the settlement of the claim, to cover the costs they incurred by having 
to purchase an additional flight. 
Astrenska responded to Mr and Mrs S concerns and said it had dealt with the claim 
correctly. Astrenska said the missed departure section of the policy didnt apply in this 
situation  because the departure wasnt missed. Instead, it was delayed because of a flight 
cancellation. 
As Mr and Mrs S remained dissatisfied, they referred their complaint to this service for an 
independent review. 
Our investigator considered this complaint and thought Astrenska had acted fairly, and in 
line with the terms and conditions of the policy, by dealing with the claim under the travel 
delay section, rather than the missed departure section Mr and Mrs S had mentioned. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree. They said that the policy didnt explain what missed departure 
was  and therefore this was down to interpretation of the wording. Mr and Mrs S said they 
interpreted missed departure to mean a situation where their flight was cancelled. So, they 
remained of the opinion Astrenska should increase the settlement amount offered to them.
As Mr and Mrs S didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied Astrenskas settlement offer of £180 in total is fair and 
reasonable. So, Im not requiring it to do anything more.
I appreciate this will be a disappointment to Mr and Mrs S. Its clear they feel strongly about 
the matter. But Id like to reassure the parties that I have considered all information and 
evidence provided when reaching my decision. However, when explaining my decision, Ive 
only referred to evidence I consider necessary to detail my reasoning. This isnt intended as 
a discourtesy but reflects the informal nature of this service.
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly, and not unreasonably decline it. So, 
Ive thought about whether Astrenska acted in line with these requirements when it agreed to 
settle £180 for Mr and Mrs S claim. 
Ive also reviewed Mr and Mrs S policy documents, to see what cover the policy provided 
them with. On doing so, Im aware there is cover under the Delay and abandonment 
section, for certain delays.
This section explains that it pays out a set amount for each 4-hour period that transport is 
delayed, due to one of the reasons listed under What is Covered. This section notes cover 
only being valid if those insured had travelled to the departure point. And the cover is up to a 
maximum of £90 per person.
Under What is Covered several reasons are listed. Including delays because of shortage of 
crew. Mr and Mrs S have explained their original flight was cancelled due to crew shortages 
 with an alternative flight being offered the next day. 
Astrenska have acknowledged that if Mr and Mrs S hadnt taken an alternative flight, they 
would have been delayed, up to the maximum covered amount under the policy. So, they 
offered the maximum claimable amount here. Im satisfied thats fair. This section does 
provide cover for delays of such length. And I think this approach recognises that had 
Mr and Mrs S would have been subject to these delays, had they not needed to take 
alternative steps to reach their next scheduled arrangements.
I understand Mr and Mrs S consider their claim should have been considered under a 
missed departure section of their policy. So, Ive considered this section too. The section 
referred to is called Missed departure and connection outside the UK.
This section covers additional travel and accommodation costs if you miss pre-booked 
transportation due to an event listed under What is Covered, stranding you abroad.
What is Covered1. Delay or cancellation of public transport due to:
a. Industrial action
b.Bad weather not including anything listed as a natural catastrophe
c. Mechanical fault of transportation, including bird strikes
d. Shortage of crew.
The Insurance Product Information document (IPID) also details the following, under what is 
covered:
Missed departure  up to £750
Cover for additional travel and accommodation costs if you arrive too late to travel on your 
booked transport due to certain reasons specified in the policy.
Given the above, Im aware that to be covered under this section Mr and Mrs S would have 
needed to miss their pre-booked transportation  in this case the flight, due to one of the 
above events. 
I do appreciate Mr and Mrs S feel the cover under this section is open to interpretation. But I 
dont agree. The policy clearly states the cover is for when pre-booked transport is missed. 
And this is usual of travel insurance policies of this nature. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt miss their flight. Their flight didnt go ahead  it was cancelled. So, Im 
satisfied Astrenska acted fairly in noting this section of cover didnt apply to Mr and Mrs S 
circumstances. And I dont find Astrenska did anything wrong  or need to make a payment 
under this section of cover.
Ive reviewed all other sections of the policy Mr and Mrs S held, to see whether Astrenska 
acted fairly in not settling the remainder of the claim under any other section. But Im 
satisfied there isnt another section that applies in this case. So, I dont think Astrenska did 
anything wrong  but settling the claim solely under the travel delay section, as detailed 
above.
My final decision
Given the above, I require Astrenska Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs S a total of £180 
in settlement of their claim, if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman