DRN-1658127
 
The complaint
Mr L complained that Ferratum UK Ltd acted irresponsibly when it gave him unaffordable 
loans.
What happened
Mr L took out four loans with Ferratum with gaps in between. 
Heres a table showing more information:
 
Loan Start date Date paidLoan
Amount
115-11-2017
 30-11-2017
 £150
215-06-2018
 21-07-2018
 £110
308-02-2019
 22-02-2019
 £200
408-05-2019
 27-06-2019
 £200
 
Mr L said that Ferratum had issued loans to him without proper assessment and that hed 
been borrowing just to repay other loans. He doesnt think the charges were fair. And 
worrying about how hes going to get out of debt has affected him being able to eat and 
sleep. 
When Mr L complained to Ferratum it said it didnt believe that it acted irresponsibly and the 
loans Ferratum issued were fair and affordable based on the information Mr L provided at 
the time and the checks that were carried out. It did however make a goodwill gesture to 
refund half of the interest hed paid to settle his complaint.Mr L didn't feel this went far enough and so we investigated these loans. Ferratum 
meanwhile withdrew its offer as this hadn't helped to settle the complaint. 
Overall, our adjudicator thought that given the loan amounts, what was apparent about 
Mr Ls circumstances and his history with the lender, it wouldnt have been proportionate for 
Ferratum to ask Mr L for the amount of information needed to show the lending was 
unsustainable. 
And our adjudicator didnt think that the number of loans Mr L had taken out, the amounts 
hed borrowed or the length of time hed been borrowing from Ferratum shouldve alerted 
Ferratum to think he was having money problems. So he didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Mr L disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Ive used this approach to help me decide this complaint.
When Ferratum provided Mr L with high-interest loans intended for short-term use it needed 
to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. 
Ferratum was required to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether 
any lending was sustainable for Mr L before providing it. Our website sets out what we 
typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, 
we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early stages of a 
lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers 
income was low or the amount lent was high. 
And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming 
unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive seen and been told, Im not upholding Mr Ls 
complaint. Heres why I say this.
Ferratum says it agreed to Mr Ls applications based on the information he provided and 
after carrying out credit and affordability checks. 
Ive looked at each loan in turn
loan 1
I dont think Ferratum was wrong to lend Mr L loan 1. This was his first loan with Ferratum 
and so I think Ferratum was entitled to rely on the information Mr L provided. This suggested 
that he was well able to afford this borrowing. 
Mr L didnt have any track record with the lender that shouldve alerted Ferratum to any 
underlying money problems.And I cant see that there was anything in the information Mr L provided or the information 
Ferratum had, which meant that Ferratum shouldve enquired further into Mr Ls financial 
circumstances. 
So I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint about loan 1.
 
loans 2 and 3
The gaps in lending of at least 6 months between Mr L paying loan 1 and taking out loan 2, 
and paying loan 2 and starting loan 3 seem long enough to me for Ferratum reasonably to 
think that Mr L mightve put his finances in order during these periods when he wasnt 
borrowing from Ferratum.
This meant that when Mr L applied for loans 2 and 3, he was effectively starting over each 
time. So it was fair for Ferratum to treat both these loan applications as new borrowing and 
assess his lending requests as if he was effectively a first time borrower.
I cant see anything in the information that Ferratum had recorded for Mr L, or anything else 
that it shouldve been aware of, which wouldve made Ferratum think these loans werent 
affordable for Mr L. The amounts that Mr L needed to repay on each of these loans wouldve 
seemed relatively affordable compared with the take home pay hed declared and what hed 
told Ferratum about his expenses. 
And given what was apparent about his circumstances I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate for Ferratum to ask Mr L for the amount of information that would be needed to 
show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing these loans.
So I dont feel Ive seen enough to be able to uphold Mr Ls complaint about loans 2 and 3.
loan 4
I can see that Mr L took out loan 4 within 3 months or so of paying loan 3 and he borrowed 
the same amount again. But like our adjudicator, I think that the amounts that Mr L needed 
to repay wouldve looked relatively affordable compared with the information Ferratum had 
recorded about his financial situation. Looking at his borrowing record, I dont think 
proportionate checks wouldve required Ferratum to ask Mr L to prove what he was declaring 
or check other information sources to verify what he had told them (or omitted to say) about 
his financial circumstances. And the information Mr L provided (and the checks that 
Ferratum did) suggested that this loan was affordable for him. So Im not upholding Mr Ls 
complaint about loan 4.
For all these loans, Mr L signed agreements that clearly showed what he was borrowing and 
how much hed have to repay. I havent seen enough to be able to say that the charges on 
these loans were unfair just based on what Mr L says.
Im sorry if these loans have caused problems for Mr L  particularly if worrying about them 
has made him unwell. But in order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender 
did something wrong. And, in this case, I dont think that Ferratum did anything wrong in 
deciding to lend to Mr L. 
I appreciate that what I've said is going to disappoint Mr L and Im sorry to have to do that  
but I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my 
decision.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman