DRN-3848607
The complaint
Mr T and Mrs C complain about how Vitality Health Limited dealt with their medical 
insurance plan.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, in 2013, Mr T and Mrs C took out a medical insurance plan with 
Vitality, via a broker. The plan renews in February each year. In May 2021, Mr T and Mrs 
C discovered that Vitality had an incorrect date of birth for Mrs C  its records showed a 
date of birth which indicated that Mrs C was two years older than she actually is. 
Mr T and Mrs C complained to Vitality about the error and asked for reimbursement of 
overpaid premiums from the inception of their plan. Vitality corrected its records to show 
Mrs Cs actual date of birth. As a gesture of goodwill, it offered to refund overpaid 
premiums since renewal in February 2021. It said that it was for Mr T and Mrs C to 
review the documentation, check its correct and bring any errors to its attention. 
Mr T and Mrs C say that this was a clerical error by Vitality which means it charged them 
too much over a number of years. They want Vitality to reimburse the additional 
premiums they paid. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He said that it wasnt clear who 
made the initial mistake and he agreed with Vitality that the onus is on Mr T, Mrs C or 
their broker to tell it if the information it had was incorrect. But the investigator didnt think 
it was fair and reasonable for Vitality to retain any overcharged premiums, regardless of 
who made the mistake. He said that Vitality should refund any overpaid premium paid by 
Mr T and Mrs C since 2013.
Vitality didnt agree with the investigator. It said that there was no proof that it made an 
error. Vitality said that it sent out the documents showing the incorrect date of birth each 
year and that Mrs C should have told it about the error. It said that Mr T and Mrs C 
should have been aware of the error in 2013, when they first received the documents. 
Vitality said that its not obliged to keep records from 2013 and that it would be 
impossible for it to calculate any additional premiums Mr T and Mrs C paid as its platform 
and pricing structure has changed. It said that the offer it made is fair. 
The investigator considered what Vitality said but it didnt change his view. He said that, 
based on what Vitality said, it wasnt that the calculation of overcharged premiums was 
impossible rather, it was reluctant to make the calculation. The investigator reiterated 
that it wasnt clear who made the error but that hed upheld the complaint on the basis 
that Vitality had benefitted from the mistake. He said that it was for Vitality to take the 
matter up with the broker after it compensated Mr T and Mrs C.
Vitality asked that an ombudsman consider the matter, so it was passed to me to decide. 
This service operates under a set of rules which say, amongst other things, what types 
of complaints we can and cant consider. That includes time limits for consumers to bring 
a complaint. I cant consider a complaint thats made more than six years after the event 
complained of, or, if later, three years from the date the complainant became or ought 
reasonably to have become aware that they had cause for complaint, unless the failure 
to comply with the time limits was as a result of exceptional circumstances or the 
business consents to us looking at the complaint. 
Here, the event complained of is Vitality recording an incorrect date of birth for Mrs C. 
That allegedly occurred in 2013. Mr T and Mrs C should reasonably have been aware of 
that in 2013. They didnt complain to either Vitality or this service until 2021, more than 
six years after 2013. Vitality consented to this service looking at the whole of the 
complaint, so Im considering events from 2013 onwards. 
My provisional decision
On 10 November 2022, I sent both parties my provisional decision. I indicated that I didnt 
propose to uphold Mr T and Mrs Cs complaint because I dont think that Vitality treated them 
unfairly or unreasonably. I said:   
Vitality hasnt retained Mr T and Mrs Cs original application. Thats not surprising, 
given the passage of time since the inception of the plan. Mr T and Mrs C have 
checked with their broker who doesnt have any record of their application but said 
that the application was made on-line. 
At this distance, its impossible to say exactly what happened at the time of the 
application. So, its not clear why Mrs Cs date of birth was incorrect in Vitalitys 
records. In situations like this, I need to make a decision on the balance of 
probabilities and decide what I think is most likely to have happened give the 
evidence I have and any surrounding circumstances. 
Theres no evidence that Vitality made a mistake in setting up the plan. The error 
could have been made by Mr T or Mrs C or their broker. I make no finding about 
who made the error, as it wouldnt alter the outcome of the complaint. Its sufficient 
to say that, based on the available evidence, I dont think I can safely conclude that 
Vitality made an error here. 
As the investigator explained, its for Mr T and Mrs C to check the documentation 
Vitality provided and tell it if any information is incorrect. It appears thats what they 
did in 2021. 
In the absence of an error by Vitality, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to 
direct it to reimburse part of the premium Mr T and Mrs C paid in previous years. 
Thats because its more likely than not that Vitality was simply providing cover on 
the basis of the information it received. And there are practical difficulties for Vitality 
in accessing information going back as far as 2013 about what it charged Mrs C 
and what it would have charged if it had proceeded with her correct date of birth. 
Vitality says  and I accept  that it uses a different platform and pricing structure 
now. 
Vitality has already offered to refund overpaid premium since renewal in February 
2021. I think thats fair and reasonable.For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think I can safely conclude that Vitality 
made an error or treated Mr T and Mrs C unfairly or unreasonably. So, Im not 
going to direct it to pay Mr T and Mrs C any compensation. If Mr T and Mrs C wish 
to take up Vitalitys offer and have not already done so, they should contact it 
direct.
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither Vitality nor Mr T and Mrs C made any further substantive comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new information or evidence, I see no reason to depart 
from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. For the reasons Ive explained, I 
cant safely conclude that Vitality made an error or treated Mr T and Mrs C unfairly or 
unreasonably.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
If Mr T and Mrs C wish to take up Vitalitys offer and have not already done so, they should 
contact it direct.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman