DRN-1380322
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Santander UK Plc unfairly blocked their account which meant 
they were unable to make payments into their ISA accounts. Mrs C also complains about 
Santander's letter of response to her complaint.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C received a payment of about £475,000 into their account on 1 April 2019. Mr C 
says he wanted to transfer large amounts of that money into accounts held with other 
businesses but was told there was a daily limit of £100,000. He says he made some 
transfers but on April 4 2019 was told he had breached the daily limit and was advised to 
make transfers of up to £20,000. Mr C made some transfers but on 5 April 2019 says his 
account was frozen following a £2 transaction. He spoke to Santander and was told the 
account had been blocked for security reasons and that he would receive a call back to 
unblock the account. Mr C says he didn't receive that call back and so called Santander and 
was told the staff in question had gone home.
Mr and Mrs C say that was the last day of the tax year and as a result of the block they were 
unable to make intended payments into their ISA accounts. They say the blocks were unfair 
and not appropriate and that Santander should have removed them on 5  April 2019. They 
would like compensation for what took place and for the time spent by Mr C trying to sort 
matters out and for the tax of £60 they will now have to pay. Mrs C says she received a 
complaint response letter which referred to her inappropriately.
Santander says the letter to Mrs C was an oversight and its common for complaint handlers 
to use a template letter and previous details were not changed. Its apologised for that and 
paid Mrs C £100 compensation. It also says no offence was intended by the letter.
It says a number of payments were made from the account but a payment made on a 
Saturday evening triggered its security measures. Santander says  it was a faster payment 
and although it was blocked, it still went through within the faster payment time limits. It also 
says its terms and conditions state that security measure may be applied to an account or a 
transaction. It also questions why Mr and Mrs C didn't make the ISA payments earlier.
Mr and Mrs C had brought their complaint to us and say  they thought they could safely 
leave the ISA payments until 5 April 2019 for the still to be opened ISA accounts as they 
would be an internal payment. They were more concerned with investing the larger amount 
of money and followed Santander's advice. 
Our investigator thought Santander was entitled to place account restrictions where it had 
security concerns and followed its process. The investigator thought the payment had been 
processed in line with the faster payment rules. The investigator also thought that any 
payment made into an ISA on 5 April 2019 may not have reached an account in time as 
Santander's terms and conditions say that a payment received after close of business would be processed the following day. So the investigator didn't think Santander had made a 
mistake.
The investigator listened to the calls between the parties and didn't think Mr C had been 
promised a call back on the day he called and could have considered making the 
ISA payments before 5 April 2019. The investigator didn't think the mistake in the letter to 
Mrs C was deliberate but thought the £100 compensation for this appropriate.
Mr and Mrs C don't accept that view and say in summary say too much weight has been 
placed on the terms and conditions and not enough on the fact Santander agreed there was 
no fraud and that Mr C was promised a call back on Friday 5 April 2019. They say it's not 
reasonable for a block to be applied for a £2 transaction when far larger payments were 
authorised. And says that it's unlikely there would be a fraud over a £2 transaction.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I have come to the 
overall view that I don't require Santander to do anything further in the circumstances of this 
complaint. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs C will be disappointed by my decision and I 
appreciate how strongly they feel about what's taken place.
I am sure Mr and Mrs C appreciate that fraud is a major problem for banks and building 
societies and that Santander is under a duty to protect its customer's money from fraud or 
scams. I appreciate that on occasions, as in this case, legitimate transactions and genuine 
customers find themselves subject to security and fraud measures. I have no doubt such 
genuine customers are caused inconvenience and can spend some time, as Mr C did here 
,in trying to sort matters out and in making sure such measures are lifted. But I don't think 
that means Santander made a mistake or acted unfairly in applying such security and fraud 
measures here for the reasons I will explain.
I make clear to Mr and Mrs C that we are not the regulator of banks and building societies 
and so its not our role to tell a business what its security and fraud measures should be or 
how it operates them. I think such matters are largely for, as in this case, Santander, to 
decide upon when exercising its commercial judgement, and not something I can fairly 
interfere in. So that means I can't fairly say that Santander made a mistake or acted 
unreasonably by placing the restrictions on Mr and Mrs C's account following the £2 
transaction. I appreciate what Mr C says, that other far larger transactions had gone 
through.But for the reasons I have explained, such matters are for Santander to determine. 
And I don't think the size of the transaction is important as I think fraudsters will on 
occasions attempt smaller payments before attempting larger ones. I don't think Santander 
guaranteed that by making smaller payments, Mr C would avoid any security restrictions nor 
could it do so.
I have listened to all of the calls between the parties, and I'm satisfied Mr C was told there 
were alternative methods of transferring the money into other accounts such as by CHAPS. I 
appreciate Mr C didn't wish to pay for any of the transactions but I think he was given such 
alternatives that may have prevented the problems he later experienced. I also think that Mr 
C was told that faster payments make take up to the next working day. So I think that even if 
the account block hadn't been made, then Mr and Mrs C's intended payment into their 
ISA's may not have been processed in time in any event.
I also think Mr C was told that he may receive a call back on 5 April 2019 and not that he 
would that night. And was also told the blocks would not get removed until that call. So I 
don't think Santander breached any promise or that it made a mistake by not calling Mr C on that day. For the reasons I have explained, I find Santander didn't tell Mr C he would receive 
the call that night.
I have explained why I think there was risk that any intended ISA payments wouldn't have 
been processed by the end of the tax year in any event. As I don't think Santander made a 
mistake by applying the block or by not removing it on 5 April 2019- before the tax year 
ended then I can't fairly order it to pay the tax Mr and Mrs C say they have incurred. I also 
agree with the investigator that I would have expected the ISA payments to have taken 
precedence due to the proximity of the end of the tax year. And that it's not clear if either 
party had existing open ISA accounts with Santander that would require  funding and if 
necessary opening after close of business on a Friday evening. I don't know why Santander 
suggests this was a Saturday but I don't think that makes a difference here.
I have no doubt Mr C spend a considerable amount of time on the telephone to Santander. 
But I don't think that means Santander made a mistake and I accept in these sorts of cases 
there is likely to be a considerable amount of waiting and calls. I can see that Santander has 
paid a gesture of goodwill of £50 which I think is fair and reasonable in circumstances where 
I don't think it made a mistake or acted unfairly.
I have looked at the letter Santander sent Mrs C. All parties are aware of its contents and its 
salutation. I appreciate Santander says it was a template letter and its staff failed to change 
details of a previous complaint name. No doubt Santander can check if it ever had a 
complaint in that name. I think on balance that it unlikely that was the case and I appreciate 
that Mrs C would have been caused distress and upset by that letter and the inference of the 
letter. But I'm satisfied that Santander has paid what I think is a fair and reasonable amount 
of £100 compensation and has fairly apologised for it.
Overall for the reasons I have explained I don't require Santander to do anything further in 
the circumstances of this complaint. I accept Mr and Mrs C are unlikely to accept my 
decision but I think that brings an end to what we in trying to sort out this complaint can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 June 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman