DRN-3286942
The complaint
Mr S complained that when he reached age 65 the annuity he was being paid by Pension 
Insurance Corporation plc, from a former occupational pension scheme, was recalculated 
wrongly, resulting in his pension being lower than he expected. He would like the pension to 
be recalculated to what he believes is the correct amount.
What happened
Mr S held deferred benefits from an occupational pension scheme he left in 1988. Under the 
scheme rules benefits were paid from age 63, in 2017. Like most such schemes, Mr S 
scheme was contracted out of the State Earnings-Related Pension Scheme (SERPS/S2P). 
Because of this the scheme had to pay their members a pension at least broadly equivalent 
to the SERPS pension they had given up. This is known as the Guaranteed Minimum 
Pension or GMP. 
GMP is paid from age 65 so the scheme paid a notional GMP from 63 to 65 and would 
recalculate benefits at age 65 when the actual GMP came into payment. There was a safety 
net in the scheme rules to ensure nobodys pension would reduce when recalculated, known 
as the underpin. Pensioners would get the higher of the GMP or the underpin.
In May 2017 Mr S used an online tool provided by the scheme administrators to produce a 
forecast projecting a pension from age 65 of £10,436.28 a year. 
Mr S was getting a pension of £6,768.96 a year when PIC wrote to him in September 2019 
with the recalculation of benefits. This letter said that his new pension would be £16,786.38, 
an increase of £10,017.42 a year. 
A few weeks later PIC wrote to Mr S to tell him that this calculation was wrong, and the 
correct amount of annual pension was £10,131.81. 
Mr S asked for an explanation. He felt that, as he had now received three separate figures 
(the projection in 2017, the September 2019 letter and the corrected amount in October) he 
wanted to be sure that his pension had been accurately calculated. 
PIC wrote to explain the calculation in January 2020, having had it checked internally. This 
letter explained that the correct annual amount at age 65 was £10,017.42, which was now 
£10,131.81, as per the letter from October 2019, following the annual increase. 
Mr S queried the calculation, asking for an explanation of why one element of the pension, 
the Pre-1997 Excess pension, was given as £4,503.96 a year in 2017 but was now 
£4,085.26. He also wondered why the underpin was described as a mechanism for providing 
a higher pension, when the October 2019 letter said that his pension would be less than 
quoted in the September letter because of the underpin. 
PIC explained that the forecast in 2017 was based on assumed revaluation factors since, in 
2017, the actual level of inflation used for 2019 would not be known. Further, PIC explained 
that the underpin ensured that benefits did not decrease at GMP age. The September 2019 
letter was incorrect as it simply added the GMP to the underpin; the calculation provided in 
October 2019 was correct. PIC apologised for their error and reaffirmed the basis of their 
calculation of £10,017.37 (the 5p difference resulting from rounding). 
Mr S queried why this calculation did not include the special increase and provided his own 
calculation of the underpin (and therefore what he thought was the pension he was due) of 
£10,842.26. PIC responded that it had checked the calculations and were satisfied that they 
were correct. It explained that the special increase was not part of the underpin. 
Mr S continued to query the removal of the special increase. He said that because it was 
described as fixed and will not be revalued this underlined the permanence of this element.
In July 2020, PIC issued its final response to Mr S complaint. It restated its position that the 
calculation was correct, explaining that the special increase was only payable until GMP 
age. Before GMP age he was receiving £6,768.96, and at GMP age the underpin value of 
£10,017.37 was higher, so this is what he got.  PIC apologised that this had not been made 
clear in the policy document or in previous correspondence. 
In September 2020 Mr S repeated his calculation of £10,842.26. He felt that this was in line 
with the May 2017 forecast, once you add inflation increases and was also in line with the 4 
February 2020 letter which he said stated the GMP to be £10,845.22.
Mr S continued to request explanations and PIC responded. They provided further 
explanations but the figures they gave did not change. Mr S complained to the Pensions 
Ombudsman, who referred the case to this service. 
Our investigator provided their view of the case. The investigator did not uphold the 
complaint because, apart from the September 2019 letter which was quickly corrected, PIC 
had not made any errors in their calculations. 
Mr S did not accept this view so the case was referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What I have to decide is whether Mr S has been paid the correct pension, and whether he 
was otherwise unfairly treated or financially disadvantaged.
Mr S said that he received three different figures for the pension from age 65 so he wanted 
an explanation so that he was comfortable that he was getting the correct amount. So I have 
looked at these three calculations and the circumstances surrounding them. 
In May 2017 Mr S obtained an illustration of what the pension could be at age 65 using an 
online tool provided by the scheme administrators. This showed GMP of £5,932.32 a year 
plus Pre-97 excess of £4,503.96 giving a total of £10,436.28 a year. 
The illustration tool said that it was there to provide an indication of what the pension might 
be. It was not, nor did it claim to be, a guaranteed amount. In order to calculate in May 2017 
what a pension might be in October 2019 the tool would have to make an assumption of the 
value of inflation over that period so as to increase the 2017 values (which were known) to 
possible 2019 levels (which were not known). 
If inflation turned out to be lower than assumed by the tool, the pension would be lower than illustrated. Equally, if inflation turned out to be higher than assumed, the pension would be 
higher. 
Mr S is correct that the difference between the forecast figure and the actual figure is as a 
result of the difference in the Pre-97 excess pension. That is because this is the only 
element of the pension that was subject to inflation-linked increases, and therefore required 
an assumption; the GMP was increased at a fixed rate and that is why this element of the 
pension was exactly as illustrated at £5,932.16 a year. 
PIC explained to Mr S in the 4 February 2020 letter that the illustration was based on 
assumed factors. This letter said that future quotes are for illustration purposes and only 
provide an indication of what the benefits might be.
So I do not think that, just because the actual pension was different from the illustration, it is 
fair to conclude that the illustration was misleading or inaccurate. 
The next figure Mr S received was in September 2019, just in advance of reaching GMP 
age. This letter showed GMP of £5,932.16 a year plus Pre-97 Excess pension of £10,854.22 
a year, for a total of £16,786.38. This was an increase of £10,017.42 a year and far above 
the £10,436.28 in the 2017 illustration. 
A few weeks later PIC issued a correction letter. This showed the same GMP of £5,932.16 
plus Pre-97 excess of £4,199.65 giving a total of £10,131.81. The letter explained that the 
error was because the calculation did not account for the Pre 1997 Excess being linked to an 
underpin. What the letter does not say, and was not explained until 4 February, is that the 
calculation simply added the GMP to the existing total underpin amount; but this meant that 
the GMP amount was added twice.  
Although PIC gave Mr S an inaccurate calculation, it corrected it quickly so I dont think they 
did anything wrong in this regard.
But I can see why at this point Mr S might have wanted further explanation, having now 
received three different figures. I also think that the explanation given, (the underpin) was not 
particularly clear. But I do not agree with Mr S that the underpin was used to reduce his 
pension; the pension had only been as high as £16,786.38 because of an inaccurate 
calculation. Had it not been for the underpin, as PIC explained, his pension would have 
remained at £6,786.96. 
PICs letters of January and February 2020 gave more detailed explanations of the 
calculation. 
However as Mr S continued to ask for explanations, although PIC were consistent in their 
calculations of the pension as £10,017.42 a year (sometimes £10,017.37 due to rounding) 
the explanation evolved. It turned out that the special increase was not payable after GMP 
age, when the underpin took over (as the higher amount). This explanation was provided by 
PIC in its response to Mr S complaint, in July 2020. 
I have some sympathy with Mr S view that the explanations he was provided with could 
have been more complete at an earlier stage. However, defined benefit pensions such as 
this are complex, and often the technical terminology used may not be helpful, e.g. franked, 
fixed/revalued and so on. But this does not mean that PIC acted unfairly, or that he was 
financially disadvantaged. 
There is inevitably a balance to be struck between providing policyholders with full details on 
the one hand and making communications user-friendly for most users on the other hand. PIC recognise this, has taken on board Mr S comments and may reconsider its approach. It 
has also apologised to Mr S more than once. 
I accept that Mr S was given three different figures and I understand why he wanted an 
explanation. PIC did explain that the first of the figures was only an illustration, and the 
second was an error. PIC have been consistent about the third figure, and I have seen no 
evidence that this figure is incorrect. 
Taking all of this into account I find that Mr S is being paid the correct level of pension and I 
think that whilst PIC did make a mistake it was quick to correct it and since then it has done 
what could be expected if it, in trying to explain a complex calculation to Mr S. 
In response to our investigators opinion, and before that, Mr S has raised some specific 
concerns with the calculation. While I believe I have dealt with the substance of the matter 
above, I want Mr S to be comfortable that I have considered carefully what he has said. 
Mr S calculated a figure of £10,842.26 which he thought was the correct level of pension. He 
felt that his calculation was in line with the projection from 2017 allowing for inflation 
increases that were awarded between Oct 2017 and 2019. As I have explained above, and 
as PIC also explained, the figure produced by the illustration tool takes the actual pension at 
the time of the illustration and adds future increases, using assumed values where 
necessary.
So if he is adding an allowance for inflation to the 2017 figure, Mr S is counting increases 
from 2017 to 2019 twice. If that is the case, his figure would be too high as a result. 
Mr S also said that his calculation was in line with the figure of £10,845.22 provided in the 4 
February 2020 letter. PIC said that there was no reference to such a figure in this letter, 
which is correct. That letter gives a pension of £10,131.81. 
But regardless of how Mr S arrived at his calculation, aside from the error from September 
2019, PIC have been consistent in their calculation. I have seen no evidence that their 
calculation is wrong. 
Mr S also said that the statement at section 2.3 of his policy document that the special 
increase was fixed and will not be revalued shows that this element of the pension is 
permanent and not temporary. I do not agree with his analysis. Fixed and not revalued 
simply means that the value of that element of the pension does not increase year on year. 
After our investigator provided their view, Mr S responded. He had three main points on 
which he still required some clarity.
He noted that the Pre-97 Excess as per the September 2019 letter was £10,854.22, and 
wanted to know how this was calculated, although he acknowledged that it was clearly an 
error. PICs later explanation that the figure included both the special increase and the GMP, 
in effect including the GMP twice in the calculation, satisfies this point, and even if this was 
not the case I am not sure how helpful it would be to understand how a figure was arrived at 
which both parties agree was incorrect. 
Secondly, Mr S wanted to know why there was a difference between the forecast figure of 
£4,503.96 a year of Pre-97 Excess and the actual figure of £4,085.26 (which was in fact 
£4,199.65 by the time of payment). As has already been said, the difference is between the 
assumed rates of inflation used in the illustration and actual inflation. 
Mr S third point was that no satisfactory explanation had been given for the reduction from the earlier estimates. He also thought that cost of living adjustments might have increased 
the 2017 estimate. But the 2017 estimate included an allowance for assumed cost of living 
adjustments over that period. Where the actual figures were lower than the earlier estimates, 
this was because actual inflation was lower than the estimate, which Mr S acknowledged in 
his correspondence. Mr S was incorrect to add cost of living adjustments to the 2017 
estimate, as this would mean counting them twice. So I can see why he thinks that PICs 
figures are too low.
I do accept that Mr S was not told until July 2020 that the special increase was only payable 
until GMP age, and that this level of detail was not provided in his policy document. The 
policy document states that the special increase is payable prior to GMP age and is granted 
by the scheme. Unfortunately the document is silent about the special increase post-GMP 
age. While I accept that the policy document could be clearer, I do not agree that this 
amounts to unfair or unreasonable behaviour on behalf of PIC.
Therefore, overall I find that Mr S has been paid the correct amount of pension and has not 
been financially disadvantaged. I can see why he might not have thought so, given the error 
and the explanations of the correct calculation, but I can see no evidence that PIC treated 
him unfairly or unreasonably.
Therefore I am not going to uphold the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that Pension Insurance Corporation plc 
does not have to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Martin Catherwood
Ombudsman