DRN-3119481
The complaint
Miss M complains about advice she says she received from a broker working for Quilter 
Financial Services Ltd (Quilter) during discussions about a mortgage application. 
What happened
In 2014, Miss M and her ex-partner approached a broker to re-mortgage and pay off a 
bridging loan. 
The mortgage was applied for and taken out in her ex-partners sole name. Miss M says she 
was mis-led by the broker and told not to join the application due to her poor credit rating. 
The mortgage application was made in the sole name of her ex-partner and she says she 
felt pressured to sign a form giving up her share of the property. 
Miss M complained to Quilter. It responded to say that, as she was not the policy holder, she 
was not an eligible complainant. 
She referred her complaint to this service. Its been decided by another ombudsman that we 
can consider the complaint as Miss M met the definition of a potential customer of Quilter 
under the relevant rules. 
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Miss M 
disagreed and so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im very sorry about the situation that Miss M finds herself in and can see that this 
matter has been really difficult for her.  
Ive thought carefully about everything shes said, along with the evidence shes provided our 
investigator with. I can see that she had correspondence with the broker. But this is in 
relation to chasing the progress of the application. I understand that this was time-sensitive 
given the need to repay the bridging loan and, from what Miss M has said, that decisions 
were made to speed up the progress of the application at the time.
Miss M complains that she was told she needed to sign a form giving away her right to the 
property  in effect declaring herself as a tenant  as she was told it would be best if she 
was not named on the application. 
Whilst I appreciate the intention was for Miss M to be added to the mortgage at a later date, 
unfortunately that didnt happen. She says that when her credit score improved, she should 
have been advised to join the mortgage. I understand the point that Miss M makes. But I 
dont consider that it was a brokers responsibility to contact a party not added to the 
application at a later date to let them know that they could join  as that seems to be a 
decision that Miss M and her ex-partner would need to make for themselves. 
It appears that unfortunately the position with her ex-partner changed. Whilst I can see how 
difficult this has been for Miss M, I dont think I can fairly hold the broker responsible for this. 
Rather, this was a matter between her and her ex-partner.
Ive considered everything that Miss M has said in relation to the application and the actions 
of the broker and although I can see her frustrations, as the application was made in her ex-
partners name it was for the broker to advise him. 
I understand that this will come as a disappointment for Miss M, but having considered 
everything carefully, I dont think I can fairly uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Camilla Finnigan
Ombudsman