DRN-4062185
The complaint
Ms C has complained about the quality of a car she acquired, using finance from 
STARTLINE MOTOR FINANCE LIMITED (Startline).
What happened
Ms C took out car finance with Startline. The car was seven years old, with a mileage of just 
under 46,000 miles.
Unfortunately, the car broke down shortly after Ms C took delivery of it. Her local garage 
identified a number of faults, which were later confirmed by an independent inspection 
arranged by the dealership. As well as finding the same faults, the inspection report stated:
the fault codes didnt provide dates times or mileages of occurrence, so its not 
possible to confirm when they first occurred. But running a diesel engine with a 
diesel/petrol mix could cause the DPF to clog rapidly due to poor burning of the fuels 
and may also cause excessive exhaust gas temperature; and
a fuel sample confirmed there was both petrol and diesel within the fuel tank, and its 
their opinion that Ms C put the incorrect fuel into the car.
On this basis, Startline didnt agree to the rejection of the car. Unhappy with this, Ms C 
brought her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. She was satisfied there was a fault 
with the car, given the reports from the local garage, and the independent inspection. So, 
she needed to decide whether the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. She 
noted that putting petrol in a diesel engine will cause damage to it almost immediately. And, 
had there been petrol present in the diesel fuel tank when the driver took it to Ms C, the car 
couldnt have travelled 448 miles. On this basis, she thought the car was likely mis-fuelled 
after it was delivered to Ms C.
Ms C said she agreed that the delivery driver couldnt have driven the car as far as he did, to 
deliver it to her, if it had been misfuelled at that point. But, she explained shed only had the 
car for five days before it broke down. In that time, shed refuelled it twice, with £25 of diesel 
on these occasions, and did not drive the car far. She noted that the report said the cylinder 
issues could have been caused by misfuelling, which means its not a definite. Rather, the 
problem could have been the head gasket. She didnt misfuel the car and the miles driven by 
the delivery driver havent been taken into account.
The complaints now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Ms Cs complaint. I know this will be very disappointing, 
but Ill explain why.
I can see that the tests show that both petrol and diesel were present in the tank. Im 
satisfied this happened after Ms C took delivery of the car, as the delivery driver couldnt 
have driven it the miles he did with contaminated fuel. I know Ms C feels perhaps the fuel 
was tampered with, but theres no evidence to support that. So, it seems most likely, on the 
balance of probabilities, that she accidentally misfuelled. I know shes explained she put very 
little fuel in the tank, and didnt travel far. But, it only takes a very short amount of time for the 
car to be severely compromised, once the wrong fuel has been used.
I do sympathise with Ms C, but I dont consider there to be sufficient evidence to uphold her 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman