DRN-4035549
Complaint
Mr C has complained about a loan Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) 
provided to him. He says he couldnt afford this loan and had to borrow again to be able to 
repay it.
Background
118 118 Money provided Mr C with a loan for £1,000.00 in August 2018. This loan was due 
to be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of just under £80. One of our adjudicators reviewed 
Mr Cs complaint and he thought 118 118 Money shouldnt have provided Mr C with his loan. 
118 118 Money didnt respond, so the case was passed to an ombudsman.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Cs complaint. 
Having carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain 
why in a little more detail.
118 118 Money needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is 118 118 Money needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr C could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
118 118 Money may argue that the relatively low monthly payments meant that a light touch 
assessment was proportionate here. But Im mindful that the credit check carried out showed 
clear signs that Mr C had had an extended history of payday type borrowing. And this 
coupled with the fact that the payments to this loan meant that Mr C would be paying a 
significant proportion of his declared monthly income repaying credit, meant that 118 118 
Money ought to have found out more about more about Mr C before determining that this 
loan was affordable for him. 
I think further checks would have extended into finding out more about Mr Cs expenditure. 
And if 118 118 Money had done this here, Im persuaded that it would have seen that Mr C 
was already in a difficult financial position at the time and also found out why this was the 
case. Im also satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than not 
have shown 118 118 Money that Mr Cs existing precarious financial position was because 
he was struggling as a result of personal issues. 
So Im persuaded by what Mr C has said about already being in a difficult financial position 
at the time and the reasons for this. And as reasonable and proportionate checks should 
have extended into finding out more about Mr Cs income and expenditure, Im satisfied that 
they would more like than not have shown 118 118 Money that it shouldnt have provided 
this loan to Mr C. As 118 118 Money provided Mr C with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im 
satisfied it failed to act fairly and reasonably towards him. 
Mr C ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a loan he shouldnt have been provided 
with in the first place. So Im satisfied that Mr C lost out because of what 118 118 Money did 
wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what 118 118 Money needs to do to put things right for Mr C
Having thought about everything, 118 118 Money should put things right for Mr C by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Mr C paid on his loan;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Mr C to the date of settlement
removing any and all adverse information recorded about this loan from Mr Cs credit 
file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money to take off tax from this interest. 118 118 
Money must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Cs complaint. Madison CF UK Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman