DRN-4343011
The complaint
Mr S complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont refund transactions he didnt make or 
otherwise authorise from his account.
 
What happened
Mr S opened an account with Monzo on 16 July 2022. On 5 August 2022, Mr S contacted 
Monzo and explained that hed been forced to give up his phone and all his security details 
as he had been threatened by a relative. He said that his phone and wallet (which contained 
his Monzo card as well as the cards PIN) were taken from him and several transactions 
were made without his consent. Mr S had since managed to recover his phone. Monzo 
blocked his card and at its request, Mr S provided a Police Crime Reference Number. Monzo 
was unable to verify the reference number, but on 9 August it decided to refund the disputed 
transactions. It also paid £80 compensation to Mr S for the distress and inconvenience he 
experienced due to some service issues.
On 11 August, Mr S reported further transactions as fraudulent. He said his relative had 
hacked into his iCloud account and managed to gain access to his Monzo account before 
making several payments to an e-commerce company over two days. Monzo investigated 
Mr Ss claim and ultimately declined it and said that based on the timeline of events, the 
transactions couldnt have been authorised by anyone other than him. It also gave him two 
months notice that it would be closing his account.
On 21 August, while it was investigating Mr Ss complaint about the declined claim, Monzo 
received a further fraud notification from Mr S. He said his phone and PIN were stolen after 
he was held at knifepoint. Monzo concluded that the transactions reported on this occasion 
couldnt have been approved by anyone other than Mr S. It also took the decision to close 
his account with immediate effect.
Our investigator concluded that the evidence Monzo provided showed that the disputed 
transactions were authorised using Mr Ss device which hed said was in his possession at 
the time. So, they could only conclude that it was more likely than not that Mr S authorised 
the payments. The investigator was also satisfied that Monzo closed Mr Ss account in line 
with the accounts terms and conditions. And they thought that the compensation Monzo had 
offered was fair, although they made a mistake in their assessment and quoted the amount 
as £50 instead of £80.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators findings and asked for the complaint to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman. So, the matter has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by thanking both parties for their patience while weve been reviewing this 
complaint. Mr S has shared further details with Monzo and our service about the relative and 
their actions around the time of the payments. Im sorry to hear about what happened and 
the distress this has caused Mr S. Id like to reassure him and Monzo that although Ive only 
given an overview of what happened, Ive read and considered everything weve been 
provided in its entirety.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations; the regulators rules, guidance and standards; the codes of practice; and, 
where relevant, what I consider good industry practice at the relevant time. 
Where theres a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, I must make my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what 
I consider most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence.
Generally, Monzo can hold Mr S liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence suggests 
its more likely than not that he made or authorised the transactions himself. In this case, its 
not in dispute that Mr Ss personalised security credentials were used to make the disputed 
transactions from his Monzo account.  
But the regulations relevant to this case say that authentication isnt, on its own, enough for 
Monzo to hold Mr S liable. I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests that he, 
or someone acting with his authority, consented to the transactions being made.
To decide whether Mr S  or someone acting with his authority  made the transactions, Ive 
carefully considered what hes told us about what happened. And Ive considered that in 
conjunction with a review of the available evidence.
At the time he reported the second instance of fraud, Mr S was asked by Monzo if hed been 
in possession of his mobile device when the payments occurred. He confirmed that he did. 
The technical evidence that Monzo has provided shows that there was ever only one mobile 
device associated with Mr Ss Monzo account  the one he registered at the time of signing 
up for the account. Its also the device that was used for making transactions prior to the 
ones in dispute. The technical evidence shows that the disputed transactions on both the 
second and the third occasion were also initiated from that same device. 
Ive kept this evidence in mind when considering what Mr S has said about what happened. 
He told Monzo hed managed to recover his phone from the relative after the first instance of 
fraud. That means it was in his possession when the second set of transactions were made. 
As the phone which was used to make the transactions was in Mr Ss possession at the time 
they were made, I cant see how they could have been made without some form of 
involvement on his part. 
I also question how someone could have accessed Mr Ss Monzo account by hacking into 
his iCloud account as he claims. The evidence Monzo has provided shows that he had 
registered his Gmail account with Monzo, and this remained the case until the account was 
closed. So, even if it is the case that Mr Ss account could somehow have been accessed 
through a magic link code which was sent to the registered email address, it wouldnt have 
gone to his iCloud account which he says was hacked. In any event, I dont think this point 
about email being hacked matters since Mr Ss mobile phone was used to complete the 
transactions.
In relation to the third instance, at the time of reporting the transactions Mr S told Monzo that 
his phone had been stolen. During Monzos investigations, he said the device had since 
been blocked (presumably by the network provider). But the evidence Ive seen shows that 
Mr S had been communicating with Monzo through its in-app chat through the same device 
which hed said had been stolen.  I cant say for sure what happened at the time of the disputed transactions. But I only have to 
reach a decision based on the balance of probabilities, i.e., what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened. Ive weighed up everything and given the discrepancies and a lack of 
plausible explanation, I dont consider it fair to tell Monzo to reimburse the transactions that 
are still in dispute. Given the evidence Ive set out above, it seems more likely that these 
were made by Mr S or someone with his authority. I recognise that Mr S will likely be 
disappointed with this outcome. But I cant safely conclude that Monzo has been 
unreasonable in holding him liable. 
In his response to the investigators assessment, Mr S didnt specifically comment on the 
findings made about the account closure and the compensation Monzo paid. So, it isnt 
entirely clear whether Mr S also disagrees on these points. For the sake of completeness, Ill 
address them briefly. Monzos terms and conditions entitle it to close an account under 
certain circumstances. Ive considered the reasons Monzo has provided for closing Mr Ss 
account immediately following the third claim, and Im satisfied they apply in this case. So, I 
dont find that Monzo has acted unfairly in this regard. 
In relation to the compensation, Monzo accepts that its responses to Mr Ss messages at the 
time of the first fraud notification fell below its standards, particularly in relation to the delay 
in replying. Ive kept in mind that it did need to carry out an investigation. Having weighed up 
everything, I consider the amount of £80 that Monzo has paid for poor customer service at 
that time is fair. Because of this, I wont be asking it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman