DRN-4275673
The complaint
Mr A complains about how Wakam has dealt with his claim on his commercial motor 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr A is a taxi driver and had an insurance policy for his vehicle that was underwritten by 
Wakam. 
In August 2021 he made a claim after a third party crashed into his vehicle causing damage 
to it. Wakam accepted the claim and arranged repairs. 
Mr A provided details of the third party vehicle, the police reference number and contact 
details for witnesses. However the third party denied knowledge of the incident and Wakam 
were unable to obtain statements from the witnesses. It also took some time for it to obtain a 
copy of the police report.
Due to this the claim was registered as a fault claim while it was being settled which 
impacted Mr As policy premiums and no claims discount. 
Mr A made a complaint. He said the delays caused by Wakam had led him to lose income 
as he was without a vehicle. And hed had to pay more for his policy premiums each month 
because Wakam hadnt being proactive in obtaining a police report or witness statements. 
He was also unhappy that Wakam hadnt agreed to repair damage to the bonnet of the 
vehicle as it said the damage wasnt related to the accident. Wakam didnt uphold the 
complaint so Mr A asked this service to investigate.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought there was enough 
evidence to show that the damage to the bonnet was related to the accident so thought 
Wakam should pay for this repair. She also thought it should pay loss of earnings for the 
delay it caused when Mr As car was in for repair which she calculated as nine days. And 
she thought it should pay £200 compensation to apologise for delays and poor service. 
Wakam didnt agree with the outcome. It initially said that it had repaired the damage to the 
bonnet as a gesture of goodwill and it said Mr A had caused the delays himself, so it 
shouldnt have to compensate for these.
As agreement hasnt been reached, the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Damage to bonnet
Mr A has been clear and consistent in his description of the damaged areas of his vehicle, 
from the first time he notified Wakam of the claim. He has always highlighted the damage to 
the bonnet and has shown that the repair to this area is still outstanding. 
While Wakam has said it doesnt think the damage is related to the accident, its provided 
very little evidence to support this position. In fact, in its internal claim notes it comments that 
the damage may have been caused by the accident. And in its response to this service it has 
said it thought it covered these repairs as a good will gesture. 
Mr A has shown that the repairs to this damage are still outstanding and, as Wakam hasnt 
done enough to show the damage isnt related to the accident, I agree with our investigator 
that it should cover the cost of a repair. 
While Mr A has estimated the cost to be around £1,000, I wouldnt expect Wakam to pay for 
the repairs without any proof of this. So Mr A will need to provide a quote for the repairs, 
which Wakam should reimburse. 
Delays
From the timeline of the events provided by both sides, theres no dispute that Mr A caused 
some delay in delivering his vehicle to the repair garage. However Mr A has complained that 
once his vehicle was at the garage, it took far longer for Wakams chosen repairer to return 
his vehicle than it should have. 
Wakam has explained that for some of the time, it had to pause repairs while it considered 
which damage was accident related. And this isnt unreasonable. It needs to determine if the 
vehicle is repairable or whether the repairs are greater than a certain value that would make 
it more economical to write off. Its repairer also needs to know which damage it is able to 
repair. 
However its admitted that, once the accident damage was decided, the repairs took nine 
days longer than they should have, because of demand on the services of the garage. And 
Ive not seen anything to show that Wakam attempted to have the repair done sooner, by 
looking to appoint a different repairing garage for example. For this reason, I agree with our 
investigator that the nine days delay could have been avoided. And for that reason Wakam 
should compensate Mr A for the loss of earnings he experienced during that time. 
Wakams solicitor has agreed that Mr A earned on average £78.44 per day based on the 20 
weeks before the accident. So I agree Wakam should base the settlement on this day rate. 
Premiums and no claims discount
The third party involved in this claim has denied knowledge of the incident. At the point of 
this complaint, Wakam hadnt been ablet to prove liability and therefore reclaim any of its 
outlay on the claim. At this stage it is usual and reasonable that the claim is registered as a 
fault claim. This doesnt mean it considers Mr A to be at fault, just that it hasnt reclaimed its 
costs yet. 
Unfortunately, this does have an impact on the no claim discount during that time. And any 
claim can impact the cost of premiums. So it isnt unreasonable that these have been 
impacted while this claim is settled.Having said that, from what Ive seen I think Wakam could have done more to prove liability 
sooner. While I can see it sought to obtain a police report from the start of the claim, when it 
was asked for payment for this it has taken many months to arrange this. And Mr A provided 
the contact details for the witnesses but has had to chase Wakam in order for it to take any 
action in obtaining and chasing up statements. I think had it been more proactive with both of 
these steps, it may have resolved things more quickly. 
Based on this, I agree with our investigator that it should pay Mr A compensation to 
apologise for the slow progress of the claim. And £200 is in line with what this service has 
offered on other similar complaints so I agree this is a fair amount in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr As complaint and direct Wakam to:
Pay for the repair to the bonnet on receipt of proof of the cost from Mr A.
Pay Mr A nine days loss of earnings at a rate of £78.44 per day.
Pay Mr A £200 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman