DRN-3757061
The complaint
Mr M complains that Vanquis Bank Limited continues to report a default on his credit file 
relating to a debt it sold to another business. 
What happened
Mr M had a credit card with Vanquis that was closed in April 2019. Vanquis reported the 
default along with the outstanding balance on Mr Ms credit file. Earlier this year, Vanquis 
sold the debt to another business and noted the balance as satisfied on Mr Ms credit file. 
The new owner of Mr Ms debt recorded a default on his credit file. Mr M complained to 
Vanquis and asked it to remove its default from his credit file in light of the information being 
reported by the new owner. Vanquis didnt agree and said it had amended his credit file to 
show the balance as settled but would continue to report the history of his account. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Ms complaint. They didnt think Vanquis had 
acted unfairly by continuing to record its entry on Mr Ms credit file. Mr M asked to appeal, so 
his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr M feels hes being punished twice by having two defaults recorded relating 
to the same debt. And Mr M has told us a mortgage application was declined after a new 
default was recorded on his credit file by the new owner of the debt. I can understand Mr Ms 
view and that defaults can have an impact when applying for other credit. I need to consider 
whether Vanquis has acted fairly when recording information about Mr Ms account.
Businesses are required to report accurate information on a customers credit file. Vanquis 
says that before the debt was sold it recorded the account as unsettled. But when it sold the 
debt, the balance was noted as settled on Mr Ms credit file. The rest of the information about 
the account remains on Mr Ms credit file, including the payment profile, and I think thats 
worth noting. The new owners of the debt will only record current information about its 
dealings with Mr M. Im satisfied Vanquis is reporting historic information about the settled 
debt and that its approach is reasonable.
Mr Ms told us about different approaches taken by other businesses. But I can only consider 
Vanquis actions when looking at Mr Ms complaint. And, for the reasons Ive given above, I 
havent been persuaded that Vanquis made a mistake or acted unfairly. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but as Im satisfied Vanquis dealt with his complaint fairly Im 
not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman