DRN-4281594
The complaint
Mr K complains that the car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement with Oodle 
Financial Service Limited (OFS) wasnt of satisfactory quality. He wants to reject the car 
and be reimbursed for the costs hes incurred.
What happened
Mr K entered a hire purchase agreement in December 2021 to acquire a used car. At the 
time of the acquisition, the car was around eight years old and had been driven nearly 
80,000 miles. Mr K told us:
hes had a number of issues and faults with the car, the first of which  an electrical 
one  occurred on the day he collected it; it broke down in January 2022 and again 
several times in the following months;
hes spent a significant sum of money on multiple repairs  but theyve all failed, and 
hes also been without the car for lengthy periods of time;
the dealership acknowledged the problems hed experienced and had offered to 
exchange the car for another, but OFS hadnt agreed to a new finance agreement to 
facilitate this;
despite being unable to use the car latterly, hes maintained his monthly payments to 
OFS and continued to keep the car insured;
hes had to rent another car to remain mobile, and although OFS initially agreed to 
cover these costs, its subsequently changed its mind;
he now wants to reject the car.
OFS didnt uphold this complaint. It said it had instructed an independent inspection of the 
vehicle in August 2022, and the third party had said that although the car was no longer 
roadworthy, it didnt think the fault wouldve been present or developing at the time of supply. 
It said that electrical faults of this nature  failure of the body control module  occur 
suddenly and without warning, and that a failure of this nature would not be considered 
unusual in a car of this age.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said initially that he didnt think it should be 
upheld. He explained the relevance of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 in this particular case, 
and said he was persuaded by the contents of the independent report; the fault with the car 
was simply a result of wear and tear  Mr K had been able to drive nearly 10,000 miles, and 
the electrical issues couldnt be classified as premature failure.
Mr K disagreed and said hed obtain further independent evidence to support his position. 
And he provided evidence from a local dealership  an authorised dealer for this make of car 
 together with a further independent report from a third party.
The evidence from the dealership showed that more than two years before Mr K acquired 
this car, a previous owner had reported the exact same fault. And it confirmed that the 
repairs undertaken at the time appear to have failed to remedy the issue. It went on to 
confirm that it had identified further wiring faults and electrical issues that it said were 
lifetime parts of the car  not wear and tear issues. And it said the issue was a known issue 
with this car manufacturer.
The independent report undertaken by the third party identified 46 electrical fault codes, but 
it initially concluded that these could develop instantaneously and without warning. And 
because of this, it wouldnt ordinarily have considered these types of faults to be present at 
the point of supply. But it did consider the faults to be the result of previous unsuccessful 
repairs; specifically, that the faults addressed in December 2019  two years before Mr K 
acquired the car  are connected to the faults it identified in its inspection in June 2023.
OFS accepted that position but said it had not had the opportunity of one repair since the 
inception of the Hire Purchase agreement  something to which it said it was entitled. And it 
noted the mileage driven by Mr K.
Our investigator looked again at all the evidence and testimony from all parties and said he 
thought the complaint should be upheld. He acknowledged OFS point about having the 
opportunity to repair the car, but he emphasised the point that the car acquired by Mr K 
clearly had an issue of durability, and the evidence supported this. Put simply, despite 
numerous repairs, a fault that pre-dated Mr Ks acquisition of the car was still present nearly 
four years later. And he set out what he thought OFS should do to put things right.
OFS accepted our investigators opinion insofar as it agreed that rejection of the car would 
be the fair resolution in this case. But it didnt agree with all the compensation it was being 
asked to pay; specifically repair costs and car rental costs incurred by Mr K. Because of this, 
the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the hire purchase agreement entered into by Mr K is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement this Service is able to consider complaints relating to it. OFS is also the supplier 
of the goods under this type of agreement, and it is responsible for a complaint about their 
quality.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. This says 
under a contract to supply goods, the supplier  OFS in this case  has a responsibility to 
make sure the goods were of satisfactory quality.
Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person would expect  taking into account any 
relevant factors. The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their 
general state and condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and 
finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the 
goods. In this case, I would consider relevant factors to include, amongst others, the cars 
age, price, description and mileage.
The CRA also says that, where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed 
the fault was present when the car was supplied. But, if the fault is identified after the first six 
months, then its for Mr K to prove the fault was present when he first acquired it. 
Both parties accept that the fair way to settle this complaint is to permit Mr K to reject the 
car. OFS acknowledges and accepts the faults experienced by Mr K and it accepts his right to reject the car. Because of this, I dont need to make any findings about whether the car 
was of satisfactory quality when supplied.
The parties do not agree entirely on the redress that should be paid, so this is the focus of 
my decision.
Ive considered very carefully the comments from both parties, and Ive looked closely at the 
receipts and very detailed testimony from Mr K detailing the issues he experienced with the 
car and the repairs he had to arrange; the resultant costs of that work; and the other 
consequential costs hes incurred.
OFS says the repairs and modification made by Mr K arent costs that it should refund. It 
says these repairs were carried out without its permission or notification. Ive considered this 
point very carefully, but I have to tell OFS that I dont agree. In view of the fault and the 
resultant problems experienced with this car from the outset, and the fact that some of the 
initial repairs failed to remedy the issue, Mr K wouldve been within his rights to reject the 
car. Had this happened at the outset, Mr K would not have needed to spend any money on 
repairs to the car. And these temporary repairs did mean that Mr K had some use of the car 
 around 10,000 miles  something Ive taken into consideration. So, I think its fair for the 
compensation to take both these things into account.
At some point, the car was no longer driveable, I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr K to 
avail himself of a rental car to ensure he remained mobile. He continued to pay his monthly 
payments to OFS, but the car hed acquired under that agreement was not usable. Its my 
view that he shouldnt have to pay for two cars when he was only able to use one. So, I think 
the compensation awarded needs to take this into account.
Mr K said hed bought another car and he wanted OFS to pay for that as well. I dont think 
that is reasonable. It was his choice to buy an additional car, but unlike the car he hired, its 
an asset that he was able to retain or re-sell.
Ive also taken into account the extra cost Mr K incurred in obtaining the critical independent 
report that proved so crucial in this particular case. And I think its only fair that this moderate 
cost is returned to him. The complaint turned on that evidence, and without that report I cant 
be certain wed have reached the agreed outcome that we have.
Taking everything in the round, Im satisfied that the redress suggested by our investigator is 
both fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint, and Im going to direct OFS 
to compensate Mr K accordingly.
Putting things right
In addition to the redress agreed by Oodle Financial Service Limited, Im directing it to 
compensate Mr K for the costs incurred by him in repairing the car; having to rent another 
car; and having to obtain an independent report.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. If it has not already done so, I direct Oodle 
Financial Service Limited to:
Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay and provide confirmation of this to 
Mr K.
Remove all adverse information from Mr Ks credit file in relation to this credit 
agreement.Refund Mr K his monthly rentals made under this hire purchase agreement, with a 
deduction in respect of fair usage  this is to equate to one monthly rental per 1,000 
miles of usage hes travelled.
Refund Mr Ks expenses on trying to repair the faults and diagnose the issues. These 
costs amount to £1,109.70.
Refund the hire-cars rentals Mr K had to pay for in 2022, when his car was 
undriveable. These costs amount to £3,530.52.
Reimburse Mr K for the cost of the independent report he had to commission. The 
cost of this report was £264.00.
pay 8% simple interest on all refunded amounts calculated from 4 October 2022 until 
the date of settlement.
Pay £300 compensation to Mr K to address the distress and inconvenience hes 
suffered in the circumstances of the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman