DRN-2954241
The complaint
Mr M and Miss S complain about the way AWP P&C SA has handled a claim they made on 
their travel insurance policy.  
What happened
In July 2019, Mr M and Miss S took out an annual travel insurance policy through a broker, 
which was underwritten by AWP. Mr M and Miss S had booked a 14-day part trekking/part 
touring holiday in a country Ill call L, which they planned to take in November 2019. Their 
flights were booked via a country Ill call D.
Unfortunately, whilst on the outbound flight to D, Mr M was taken ill and suffered from 
symptoms of gastroenteritis. After disembarking from the flight, Mr M was taken to a medical 
centre in the airport and treated for around four hours. Following his discharge from the 
medical centre, Mr M continued to suffer with symptoms and he was concerned he wasnt fit 
enough to travel onto L for the two-week tour. So he and Miss S instead remained in D for 
the duration of their holiday and rearranged their return flight. They made a claim on their 
travel insurance policy for the costs associated with the amendment of their holiday, 
including the full costs of the tour in L.
Ultimately, AWP partly settled Mr M and Miss S claim. It paid the costs associated with 
amending their flight. Thats because due to Mr Ms illness, he and Miss S would always 
have missed their connecting flight from D to L. That meant AWP wouldve needed to cover 
the cost of a new flight from D to L to allow them to take their onward journey. It also agreed 
to cover the costs of an overnight stay in D. And AWP agreed to cover Mr M and Miss S for 
three unused days of their tour. Thats because it recognised that Mr M wouldve needed a 
few days to recover before joining the trip. It felt though, that after that time, Mr M wouldve 
likely been able to take the remaining 10 days of the tour.
Mr M and Miss S were unhappy with the settlement and they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator repeatedly requested a copy of AWPs file of evidence, so that he could 
assess whether its offer had been fair. However, AWP didnt provide him with this 
information. On that basis, he felt he couldnt reasonably assess the complaint. So he 
recommended that AWP should reconsider the claim.
AWP didnt respond to the investigator and so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator that AWP must reconsider Mr M and Miss S 
claim. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. In order to decide whether AWP has settled   
Mr M and Miss S claim fairly, Id need to be satisfied that it had assessed it in line with the 
terms of the contract, taking into account the available evidence and the circumstances.
In this case, despite repeated requests for its file of evidence, AWP hasnt provided us with 
any information at all. I dont have a copy of the policy terms and conditions, which form the 
basis of the contract between Mr M and Miss S. This means Im unable to determine all of 
the heads of cover under which the claim was assessed, nor what cover these sections 
provide. So it isnt at all clear whether the claim was assessed in line with the policy terms.
AWP, in its final response to the complaint, referred to its assistance teams view that Mr M 
was fit to travel following his discharge from the medical centre. It isnt clear whether AWP 
had sight of the medical centre discharge report which Mr M sent to us, or whether it relied 
on additional medical evidence or the opinions of its assistance team. Ive borne in mind too 
that the discharge reports refers both to the fact that the doctor saw nothing against 
resuming the journey and that Mr M is advised to go to hospital. I dont think the medical 
evidence I currently have is enough to demonstrate that AWPs settled this claim fairly. I also 
have no records to indicate whether Mr M spoke to the assistance team prior to deciding 
against joining the tour and what, if any, information he was given. And given it seems AWP 
decided Mr M couldve joined the tour three days in, Id also need to consider what, if any 
consideration, was given to the potential internal travel costs he and Miss S mightve 
incurred in L in travelling on to the relevant part of the tour  and whether such costs ought 
to have been included in the settlement.
On this basis then, I dont find, on balance, that AWP has shown it settled Mr M and Miss S 
claim fairly and reasonably. And so Ive decided the fair outcome here is for AWP to 
reconsider Mr M and Miss S claim for the settlement of the trip to L, in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy..
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct AWP P&C SA to reconsider Mr M and Miss S claim for settlement of the costs of 
their trip to L, in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Miss S 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman