DRN-2416599
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J are unhappy with the way St Andrews Insurance Plc handled their home 
insurance claim. They werent provided with the support they expected.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J experienced a water leak in mid-December 2018 that caused damage in their 
kitchen and utility room. They contacted their insurers and a personal claim consultant 
(PCC) was assigned on 17 January 2019. The consultant visited their property a week later 
and Mr and Mrs J asked the insurers, St Andrews, to handle the repairs. Two contractors 
were then appointed to deal with the drying out and repairs.
But Mr and Mrs J said they had to chase for responses and could only remember one visit 
from the PCC. Mr and Mrs J said theyre not young and didnt get the support they were 
promised by their insurer. So theyd like an apology for the poor service they received. And 
theyd like an extra £350 compensation for their trouble and upset.
St Andrews accepted that conditions had been uncomfortable for Mr and Mrs J. But it felt for 
the most part their house was habitable. It still had some cooking and washing facilities. For 
the time they hadnt been able to use the kitchen the PCC had agreed a payment of £100 
towards eating-out costs. St Andrews looked at the electricity used during the drying out 
process and offered an additional £50 to cover the extra expenditure. But it said the PCC 
had kept Mr and Mrs J in touch during the repair work. 
Mr and Mrs J werent satisfied with St Andrews response. So they contacted our service and 
our investigator looked into the matter. She explained the PCC wouldnt have been the sole 
point of contact. A lot of the work was done by people on the ground such as contractors. 
In response to an initial view St Andrews provided further information about the amount of 
time itd taken to assign the PCC. Unfortunately the leak had occurred during the festive 
break. But our investigator felt the claim had proceeded in a reasonable way. So the PCC 
not being in touch as much as Mr and Mrs J had wanted hadnt cause any major problems. 
And overall our investigator couldnt say St Andrews had treated Mr and Mrs J unfairly.
Mr and Mrs J didnt agree. So theyve asked for an ombudsmans final decision. The home 
insurance policy stated the PCC would be there for them with all the help they needed. And 
that hadnt happened. The PCC had overall responsibility for their welfare during the works. 
And they felt for more than five months the service and contact was non-existent.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Unfortunately in any claim involving an escape of water there is likely to be some upset and 
inconvenience. So I can appreciate how distressing this has been for Mr and Mrs J. 
Mr and Mrs J were unable to use their kitchen or utility room while the repairs were 
underway. And they felt the personal claims consultant appointed by St Andrews shouldve 
done more to keep them updated. 
I can see our investigator provided a comprehensive timeline of the various actions relating 
to the claim. So I wont repeat all of that here. But I will refer to the points that are most 
relevant to my decision.
The leak was reported just before Christmas and a contractor was appointed to assess the 
damage. After reviewing the scale of the damage in early January a personal claims 
consultant was assigned to manage the project.
 
The home insurance policy states were here to support you If your claim is complicated, 
after a flood for example, we may send a Personal Claims Consultant to visit your home and 
help you make a list of the damage. Theyll be your single point of contact and will give you 
all the help you need. 
Mr and Mrs J felt the policy wording meant the PCC shouldve been more active on their 
behalf. And they didnt feel they got the service they were expecting. So Ive looked at 
St Andrews logs to see what communication took place. But its important to understand the 
role of the PCC in relation to their claim. Once the PCC was assigned their role was to 
oversee the works and make sure the necessary repairs took place. Of course, if there was 
any problem, Id expect the PCC to respond promptly to any questions Mr and 
Mrs J might have.
According to St Andrews records the PCC called on 23 January to arrange a visit and 
attended Mr and Mrs J the next day. An email was sent four days later detailing the action 
plan and next steps. Humidifiers were installed at the end of January to begin the drying 
process. The records show a telephone message was left for Mr and Mrs J on 18 February 
and a visit was arranged for 21 Feb to install more drying equipment.
A moisture reading on 4 March showed the drying out was complete and repairs could 
commence. Another message was left on 18 April. An email followed at the end of April and 
the repairs were finished by the beginning of May  just over four months after the leak was 
reported. 
I dont think thats an unreasonable amount of time given the need to dry out the property 
and then match tiles and woodwork. And Ive not seen anything to suggest there were any 
significant delays because the PCC wasnt available. I can see further emails were sent in 
May after the work was completed.
Mr and Mrs J say they didnt receive some of the telephone messages the PCC said were 
left for them. And they had to contact the PCC in May for an update. They were told 
St Andrews cant confirm details of the calls because the telephone used had been 
changed.
Its not possible to be sure exactly whats happened. But the PCC has provided a contact log 
which does largely agree with Mr and Mrs Js recollection. I can see it sometimes took a few 
days for Mr and Mrs J to get a reply from the PCC.  But the PCC wouldve been responsible 
for a number of claims at the same time. And unfortunately a customer will often be able to 
keep things moving more swiftly if they chase the business during a schedule of work rather 
than waiting patiently for each stage to unfold. Unfortunately the leak occurred during the festive period and this created a fair degree of 
inconvenience for Mr and Mrs J. The home insurance policy doesnt provide cover for any 
such disturbance. 
But the PCC did look at the additional costs incurred by Mr and Mrs J - although I realise 
they say they had to chase for this additional funding after St Andrews asked for receipts 
and details of the electricity tariff. 
I do appreciate how strongly Mr and Mrs J feel about the PCCs level of involvement. But 
once the contractors were involved Id expect Mr and Mrs J to be updated by the people 
carrying out the work. And thats particularly important for health and safety purposes so that 
Mr and Mrs J knew where they could go and what they could use at any particular time of 
the repairs. So I wouldnt expect the PCC to be involved very much unless something went 
wrong.
Although there were slight delays while the PCC requested receipts and details of electricity 
tariffs I dont think these were particularly unreasonable. And Mr and Mrs J were able to 
contact the PCC when they needed to, as well as deal with the contractors working in their 
home.
I realise Mr and Mrs J will be disappointed with this outcome. And I recognise how stressful 
the repair work and disruption wouldve been for Mr and Mrs J. But based on what Ive seen 
I think the PCC did try and keep Mr and Mrs J updated as matters progressed. 
St Andrews has offered £100 for the trouble and upset caused while Mr and Mrs J werent 
able to properly access their kitchen. And its offered a further £50 to cover the increased 
electricity costs while the dehumidifiers were drying the property. I think thats a fair and 
reasonable response in the circumstances. I wont be asking St Andrews to do anything 
more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman