DRN-3249897
The complaint
Mr M has complained that he was given unsuitable advice by Quays Wealth Management
(QWM) Limited to transfer preserved occupational pension scheme (OPS) benefits to a self
invested personal pension (SIPP). 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 30 November 2021. Ive repeated below the background 
and my provisional findings. For the reasons I set out I upheld the complaint in part.  
Mr M had preserved benefits in a former employers OPS. He was referred to QWM by
another firm who Ill call Firm A. It was regulated but it didnt have the relevant permissions
to advise on defined benefit OPS transfers.
Theres a letter from the OPS administrator dated 14 August 2015 with details of Mr Ms
estimated benefits payable from the schemes normal retirement age (NRA) of 60: a full
pension of £10,164.12 pa or a reduced pension of £7,524 pa and tax free cash of
£50,160.38.
Mr M completed a fact find with QWM over the telephone on 24 August 2015. Amongst other
things it recorded that he was 48, single and living in rented accommodation. He was
employed, earning £24,500 pa. He held shares worth £9,500 in his employer and was a
member of its pension scheme. He had savings of £2,000. He was a first time investor. The
fact find also recorded that Mr M had long term health concerns, details of which were set
out. That was different to what a fact find Mr M had completed with Firm A on 12 August
2015 had said. It had recorded that Mr M was in good health, despite having had the same
medical conditions as recorded on QWMs fact find.
Theres an attitude to risk questionnaire. Its unsigned and doesnt have Mr Ms name on it.
But based on the answers which Mr M apparently gave, his attitude to risk was established
as eight out of ten, classified as high risk.
On 27 August 2015 the OPS administrator confirmed the cash equivalent transfer value of
Mr Ms preserved benefits was £170,133.74.
QWM issued a suitability report on 27 October 2015 recommending that Mr M transfer to a
SIPP. The main reasons for the transfer were Mr Ms reduced life expectancy; he had no
spouse or financial dependants; he wanted control and flexibility; and the state pension and
his current employers pension would meet his needs in retirement. The report also noted he
wanted the option to self invest which had prompted QWMs advice and meant a SIPP was
more suitable. The report said that Firm A was recommending that 50% of the transferred
sum be invested in Greyfriars Portfolio 6 and the other 50% in the Vanguard Lifestyle
Strategy 80% Equity Fund. Theres a transfer value analysis (TVAS) report. Its dated 18
December 2015 and based on an incorrect OPS NRA of 65 (not 60). The critical yield was
calculated as 7.65%.
£175,059.70 was transferred to the SIPP on 6 January 2016. £5,251.79 was paid in
advisers fees on the same day. On 11 January 2016 £83,000 was transferred for investment
in the Greyfriars Portfolio 6. I understand the following funds and amounts were proposed:
Orthios Eco Parks £19,724
Enviroparks Corporate Bond £19,724
Resort Group £19,724
Olmsted Bond £19,724
But the purchase instruction was later reversed. Im not sure whether QWM, Firm A or the
SIPP provider did that. The investments didnt go ahead and the funds remained in cash.
QWM wrote to Mr M on 26 January 2016 saying that £170,133.74 had been transferred to
the SIPP but:
Following discussions with [Firm As adviser] and [the SIPP provider] and after recent
regulatory guidance, it has been agreed that the investment proposed by [Firm As adviser]
to invest part of your portfolio into Greyfriars P6 is inappropriate for you.
As such, [Firm As adviser] will be meeting with you to discuss an alternative investment
strategy to meet your needs and requirements.
As set out below, QWM says that it then became aware of the involvement of a third party in
Mr Ms affairs. That person, who Ill call Mr P, was, I understand, an unregulated introducer.
QWM says it was contacted by Mr P and Mr M in March 2016 saying that the investment in
Greyfriars Portfolio 6 should go ahead.
The SIPP provider emailed QWM on 31 March 2016 to notify a change of servicing
agreement to a firm Ill call Firm B following a request from Mr M.
On 18 April 2016 £82,500 was transferred for investment in the Greyfriars Portfolio 6 and the
following investments (totalling £80,848) were subsequently made on 27 April 2016:
Dolphin Corporate Bond £15,361
Olmsted Bond £10,510
Orthios Eco Parks £18,595
Resort Group £18,595
Uavend £17,787
I understand that the investments were all minibonds. Statements from the SIPP provider
show that £82,500 of the pension fund was left in cash and the proposed Vanguard
investment was never made. According to an email from the SIPP provider on 16 June 2020,
the invested funds are now illiquid.
Firm A was wound up in 2016. Firm B has also been dissolved. The regulator, the Financial
Conduct Authority (FCA), instructed Greyfriars to stop accepting money into its Portfolio 6 in
2016. Greyfriars later went into administration. I understand that the Financial Services
Compensation Scheme (FSCS) is accepting claims against Firms A and B and Greyfriars.
Mr M complained, via his representative, to QWM in June 2019. Amongst other things the
representative said:
Mr M was a vulnerable client and should have been treated accordingly;
He had no investment experience and the assessment of his attitude to risk as
adventurous was questionable;
The FCA expected firms advising on pension transfers to consider the suitability ofthe proposed investments;
The advice had been in breach of various COBS (Conduct of Business Sourcebook)
rules and had been unsuitable.
QWM didnt uphold the complaint. It referred to a consultation paper from 2014 about
pension freedoms, which stated that ill health/reduced life expectancy will impact on the
decision to transfer out of a defined benefit OPS. Not having a spouse might also impact on
the decision. QWM didnt think Mr M was vulnerable, due to the length of time which had
passed since his illness. QWM had worked closely with Mr Ms adviser to ensure an
appropriate investment strategy was put in place.
The complaint was referred to us. Our investigator thought it should be upheld. In his view
dated 11 July 2020 he said, in summary:
COBS 19.1.6G said a firm should start by assuming that a transfer of OPS defined
benefits wont be suitable. It should only then consider a transfer to be suitable if it
can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer is in the clients
best interests. That reflected the fact that defined benefits, offering a guaranteed,
inflation proof income for life, are extremely valuable. The reasons given for the
recommendation to transfer didnt outweigh the significant disadvantage of losing
guaranteed benefits.
QWM had said Mr M was an adventurous investor. But his only investments were his
OPS and shares accumulated through an employee scheme. He was recorded as a
first time investor. An adventurous investor would be unlikely to make his first
investment at the age of 48.
The suitability report said Mr Ms attitude to risk and capacity for loss had been
assessed by Firm A. But the questionnaire produced wasnt signed by Mr M and his
name wasnt on it. And some of the answers were implausible.
QWM had said that Mr M had significant capacity for loss. But he was 48, not
particularly well paid and living in rented accommodation. He was likely to need all
the pension benefits hed accumulated to support himself in retirement. He had
limited time to recover from any significant losses. The questionnaire said small to
medium losses could be tolerated.
QWM had said Mr M could afford to take significant risks with these benefits
because his retirement income needs could be met by the state pension and his
pension from his current employer. But that seemed to be based on an unrealistic
expectation that hed only need an income roughly equivalent to the 2016 minimum
wage in retirement. In any event, he couldve accessed the benefits from his current
employers scheme flexibly in retirement if that had turned out to be appropriate.
The critical yield was apparently calculated as 7.6%. We hadnt seen the TVAS
(Transfer Value Analysis) report obtained before the suitability report was issued, but
the one provided was based on an incorrect NRA of 65. So the critical yield might be
wrong. In any event, Mr Ms chances of improving on the OPS benefits at 60 were
probably limited.
QWM had said being able to take benefits flexibly was important to Mr M. But there
was no point in making an irreversible transfer at 48 for the sake of flexibility he
couldnt take advantage of until 55. He could have retained the OPS benefits and
transferred at the point that he actually needed benefits, if appropriate.
The investigator considered that the only points that might give some justification for the
transfer were those relating to Mr Ms life expectancy and death benefits.
About life expectancy, the fact find Mr A had signed with Firm A stated he was in good
health. He also said he intended to retire at 67, in nineteen years time. It didnt seem hedbeen told by his GP or a specialist that his life expectancy was limited. Hed also survived for
some fourteen years after his diagnosis and operation. Wed asked for some further details
about Mr Ms health and it seems he had a stroke in 2013 which had affected his memory
(and which hadnt been mentioned on either fact find). Mr M said he accepted that his
medical history might affect his life expectancy but he hadnt been clearly advised that it
would be reduced.
The investigator said, as this was a central issue, it shouldve been explored in more detail,
and Mr M asked to explain why hed told Firm A that he was in good health. Mr Ms illness
was serious, but hed had a successful operation with no recurrence and the side effects
were managed. It wasnt clear to what extent his life expectancy was reduced, if at all.
Theres no indication of what QWM considered Mr Ms life expectancy to be.
Regarding death benefits, the investigator said that Mr M wasnt terminally ill and it was
unclear if his life expectancy was significantly impaired. The improved death benefits werent
sufficient to outweigh the loss of guaranteed retirement benefits. For most people, the
primary purpose of a pension is to provide an income in retirement.
Lastly the investigator agreed with Mr Ms representative that QWM had a responsibility to
consider the proposed investments too. Investing half Mr Ms pension in a portfolio of
minibonds was unsuitable and it seemed that QWM had come to that conclusion too after it
had advised Mr M to transfer. It seemed unlikely that he was an adventurous investor and he
didnt have significant capacity for loss. The proposed investments were too high risk overall
and QWM shouldve advised Mr M accordingly.
The investigator proposed redress in line with the pension review methodology, as amended
by the FCA in October 2017. Five years worth of charges for the SIPP should also be paid
plus £300 for the trouble and upset Mr M had been caused.
QWM didnt accept what the investigator had said. QWMs main points were:
Mr M was introduced to QWM in August 2015 by Firm A who told QWM that Mr M
had decided on an investment opportunity  Greyfriars Portfolio 6. As Firm A didnt
have the necessary permissions to transact final salary pension transfers, Mr M
asked QWM to facilitate the transfer.
QWM had lengthy discussions with Mr M as to why he wanted to give up defined
benefits in his OPS. He offered a number of medical justifications (as detailed in the
fact find) to transfer, which he described as serious and which made him determined
to transfer. QWM referenced research that said life expectancies of those whod had
the same illness as Mr M were reduced by an average of 20 years.
Written confirmation received from Greyfriars about its Portfolio 6, stating that
investments would only be allocated to Standard Investments as defined by the FCA
paper PS14/12, was fraudulent. In January 2016, after instructing a third party to
carry out due diligence and after contacting the FCA, QWM became aware that the
FCA deemed Greyfriars Portfolio 6 to be a non-standard investment.
QWM immediately contacted Mr M and Greyfriars. The portfolio had been opened
but no investments placed. All funds remained in cash. QWM wrote to Mr M (QWMs
letter of 26 January 2016) raising concerns about the investment and recommending
an alternative investment strategy.
As mentioned above, QWM says it was contacted by Mr P and Mr M in March 2016.
Mr P demanded that Mr M be invested back into Greyfriars Portfolio 6. QWM says
that was a huge warning sign and it reported its concerns to the FCA via its
whistleblowing procedure. QWM was also then contacted by Mr M. He said it was
his money and QWM should invest as hed instructed.The servicing of Mr Ms pension plan was transferred to Firm B on 31 March 2016.
Firm B gave the instruction to place the investment with Greyfriars in April 2016. It
was incorrect, unfair and, from a regulatory and legal point unacceptable, for this
service to try to protect the FSCS by blaming QWM for an investment it didnt place.
It was clear that, unbeknown to QWM, Mr M was working with an unregulated
introducer (Mr P). Mr M was determined to invest in Greyfriars Portfolio 6 even after
QWM had confirmed the FCA had deemed the investment non-standard and QWM
had refused to allow Mr M to invest. The unregulated introducer then found a
company (Firm B) to facilitate the investment.
QWM did advise on the pension transfer (due to the health concerns already
discussed) but is now convinced that Mr M was set on the transfer, regardless of any
advice from QWM or any other firm.
Not only did QWM proactively seek guidance on Portfolio 6 but after recommending
Mr M shouldnt proceed Mr M disengaged and terminated QWMs services. It
seemed he had persuaded his new adviser (Firm B), possibly with the assistance of
the unregulated introducer (Mr P), to make a recommendation. QWM couldnt be
held accountable for an investment into a product it advised against and which was
then placed by another regulated firm.
After the transfer, QWM did everything it could to try and ensure that Mr M was
offered a suitable alternative to his desired Greyfriars Portfolio 6 investment.
QWMs starting point had been that transferring was unsuitable. Its recommendation
was based on Mr Ms reduced life expectancy; the potential death benefits before
age 55; that he had no spouse or financial dependents; and he lived quite frugally
and his state and current employers pensions would meet his day to day needs in
retirement. As his essential expenditure could be met in retirement via other
guaranteed sources of income he had capacity for loss. As to his attitude to risk,
although he was a first time investor, there were other drivers such as his potential
time horizon, the potential for greater returns and his capacity for loss.
The aims of the personal pension were to provide death benefits to chosen
beneficiaries, if death occurred before age 55 and to access benefits flexibly from
age 55 to meet the demands of his deteriorating health. The advice was correct and
the issue of assets purchased by a third party (Firm B) had nothing to do with QWM.
Our investigator considered what QWM had said. His main points were:
He didnt agree that the statistics QWM had referenced demonstrated that Mr M had
a reduced life expectancy.
Mr M might have been determined to transfer, whether because of his health or
because he was being influenced by an unauthorised individual. But it was more
likely that Mr M wouldve followed advice against transferring.
QWM had said the statement in the brochure that the portfolio assets would be
standard investments was fraudulent. But the types of assets held in Portfolio 6
were available on request. They were all bonds issued by relatively small,
speculative property developers. QWM had said it had arranged for a third party to
carry out due diligence in January 2016 but that was after recommending the
transfer. The regulators 2013 and 2014 alerts made it clear that advisers should
consider the suitability of the proposed investments before recommending transfer.
QWM knew what investments Mr M was proposing to make and ought to have known
the Greyfriars Portfolio 6 was unsuitable before issuing the suitability report. Mr M
wanted to transfer in order to make that investment. It was arguable that his losses
were a consequence of the advice to transfer.
The transfer wouldnt have gone ahead if QWM had advised against it, despite the
involvement of an unregulated introducer. A letter sent three months after the
recommendation referring to Portfolio 6 as inappropriate wouldnt carry the sameweight.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the views expressed by the investigator and with the reasons
he gave as to why the complaint should be upheld. Ive set out in some detail the
investigators rationale and analysis which I endorse. I dont have much to add but my
starting point is COBS 19.6.1G which said, at the time:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or
opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out
to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer,
conversion or opt-out is in the client's best interests.
Like the investigator, I certainly dont regard the critical yield as the only factor in deciding if
transferring was in Mr Ms best interests. But it is relevant in considering the financial viability
of the transfer and the likelihood of whether, and if so to what extent, the benefits in the new
arrangement might not replicate those given up in the OPS.
The TVAS provided by QWM shows that a critical yield of 7.65% was needed to match the
benefits being given up. But that used the wrong retirement age of 65 as NRA under the
OPS was 60. Although the estimated pension at 60 was lower (£10,164 pa and not £13,003
at age 65) had the correct retirement age been used, the critical yield may well have been
higher.
The advice was given during the period when this service was publishing 'discount rates' on
our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer
was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving
advice on pension transfers, I think they provide some context as to what growth rates would
have been considered reasonably achievable when the advice was given in this case.
This discount rate was 5% per year for 16 years to retirement, if age 65 was used, and 4.7%
if the scheme age of 60 was selected. Whichever age is used, the level of return is well
below the yield needed to match the benefits being given up. I agree with the investigator
that the likelihood was that Mr M would be worse off as a result of transferring. I also note
that Mr M had said he was intending to retire at age 67. I cant see it was made clear to him
that his OPS would pay benefits from age 60.
Mr M was apparently recorded as having a high attitude to risk. I dont regard that as
credible. The risk questionnaire thats been provided is unsatisfactory as its unsigned and
doesnt show Mr Ms name. And, as the investigator noted, some of the answers Mr M
apparently gave were contradictory. Added to that, Mr M had said he was a first time
investor. I note he held some but these were in his employer, a large, well known and
established blue chip company. The shares wouldve been offered to employees such as
Mr M under an employee share purchase scheme. As well as being able to purchase the
shares at a discount, there are likely to have been tax advantages.
I dont think QWM shouldve accepted, without further discussion, that Mr M, a novice
investor, apparently wanted to take a high degree of risk with his OPS benefits, which it
seemed were his main asset. As Ive said he had shares (worth £9,500) in his employer. But
he didnt own his own property. He only had small amount of savings (which QWM said heneeded to build up to create an emergency fund). And, although he was a member of his
current employers pension scheme, it was a money purchase arrangement. At the time, the
value of Mr Ms benefits in that scheme was £38,500. Mr Ms most valuable asset was the
benefits hed accrued in the OPS he transferred.
I dont agree with what QWM has said about Mr M having capacity for loss  in effect that he
wouldnt need the benefits from the OPS in retirement as his state pension and the pension
from his current employers scheme would meet his needs in retirement. Mr Ms recorded
outgoings were £1,040 pm, most of which was essential expenditure including his rent, an
expense hed have to continue to meet in retirement. Hed need an income of £12,480 a
year just to meet his bills. State pension in 2015 was £9,643 pa, so his pension from his
current employer would have to pay over £3,000 pa. That might be achievable but wouldnt
leave funds for anything else. In that case it would result in a lower standard of living in
retirement for Mr M. If hed retained his OPS benefits, he could expect a minimum pension
income of some £20,000 pa once he reached state pension age.
Ive looked at Mr Ms overall circumstances and objectives to see if the transfer was suitable.
QWM has pointed to health issues including improved death benefits on transfer plus the
ability to take benefits flexibly.
I acknowledge that there were question marks about Mr Ms health. Health concerns and/or
a reduced life expectancy may justify a recommendation to transfer. But I cant see that
QWM looked into that to the degree it shouldve done if it was basing its recommendation to
transfer on Mr Ms life expectancy being reduced. COBS 19.1.6G says that a firm should be
able to clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer is in the clients
best interests. I think what QWM knew about Mr Ms health at the time was limited and, to
some extent at least, contradictory.
As the investigator pointed out, the fact find completed by Firm A recorded that Mr M was in
good health, despite the medical conditions set out. QWMs fact find noted the same details
about Mr Ms medical history but also that he had long term health concerns. Its unclear why
Mr M would tell Firm A that he was in good health and yet, less than two weeks later, raise
serious health concerns with QWM. And, if he was concerned about his life expectancy, why
hed say he intended to retire at 67, his state pension age, which was then some 19 years
away.
I note QWM says it had lengthy discussions with Mr M as to why he wanted to give up
defined benefits in his OPS and that Mr M referred to serious medical issues which made
him determined to transfer. QWMs fact find does refer, in several places, to Mr Ms health
concerns, including the following:
Given [Mr Ms] current health situation he is very concerned around life expectancy and
enjoying the money that has been built up in pension schemes. [Mr M] plans to work until
age 67 if possible and if his health allows. At this stage he would like to retire and access his
benefits flexibly so he can enjoy the retirement he has.
He believes his life expectancy will be dramatically reduced due to his health issues since
2001. He is very concerned that he has no spouse or dependants to leave his funds to and
would like to spend and enjoy them during his retirement.
And the suitability report recorded that Mr M had confirmed he was in poor health and that
hed had an operation in 2001 which had left him with a medical condition which was
managed by medication but hed suffered symptoms in 2012. Hed said he believed his life
expectancy had been significantly reduced due to these health problems.
But I havent seen an evidence of any further discussions that QWM had with Mr M about hismedical history. I dont think in a situation such as this that an adviser should just rely on
what a consumer says and where there seems to be some uncertainty. QWM doesnt seem
to have asked Mr M if hed actually had any medical opinion as to whether his health issues
(which would include the stroke he had in 2013 which he doesnt seem to have disclosed)
had reduced his life expectancy and, if so, to what extent.
I think its natural for Mr M to have had some concerns bearing in mind his medical history.
Hed had a serious condition but hed had a successful operation some 14 years earlier.
Although that had left him with an ongoing medical condition that seemed to be largely under
control. Hed been able to return to work (albeit with a different employer as hed left the
OPS employer when he became ill in 2001 and needed treatment). And he was apparently
planning on working until he reached age 67 (although QWM noted that as health
permitting).
Mr M hadnt received any terminal prognosis and it seems that the extent to which, if at all,
his life expectancy had been affected was unclear. I think QWM shouldve explored the issue
with Mr M more fully, including obtaining medical opinion if necessary.
Nor do I think it was appropriate for QWM to rely on what I understand were generalised
statistics. There can be a wide range of conditions and particular medical issues which fall
under one very general umbrella term. While I dont dispute that Mr Ms illness was very
serious, diagnosis, prognosis and survival rates can vary from one individual to another. I
think its dangerous to rely on statistics and in the absence of specific medical information
and opinion in respect of the particular individual.
Regardless of Mr Ms health issues, he was single with no dependents. So he didnt need
the 50% spouses benefit the OPS provided. But then neither did he have any real need for
the improved death benefits the transfer provided. The main aim of retirement savings is to
provide an income in retirement. I cant see, given what Ive said above about Mr Ms income
needs, that better death benefits justified transferring.
QWM has also said that being able to take benefits flexibly was important to Mr M. But, as
the investigator said, there was no point in making an irreversible transfer at age 48 for the
sake of flexibility that Mr M couldnt take advantage of until 55. He couldve retained the OPS
benefits and transferred at the point that he actually needed benefits, if appropriate.
I dont think the reasons given by QWM justify the recommendation to transfer and give up
the guaranteed benefits the OPS wouldve provided from age 60. I think the
recommendation to transfer was unsuitable.
In addition, the proposed investment in Greyfriars Portfolio 6 also meant the transfer was
unsuitable. QWM couldnt advise on transferring without considering how the transfer value
was to be invested. Alerts issued by the regulator in January 2013 and 28 April 2014 made
that clear and that suitable advice generally required consideration of the overall transaction,
that is the vehicle, the wrapper and the expected underlying investments and whether or not
such investments were regulated products. I dont overlook that Mr M had another adviser
(Firm A and then Firm B) who was apparently helping him with his investment choices. And it
seems there was an unregulated adviser too. But that didnt relieve QWM of the obligation to
consider the suitability of the proposed investment as part of the advice as to whether Mr M
should transfer.
The minibond investments were all high risk and unsuitable for Mr M and certainly for half of
his pension fund. I dont think QWM can disagree, given that it wrote to Mr M on 26 January
2016 saying that Greyfriars Portfolio 6 wasnt appropriate for him. QWM has said that
Greyfriars provided fraudulent information about the investments. But the fact is that QWMbecame aware of the nature of the investments after completing its own research  which it
could and should have done earlier and before it advised Mr M whether to transfer.
All in all, the transfer was unsuitable. It wasnt viable on financial grounds and Mr Ms
circumstances werent such as meant the transferring was in his best interests. And the
proposed underlying investment was unsuitable too. I think QWM shouldve advised Mr M
against transferring.
Ive gone on to consider what Mr M wouldve done if QWM had given him suitable advice 
that he shouldnt transfer. Where there's a dispute about what happened (or what might
have happened if something different had been done) I have to decide, on the balance of
probabilities and taking into account such evidence as is available, what the likely outcome
wouldve been.
Ive noted all QWM says about Mr M being determined to invest in Greyfriars Portfolio 6.
That seems to have been the original driver for the transfer and that investment was made,
even though QWM had told Mr M that it wasnt appropriate for him. I also take into account
the involvement of other parties  Firm A and Firm B and also what QWM says about Mr M
being influenced by Mr P, an unregulated introducer.
My starting point is that a consumer, particularly an inexperienced investor as Mr M was, is
likely to follow professional advice. Although Firm A had apparently made Mr M aware of the
investment opportunity in Greyfriars Portfolio 6, Mr M had no funds to make the investment
and was dependent on the value of his OPS benefits being transferred to enable him to
invest. And, because Firm A couldnt advise about that, hed been referred to QWM for
specialist advice. I think, if QWM had told Mr M that it couldnt recommend the transfer and
why, that would have carried weight.
As Ive said, the driver for the transfer appears to have been the investment. QWM shouldve
considered the proposed investment as part of its advice as to whether Mr M should transfer
and shouldve identified (as it later did) that the investment was unsuitable for Mr M and
explained why  essentially that it was too high risk and Mr M might lose all the money he
was investing. I think Mr M is likely to paid attention to that sort of advice, given before hed
gone ahead with the transfer and which wouldve undermined the rationale for the transfer.
I think hes likely to have thought again if QWM had advised him against transferring and
investing as hed planned.
But, as things happened, QWMs unsuitable advice, in effect, endorsed what Mr M may have
been told by others about the investment and its prospects. QWMs advice that Mr M should
transfer  without QWM having raised any concerns about the proposed investment  didnt
give Mr M any reason not to go ahead. Hed presumably been told by Firm A (and maybe Mr
P too) that the Greyfriars Portfolio 6 was a good investment opportunity. Suitable advice
from QWM wouldve called in question what Mr M had been told by others.
And if hed still wanted to transfer, despite advice from QWM that he shouldnt, Mr M
wouldve faced difficulties. If hed still wanted to proceed, QWM wouldve needed to treat him
as an insistent client, that is one who still wanted to proceed despite advice to the contrary.
QWM wouldve needed to explore with Mr M and recorded his reasons why he wanted to
proceed despite advice from the contrary from a specialist pension transfer adviser. I think
that sort of conversation wouldve been likely to further concentrate Mr Ms mind on whether
he really wanted to proceed with the transfer, despite specialist advice to the contrary and
when the proposed investment represented a high degree of risk.
If QWM hadnt been prepared to process the transfer on an insistent client basis Mr M would
probably have needed to find a new adviser who presumably wouldve given suitable advice that Mr M shouldnt transfer. So Mr M wouldve been no further forward. Im also aware
(although I dont know what Mr Ms SIPP operators stance was) that some providers arent
prepared to accept a transfer value unless positive advice to transfer has been given. All in
all, if QWM had advised Mr M not to transfer, I think hed have heeded that advice.
If Mr M wouldnt have transferred if QWM had told him not to then, in theory at least, QWM is
responsible for all the losses Mr M incurred in consequence of transferring. That was the
view taken by the investigator, although he acknowledged there might be an argument for
saying that QWM isnt responsible for Mr Ms investment losses.
Ive considered that argument very carefully. And I think, in the circumstances of this
particular case, that it might not be fair and reasonable to say that QWM should be
responsible for Mr Ms losses in connection with the Greyfriars Portfolio 6 investment.
Ive seen that QWM wrote to Mr M on 26 January 2016, saying the investment wasnt
appropriate. At that stage the investment hadnt actually been made. As Ive said above, I
dont know exactly who did what and who told Greyfriars not to make the investments
previously instructed. But the fact of the matter is that the investments werent made at that
stage and the money was returned to cash. So it was open to Mr M to rethink his decision to
invest in Greyfriars Portfolio 6 and against the background that QWM didnt think that
investment was appropriate for him.
QWM suggests that it recommended an alternative investment strategy and that it did
everything it could to try and ensure that Mr M was offered a suitable alternative to the
Greyfriars Portfolio 6 hed wanted to invest in.
Im not sure thats quite what happened. QWM said, in its letter to Mr M dated 26 January
2016, that Mr Ms Firm A adviser would be meeting with Mr M to discuss an alternative
investment strategy. QWM didnt put forward any alternative investment recommendations.
Given that the proposed investments formed part and parcel of the transfer and the
suitability of the transfer couldnt be assessed without taking the proposed underlying
investments into account, I think QWM shouldve made some alternative recommendations
or at least checked with Firm As adviser that was in hand. I think Mr M might have been less
inclined to proceed with the investment initially proposed if some alternative investments had
been suggested.
And, to a certain extent at least, it was by then too late. The transfer had been completed
and Mr Ms funds were available for investment and when QWM knew that Mr M was
planning to invest half of the transfer amount in a high risk product.
Further it seems that QWM later became aware that there was an unregulated introducer
involved and who, it seems, was advocating the Greyfriars Portfolio 6 investment. QWM
says it has never worked with unregulated introducers. And that it reported the matter to the
FCA. But I havent seen that QWM took any steps to make Mr M aware that he should be
wary of dealing with an unregulated adviser. Had QWM done that, Mr M might have decided
to sever any ties with Mr P. Instead, and as things happened, the investment was
subsequently made, Mr M by then having dispensed with QWMs services as his adviser.
So all in all I think QWM couldve done more to try to dissuade Mr M from investing in
Greyfriars Portfolio 6.
But, as Ive noted, QWM did write to Mr M on 26 January 2016 saying he shouldnt invest as
planned. On the one hand, I agree with the investigator that writing to Mr M three months
after recommending the transfer and referring to Portfolio Six as inappropriate and without
any explanation why, didnt carry anything like the same weight as advice not to transfer
wouldve done, coupled with an explanation as to why the proposed investment wasntsuitable. So, although Mr M went ahead with the investment despite QWM saying it wasnt
appropriate, I dont think it must follow that hed have ignored earlier advice not to proceed
with the transfer at all.
But it is the case that Mr M chose to ignore QWMs advice that he shouldnt invest in
Greyfriars Portfolio 6 and went ahead with that investment. It seems, from what QWM has
said, that Mr M preferred to rely on what an unregulated introducer had told him and possibly
what Firm Bs adviser might have said too.
Despite QWMs unsuitable advice that Mr M should transfer, if Mr M had acted on QWMs
later advice not to invest in Greyfriars Portfolio 6, Mr Ms losses in connection with that
investment wouldve been avoided. QWM, having given unsuitable advice that Mr M should
transfer, then did take steps to prevent him investing in an unsuitable product. In the
circumstances I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for QWM to be responsible for the
losses Mr M has incurred in respect of investing in the Greyfriars Portfolio 6.
The redress Ive set out below allows for that. It takes into account that Mr M is likely to have
invested in an alternative higher risk product, hence Ive specified that the FTSE UK Private
Investors Growth Total Return Index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market
Growth Total Return Index) should be used as a comparator and to arrive at a notional value
for what the money (£80,848) invested in Greyfriars Portfolio 6 wouldve been worth now,
which value can be used instead of the actual value of that investment.
I note that it seems the plan was that the other half of the transfer value would be invested in
the Vanguard Lifestyle Strategy 80% Equity Fund. But it appears that investment was never
made. As far as Im aware the money has remained in cash in Mr Ms SIPP.
For the purposes of calculating redress the actual value of the SIPP can be used. QWM
might argue that a notional value should again be used on the basis that Mr Ms new
investment adviser  the adviser who placed the Greyfriars Portfolio 6 investment  was
responsible for Mr Ms SIPP investments. But I dont think that necessarily follows. As Ive
said QWM gave Mr M unsuitable advice to transfer. QWM is responsible for the losses that
flow from that unsuitable advice, which include Mr Ms investment losses. That said, Ive
explained above why I dont think it would be fair, in the circumstances of this particular
case, to say that QWM is responsible for the losses Mr M incurred in respect of his
Greyfriars Portfolio 6 investment. But QWM remains liable for other losses which flow from
its unsuitable advice to transfer.
QWM didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr Ms representative acknowledged receipt 
but didnt want to comment further. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any further comments, arguments or evidence, my views remain as in my 
provisional decision. Ive set out above my provisional findings in full and they form part of 
this decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained how QWM should redress Mr M. Ive largely repeated 
that below.   
Putting things rightMy conclusion is that a fair outcome would be for Quays Wealth Management Limited to put 
Mr M, as far as possible, in the position hed now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I 
consider he wouldve remained in the OPS. Quays Wealth Management Limited should 
therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the pension review methodology, as 
amended by the FCA in October 2017.This calculation should be carried out using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date my final decision.
Quays Wealth Management Limited may wish to contact the Department for Work and 
Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ms contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension 
Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS 
adjustment in the calculation, which will take into account the impact of leaving the 
occupational scheme on Mr Ms SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If this demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid into Mr Ms
pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing
protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The redress calculation requires Quays Wealth Management Limited to compare the actual 
value of Mr Ms SIPP with the value of the benefits given up in the OPS. But Quays Wealth 
Management Limited may adjust the current value of Mr Ms SIPP by using a notional value 
for the money that was invested in the Greyfriars Portfolio 6. That notional value is to be 
calculated by reference to a benchmark  the FTSE UK Private Investors Growth Total 
Return Index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Growth Total Return 
Index. The notional value is the amount actually invested in Greyfriars Portfolio 6 plus a 
return from the date of investment using the benchmark specified to the date of the 
calculation.
Quays Wealth Management Limited should also pay Mr M compensation of £300 for distress 
and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Quays Wealth Management Limited must redress Mr M as Ive set 
out above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2022. 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman