DRN-3120883
The complaint
Mr D and Mr A, trading as P, complain about the decision of HDI Global SE to decline their 
business interruption insurance claim, made due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
Mr D and Mr A held a commercial insurance policy underwritten by HDI. In March 2020, 
Mr D and Mr A closed Ps premises as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. They contacted 
HDI to claim. 
I will note at this point that much of the correspondence in relation to the claim included Mr D 
and Mr As broker and HDIs loss adjuster. But as HDI is responsible for the claim decision, 
Ive largely just referred to HDI for the sake of simplicity. 
HDI decided not to meet the claim. HDI said that the policy did provide cover where the 
occurrence of a relevant disease had caused business interruption, but that this required the 
disease to have occurred on the policyholders premises. And that Mr D and Mr A had not 
provided sufficient evidence to show this had happened. 
Mr D and Mr A were unhappy with this and complained, ultimately brining their complaint to 
this service. Our Investigator didnt think the clam should be upheld though. He said it was 
for Mr D and Mr A to evidence that their claim met the requirements of the policy and he 
didnt think theyd done this. Mr D and Mr A remained unsatisfied, so their complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on Mr D, Mr A, and their business, I wont be upholding their complaint. 
Ill explain why.
The type of cover Mr D and Mr A are looking to claim under is business interruption 
insurance. There are a range of business interruption insurance policies on the market 
covering different risks. For example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire 
or flood, whilst others provide cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as 
optional add-ons. The starting point is to consider the specific policy Mr D and Mr A took out.
The standard cover provided by the business interruption section of Mr D and Mr As policy, 
as well as a number of the extensions to this cover, is based on an interruption to the 
business of the insured which has been caused by damage to property. Whilst I appreciate 
the pandemic has caused substantial financial loss, I dont think COVID-19 caused damage 
to property which has led to an interruption of Mr D and Mr As business.
So, I dont think either the standard business interruption cover, or the extensions that rely 
on there having been damage, provide cover in the circumstances of Mr D and Mr As claim. 
And I think HDI acted fairly and reasonably in not meeting Mr D and Mr As claim under this 
area of cover.
Mr D and Mr As policy does include an extension to the business interruption section that 
provides cover where a disease has led to the premises being closed. The policy says, in 
part:
The liability of the Insurer includes loss as insured by this Section resulting from 
interruption or interference with the Business in consequence of
1) Premises Closure or Restrictions
a) closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice of or with the 
approval of the Medical Officer of Health for the Public Authority as a result 
of a Notifiable Human Disease occurring at the Premises
The words in bold have a specific definition in the policy, but the interpretation of these is not 
disputed in this case. Significantly, it isnt disputed that COVID-19 would fall under the 
definition of Notifiable Human Disease. 
But this clause does require that, in this case, COVID-19 occurred at the Premises. 
Mr D and Mr A have said that a member of staff was ill and that the illness was suspected to 
be COVID-19. Their symptoms were described as a cough and high temperature. But limited 
evidence has been provided to support the fact that this was an occurrence of COVID-19. 
I do appreciate there were difficulties with any policyholder demonstrating that an illness 
around this time was most likely to have been COVID-19. The availability of testing was 
limited and, unless someone was hospitalised, they may not have been tested. 
But, in this case, there is a lack supporting evidence and the description of symptoms is 
limited. So, I am not persuaded that this was more likely than not an occurrence of 
COVID-19. 
If this individual was ill, I am not persuaded that this was more likely to be COVID-19 rather 
than another illness. And if it was another illness, such illness was not the cause of the 
Governments regulations which caused Mr D and Mr As business to close.
As Mr D and Mr A have not been able to demonstrate it is more likely than not that there was 
an occurrence of a Notifiable Human Disease at Ps premises, that caused an interruption to 
their business, I am satisfied HDIs decision to decline the claim was in line with the policy, 
and in all the circumstances of this case fair and reasonable.
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means HDI should have met Mr D and Mr As claim. I know this decision will be 
disappointing for them, but I hope Ive provided them with a thorough explanation of why this 
policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman