DRN-2241154
The complaint
Mr H says PDL Finance Limited - trading as Mr Lender - irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about three instalment loans Mr Lender provided to Mr H between           
November 2013 and January 2016. A summary of Mr Hs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Max 
Repayment
1 20/11/2013 10/01/2014 1 £450.00 £528.75
Break in lending 
2 22/11/2015 27/01/2016 2 £100.00 £80.40
3 27/01/2016 14/04/2016 4 £350.00 £179.90
Mr Hs complaint was reviewed by one of our adjudicators reviewed and they didnt think any 
of the loans should be upheld. They thought the checks Mr Lender did before lending to      
Mr H were proportionate for the length of time Mr H had been borrowing from Mr Lender. 
Mr H disagreed and said if Mr Lender had done proper checks it would have seen he was 
borrowing from other short-term lenders and was struggling financially. As the complaint 
couldnt be resolved informally, it was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint. Having done this, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators view because she thought Mr Lenders checks didnt 
go far enough and it should have been aware that he was struggling financially. So, it 
shouldnt have lent to him.
Mr Lender has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving any of the 
borrowing. It has said it asked Mr H about his employment status and he confirmed he was 
employed and had a monthly income of between £2,200 and £2,300. Mr Lender also 
checked Mr Hs normal monthly living costs. Mr H declared these to be between £780 and 
£1,690 per month. So, on the fact of it Mr H had adequate disposable income to make the 
loan repayments. Mr Lender says it also searched Mr Hs credit file. Ive seen a copy of 
those results and there werent any recent adverse entries like defaults, county court 
judgements (CCJs) or excessive borrowing from short-term lenders recorded on it at the 
time each of the loans were taken out. So, I dont think there was anything in the information 
that Mr Lender gathered that ought to have prompted it to do further checks or not to provide 
the loan to Mr H.
Mr H repaid loan 1 in January 2014, there was then a 22-month gap between him repaying 
this loan and taking out loan 2. I think it would be reasonable for Mr Lender to view this gap 
as an indication that Mr Hs finances had stabilised after whatever had led him to borrow 
previously. 
A break in the chain of lending, in effect, starts the clock ticking again on what we would 
consider to be proportionate checks a business should carry out when considering the length 
of the borrowing relationship with the consumer. So, for both chains, Mr H was very early on 
in his lending relationship with Mr Lender. 
Even taking into consideration that for some loans Mr H was having to make monthly 
repayments and for other loans just a one-off amount, the highest amounts would have 
appeared affordable based on the information he declared to Mr Lender. And there wasnt 
anything in the information Mr H provided at the time which would have given Mr Lender 
cause for concern, so I think it was reasonable of Mr Lender to have relied on what Mr H 
gave it. 
Mr H has said he was borrowing from other short-term lenders. But at this stage of the 
lending relationship, and what Mr Lender knew about Mr H, I wouldnt have expected it to 
verify the information Mr H gave it. This means, I cant say that Mr Lender has done 
something wrong in lending Mr H these loans. So, whilst the information Mr H declared to Mr 
Lender at the time of the loans may not have been an accurate reflection of his financial 
circumstances, I think Mr Lender was entitled to rely on that information. I think these factors had an impact of what level of checks would have been appropriate for 
Mr Lender to carry out. Given these, I think the checks Mr Lender did before lending the 
loans went far enough and I wouldnt have expected it at this stage to undertake any more 
in-depth checks. 
I appreciate that my findings are likely to disappoint Mr H, but I hope my explanation will help 
him understand why Ive reached this conclusion.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint and make no award against PDL Finance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman