DRN-3614304
The complaint
Ms G has complained that Topaz Finance Limited refused to agree to proposals from her 
financial adviser (IFA) about settling her mortgage account after the mortgage expired in 
April 2021. Ms G is also unhappy about Topazs customer service, in particular the length of 
time she was put on hold during telephone calls, and about correspondence received from 
Topaz.
To settle the complaint Ms G says she wants Topaz to address the options proposed by her 
IFA, as this is causing her stress.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letter dated 8 July 2022. All parties have a copy of that letter, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Ms G being identified. So for these reasons, I will 
keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
Ms G has a mortgage taken out in 2006. She borrowed £124,390 on a capital repayment 
basis over a 13-year term. 
The mortgage is now owned by Topaz. Over the years, Ms G has transferred the loan onto 
interest-only, and then back to capital repayment, on several occasions, the last one being in 
January 2019. The mortgage term came to an end in April 2021, and was changed from 
interest-only back to capital repayment in August 2021. The monthly repayments are now 
approximately £1,800 per month, which Ms G has confirmed she cannot afford. She has 
continued to pay £300 towards the mortgage repayment but the account is substantially in 
arrears.
The mortgage balance of about £67,000 is now due to be repaid. Through her IFA, Ms G 
was given an agreement in principle for a mortgage of £50,000 from another lender. Ms G 
says her IFA contacted Topaz in May 2021 asking if it would either accept the £50,000 in full 
settlement of the mortgage, or else extend the mortgage term on an interest-only basis until 
Ms Gs death (at the time, Ms G was aged 63).
There followed an exchange of correspondence over the next few months between Topaz, 
the IFA and Ms G (the full chronology of which is set out in the investigators letter of 
8 July 2022). 
Ms G complained that Topaz hadnt properly responded to her or given proper consideration 
to her request either for a short settlement on the account or for a term extension on an 
interest-only basis. Ms G was also unhappy at call waiting times, saying she was put on hold 
for long periods of time. Ms G was also unhappy that, in November 2021, she and her IFA 
were sent correspondence from Topaz about her term end which was incorrect.
Topazs position is that it requested further information and more clarity from Ms G or her 
IFA about her proposals, but didnt receive this. Topaz didnt accept Ms G was put on hold 
for (as she said) 45 minutes, as its call logs didnt support this. Topaz did acknowledge that it 
had sent an incorrect letter twice, and offered compensation of £100 for this.
Ms G complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An investigator looked at what had 
happened. She was satisfied Topaz had acted fairly in relation to its consideration of Ms Gs 
proposals. The investigator thought it was reasonable for Topaz to ask for further information 
about how she would repay the shortfall, and about how long a term extension she wanted, 
and the repayment strategy if she was granted this.
In relation to customer service, the investigator wasnt persuaded Ms G should be 
compensated if she had been put on hold. The investigator wasnt able to find evidence of 
any extended periods on hold in Topazs call records. In relation to the incorrect letter being 
sent in November 2021, the investigator thought the £100 offered by Topaz for this was fair.
Ms G disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. Ms G says that, in her opinion, Topaz hadnt acted fairly and is responsible for her 
account now being in arrears.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said at the outset, I wont set out all the details of whats happened, but I confirm Ive 
read and considered everything provided by Ms G and Topaz, and Ive listened to the call 
recording provided. Having done so, Im afraid I have disappointing news for Ms G; Im not 
upholding her complaint. These are my reasons.
Term extension: The starting point here is that the mortgage term has expired and 
repayment of the account balance of about £67,000 is overdue. It is not unreasonable for 
Topaz to expect repayment of the balance, but I can see it has considered the options Ms G 
and her IFA have proposed. Topaz doesnt offer new mortgages, and so any extensions 
granted are by way of forbearance whilst the borrower is looking for alternative repayment 
strategies.
I cant see that there have been any clear proposals put forward by Ms G or her IFA about 
how she would pay off the shortfall of about £17,000 if Ms G is only able to raise a mortgage 
with another lender of £50,000. I dont think it is unreasonable for Topaz to ask about this, 
and, to be clear, Topaz is entitled to be repaid the full balance outstanding before it is under 
any obligation to release its charge over the property.
The proposal put forward by the IFA to switch the mortgage permanently onto interest-only, 
with no repayment vehicle, until Ms G passes away is not, in my opinion, a viable proposal. 
What the IFA is proposing is, in effect, a lifetime mortgage which could run (given Ms Gs 
age) potentially for another 30 years. Topaz does not offer lifetime mortgages, which require 
a specific regulatory permission due to the nature of the product. 
 
I think Topaz gave Ms Gs proposals fair consideration, and, having done so, was entitled to 
ask for further information before making a decision. In the circumstances, I dont think 
Topaz has acted unreasonably here.
Customer service: Ive noted what Ms G said about Topaz not responding to her 
correspondence about her requests for a short settlement or a term extension. But, as per the chronology set out in the investigators letter of 8 July 2022, Im satisfied Topaz didnt 
ignore Ms Gs requests and was dealing at various times both with her and her IFA.
In relation to other customer service issues, Im unable to identify from the call records 
Topaz has provide that Ms G was kept on hold for extended periods of time. It is an 
unfortunate consequence of modern business practices that, where business is conducted 
over the phone, customers sometimes have to wait for their calls to be answered or need to 
be put on hold while a query is being looked into. Im not persuaded, given that Ive been 
unable to identify any periods when Ms G was kept on hold for long periods as she claims, 
that Topaz should pay any compensation for this.
I see that Topaz has acknowledged it sent the wrong letter twice in November 2021 to Ms G 
and her IFA. Topaz offered £100 compensation for this, which I think is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances. Im not ordering Topaz to do anything further.
Other matters: I see Ms G has now raised a new complaint with Topaz about its customer 
service, about charges on the account and requesting a full explanation and rationale for the 
decline of her term extension in March 2022. As that is a new complaint, I will not make any 
comment about it here, but if Ms G isnt happy with Topazs response, she will be free to 
raise a fresh complaint about it with the Financial Ombudsman Service.
The mortgage balance is now overdue, and, if repayment proposals cant be agreed, Topaz 
will be entitled to pursue recovery action through the courts, as a last resort. I would not want 
Ms G to underestimate the seriousness of this.
I think it is also important to explain here that lenders will generally agree to put recovery 
action on hold whilst we look at a complaint, but they dont have to and we cant force them 
to. If the Financial Ombudsman Service had that power it would undermine our impartiality 
between the parties to a complaint. It would also create the potential risk of consumers using 
our service to bring complaints with the intention of obstructing businesses that were trying 
to take legitimate action through the courts to recover money owed to them. I do not wish to 
alarm Ms G, but I would not want her to be under any misunderstanding that we would tell 
Topaz that it must suspend any recovery action in the event of a new complaint being raised.
I sincerely hope Ms G is able to resolve the situation with Topaz and is able to make 
arrangements to repay the mortgage in the foreseeable future. As I said above, as a last 
resort, Topaz is entitled to pursue recovery through the courts. Where a mortgage term has 
expired, the options available to the borrower to ask the court to suspend possession are 
very limited. However, I think it would help Ms G to discuss her situation with her IFA, and to 
explore other lending options such as an equity release lifetime mortgage to ascertain if this 
would be a viable option for her to raise the funds to repay her mortgage to Topaz. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I simply leave it to Ms G to decide if 
she wants to accept the £100 offered by Topaz Finance Limited for customer service issues 
in full and final settlement of this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman