DRN-4156214
The complaint
Mr M complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) irresponsibly granted him a
conditional sale agreement (agreement) he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
In August 2017 Mr M acquired a used car costing £11,200 financed by an agreement from
Moneybarn.
Under the terms of the agreement, everything else being equal, Mr M undertook to make
1 advance payment of £1,785 followed by 59 monthly repayments of £302.90. The total
repayable under the agreement was £19,656.10 at an APR of 33.6%.
Mr M says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks before agreeing to
lend to him. He says if it had, it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable.
Moneybarn didnt agree. It said it had performed several different checks before agreeing to
lend which included:
a full credit search (with a credit reference agency) which provided details of Mr Ms
current borrowing levels and repayment history (including any arrears and defaults)
an independent check of Mr Ms declared net monthly income of £1,213.62 to two 
payslips provided by him
estimating Mr Ms non-discretionary expenditure
Moneybarn said that from the above checks it was able to establish:
Mr Ms existing borrowing was within its lending criteria
although Mr M had a default registered against his name, this was 51 months old
although Mr M had a county court judgement (CCJ) against his name, this was 10 
months old
Mr M hadnt been declared insolvent
Mr M could afford a monthly repayment of £303.40
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint and concluded it shouldnt be upheld.
She said that Moneybarn could and should have undertaken further checks into Mr Ms
financial position and personal circumstances before it agreed to lend. But she went on to 
say that she wasnt persuaded that further (and proportionate) checks by Moneybarn into 
Mr Ms financial position and personal circumstances would have caused it, or should have 
caused it, to conclude that it shouldnt (on the grounds of affordability) lend.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigators view so his complaint has been passed to me for 
review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Based on what has been said and submitted Im satisfied that Moneybarn did enough to 
verify Mr Ms declared net monthly income of £1,216.62, this being by asking for, and having 
regards to, two payslips supplied to it by Mr M.
Moneybarn hasnt provided a copy of the credit check it completed with one of the credit 
reference agencies. But based on what Moneybarn has said its credit check uncovered, 
what a recent credit report provided by Mr M shows, and how much Mr M was looking to 
borrow, at what cost and over what term, I can confirm that I agree with the investigator that 
Moneybarn should have undertaken further (and proportionate) checks into Mr Ms financial 
position and personal circumstances, in particular with regards to his monthly expenditure, 
before it agreed to lend.
One of the ways that Moneybarn could have verified Mr Ms expenditure was by reviewing 
bank statements and/or by completing an income and expenditure form. While Moneybarn 
wasnt required to do either, Ive reviewed three months of Mr Ms bank statements because 
I think this gives me a good indication of what Moneybarn would likely have found out had it 
completed further and proportionate checks.
 
This information shows that Mr M was, in the main, operating his account in credit. It also 
shows that although Mr M was spending his net salary (and other credits into his account) 
each month most of this expenditure appears to have gone on what could be best described 
as discretionary expenditure with only £200 or so going on what could be best described as 
non-discretionary expenditure.
So as the repayments under the agreement were for around £300, I dont find that I can say 
that had further checks taken place that the agreement would have been found to be 
unaffordable. And this remains the case even if I was to accept that Mr M was paying £400 
to family for rent, food and bills in addition to the £200 calculated and noted by me above.
For the sake of completeness, I would add that Ive considered the information Mr M has 
provided our service following the investigators view on his complaint. But although this 
information might suggest that Mr M fell into financial difficulties shortly after taking out the 
borrowing that he did, it doesnt in itself show the borrowing was unaffordable at the time it 
was approved.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman