DRN-2317659
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that the charges involved in their whole-of-life plan with Standard 
Life Assurance Limited werent explained to them when they took it out. They assumed there 
would be a small charge but wouldnt have agreed to the plan had they been aware of the 
amount of their premiums that would be paid towards the charges. 
What happened
In 1994, Mr and Mrs B took out a joint-life insurance plan provided by Standard Life. The 
plan provided whole-of-life cover with an element of investment, and the initial amount of 
cover was guaranteed for the first ten years. This was £20,266. Premiums were invested 
between the with-profits fund and Standard Lifes managed fund. 
A review of the policy was carried out after ten years, in 2004, to make sure the premiums 
could continue to support the sum assured. This review showed that the sum assured 
needed to be reduced to £17,562.
In September 2019, Standard Life sent Mr and Mrs B a summary of charges document 
which gave the amount of charges in a monetary figure. This said that the charges theyd 
paid for the plan in the previous year were £206.84. 
This letter caused Mr and Mrs B to raise some concerns, as they said it was the first time 
that Standard Life had identified charges within the plan. They said that at no point since 
1994 had Standard Life indicated what charges applied. They were paying a monthly 
premium of £30 and said that the charges represented 57% of the amount they were paying.
 
Standard Life said that there had been no change to how charges had been applied to Mr 
and Mrs Bs plan, as they had always applied. It said that new regulations meant that it was 
required to provide an annual summary of the charges paid as a monetary amount, so it was 
just a change to how these were being communicated to customers. 
Mr and Mrs B complained that the charges werent discussed with them in any detail and, 
had they been given any indication that more than 50% of their premium could be taken in 
charges, there was no way they would have started it. They felt the representative that had 
sold them the plan had failed to cover the most important elements of it. They believed they 
had been mis-sold a plan that wasnt suitable for their needs. Mr and Mrs B questioned 
whether the representative was qualified. 
Standard Life said that the representative that sold Mr and Mrs B the plan wouldve been 
appropriately trained and qualified to provide financial advice. It said the plan was not 
primarily a savings plan as it also provided a substantial level of life insurance cover. It said 
the charges within the plan reflected the different costs it incurred including: a total annual 
bid/offer spread charge; a charge to cover investment costs; a life cover charge and an 
annual service charge. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She 
said that the policy schedule listed that the monthly service charge for the plan was £1 at the 
time, and the personal illustration leaflet explained the percentages of the premium which 
was to be invested over the first two years. It also said that the investment management 
charge was deducted on a daily basis at a rate of 0.75% per year of the value of the 
investment-linked funds, and that the cost of the life cover was charged monthly on a pay as 
you go basis. So the investigator said that it was difficult to say that the charges hadnt been 
disclosed to Mr and Mrs B when they took out the plan, and they had the opportunity to 
query these. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt accept the investigators findings. They questioned the competency and 
qualifications of the representative that sold them the policy. They said that they shouldve 
been made aware of the costs and charges at the point of sale; the information provided to 
them by Standard Life before 2019 wasnt sufficient to allow them to calculate how charges 
were eroding their premium and this shouldve been apparent from the outset. They asked 
for their complaint to be reviewed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do appreciate Mr and Mrs Bs strength of feeling about the information theyve been given 
about the charges within their whole-of-life plan over the years, and how they feel these 
shouldve been made clearer to them earlier.
 
This plan was sold to them in 1994, and so the advice they received wouldve been subject 
to the relevant regulations at that time. The plan was recommended by an appointed 
representative of Standard Life, and it has said that they wouldve appropriately trained and 
qualified to give advice on this product. 
Ive reviewed the contemporaneous information about the plan including the illustration; 
product guide and policy provisions. I understand that this information wouldve been 
provided to Mr and Mrs B at the point of sale. So they wouldve then had the opportunity to 
consider whether the plan was right for them, taking into account this information. 
The plan provides Mr and Mrs B with life cover throughout their lifetime, paying out a lump 
sum when the first of them passes away. After the cost of that life cover is deducted from the 
premium, any remaining amount is invested. The amount paid out on death would then be 
the higher of the sum assured, or the value of the plan. 
The personal illustration was to be read alongside a document to help understand it. And this 
sets out the charges for the plan. It explains that, in the first two years, only part of the 
premium is used to buy units as the remainder covers the costs of setting up the plan, but 
that after this time, it increases the investment of each premium to 103.5%. This document 
also explains that a monthly maintenance charge is applied which has been £1 since the 
plan started, along with a charge for management of the investment-linked funds  in this 
case, the managed fund. This charge did not apply to the with-profits fund. A charge was 
also applied for the buying and selling of the units within the plan  the bid/offer spread. 
This product information also explains that the cost of life cover is charged monthly, and that, 
if the value of units in the fund exceeds the sum assured, no charge would be deducted. And 
the cost of providing that life cover makes up the majority of the charges applied to Mr and 
Mrs Bs plan.I appreciate that Mr and Mrs B may feel that most of their premium has been taken in 
charges, and that they have expressed their frustration with how little of their premium is 
invested. However, much of it has been used to provide them with the life cover theyve told 
us they required, with the remaining amount being invested so that the plan builds up a 
surrender value. 
Mr B has told us that they wanted to take out a form of joint life cover. And this type of plan 
also allowed for the possibly of building up a savings amount. Had they taken out a term 
assurance plan giving them this cover, then the premiums wouldve been used to pay for the 
cost of providing this insurance over the term. This type of plan would only have paid out the 
sum assured should either of them pass away during that term, otherwise it would have 
finished at the end of the term, without any residual value. 
Overall, I think this whole-of-life plan has provided Mr and Mrs B with the life cover they 
required when they started it. While I appreciate that the plan information about the included 
charges was presented in percentage terms rather than in a monetary figure, I think it made 
it sufficiently clear that charges would be applied. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman