DRN-3975476
The complaint
Mr S complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (trading as M&S Bank) has 
unfairly declined his claim under section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
Mr S purchased a car in November 2021. The cash price was £3,670. He used his M&S 
credit card to pay £1,000, and the remainder was paid by bank transfer. Shortly after 
purchase Mr S began experiencing faults with the car and in February 2022 the car broke 
down.
 
Mr S contacted M&S, he made a section 75 claim and asked for either a refund of the cost of 
car or £1200 for the repair costs. M&S declined the claim, it didnt think the required debtor-
creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement was in place. Because the invoice showed the car was 
supplied by a dealership, Ill call A, but the credit card payment was made via PayPal to a 
different business, wholl Ill refer to as B. They thought Bs involvement meant the required 
DCS agreement wasnt in place, so it didnt consider further whether there had been a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation. 
 
Mr S complained about the outcome. M&S didnt think it had made a mistake. So, Mr S 
brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, she hadnt 
been able to find any evidence to show a link between A and B, so she didnt think the 
necessary DCS agreement was in place for a valid section 75 claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has recently made some additional submissions, Ive read these along with the rest of 
the file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on 
any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board, but because I dont think I 
need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. And our rules allow me to do this. 
This reflects the nature of our service as a free and informal alternative to the courts.
Generally, where a consumer raises a dispute about a transaction made on a credit card, the 
card provider can consider the dispute under two guises- chargeback and section 75. I 
would usually expect the card provider to consider both, but chargebacks are capped at the 
amount paid on the card, so would not cover anything over the £1,000 deposit. In addition, I 
dont think there was a valid chargeback reason here, as Mr S was still in possession of the 
car. So, I dont think M&S made a mistake when it didnt raise a chargeback on Mr S behalf.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit if there has been a breach of contract 
or misrepresentation by the supplier. One of those circumstances is that there must be a 
DCS agreement in place for a successful section 75 claim to be made. The easiest way to 
explain it is by saying that when someone makes a payment on their credit card, in order to 
make a section 75 claim against their credit card provider they need to have used the credit 
card to pay the same company they say has misrepresented something to them or breached 
its contract with them. If they paid someone else, then there wont be a DCS agreement that 
would allow them to claim against their card provider. In this case the sales invoice shows 
Mr S entered a contract with A for the supply of a used car. But he paid B, who doesnt 
appear to have a contractual relationship with him.
There are some circumstances where payment can be made to one party and the goods or 
services can be supplied by another party and section 75 will apply, where a specific 
relationship between the party which took payment and the party which supplied the goods 
or services  the parties need to be associates as defined in s.184 of the CCA. Mr S hasnt 
provided any evidence to show the parties are associated and this service hasnt been able 
to find any information to show any link between A who provided the goods and B who took 
the payment. In the circumstances, I dont think it was unfair for M&S to decline Mr S claim 
without going on to consider whether there had been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation, so I wont be asking it to do anything further in respect of this complaint.
I sympathise with Mr S, but the rules surrounding section 75 claims are strict, so Im unable 
to uphold his complaint. I know this decision is likely to be disappointing to Mr S, but this is 
the final stage of our process, and we are unable to consider this complaint further. Mr S is 
free to reject my decision and pursue this matter through the courts if he wishes to.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Karen Dennis
Ombudsman