DRN-2851938
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined a claim under his home insurance 
policy for theft and cancelled his policy for fraud.
What happened
Mr L made a claim to AXA in November 2019. He said his home had been broken into while 
he and his girlfriend were asleep upstairs. He provided CCTV footage of the burglars. He 
said they stole a number of high value designer bags, electricals and watches together with 
his car keys and his car. Another insurer covered the car.
AXA sent a representative to interview Mr L. It later instructed a loss adjuster to validate the 
claim. The loss adjuster told AXA there were some inconsistencies between what Mr L had 
told it, AXAs representative, his motor insurer and the police. AXA didnt think Mr Ls 
explanation of the inconsistencies was satisfactory. It declined the claim on the ground that it 
was fraudulent and cancelled Mr Ls policy, refunding a proportionate part of the premium.
Mr L brought his complaint to this service. I issued a provisional decision explaining why I 
was minded to uphold the complaint. An extract from my provisional findings is set out 
below:
For AXA to decline the claim and cancel the policy for fraud it must show that there was a 
dishonest attempt by Mr L to deceive it into paying for something he wasnt entitled to. 
When looking at fraud cases I bear in mind that fraud is a serious matter. So if thats what 
the business thinks has happened, I might require more evidence than usual. Theres no 
need for the insurer to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt. But it does need to show 
strong and persuasive proof that its more likely than not that the consumers claim is 
fraudulent. For the avoidance of doubt, as our investigator has explained, its not our role 
to decide whether or not a customers claim is fraudulent. What we look at is whether a 
business reached a reasonable decision about this. 
In summary the main inconsistencies of concern to AXA were:
timing of initial phone call to police
Mr L told AXAs loss adjuster that hed discovered that his property had been burgled 
between 10 and 11 am. He went upstairs to tell his girlfriend. Then he phoned to cancel 
his bank cards. He said after that hed rung the police whod arrived within two hours.
AXA said the crime report indicated that the loss wasnt reported until 13.10. I dont think 
this is correct. Ive looked at the witness statement Mr L provided to the police when they 
visited his property. It says that the statement started at 13.18 and ended at 14.50. I think 
that fits with what Mr L told the loss adjuster.
method of entry
Mr L told AXA the burglars had broken a door lock. Later he said he could only assume that 
the lock had been picked. The crime report indicates that the burglars entered through an 
insecure front door. Ive looked at Mr Ls CCTV footage which shows a burglar going up to 
the front door and a few seconds later hes entering the property. It doesnt appear that the 
lock was broken and no-one can be sure how they were able to enter the property. I think 
its possible Mr L might have mis-interpreted the CCTV footage. But it was reasonable for 
him to have claimed for a new door lock since the burglars had taken his car and house 
keys which were on the same key ring.
items claimed for but not reported to police
AXA noted that the following items were not recorded as having been reported as stolen to 
the police:-
*Make-up;
*Sunglasses;
*Mobile phone;
*2 x computer mouse; and
*Sat Nav system card.
The mobile phone was an old one which Mr L no longer used. The other items were 
relatively minor and I think it would have been easy to overlook them in a statement made to 
the police within a few hours of discovering the break-in when more valuable items had been 
stolen.
discrepancies in items reported as stolen to police and claimed for
AXA gave as an example the fact that Mr L had told police a certain model of laptop worth 
around £800 had been stolen and later claimed for a different model worth £990. Similarly he 
claimed £200 for a designer wallet hed told police was worth around £100. Mr L said hed 
told the police what he thought was accurate information at the time and only been able to 
correct this later when hed looked things up.  
I dont think its unusual for there to be some differences in whats told to the police shortly 
after discovery of a crime and whats claimed for when the policyholder has had time to look 
up receipts and check current prices. In a claim involving the theft of a number of personal 
possessions worth about £18,000 in total, I dont think the discrepancies highlighted by AXA 
are particularly significant.
residency
Mr L owns the property that he insured with AXA. But it wasnt satisfied that he actually 
lived there. He told his motor insurer he lived in a different part of the UK where his parents 
live. His driving licence also showed him as living at his parents address. In addition his 
girlfriend showed AXA a letter from the local authority confirming that the insured property 
was only occupied by students and so exempt from council tax. Mr L isnt a student.
In support of his claim that he lived at the insured property Mr L produced a bank statement 
and utility bills addressed to him at the property. He said he divided his time between the 
insured property and his parents home.
I dont think its unusual for people of Mr Ls age to continue to use their parents address 
for some purposes such as their driving licence and/or to divide their time between two 
properties. If Mr L should have been paying council tax for the property, thats a matter 
between him and his local authority. All in all, I dont think AXA acted reasonably in saying 
that Mr L hadnt satisfactorily shown he lived at the insured address.
I agree there were some inconsistencies in the information given by Mr L  for example, 
about items stolen and their value. But whilst inconsistencies can make it more difficult for 
an insurer to assess a claim, they arent usually enough in themselves to justify an insurer 
not paying a claim. This service has an established approach to this type of situation and 
we usually say an insurer should pay a claim unless its been established there are strong grounds that its fair and reasonable not to do so. Overall in this complaint Im not 
persuaded that there are strong grounds for AXA to cancel the policy for fraud and not to 
pay the claim.
In response AXA said it accepted my findings in respect of everything except for Mr L living 
at this insured address. It made the following points:
Mr Ls motor policy with another insurer was registered to a different address and hed 
told the other insurer that the other property in a different part of the country was his main 
residence.
He couldnt show the motor insurer that he, rather than a relative, owned the car he was 
claiming for.
Hed told his local authority that the insured property was occupied by students and 
received a council tax exemption he wasnt entitled to.
It felt I was asking it to turn a blind eye to these discrepancies despite them being a 
criminal offence.
It didnt believe Mr L was a permanent resident at the risk address.
Mr L said hed had to pay more for alternative cover because his policy had been cancelled 
by AXA. Hed like AXA to compensate him for this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA was entitled to cancel Mr Ls policy if hed knowingly provided information to it as part of 
his application, or his claim, that wasnt true and complete to the best of his knowledge and 
belief.
As explained above, its not unusual for people to divide their time between different 
properties, particularly if thats related to them working in a different part of the country. Mr L 
said his father was the owner and keeper of the vehicle until two days before the theft as the 
lease of his previous vehicle had come to an end. I havent seen any evidence that the motor 
insurer was taking action against Mr L for having provided it with false information despite 
the information that AXA had given it. So Im not inclined to place a lot of weight on this.
Claiming an exemption from council tax that you arent entitled to is obviously a serious 
offence and I dont condone that in any way. All Im saying is that if thats the case here, its 
a matter between Mr L and his local authority. It doesnt mean that Mr L has given wrong 
information to AXA. 
Although Mr L wasnt paying council tax for the insured address, I remain of the view that he 
has shown through bank statements and utility bills enough to demonstrate that he lived 
there.
Im not asking AXA to turn a blind eye to fraud. Its not my role to decide whether or not a 
customers claim is fraudulent. What I look at is whether a business reached a reasonable 
decision about this. Its not enough to show that certain things make fraud a possibility  a 
business needs to produce evidence that its more likely than not a customer has been 
fraudulent. In this case, unfortunately for AXA, Im not persuaded that its evidence is strong 
enough.I can see that Mr Ls premium increased from £190 to £436. Its not clear to me though that 
this increase was due to the cancellation of his policy for fraud as opposed to his claim. If he 
thinks he has paid more for insurance as a result of the cancellation for fraud, he may wish 
to provide evidence of that to AXA and seek reimbursement of the increase. 
Putting things right
AXA should re-instate the policy if Mr L wants it to subject to him paying back any refund he 
received in respect of the premium. If he doesnt want the policy reinstated, AXA should 
amend any internal and external databases to remove its record of fraud and cancellation. 
As Im satisfied that AXA cant reasonably decline the claim on the basis it hasnt been 
genuinely made, it should reassess and consider it in line with the policy terms and 
conditions.
I also think AXA should pay Mr L £100 compensation for trouble and upset.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require AXA Insurance Plc to:
reinstate the policy up to the next renewal after the claim date if its requested to do so by 
Mr L and provided he pays back any refund he received in respect of the premium. If he 
doesnt require reinstatement, then it should mark the policy and any relevant database to 
show the policy was cancelled by the policyholder; 
remove its record of fraud and cancellation from any internal and external databases;
reassess Mr Ls claim; and
pay Mr L £100 compensation for the trouble and upset it caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman