DRN-3043960
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Premier Insurance Consultants Limited contacted him
unnecessarily to verify information hed provided online when he took out his motor
insurance policy. And that they then cancelled his policy and unfairly deducted a cancellation
fee.  
What happened
Mr R took out a motor insurance policy online to cover his van with Nova Insurance, which is 
a trading name of Premier. And he provided the information Premier wanted to enable him to 
do so. The next day an agent from Premier contacted Mr R to check some of the information 
hed provided. He initially co-operated in confirming and clarifying his answers to some of the 
questions hed answered online. However, after a few questions, Mr R said he didnt see 
why he needed to provide the information again.
The agent explained he was following standard procedure to verify the information provided.
Mr R said he wasnt happy about this and that hed like to cancel the policy. The agent said
he could do this, but there would be a £110 charge, made up of a cancellation fee of £50
and a £60 charge because the policy was being cancelled as a result of Mr R providing
incorrect information. The agent also specifically mentioned fraud. Mr R explained he wasnt
happy about paying a fee and wanted a full refund of the money hed paid.
Mr R then called Premier again and explained what had happened and said that he wanted
to cancel the policy without Premier keeping any of his money. The agent he spoke to
explained there would be a £75 cancellation fee. Mr R said he wasnt happy about this. The
call ended with Mr R confirming he wanted to cancel the policy. Mr R called Premier again
and discussed the cancellation. The agent he spoke to this time explained the cancellation
and refund due may take a few days to process, as Premier hadnt actually received his
money as yet. But  again the call ended on the basis the policy would be cancelled.
Premier cancelled the policy and deducted £103, made up of a £75 cancellation fee charged
by them and a charge of £28 by the insurer.
Mr R complained to Premier, but they rejected his complaint. Mr R then asked us to consider
his complaint about Premier. One of our investigators considered it. He said that Premier
were entitled to verify the details Mr R had provided online and charge a cancellation fee 
when he told them to cancel the policy. And he explained that he couldnt consider whether 
the insurers charge was appropriate, as the complaint is about Premier. However, he said 
he didnt think Premiers agents had provided an acceptable level of service in their 
telephone conversations with Mr R and he felt this had caused Mr R unnecessary distress 
and inconvenience. He said Premier should pay Mr R £100 in compensation for this.
Premier agreed to pay the £100. However, Mr R didnt think this was an appropriate 
outcome to his complaint and he asked for an ombudsmans decision. He pointed out that 
the
agent he spoke to originally failed to identify himself or say where he was calling from. And I
take it from this he thinks this made his attempt to verify the information Mr R had provided
inappropriate. He was also still unhappy about the fact that Premier had cancelled his policy 
and deducted a cancellation fee. And he reiterated that he only wanted the policy cancelled 
on the basis he got a full refund. He added that he lost his job as a delivery driver and I 
presume this was as a result of not having his van insured for a short period following the 
cancellation of his policy through Premier.
 
I issued a provisional decision on 9 September. In this I explained that Id provisionally 
decided to make Premier pay £100 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mr R 
experienced due to the poor service provided by their agents in phone calls. I also said I 
intended to make Premier refund part of their cancellation fee on the basis it did not seem in 
proportion to the extent of the service they had provided. And I concluded that Premier had 
acted reasonably in cancelling Mr Rs policy. I gave both parties two weeks to provide further 
comments and/or evidence. 
Premier have responded and explained that they paid a fee to the comparison site Mr R 
used, which was more than the cancellation fee they charged and that this was not refunded 
when they cancelled Mr Rs policy. And theyve provided evidence to support this. 
Mr R has responded. Hes said that because Premier cancelled his policy he had to borrow 
money from a friend to pay for his insurance.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Premier have now provided evidence to show that providing the service of setting up the 
policy and cancelling it cost them more than the cancellation fee. So, Im now satisfied that 
the cancellation fee they charged was proportionate to the extent of the service they 
provided. And I think that in charging it Premier complied with the rules set out in the 
Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook. This means I think they were entitled to deduct 
the full cancellation fee when they cancelled Mr Rs policy. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, I think Premiers decision to cancel the policy was 
reasonable, despite Mr R saying he wanted it cancelled on the basis he got a full refund of 
what he paid. This is because it was clear he wanted it to be cancelled and Premiers agents 
checked this several times. And I cant really see what else they could have been expected 
to do, even allowing for the fact they werent able to meet Mr Rs request for cancellation 
with a full refund. If theyd left the policy running and the insurer had continued charging Mr 
R, he may well have complained theyd not followed his clear instructions to cancel. And the 
first agent Mr R spoke to did give him the chance to complete the verification process, but it 
was clear Mr R wasnt willing to do this. And the policy could not have continued unless he 
did so. 
Therefore, I think the only thing Premier did wrong was to provide a poor level of service 
through their agents in the phone calls with Mr R. This is because, as I explained in my 
provisional decision, I think two of the agents were unnecessarily combative in their 
approach and this caused Mr R distress and inconvenience. 
Putting things right
Premier have already agreed to pay £100 in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience Mr R experienced as a result of the poor service provided by their agents. 
And  now theyve provided evidence to justify their £75 cancellation fee, I think all Premier 
needs to do is pay Mr R the £100 theyve agreed to. My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision dated 9 September 2021, I 
uphold Mr Rs complaint and require Premier Insurance Consultants Limited to pay him £100 
in compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman