DRN-3133593
The complaint
Mrs H and Mr H say that a loan brokered by Greener Living Ltd (Greener Living) was 
misrepresented to them.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs H and Mr H, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please 
let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
If Mrs H and Mr H were told something that was false when they signed up for the fixed sum 
loan agreement, and if that false statement of fact led them to enter into an agreement they 
wouldnt otherwise have entered into, then Id think the agreement had been misrepresented 
to them and Id ask greener Living to take some action.
Im not persuaded that Mrs H and Mr H have provided sufficient information that the 
agreement was misrepresented.
Ive read Mrs H and Mr Hs testimony and understand their assertion that the sales agent 
told them they would only be liable for the next months interest of £61 should they settle their 
loan in the future. Theyve explained that this was a small price to pay for the extra indemnity 
the sales agent promised if they entered into a credit agreement. 
Mrs H and Mr H have also provided written notes they say the salesman provided and upon 
which theres a note that says int £61. The note isnt signed and Greener Living havent 
admitted it came from their sales agent so I think it would be unfair to suggest this evidence, 
along with Mrs H and Mr Hs testimony of what was agreed, should outweigh the written 
evidence in the loan documentation, order form and satisfaction note. Those documents 
dont provide a calculation for early settlement, they simply explain that if a consumer wishes 
to do so they will need to contact the credit provider.
Ive looked at the fixed sum loan agreement. This states at the top that it is regulated by The 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.
The Consumer Credit Act covers several areas of consumer credit including the content and 
form of credit agreements and the procedures relating to default, termination, and early 
settlement. In relation to early settlement the Consumer Credit Act says that settlement 
figures should be calculated using the rules set out in the Consumer Credit (Early 
Settlement) Regulations 2004.
They are the regulations that the finance provider will have used when calculating the 
settlement figure and Im not persuaded that an alternative calculation was agreed, or that 
there is evidence their calculation has been inaccurate.
So, I dont think it would be reasonable to ask Greener Living to take any further action.
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman