DRN-2016191
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
connection with a store card account. AXA France IARD didnt actually sell the PPI, but its 
accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to AXA as the seller to keep things 
simple.
What happened
Mr S opened a store card account in a shop in 2000. At the same time, he took out a PPI 
policy. AXAs told us Mr S paid a total of £1.78 in premiums for the PPI during the lifetime of 
the policy.
If Mr S had made a successful claim on the policy for injury, sickness or unemployment, it 
would have paid part of the outstanding monthly balance on his card each month. The policy 
also included some purchase and price protection insurance and life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr S disagreed with 
the adjudicators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy of Mr Ss application form for the store card. It includes a section 
headed Protecting your Account. It says Yes, I would like to protect my Account with 
Account Cover (a form of PPI), and it continues Please debit my Account with the 
relevant monthly premium until further notice. Theres a space to sign, with instructions 
only to sign if the applicant required Account Cover. Mr S signed specifically to indicate 
that he wished to take the cover.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that Mr S would have realised that the PPI 
wasnt compulsory. And I think he decided to take the cover, knowing that he had a 
choice  although I can understand why he may no longer remember this, so many 
years later.
Based on what we know about the way these policies were sold at the time, AXA 
wouldnt have advised Mr S to take out the policy. This means it didnt have to check if it 
was suitable for him. But it did need to make sure it gave Mr S enough information to 
enable him to decide for himself if he wanted PPI, knowing what alternative means hed 
have had of making his monthly repayments if he was unable to work.
I accept that its possible the information AXA gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it should have been. But as Ive explained, I think he chose to take out the PPI - so it 
looks as if he wanted this type of cover, even if hes understandably forgotten that now. 
This means I need to decide whether I think its likely that better information about the 
policy would have made Mr S change his mind about taking it out.
Mr S has told us that he wouldnt have been entitled to any sick pay from his employer 
at the time. If hed made a successful claim on the policy for accident, sickness or 
unemployment, it would have paid a monthly benefit of 15% of what he owed on his 
store card. And it would have done this each month until his credit agreement ended, or 
he returned to work, or the outstanding balance at the time of his claim had been repaid 
- whichever was the earliest.
I acknowledge that Mr S has told us he had some savings when he took out the PPI. 
But hes told us these were equivalent to less than three months of his pay. So I think 
he could have struggled quite quickly to keep up with his regular payments if hed been 
unable to work. And the PPI would have allowed him to use his savings to meet other 
day-to-day expenses at what its likely would have been a stressful time. So I think it 
could have been useful to Mr S.
I accept that its possible the information AXA gave Mr S about the cost of the PPI could 
have been clearer. But Im satisfied that it would have been clear from the application 
form that there would be monthly premiums to pay for the cover. Ive seen nothing to 
suggest that the policy was unaffordable for Mr S. And as he was paying for it monthly, 
he could have cancelled it without any further cost if his situation changed.
Based on what Mr S has told us about his circumstances at the time, he was eligible for 
the policy, and he doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things it 
didnt cover.
Taking everything into account, Im not convinced that better information about the PPI 
would have put Mr S off taking it out. So I didnt think hes lost out as a result of anything 
that AXA may have done wrong.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman