DRN-1700270
 
The complaint
Ms D says Canada Square Operations Limited (trading at the time as Egg) mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2003. The policy was added to 
Ms Ds credit card account when she applied for the card over the internet.
The PPI cost 74p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. If Ms D had made a 
successful claim, it would have paid 10% of her outstanding credit card balance for up to 12 
months if she was too sick to work or if she lost her job. 
Our adjudicator didn't uphold the complaint. Ms D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaints been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Ds case.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive I need to decide what I thinks most likely 
based on the information I have.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen a screenshot of the part of the online credit card application process in 
which PPI would have been offered to Ms D. It includes equally prominent options to 
take or decline PPI. Egg says Ms D wouldn't have been able to go ahead with her 
application unless she chose one of these options. I'm satisfied that its not the case 
that the online application couldn't move forward to the next page unless the 
applicant ticked to agree to take PPI, as Ms D has suggested in response to the 
adjudicators view.
 
Im satisfied, on balance, that the PPI would only have been added to Ms Ds account 
if shed selected the option to take it. And I think that the way that the PPI was 
presented during the application process made it clear that the cover was optional. 
So taking everything into account, I think Ms D chose to take the PPI, realising that 
she didn't have to - though I can understand why she may no longer remember this. 
Ms D applied for the credit card online. Egg didn't recommend the PPI to her, so it 
didn't have to check if it was suitable for her. It was for Ms D to decide whether to 
take the PPI, knowing what other means she had of making her credit card 
repayments if she was off sick or unable to work.
 
I acknowledge that Ms Ds told us shed have been entitled to six months full pay, 
followed by six months half pay from her employer if shed been off sick. She's also 
told us she'd have been entitled to at least six months' redundancy pay. But if shed 
made a successful claim on the policy, it would have helped with her credit card 
repayments each month for up to 12 months. So it would have carried on paying for 
longer than Ms D would have been entitled to full sick pay or redundancy pay for. 
Whats more, it would have paid out in addition to any payments Ms D received from 
her employer. So she could have used those to meet other expenses.
 
Ive borne in mind that Ms Ds told us her family could have helped her financially if 
need be. But circumstances can change, and I cant be sure that Ms Ds family would 
have been in a position to help if the need had arisen. Shes also mentioned that she 
owned a vehicle and a mortgaged property at the time. But I think its unlikely shed 
have wanted to go the trouble of selling her vehicle or property, or mortgaging it 
further, in order to make her monthly credit card repayments. And although Ms Ds 
mentioned that she had death in service benefit, thats a different type of cover, and 
wouldn't have paid out in the same circumstances as PPI. So I dont think it made the 
PPI unsuitable for Ms D.
 
Its possible the information Egg gave Ms D about the PPI wasn't as clear as it 
should have been. But I think Ms D chose to take out the policy, so it looks as if she 
wanted this type of cover, even if shes understandably forgotten that now. Based on 
what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it doesn't look as if shed have been 
affected by any of the main things the policy didn't cover (for example, unusual 
working arrangements, or existing medical conditions). 
 
The policy was competitively priced. And Ive seen nothing to suggest that Ms D 
couldn't afford it. And since she was paying for it monthly, she could have cancelled it 
at any time without further cost if her circumstances changed, or if she decided she 
no longer wanted the cover. I note that Eggs records show that Ms D did in fact 
cancel the policy two months after she took it out.
Taking everything into account, I think the PPI could have been useful to Ms D. And Im not 
convinced that better information about it would have put her off taking it out. So I dont think 
shes lost out as a result of anything Egg may have done wrong. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ds complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2020.
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman