DRN-4190920
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that Chase de Vere Independent Financial Advisers Limited (CDV) 
have withdrawn a service without notice that Mr and Mrs F have been paying for.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F had a long-standing relationship with their adviser. CDV took over the 
management of their investment portfolio in 2017 from a previous company their adviser 
worked for. Mr and Mrs F are unhappy that since that point, their quarterly portfolio 
rebalancing wasnt taking place, despite them being charged the same. Mr and Mrs F are 
also unhappy that they werent notified of this change until long after it had been withdrawn.
CDV investigated and stated that it had provided the same service until August 2019 after 
which point the reviews werent part of the CDV discretionary management service. It 
acknowledged that Mr and Mrs F had been charged an additional 0.1% for this service from 
August 2019 to date and offered to refund those charges.
Our investigator felt the offer was fair but explained wed usually expect CDV to add on 8% 
interest to a refund. Mr and Mrs F didnt feel their complaint had been addressed fully. They 
said:
- A service was withdrawn without their knowledge or consent and at no stage were 
they advised either verbally or in writing
- CDV continued to charge them for a non-existent service
- No refund has been made nor has compensation
I issued my provisional decision on 15 May 2023 explaining why this complaint should be 
upheld. The relevant extract, which forms part of this decision, is as follows:
It isnt in dispute that there was a service that Mr and Mrs F were paying for but werent 
receiving. And I think its clear from the evidence on file that CDV didnt notify them about the 
changes  effectively their adviser didnt tell them. So, its important to determine what needs 
to be done to put things right.
Im satisfied that CDV doesnt offer the service that Mr and Mrs F were getting previously 
under a different business  so it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to ask CDV to do this. Ive 
also considered Mr and Mrs Fs complaint that their portfolio growth wasnt what they were 
hoping. But looking at what CDV provided I cant see that it has managed Mr and Mrs Fs 
portfolios outside of their risk profile or mandate.
Its clear to me that there was a lack of communication here, and that Mr and Mrs F shouldnt 
have been charged for a service they werent receiving. I can see CDV offered to refund the 
fees charged but dont appear to have done so. Im also mindful that no compensation has 
been offered for distress and inconvenience caused here. I appreciate CDV dealt with two 
separate complaints at the same time but this decision focuses only on the failure to tell Mr 
and Mrs F that it was no longer providing a service they were previously receiving  and 
charging for it.
Looking at the correspondence its clear Mr and Mrs F were shocked to find out they werent 
getting their quarterly portfolio rebalancing reviews. And I think this wouldve caused them 
some level of distress particularly as they found out after it hadnt taken place for some time. 
For this, I think CDV should pay them £200 compensation.
Putting things right
Chase de Vere Independent Financial Advisers Limited should do the following to put things 
right:
-Refund Mr and Mrs F the fees they were charged for their quarterly rebalancing 
service from the date it stopped to the date it stopped charging them for it.
-To this amount, interest should be added at 8% simple per annum from the date the 
fee was taken to the date of settlement
-Pay Mr and Mrs F £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Responses to the provisional decision
Both parties responded to the provisional decision confirming they had no additional 
comments to make. Mr and Mrs F said they accepted the decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any additional comments for me to consider my findings remain 
the same as set out in my provisional decision, which I now confirm as final. The relevant 
extract from that decision is copied above and forms part of this decision.
Putting things right
Chase de Vere Independent Financial Advisers Limited must do the following to put things 
right:
- Refund Mr and Mrs F the fees they were charged for their quarterly rebalancing 
service from the date it stopped to the date it stopped charging them for it.
- To this amount, interest should be added at 8% simple per annum from the date the 
fee was taken to the date of settlement
- Pay Mr and Mrs F £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold this decision. Chase de Vere Independent Financial 
Advisers Limited must pay Mr and Mrs F redress in line with the above instructions.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman