DRN-1456981
 
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Santander UK plc won't refund the administration cost she was 
charged for applying for an ESTA online.
What happened
An ESTA is an Electronic System for Travel Authorisation and is required for travel to the 
United States of America in circumstances where a travel visa is not required.
When Mrs D booked a holiday to America, she needed to apply for an ESTA. She says she 
clicked on a link on the airline's webpage and made her application through that site. She 
paid for the ESTA using her Santander credit card. When she received her credit card 
statement she realised she'd been charged an administration fee. She knew the cost of an 
ESTA was $14, but she was charged £77.87.
She contacted Santander. It said it couldn't refund the transaction because Mrs D had 
authorised it; and it couldn't attempt a chargeback because she'd received the service she'd 
paid for.
Our investigator considered the complaint and did not conclude that it should be upheld. She 
couldn't conclude that Santander had made an error.
Mrs D didn't agree saying, in summary, that she'd been ripped off. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In doing so I've found that I have come to 
the same conclusion as our investigator for the same reasons.
I sympathise with Mrs D. She needed to apply for an ESTA and understood it cost $14. She 
clicked on a link from a trusted site. But this link didn't take her to the ESTA application site, 
but to a business that makes the ESTA application for consumers and charges an 
administration fee for doing so. 
But this complaint isn't about the website she applied through or the airline that provided the 
link, it's about Santander. So I have to consider what Santander has done. And I don't think 
it's fair to hold it responsible for the charge Mrs D incurred - I'll explain why.
Santander has provided evidence to show that Mrs D authorised the payment. So, whilst she 
now regrets doing so, she consented to the administration charge and authorised the sum of 
£77.87 to be charged to her credit card. In these circumstances, there's no obligation on 
Santander to refund the transaction.
But in circumstances like this, Santander might be able to make a chargeback request. The chargeback scheme is run by the card scheme operator, not Santander. 
Santander doesn't make the scheme rules, it has to follow them.
Santander says it considered a chargeback but there were no grounds to dispute the 
transaction because Mrs D had received the advertised service. And I agree. She paid for 
the website owner to apply for and obtain an ESTA on her behalf. And she received the 
ESTA and was able to travel to America with it. So there weren't sufficient grounds for 
Santander to dispute the transaction through the chargeback process.
Mrs D told us she'd been led to believe that if she paid for a transaction on her credit card, 
she would always be covered for a reimbursement. If the payment was made using a credit 
card - which it was here - Santander might be able to make a claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act. But this only applies to payments of more than £100. As Mrs D's 
transaction was less than this, there are no grounds for a claim under section 75.
So, whilst I understand Mrs D's strength of feeling on this matter, for the reasons I've 
explained, I don't find that Santander is at fault here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman