DRN-2913382
The complaint
Mr and Mrs U complain that Leeds Building Society treated them unfairly by overpricing their 
mortgage. They say they were on the standard variable rate (SVR) from 2008  2015 when 
lower rates could have been offered to them.
They are being represented on this complaint by Ms M.
What happened
Mr and Mrs U took out a mortgage with Leeds in September 2005 on an interest only basis. 
They took out a three-year discounted rate which was due to expire in August 2008. 
Mr and Mrs U have said they called Leeds several times to reduce the interest rate on their 
mortgage since 2008 but were told they couldnt do this. In 2015, they spoke to Leeds again 
who reduced their interest rate to 1.95% which made things easier for them. But they dont 
understand why their mortgage was on the SVR from August 2008. They believe lower 
interest rates should have been offered, especially as they were experiencing financial 
difficulties during this time. 
After they complained to Leeds on 2 January 2020, Leeds responded and in summary, said 
that they were satisfied that Mr and Mrs U had been treated fairly and where they could offer 
other rates to them, they did. 
Mr and Ms U brought their complaint to our service where it was looked at by one of our 
investigators who was satisfied that Leeds offered interest rates to Mr and Mrs U  so he 
didnt think they had done anything wrong. 
Mr and Mrs U disagreed.  Their representative, Ms M said that Leeds did not at any time 
alert Mr and Mrs U that better deals were available to them. 
As Mr and Mrs U remained unhappy, they asked for the complaint to be looked at by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs U are unhappy as they have said that Leeds have not offered them lower 
interest rates between 2008 and 2015. We issued a previous jurisdiction decision on this 
complaint setting out that we could only consider Mr and Mrs Us complaint about the 
interest rate on their mortgage from January 2014 until January 2020  so this is what I will 
be looking into.
From the information provided by Leeds, I can see that Mr and Mrs U were on a fixed rate of 
5.29% until March 2014. The contact notes provided shows that Mrs U called Leeds on 6 
March 2015 to enquire about new interest rates. Leeds have provided us with a copy of a 
letter they sent out to Mr and Ms U, following on from this conversation, listing what rates 
were available for them to switch their mortgage to. 
If a borrower enquires about interest rates, we would expect a lender to discuss the different 
options available with them, or send out information for borrowers to consider, which is what 
Leeds have done here. So, Im satisfied they have done what we would expect. 
Mr and Mrs U didnt change their mortgage at this time and the notes show that their 
mortgage remained on the SVR of 5.49% from when the fixed rate expired  in March 2014. 
Mr and Mrs U then transferred their mortgage to a 1.95% two-year fixed rate in December 
2015. The offer document showed that once this product expired in December 2017, the 
interest rate would revert to the SVR which was 5.59% at that time. This offer document 
makes it clear what interest rate Mr and Mrs U were on, and what was going to happen after 
it expired, so it would have been up to Mr and Mrs U to contact Leeds after the product 
expired, to see what other rates were available. From our experience, lenders wont 
proactively contact borrowers to let them know what other rates are available, but they will 
send out reminder letters when a borrowers current rate is due to expire so that borrowers 
can decide what action they want to take, so securing another interest rate for example. 
Leeds wrote to Mr and Mrs U reminding them that the product was due to expire in 
December 2017, and in January 2018, Mr and Mrs U applied for a product switch again. 
They switched their mortgage to a 1.95% fixed rate for two years until February 2020. The 
mortgage was then redeemed in August 2019.
I have taken on board the comments that Mr and Mrs U have made regarding the interest 
rate on their mortgage, but from the time Im able to consider this complaint  from January 
2014, I havent seen anything that makes me think Leeds have acted unfairly by not offering 
any other interest rates. 
Mr and Mrs U have said that Leeds didnt alert them to better deals available from 2008 to 
2015. But as Ive already mentioned, I am not considering anything that happened prior to 
January 2014. And after this time, I can see that Mr and Mrs U did manage to secure other 
interest rates for their mortgage, based on what was available at the time and based on their 
loan to value (LTV).
Mr and Mrs U have said the rates that Leeds had available had nothing to do with the LTV. 
They said there was hardly any movement in their property value from 2008 and 2015. But 
Im not able to look at anything prior to 2014 so have to base my decision on what I can see. 
I have information to show what the property value was in 2015, when Mr and Mrs U took 
out a new fixed rate. 
The offer document produced by Leeds shows what the property value was in 2015 and they 
have offered products to Mr and Mrs U based on the LTV at that time.  Mr and Mrs U dont 
think that the property value would have increased from 2008 to 2015, based on experience 
of the mortgage market, its unlikely that this was the case.
Ive also taken into consideration that Mr and Mrs U said they were struggling financially 
during the early years of their mortgage but from January 2014 onwards, it doesnt appear 
that they were in arrears on their mortgage and there are no contact notes that show that 
any discussions had taken place about financial difficulty. So, I cant say that Leeds should 
have done anything more to help Mr and Mrs U. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Ms U, but based on what I have seen 
for the period Im able to consider, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs U were able to take out 
lower interest rates once discussions had taken place with Leeds. I therefore dont agree 
that Mr and Mrs U have been treated unfairly or that the products they were offered were 
much higher than they were entitled to.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U and Mrs U to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman