DRN-2348759
The complaint
Mrs T complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc trading as More Th>n (RSA) for 
the increases in her home insurance premiums between 2002 and 2020. She wants RSA to 
refund to her the amount she feels she was overcharged over this time. 
What happened
Mrs T took out home insurance with RSA in 2002. At that time her premium was around 
£250 for the year. 
Mrs T automatically renewed her insurance each year and she did not have contact with 
RSA to discuss her premiums and only had contact with RSA in 2014 to discuss a claim.  
Mrs Ts premiums increased over this time and, by 2020, her premium was around £900 for 
the year. 
Mrs T, via her representative, queried this and felt that she had been overcharged due to her 
loyalty. Mrs Ts representative had comparable cover for a lower price and Mrs T felt that 
she should have been charged a sum more in line with her representatives lower premiums. 
She cancelled her policy and asked for a refund of the overcharged amount. 
RSA responded and did not consider that Mrs T had been over charged. It did, however, 
acknowledge that her premiums had increased significantly since 2017 and if offered to pay 
her the difference between her 2017 premium and her subsequent premiums. This offer 
amounted to £458. 
Mrs T was not happy with this response and contacted us. 
One of our investigators has looked into this matter and set out her view to the parties. This 
was that there was no evidence that RSA had treated Mrs T differently to other customers or 
taken advantage of her loyalty. The investigator felt that the offer from RSA was a 
reasonable offer of settlement and she did not recommend that RSA do anything more. 
Mrs T did not accept that view. She considered that RSA had a duty of care towards her and 
that RSA ought to have been clearer that discounts offered would be recouped and that she 
may be able to get similar cover for less elsewhere. 
The complaint has therefore been passed for an ombudsman decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I can understand Mrs Ts concern at the increase in her premiums. She has been a 
customer of RSA for a long period and there has been a significant increase in her premium 
over this time. I appreciate Mrs Ts comments that RSA had a duty of care towards her and I 
agree that businesses should not take advantage of consumer loyalty. 
As my colleague explained, we are not able to tell RSA what price it should have charged for 
insurance cover. Businesses are entitled to price their product as they choose at each 
renewal, in line with their assessment of risk, their business costs, and an element of profit. 
Our role is to look at individual circumstances and determine whether a consumer has been 
treated unfairly by the application of a policy or pricing approach and, where it has, we can 
direct redress. 
I understand that Mrs Ts representative has held similar insurance for a similar period, and 
has benefitted from a much lower premium. Whilst I understand that this may cause him to 
think that the more expensive premium is unfair, it is not necessarily the case. Many factors 
are taken into account when determining risk price, and this can vary from consumer to 
consumer. 
As my colleague explained, RSA has shown us its approach to calculating the premiums for 
Mrs Ts property and we are satisfied that the approach is fair, and that it and does not seek 
to take advantage of Mrs T because of her loyalty. Her premiums have increased year on 
year, but for a long time this annual increase was modest. This increase became more 
dramatic in the last few years of her policy, but RSA has demonstrated that there were 
justified reasons for this increase.  
I agree with the investigator that there is no evidence that Mrs T has been unfairly treated by 
RSAs pricing, but I also understand that, to Mrs T, the increase over the period of 18 years 
looks excessive. I am pleased, therefore, that RSA has made a goodwill offer to Mrs T to 
refund the more recent premium increases. I think this is a fair response.
I understand that Mrs T and her representative think that a greater refund is in order, but 
based on the evidence I have seen I do not agree. 
I realise that this decision will be disappointing to Mrs T, but I hope that it helps to explain 
why I have reached it.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my colleagues view, I do not uphold this complaint and 
do not ask Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc trading as More Th>n to do anything further.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman