DRN-3954750
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain they were told, when their lending moved to Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax Building Society, that the entitlement to payment deferrals under their 
mortgage agreement would reset, so they would be able to take further deferrals in future.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S originally took out a mortgage with a different lender, but in late 2020 their 
mortgage was moved to Halifax, when Halifax took on responsibility for a sizeable number of 
that old lenders mortgages. 
Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage agreement says that they may take up to six months of payment 
deferral, sometimes called a payment holiday, over the lifetime of their mortgage. 
Halifax says that Mr and Mrs S have taken six months of contractual payment deferral, plus 
six months of payment deferral available under the exceptional arrangements put in place for 
the coronavirus pandemic. Mr and Mrs S dont appear to dispute this. 
But Mr S says he was told by Halifax that his entitlement to payment deferrals under the 
mortgage agreement had been reset, as part of moving this mortgage to Halifax, so he could 
have further deferrals. Mr S said when he asked about a payment deferral in December 
2022, he was at first told he couldnt have one, then Halifax got back in touch to say he 
could, then it rang again, a few days later, to say sorry, but he couldnt. 
Mr S complained about the misleading advice hed been given. Halifax accepted it had made 
a mistake in telling Mr S recently that he might be able to get a further payment deferral. 
That was wrong, the previous payment deferrals on the mortgage wouldnt be disregarded 
just because of the change of lenders. And Mr S had used all the payment deferrals 
available under the mortgage agreement. So Halifax said it was sorry about the wrong 
information. It offered £150 to make up for the disappointment. 
Mr S didnt accept that. At the time, he asked for compensation equal to two months of 
mortgage payments (which he said would be almost the same as a new payment deferral) 
but Halifax wouldnt pay that. Mr S asked our service to look into this complaint, and said he 
now wants Halifax to agree to offer him payment deferrals in the future, if he does need 
them. But Halifax told us it still wouldnt do that. It would only pay the £150 it had offered.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He agreed Mr and Mrs S had 
received poor service, because they had been given wrong information, but he didnt think 
that meant Halifax had to provide the payment deferrals it had wrongly suggested they would 
be able to take. Our investigator said the £150 that Halifax offered was in line with what he 
would expect. 
Our investigator noted that whilst Mr and Mrs S werent currently able to have a payment 
deferral under the relevant term of their mortgage, he would expect that if Mr and Mrs S 
were ever in financial difficulties, Halifax would show reasonable forbearance and provide 
any support available in line with the Financial Conduct Authority guidance
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree. They said if they couldnt have payment deferrals in future, they 
wanted additional compensation for the incorrect advice theyd been given over the past two 
years. They said the wrong advice had caused them a great deal of stress, so they felt that 
Halifax should pay £1,000 in compensation. But Halifax still thought its offer was fair. Halifax 
said that if Mr and Mrs S were struggling, or anticipating financial struggles, they could speak 
to it. Halifax said it would like to assist them.
Because no agreement was reached, this case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs S have used the maximum available number of payment 
deferrals, under their mortgage agreement. And I can see nothing to suggest that this 
allowance, as Mr and Mrs S have described it, ought to have reset when their mortgage 
lending moved to Halifax. 
I agree with our investigator, that its unfortunate Mr and Mrs S were wrongly advised future 
payment deferrals would be available to them. I can see Halifax accepts it made a mistake 
about this. 
When I can see a bank has made a mistake, I have to think about the position Mr and Mrs S 
would have been in, if that mistake hadnt been made. I think the mistake here was telling Mr 
and Mrs S that they could have further payment deferrals, when they couldnt. And if that 
mistake hadnt been made, Mr and Mrs S wouldnt have been disappointed when they found 
out they couldnt have a payment deferral after all. 
I dont think it would be fair and reasonable, in the circumstances of this case, to ask Halifax 
to offer a future payment deferral, or to pay £1,000 in compensation, to make up for the 
disappointment Mr and Mrs S have experienced. Like our investigator, I think that the offer of 
£150 that Halifax made does provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. 
I understand Mr and Mrs S rejected this payment, and it hasnt been made, so Ill ask Halifax 
to pay that now. But Ill allow Halifax to count towards that award any payment it has already 
made for this complaint, in case Mr and Mrs S changed their minds more recently. 
I know Mr and Mrs S will be disappointed, but I dont think Halifax has to do more than that.
My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax Building Society must pay Mr 
and Mrs S £150 in compensation. Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax Building Society 
can count towards that amount any payment it has already made to Mr and Mrs S for this 
complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman