DRN-2435921
The complaint
 Mr B brings this complaint on behalf of the estate of his later mother, Mrs B. It is a complaint 
about RCI Bank UK Limited (RCI) and relates to a number of service-related issues 
connected to the Estate of Mrs B.
What happened
 Mr B was dealing with his late mothers affairs as one of two Administrators. He was 
unhappy with the time it took to get an account balance and a statement of interest; that RCI 
wouldnt discuss aspects of his mothers estate with him; RCIs security arrangements for 
identifying him; the delay in the closure of his late mothers account and the issuing of a 
balance cheque, and the issuing of statements which did not tally with the value of cheques 
written.
Mr B feels that inaccurate information was given to him, which resulted in delays in making 
submissions to HMRC for his mothers estate. That caused him stress and wasted time in 
dealing with the matter, for which he would like compensation and also for RCI to change 
their practices when dealing with the bereavement process. Further, Mr B has said that the 
Estate of Mrs B suffered losses in the form of lost interest and higher taxes as a result of 
RCIs delay.
RCI accepted that it had taken some time for the interest statements to be provided, that 
there had been a delay in issuing a balance cheque, and that it was its process at the time to 
transfer the funds in the accounts only by cheque rather than electronically. It also accepted 
that there were errors in the statement as some amounts didnt match the cheque value. 
Further, that Mr B ought to have been transferred to the bereavement team when he had 
called. Because of this RCI paid the Estate £30 to reflect the delay in issuing the balance 
cheque, and a further £40 to cover any lost interest. Following the Estates complaint to this 
service RCI also acknowledged that, overall, the service the Estate had experienced was 
below the standards that they expected and as such offered further compensation of £125. 
Mr B was unhappy with RCIs final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that RCI should pay an 
additional £79.39 to reflect his estimate of the additional tax that was required to be paid and 
also a further £35.30 to cover the cost of the letters and phone calls Mr B had to make, 
rounded up to £115, which in total was £310 when including the initial compensation offered. 
RCI agreed with the investigators view, as did Mr B although he also expressed the view 
that he would like RCI to acknowledge its failures and undertake to improve its processes 
through further training.
Mr B asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision, as 
although he received the compensation, he did not think RCI had given the undertaking he 
sought. Further, following the investigators view, RCI had contacted his co-administrator on 
his late mothers phone number which he thought showed incompetence as it was not the 
first time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 My summary of what happened is brief and I know the parties went into a lot more detail. 
Im going to focus however on what I think the key issues are as our rules allow me to do this 
and it reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. So, if theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, its because Im satisfied that I 
dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome.
The initial elements of this complaint were acknowledged and accepted by RCI. It offered 
£70 in compensation which our investigator deemed to be insufficient, and therefore 
increased it to a total of £310. RCI have accepted that, as has the estate of Mrs B, and the 
compensation has been paid. I think that is a fair and reasonable resolution.
What remains are two additional matters arising after the investigators view was issued. The 
first relates to a call RCI made to Mr Bs co-administrator using his late mothers number and 
the second to the provision of a written acknowledgement from RCI that it would be 
changing its procedures and making improvements. Mr B has told this service that this latter 
point is very important to him and his co-administrator and the complaint is not about him 
receiving money. Mr B has said he was promised on a number of occasions that he would 
receive an acknowledgement letter dealing with his concerns, but he didnt.
RCI have explained that it feels that its current processes do meet the Banking practices 
protocol of Estate Administration. It has further confirmed to this service that it has provided 
additional feedback and training to all staff members concerned and also changed its 
payment process from cheques to electronic payments. RCI has said it would be confirming 
that in writing to Mr B. 
I must repeat that this service doesnt have the power to make rules for financial businesses, 
assess or direct that they change their policy or procedures. We only look at what happened 
in the circumstances of the individual complaint and check that RCI followed its rules and 
procedures and is applying them fairly to all customers. Concerns about business process 
would need to be raised with The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). They take a principles-
based approach to conduct regulation, letting businesses choose how they incorporate those 
principles into the way they deal with customers. This is reflected in the remit the FCA has 
given this service under the Dispute Rules in the FCA Handbook. So, I cant ask RCI to 
provide the acknowledgement letter Mr B wants to see.
RCI has also accepted that unintentionally and in error, it had called call the late Mrs Bs 
phone and spoken to Mr Bs co-administrator and had apologised to the co-administrator for 
any further distress caused. 
Mr B did raise an issue surrounding his security identification when he called on a number of 
occasions. Although Im mindful that RCI have their own processes in place to ensure that 
they are speaking with the right people during their calls, our service cannot comment on 
whether there were any breaches of security. If the Estate of Mrs B is concerned with this 
aspect then this should be raised with the Information Commissioners Office.
Putting things right
 RCI has accepted that it didnt get things right and because of that it has compensated the 
Estate with £310 and also apologised for making a call to the late Mrs Bs phone. I think that is fair and reasonable, especially when taking into account that this service can't ask that a 
business pay an administrator of an estate compensation for any distress they may have 
had.
My final decision
 RCI Bank UK Limited has already paid the Estate of Mrs B £310 to settle this complaint, and 
apologised to Mr Bs co-administrator, and I think that is fair and reasonable. So, my final 
decision is that I dont require it to do anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs B 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman