DRN-3727473
The complaint
Ms D complains that Countrywide Principal Services Limited mis-sold her an income 
protection policy.
What happened
Ms D applied for a mortgage in July 2009. At the same time, Countrywide sold her two 
insurance policies. One of them was the income protection policy that Im making a decision 
on under this complaint.
Countrywide needed information about Ms Ds medical history before it could proceed with 
the application for this policy. Ms D authorised this in October 2009. The insurer offered 
Ms D an income protection policy in January 2010. The start date was in February 2010. 
The policy would pay a benefit in the event Ms D was unable to work due to an illness or an 
injury. The deferred period was 13 weeks, and the income protection benefit was £139 a 
week. The policy cost £31.82 a month, and it was due to expire in 10 years. The policy 
excluded any claims relating to a pre-existing condition Ms D had.
Ms D made a claim on the policy in 2013. She received a benefit of £6.93 a week from 
5 March 2013 onwards, which increased to £21.78 a week on 18 March 2013. Ms D 
cancelled the policy in June 2013.
Ms D complained to Countrywide because she wasnt happy with the benefit she received. 
She had expected the policy would pay out around £400 a month. She said that the sales 
advisor told her she had to take out the policy to get the mortgage, but she had other means 
to keep up with the mortgage repayments if she became too ill to work. So, Ms D says 
Countrywide mis-sold the policy to her.
Countrywide hasnt been able to provide any additional evidence about the policy, or any 
documents relating to the sale, other than what Ms D has already shared. This is because 
how long ago the sale was. But Countrywide has said that there was no obligation for its 
customers to take out any insurance as a condition of a mortgage. 
One of our investigators investigated the complaint. He said he hadnt seen any evidence to 
suggest that Ms D was told she had to take out the policy for her mortgage to be approved. 
He said it wasnt unreasonable that Countrywide hadnt been able to provide further 
evidence about the sale, because of how long ago the sale was. Overall, he said there 
wasnt enough evidence to say that Countrywide mis-sold the policy to Ms D.
Ms D didnt agree with our investigators findings. In summary, she made the following 
arguments:
The policy was sold over the phone, rather than during a meeting.
She relied on the sales advisor to explain everything to her, and she wasnt able to 
read and understand paperwork easily because of her disabilities.
The investigator didnt act fairly by relying on the information in the available 
paperwork. This is because she wasnt able to review understand that information 
because of her disabilities.
She couldnt benefit from the policy because of the other benefits she had.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account the relevant law and regulations, including the requirements under 
the Financial Conduct Authoritys (formerly the Financial Services Authority) Insurance 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). 
Ms D has sent us some information about the policy. Countrywide hasnt been able to 
provide any additional evidence. This isnt unreasonable because the sale happened in 
2009. There is no requirement for a business to hold such information for this long.
Countrywide has told us that it operates an advised sales process. This means that it had to 
take reasonable steps to ensure the suitability of its advice for Ms D. Unfortunately, I havent 
seen any evidence of the questions the sales advisor asked Ms D, or what information she 
gave the advisor. In the absence of this evidence, its not fair or reasonable for me to say 
Countrywide gave Ms D unsuitable advice.
I accept that Ms D didnt receive as much of a benefit from the policy that she expected. But 
this doesnt automatically mean that the policy was unsuitable for her, or that Countrywide 
did something wrong. And in any event, she did make a successful claim on the policy, so 
she did benefit from it. 
Ms D didnt receive the full benefit from the insurer when she made a claim because her 
employer continued to pay her while she was off sick. The insurer included these payments 
when it calculated the income protection benefit it paid Ms D. But I havent seen 
documentary evidence that the sales advisor knew that Ms D would continue to be paid by 
her employer. So, I cant say that Countrywide did something wrong at the time of sale.
I also havent seen any documentary evidence to show that Countrywide told Ms D she had 
to take out this policy to get the mortgage.
Im sorry to disappoint Ms D, but I cant fairly or reasonably say that Countrywide has done 
something wrong here. Having considered everything, Im not persuaded that Countrywide 
mis-sold the income protection policy to Ms D.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ds complaint about Countrywide Principal 
Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman