DRN-2247015
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy with what Avantia Insurance Limited did when she contacted it about 
problems she was having with renovation work at her property. 
What happened
Miss S has legal expenses insurance arranged through Avantia as part of her buildings and 
contents cover. In June 2019 builders began a major extension project at her property. 
Miss S contacted Avantia in early December to say the builders had walked out and she 
wanted legal assistance. Avantia said it hadnt been told this work was taking place and her 
current buildings insurance policy didnt cover renovation work. 
So before referring any legal claim it wanted to make sure her policy did provide appropriate 
cover. The underwriter of her existing policy didnt cover this so a new policy was arranged 
that did. Miss S says she was told that policy would cover up to £25,000 of legal expenses. 
By that point the builders had returned and work was again progressing. Unfortunately, in 
March, Miss S had a recurrence of the problems with the builders and contacted Avantia. 
That legal expenses claim was referred to her insurer which turned it down. It said her policy 
didnt cover events that had taken place before it started. And the policy didnt cover claims 
relating to altering or constructing buildings. 
Miss S said if Avantia had made clear to her in December what the new policy covered then 
shed have taken out different insurance. Our investigator agreed Avantia should have made 
the position clearer. However, she didnt think Miss S would have been able to find cover 
which covered problems that had already taken place. But she thought Avantia should pay 
£150 to recognise the distress and inconvenience it caused. 
Avanti said it offered a non advised service and didnt think it had given Miss S a raised 
expectation any claim would be paid. Miss S said the adviser told her shed have £25,000 
worth of legal expenses cover and shed lost out on that amount. So I need to reach a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Miss S has found the difficulties at her property really upsetting and I was sorry 
to learn about the impact theyve had. But what I need to consider is whether Avantia did 
anything wrong when she got in touch with it about these matters. Im not considering the 
legal expenses claim she made to her insurer; if Miss S has concerns about that decision 
shell need to pursue that separately.   
Avantia says it offers a non-advised service. I havent seen anything to suggest otherwise so 
I think that is likely to be the case. That means when selling insurance Avantia didnt have to 
check whether the policy was suitable for Miss S. But it did have to provide her with clear, 
fair and not misleading information so she could decide whether it was right for her. The 
relevant rules say that should include providing information about the key features and 
exclusions of a policy.
When Miss S got in touch with Avantia she was seeking advice on how to pursue a legal 
claim against her builders. But during that call Avantia established it hadnt been notified of 
the renovation work and her current buildings insurance policy wouldnt provide cover for 
this. So I think it was reasonable it sought to ensure cover was in place for her property; not 
doing so would have left Miss S at risk of being uninsured in the event she needed to make 
a buildings insurance claim. 
However, because her current insurer didnt provide cover for renovation work Miss S 
needed to take out a new buildings insurance policy which (like her previous policy) included 
free legal expenses insurance. But that legal expenses policy doesnt provide cover for 
disputes directly or indirectly arising for altering or constructing buildings for your use. And 
for breach of contract disputes (like this) it doesnt cover the cost of legal action where the 
breach occurred before the period of insurance. 
Avantia were aware Miss S had ongoing renovation work at her property and was already in 
dispute with the builders carrying out that work. Given that I think it would have been 
reasonable at least for the exclusion for pre-existing disputes to have been drawn to her 
attention so she could decide for herself if this policy was right for her. But Avantia didnt do 
that. 
However, where I identify a business has got something wrong, I also need to consider 
whether the person bringing the complaint has lost out as a result. In this case Miss S clearly 
needed to ensure (as a matter of urgency) that cover was in place at her property. So I think 
its most likely shed still have taken out the new buildings and contents insurance policy 
Avantia arranged.  
The question is whether shed also have taken out a different legal expenses policy that 
would have covered her for the dispute she later sought to pursue. Miss S says she would 
but I dont think thats likely. I accept she might have been able to find a legal expenses 
policy that covered her for claims involving property renovation but at the point she 
contacted Avantia the problem with her builders had already arisen. 
And legal expenses insurance policies like these dont generally cover claims a policyholder 
knew about before they took out cover. So, even if Miss S had sought alternative cover in 
December 2019, I think its unlikely shed have been able find a policy that would have 
covered a dispute she already knew about at a price shed have been prepared to pay. I 
note she hasnt been able to provide any evidence of an alternative policy shed have taken.  
So even without the failing Ive identified I dont think Miss S would have had cover in place 
for the dispute she later tried to pursue. But I do accept Avantia didnt draw her attention to 
this limitation during her calls with it. I note legal expenses insurance was specifically 
discussed during her initial call with Avantia and I can understand why that discussion might 
have left Miss S with the impression shed be able to claim for legal expenses in future. I 
think its right Avantia pays £150 to recognise the distress she was caused when she found 
out at a later date that wasnt the case. My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. Avantia Insurance Limited will need to put 
things right by paying Miss S £150.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
James Park
Ombudsman