DRN-1488445
The complaint
Mr E complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc was unhelpful to him when he was in financial 
difficulties. In particular the bank wouldnt give him a new mortgage product which would 
have reduced his monthly payments but only allowed him to move onto the product when he 
cleared the arrears.
What happened
Mr E has a mortgage with the bank and his account fell into substantial arrears when for a 
period he was unemployed. Mr E had his property up for sale but took it off the market when 
he was back in work.  
In May 2019, the arrears were £13,426.95 and the contractual monthly payments were 
£2,068.68. Mr E contacted us because the bank was refusing to put him onto a new 
mortgage product but keeping him on the standard variable rate (SVR*).  Mr E wanted 
Clydesdale to capitalise the arrears and allow him to move onto the new mortgage product 
and was unhappy with the service he got from the bank. 
The bank said that when it did an affordability assessment that it was affordable for Mr E to 
pay off the arrears over a period by paying in an extra £1,000 per month at which point Mr E 
could apply for a new mortgage product. It recommended this rather than capitalise the 
arrears as it said capitalisation was in the long term a more expensive way of borrowing as 
the amount that he would pay over the term of the mortgage would be higher. But it said that 
its communications with Mr E was unsatisfactory and offered compensation for that. Our 
investigator issued two views but didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. Mr 
E disagreed and asked for a review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is concerned with how fairly Clydesdale dealt with Mr E when he was in 
arrears and wanted a new mortgage product. If Mr E was put on the new product, he would 
be paying a lower amount each month than on the SVR. Clydesdales view was that if the 
mortgage remained in arrears - and Mr E was substantially in arrears - and he took out a 
new mortgage product, if the property was repossessed and sold, he would also be exposed 
to paying the early repayment charge (ERC) that would accompany the new mortgage 
product. If Clydesdale capitalised the arrears, it would be loading an extra expense onto the 
mortgage to be paid over the course of the mortgage which had many years to run. Mr E 
would be paying interest on those arrears over that period. The option suggested by the 
bank was to pay the arrears at £1,000 per month, a figure which, according to the 
income/expenditure account, Mr E could afford. When the arrears were paid off, Mr E could 
benefit when his interest rate transferred to the new mortgage product. The downside is that 
Mr E would be on the SVR for the period that Mr E was paying off the arrears.
I note that Mr E and our investigator provided calculations of what the effect of capitalisation 
would be and in our investigators second view he demonstrated that capitalisation would be 
more expensive in the long run. I also note that Mr E says that he offered to clear the arrears 
in one lump sum, but the bank was unreceptive to this. I cant find evidence of his whilst I 
note that in a note of 22 May 2019 Mr E says that he feels that paying the arrears back  is a 
waste of time as the money van be used elsewhere and he doesnt know how he would find 
these funds over the next  6 months  That doesnt seem to suggest that a lump-sum 
payment in respect of the arrears is being offered at that time. 
In any case I would have thought that Mr E would have known that what was stopping him 
getting the mortgage product were the arrears and if he paid them off - as he eventually did 
do - he would be eligible for the mortgage product. Mr E makes other points about the 
service he got from the bank and I note that the bank has acknowledged some service 
issues and offered compensation which is appropriate. This is a case where the arrears at 
one stage were substantial and fortunately have been paid off and Mr E transferred to a 
mortgage product which has been beneficial to him. That would indicate that the bank has 
successfully assisted Mr E in his financial difficulties. 
I do appreciate that this must have been a stressful time for him, and he had to put his 
property on the market. Although going onto a mortgage product might have reduced Mr Es 
payments, if he couldnt maintain these payments, it would have been a worse outcome for 
him. I also understand the banks reluctance to saddle Mr E with the arrears over the lifetime 
of the mortgage. Im pleased that Mr E has been able to emerge from his financial difficulties 
and cleared his arrears but for the above reasons I cant fairly uphold this complaint    
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman