DRN-3575703
The complaint
Mr N complains that Experian Limited (Experian) are displaying incorrect information on his 
credit file. He also complains they rate his score as poor when other credit reference 
agencies (CRA) rate it better.
Mr Ns complaint relates to information provided by five third party businesses, for the 
purpose of this decision Ill refer to them as N, O, T, D and P.
What happened
Following an application for an ISA account with his bank, Mr N was told there was a 
problem with information showing on his Experian credit report. When Mr N checked the 
report, he noticed five different businesses that were reporting information he says is false: 
N  was reporting a default from May 2019
O  was reporting late payments
T  was reporting a default from August 2018
D  was reporting a default from November 2018
P  was reporting late payments
He disputed the information with Experian. 
At the same time, he raised the following other issues:
Experian were displaying his credit score of 678 as poor he didnt think this was 
right, he thought it should be categorised as fair or good
He was declined a mortgage because of Experian
Experian staff had been insulting to him
Experian responded to Mr N, they didnt uphold his complaint, Ive summarised their 
response below:
They had raised disputes with all five businesses Mr N felt were providing false 
information and they had all given responses saying the information was correct. If 
Mr N still believed this to be wrong, he should contact the businesses directly.
The score they display is only visible to him and is not shared with any external 
companies. They use an algorithm to calculate the score based on the data that is 
reported to them. Not all financial businesses report information to all CRAs. So, 
there can be discrepancies between the information held across the CRAs meaning 
the scores can also differ. 
They have no influence on the decision making of a lender. Lenders are able to see 
all of the information held by them and may use this information when applying their 
own lending criteria before deciding to lend.
They found no evidence in any of their communication with Mr N where their staff 
had been insulting towards him. But they had seen that in his responses he hadnt 
always been polite to them.
Mr N was unhappy with this response and so brought his complaint to this service. He told 
us the information Experian was reporting meant that hed been unable to get a mortgage 
and so had been forced to continue renting for the past four years at a cost of £48,720 so he 
wanted them to compensate him the same.
Our investigator didnt think it was a case that should be upheld, she explained:
Experian didnt own the data they displayed. When there is a dispute about whats being 
reported, the expectation on them is to raise disputes with the businesses concerned to see 
if it can be changed.  As Experian had done this and the businesses hadnt given permission 
for the data to be changed, they had met this obligation so hadnt done anything wrong when 
displaying the information.
Providing a credit score isnt a regulated activity and so it isnt something this service will 
make a finding about, but she explained how a credit score is calculated, and what 
information is visible to lenders, and how lenders make their decisions based on their own 
lending criteria. 
It was unlikely any lender had made a decision not to lend to Mr N based on his credit score, 
as it was more likely to be based on his affordability to pay along with his credit history, 
which is visible to them.
Based on the evidence shed seen she hadnt seen anything to suggest Experian staff had 
been rude or insulting to Mr N.
Mr N responded with numerous emails, not all of them appropriate, saying he disagreed. He 
provided letters from two of the five businesses saying his accounts with them were settled 
and some screen shots of his credit score from other CRAs. 
The matter has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean that Ive not considered
everything that both parties have given to me. Having done so I wont be upholding this 
complaint and for broadly the same reasons as the investigator, Ill explain.
Disputed data
CRAs such as Experian do not own the data they hold and display. It is provided to them 
from sources such as financial businesses, local authorities and utility companies, these are 
the owners of the data. When there is a dispute about the information Experians obligation is to raise this with the data owners, if they agree something is wrong, they will agree for it to 
be changed, if they dont agree Experian are not able to change the information.
In Mr Ns case Experian has shown that it raised disputes with the five businesses, none of 
them agreed for the data to be changed and the response from each have been shared with 
Mr N by Experian, so there is no need for me to list them here. Because of this I cant say 
that Experian has acted unfairly by continuing to display the information they have been 
provided. 
Mr N has provided letters from both N and T showing that the accounts are now settled, but 
that doesnt mean that the defaults that were recorded prior to them being settled will no 
longer be displayed. I say this because information about a default will stay on a credit file 
for six years from the date the account defaulted, regardless of if the account is later settled. 
Im aware that Mr N says he never received default notices from the businesses that are 
recording them, but that isnt something I can hold Experian responsible for and Mr N will 
need to take this up with those businesses directly.
Credit score and declined accounts
Lenders dont see Mr Ns Experian credit score or its definitions of poor, fair or good etc  
its simply an indication of how a potential lender may view an individuals credit rating rather 
than a formal assessment. Instead, lenders use credit data from credit reference agencies 
such as Experian, along with any information the applicant has provided to assess a credit 
application and calculate a credit score based on its own mathematical model. Experian 
doesnt decide the outcome of a credit application.
 
For me to find Experian at fault, I would have to decide that it made a mistake with Mr Ns
data. And that the mistake was the only or at least the main reason why Mr Ns credit 
applications were unsuccessful.
As Ive already explained I dont consider Experian made a mistake with Mr Ns credit data 
and so it follows I dont find its likely they were responsible for Mr Ns applications for an ISA, 
or a mortgage being declined. I think its more likely these decisions were based on those 
specific businesses criteria to provide products and services to individuals, which it appears 
Mr N didnt meet. Based on this I wont be recommending Experian pay Mr N compensation 
for his declined applications or his need to stay in rented accommodation because of them.
Customer Service
Mr N has said that Experians staff were rude and insulting, he hasnt provided anything 
more specific than this or any evidence to support this allegation. Ive seen no evidence from 
reviewing the communication on file to show Experian staff were anything but professional, 
so I wont be upholding this aspect of Mr Ns complaint.
I know Mr N will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in trying 
to resolve his dispute with Experian can do for him.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman