DRN-4171876
The complaint
Mrs U is unhappy with the service she got from U K Insurance Limited (UKI) which led her 
to make a claim on her motor insurance policy after an accident.
What happened
Mrs U told UKI that another driver had driven into her stationary car and left the scene 
immediately. She went to a police station to report him for dangerous driving and failing to 
stop. The other driver then arrived to report the accident. After speaking to the police, he 
said he accepted full liability for it. On 31 August 2022 UKI told Mrs U that the other drivers 
insurer had formally accepted liability. On that basis, she decided to have her car repaired. 
UKI didnt tell her until 14 December 2022 that the other insurer had decided to dispute 
liability on 1 September 2022.   
In response to her complaint about that, UKI apologised and offered Mrs U £250 
compensation, which she rejected. She thought her no claims bonus (NCD) had been 
affected due to UKIs mishandling of the situation. UKI continued to dispute liability and it told 
Mrs U in March 2023 that it had contacted the police for information. Mrs U said she would 
have done that in September 2022. She also said she wouldnt have had the repairs done 
had liability been in question. UKI told us later that the other drivers insurer wanted liability 
for the accident to be split, but as UKI hadnt agreed to that, the dispute continued.  
One of our investigators reviewed Mrs Us complaint. He noted that shed only gone ahead 
with a claim and repairs on the basis that the other driver had accepted full liability. But he 
pointed out that the other driver could have said Mrs U was at fault at any point, even if she 
hadnt made a claim. That would still have affected her NCD until liability was resolved in her 
favour. Mrs U said shed agreed to the repairs based on false information from UKI. She said 
that was fraud and should be investigated. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see why Mrs U is unhappy about UKI not checking that the other insurer hadnt 
changed its stance before December 2022. I think there was always a chance that might 
happen  although as the other driver had admitted full responsibility for the accident to two 
police officers, it seemed unlikely. In my opinion, as UKI didnt advise Mrs U about all the 
possibilities from the outset, its service was lacking. But I dont think shes shown it gave her 
false information or deliberately tried to mislead her. When it conveyed the other insurers 
stance to her, that information was accurate and wasnt likely to change.
Had Mrs U been told there was a chance the other driver / insurer might say she was partly 
at fault for the accident at some point, she may well not have made a claim. But had she not 
done so, I dont think the outcome would have been any better for her. As soon as liability 
was disputed, Mrs Us policy would have been affected. No doubt UKI would still have 
argued that she wasnt at fault. But whilst the dispute continued (and in line with standard 
industry practice) the claim would have been open and marked as a fault claim against both 
drivers policies. So Mrs Us NCD would have been affected anyway  and her car wouldnt 
have been repaired in the meantime.
UKI contacted the police in January 2023 for any evidence that might support Mrs Us case. I 
know shes upset about that not being done earlier - and I think it was appropriate for UKI to 
offer her compensation, as the disputes resolution has been delayed as a result. Mrs U 
doesnt think the amount of compensation offered is sufficient. But I think its enough to 
reflect the fact that UKIs poor service has caused her disappointment and frustration. Had 
UKI not offered her £250, I would have required it to pay her a similar sum for distress and 
inconvenience. I know Mrs U will be unhappy with my decision, but I dont think shes shown 
that theres a sound basis for me to require UKI to pay her more. 
When the liability dispute is concluded, if its decided in her favour Mrs Us NCD will be 
restored. If she isnt happy with the process or the outcome, and she thinks UKI hasnt acted 
fairly or reasonably, Mrs U can make a new complaint to UKI about that. If necessary, she 
can then also make a further complaint to us.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs U to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2023. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman