DRN-2767764
The complaint
Mr H complained about his renewal premium quote and about Admirals service.
What happened
Mr H said that the renewal premium Admiral quoted was too high compared to his previous 
years premium, was based on incorrect information, and didnt take into account his no 
claims discount (NCD). He complained to Admiral that this was misleading, and he chose to 
insure with another provider instead of Admiral. 
Admiral accepted theyd made some customer service mistakes and offered Mr H £100 in 
compensation for that, but he didnt think it was enough. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. They thought that 
£100 was enough to compensate him for any trouble and upset Admiral had caused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr H first received a renewal quote via Admirals Live Chat service , he queried the 
amount of about £1,200 because it was much more than his previous years premium with 
them. Admiral said at first that his premium had gone up because he had a fault claim. But 
he said that the accident wasnt his fault and Admiral had paid his repairs and were 
recovering their losses. Admiral did then agree that the claim wasnt Mr Hs fault. But they 
also explained that it did still affect his NCD because the claim was still open while Admiral 
recovered their costs, but if they did recover their costs, theyd reinstate his NCD. After 
further discussion, they agreed to allow his NCD of one year. During this time, they did 
reduce the premium offered, but Mr H still felt that their premium was too high and so he 
insured elsewhere. He felt that Admirals communication was poor, they gave him wrong 
information, they ended the Live Chat sessions too quickly, and they then sent him emails 
confirming the quotes based on that wrong information.
He felt that Admiral had misinformed and misled him, and that theyd been unprofessional. 
He thought that if he hadnt queried their first quote, hed have paid an unnecessarily high 
premium. He was also concerned that other customers might receive similar misinformation 
and not realise it, and so pay more for their insurance than they needed to. He wanted 
Admiral to compensate him about £1,200.
Admiral accepted that theyd done some things wrong over the few days of their 
communication with Mr H, which included some sessions on Live Chat. They agreed that in 
the chat they wrongly said hed had a fault claim, but they did correct that when they 
transferred him to another department. 
Theyve shown us the times of the live chats and they show that, when there was no reply 
from Mr H, the agent asked if he still wanted to talk, and they ended the chat when he didnt 
reply after several minutes. Mr H thought they should have given him longer as he was 
thinking about it, and Admiral have acknowledged his feedback on that. But ultimately, as 
Live Chat is intended to be a fast-paced means of communication, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Admiral to end the chat when Mr H didnt reply. They also accepted that 
they shouldnt have asked for payment of the renewal quote, because he hadnt agreed to 
renewal, and that they didnt call him back as promised.
But Admiral explained that, even though the accident hadnt been Mr Hs fault, it had still 
resulted in a claim on the policy and Admiral are entitled to consider any claim, regardless of 
fault, when calculating the premium. This is because a premium is based on policyholder risk 
profile. Drivers who have been involved in accidents, regardless of fault, are considered to 
be more likely to be involved in future claims, so the risk factor increases and so can the 
premium. 
I can see that Mr H is upset that his premium went up by so much, and he didnt feel that 
was justified. But, as the investigator explained to Mr H, its not our role to tell an insurer how 
to price their policies or what factors they should consider when calculating a risk, as thats a 
commercial decision for them. All we can do is consider whether Admiral have applied those 
factors fairly and reasonably, and I think that they have. Admiral gave us confidential 
business sensitive information to explain how Mr Hs quote was calculated, and it was 
calculated correctly, including his NCD, and Admiral have shown that they would have 
charged all customers in his position a similar premium.
And although Mr H wants a compensation payment of about £1,200, the same amount as 
the first renewal premium Admiral incorrectly quoted him, I dont think it would be reasonable 
to award that. As the investigator also explained, we can only look at the individual case and 
the impact of Admirals actions on the consumer complaining, not on what might have 
happened with other consumers, and its not our role to punish a business. And so, while I 
agree that Admirals actions did cause Mr H some trouble and upset, I think that the £100 
offered by Admiral does adequately compensate him for that. And so if Admiral havent yet 
paid him the £100, Id expect them to do so, but I dont require them to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
