DRN-4287990
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner
Finance (BPF) has unfairly turned down her claims under section 75 and 140A of the
Consumer Credit Act 1974. She also complains that BPF failed to carry out affordability
checks in respect of a fixed sum loan she entered into with it.
Mrs W has been assisted in bringing her complaint by a legal representative, but Ill refer to
anything thats been said on her behalf as if Mrs W had said it herself, to keep things simple.
What happened
Mrs W and her husband purchased a trial membership of a holiday club and then entered
into an acquisition agreement in October 2009 to trade-in their trial membership and buy
some holiday club membership points. This was funded by Mrs Ws husband entering into a
fixed sum loan agreement with BPF.
Mrs W and her husband entered into another acquisition agreement to buy some more
holiday club membership points in February 2010. The price of those membership points
was £13,023 and Mrs W entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with BPF for a loan of that
amount. It is this loan which is the subject of Mrs Ws complaint.
In June 2022 Mrs W made claims to BPF under sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer
Credit Act 1974 about the February 2010 credit agreement. Mrs W said that the membership
points had been misrepresented to her and there was an unfair relationship between herself
and BPF.
Mrs W also said that BPF had failed to carry out affordability checks when she had entered
into the fixed sum loan.
BPF said that Mrs W was out of time under the Limitation Act 1980 to bring any claim 
undersection 75 and that the unfair relationship provisions dont entitle this service to give 
any remedy. It also said Mrs Ws complaint about irresponsible lending was out of time for 
this service to consider.
Mrs W was unhappy at BPFs response and made a complaint to this service. Our
investigator didnt recommend that Mrs Ws complaint should be upheld. He said that he
thought that BPF was entitled to rely on the timing of Mrs Ws section 75 claim to turn
it down.
Our investigator also said that he hadnt seen enough to suggest that a court would
reach the conclusion that the relationship between BPF and Mrs W had been unfair. He also
said that he hadnt seen anything persuasive to suggest that the lending was unaffordable
for Mrs W.
Mrs W disagreed with our investigators view. She provided a detailed submission that had
been prepared by her legal representative. This submission ran to 20 pages and the initial
details of the complaint ran to 18 pages. So, its not possible to set out in detail every point
made, but I have read these submissions in full. In this decision, Ill focus on the parts most
important to the outcome of this complaint.
As the parties were unable to agree the complaint has been passed to me. I issued a 
provisional decision along the following lines.
I have considered the relevant law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and
standards, and codes of practice and good industry practice. And when evidence was
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory then I reached my decision about the merits of this
complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I considered was most likely 
to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I also wanted to assure Mrs W that, if I didnt address every point that had been raised, it 
was not because I hadnt thought about it. I considered everything that had been said and
sent to us. But as set out above, I concentrated in this decision on what I thought was 
relevant and material to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.
Mrs Ws claim under Section 75
Section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act sets out that a consumer who has a claim for
breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions,
bring that claim against a credit provider. Those conditions include that the goods or services
bought cost more than £100 and less than £30,000 and that the credit financed the contract
giving rise to the claim, either in whole or in part. A claim under section 75 is a legal claim
and so it wasnt my role to decide whether a claim under this section would be successful at
court but to consider whether BPF had handled the claim fairly.
BPF said any claim under section 75 was now time barred under the Limitation Act 1980. 
Mrs W had set out a number of alleged misrepresentations that she said had been made by 
the timeshare provider that had induced her to take out the timeshare in question. In 
summary, she said that she had been told she would be staying in luxury accommodation 
each year, that the resorts were exclusive and that she would be able to book the holiday 
she wanted when she wanted. Mrs W said these things werent true.
A claim for misrepresentation is normally brought under the Misrepresentation Act 1967, and
someone normally has six years to bring any claim from the date the cause of action accrues
(see section 9 of The Limitation Act). As Mrs W would have suffered a loss at the point, she
had entered into an agreement based on an alleged misrepresentation, her cause of action
arose in February 2010, at the point she had signed the agreement. So, Mrs W would have
had six years from then to bring a misrepresentation claim against either the holiday
company or BPF. But as set out above, no claim regarding misrepresentation had been
made to BPF until 2022 so around 12 years later, which was outside of the time limits set out
in the Limitation Act.
Mrs W argued that she had longer than that to bring a claim due to section 32 of the
Limitation Act 1980. I wasnt convinced that she would have more time for the same reasons
as our investigator had given, but I make no finding on that point. That was because Mrs W 
had also made a section 140A claim and any misrepresentations could be considered as 
part of that assessment (see Scotland & Reast v. British Credit Trust Limited [2014] EWCA 
Civ 790), so any determination of limitation for Mrs Ws section 75 claim becomes academic.
Mrs Ws Section 140A Claim
In respect of time limits and a section 140A claim, the time for limitation purposes runs from
the date that the credit agreement ended (if it was not still running at the time the claim wasmade) and the limitation period for a claim under section 140A is six years. Mrs Ws credit
agreement ended in August 2018, so I was satisfied that this claim had been raised in time.
As set out above, Mrs Ws claim for misrepresentation was also relevant for her claim under
section 140A. She said that untrue statements were made that:
She would receive a number of points that could be used to book holidays each year 
at any resort within the holiday companys portfolio.
She would be investing in her holidays by securing future holidays that would be 
significantly cheaper than would be available on the open market and that purchasing 
the membership points would enable them to have access to cheaper holidays 
worldwide through exchanges.
There was a ready re-sale market for the membership points which meant that she 
would be able to sell them, so she was purchasing an asset.
There would be good availability of 5-star accommodation in worldwide resorts at 
peak times of the year. 
She would have access to an exclusive holiday club and the holidays werent 
available to the general public. 
The annual maintenance fees would be limited to the cost of maintenance and would 
only increase with the rate of inflation. 
The price of the points had only been available, at a rate significantly below market 
value, for a very limited period (during the course of the sales presentation).
Mrs W and her husband had signed documents in February 2010 which had included the 
acquisition agreement, the terms and conditions and a members declaration. The 
acquisition agreement had shown that they were purchasing 901-point rights that would be 
credited to them each year for their use.
Looking at the members declaration, it said: We understand that the purchase of our
membership  is for the primary purpose of holidays and is neither specifically for direct
purposes of a trade in nor as an investment in real estate, and that [the holiday company]
makes no representation as to the future price or value of the  product. It also said, We
understand that [the holiday company] does not and will not run any resale or rental
programmes and will not repurchase  Points other than as a trade in against future
property purchases.
There was information about the maintenance charge included in the members declaration
which said, The basis of these dues is set out in the Memorandum and Articles of
Association together with the Scheme Rules and Regulations of the Company.
Id seen that Mrs W and her husband had signed the members declaration and confirmed 
that they had read and fully understood it. Although it was possible Mrs W and her husband 
had been told things that differed from what was in the documents they had signed, in this 
case I didnt think there was enough evidence for me to find that had happened. I thought 
that if this information had differed from what they had been told by the salesperson for the 
holiday company, then it would be reasonable to have expected them to have queried it 
before signing it.Id also seen that Mrs W and her husband had attended an earlier presentation in
September 2009 and acquired a number of points at that time. So, I thought having attended
these presentations in the past they would have been aware that they didnt have to sign the
agreement in February 2010 if they didnt want to. I thought it was more likely they had 
wanted to buy more points as they had wanted to add to the existing holiday rights they held.
Mrs W raised her claim with BPF in June 2022 so nearly 12 years after she had entered into
the acquisition agreement. And I hadnt seen any evidence that she had complained to the
holiday company about any misrepresentations that had been made or about any issues and
difficulties she had faced when trying to use the holiday product.
Mrs Ws representative had raised that they have been instructed by a large number of
consumers making similar complaints against BPF regarding the mis-selling of holiday
products by the holiday company. They said their clients have made very similar allegations
to each other and this should be taken into account when considering Mrs Ws complaint.
But this service considers each complaint on its own merits, and I wasnt persuaded that
allegations made by other clients showed that the membership points had been 
misrepresented to Mrs W in February 2010.
I had also been asked to consider a decision by another ombudsman and it had been 
suggested that I should take the same approach when determining the outcome of Mrs Ws 
complaint. That decision had been subject to a recent judicial review1 that clarified the legal 
approach to complaints like Mrs Ws. But, in so far as Id looked at the facts of this case and 
made finding on those facts, I did so independently. And just because one ombudsman 
might have upheld a complaint made by a different consumer about a different holiday 
product, didnt mean I had to uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
In summary, I also hadnt seen enough evidence to be able to reasonably say that Mrs W 
had been told that the holidays were exclusive and would be significantly cheaper than 
would be available on the open market or that there would be peak time availability; that
there was a ready re-sale market for the membership points, that the maintenance
charges would only increase with the rate of inflation or that the price of the points
was only available at that time. As set out above I didnt know what had been said to Mrs W 
at the point of sale and I hadnt seen sufficient information to be satisfied false statements of 
fact had been made.
In light of the above I didnt think Mrs W had been induced into entering into the acquisition 
agreement and buying the membership points by misrepresentations made by the holiday 
company.
I also didnt think Id seen enough evidence to consider that there was enough evidence to 
show that Mrs W was the subject of undue pressure to buy the membership points in 
February 2010. And I wasnt persuaded Mrs Ws ability to make a choice about entering into 
the agreement had been significantly impaired.
Mrs W raised that the holiday company had breached the Timeshare, Holiday Products, 
Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010 when she had entered into the 
agreement. But this particular legislation wasnt in force in February 2010, so wasnt relevant 
to the outcome of this complaint.
Mrs Ws representative had set out the terms of the points acquisition agreement which they 
say were unfair. However, whether a term was unfair is for a court to decide and not me. But 
I didnt think that the presence of a potentially unfair or unfair term alone would mean it was 
1 Shawbrook Bank Limited v. Financial Ombudsman Service Limited [2023] EWHC 1069 (Admin)likely that a court would conclude that an unfair relationship had been created between a 
debtor and a creditor. This was because the court would need to consider how the term 
operated in practice and whether the operation of that term had caused the relationship to be 
unfair.2
I hadnt seen enough evidence that showed that the terms of the documents that Mrs W and 
her husband agreed to in February 2010 have been applied or operated unfairly against 
them. I therefore thought it would be unlikely that a court would conclude in these 
circumstances that the terms of the documents created an unfair relationship between Mrs 
W and BPF.
DISP Rules  Affordability
BPF had raised the DISP rules in respect of Mrs Ws complaint and said that due to
the amount of time that had passed, it wasnt required to consider the merits of their 
complaint in respect of the issue of the loan being affordable.
The rules about the complaints we can consider are set out in the FCAs Handbook. These
are known as the DISP rules. DISP 2.8.2(2) provides (unless the failure to comply with the
time limits was as a result of exceptional circumstances) that we cant consider a complaint if
a consumer refers it to us more than: (a) six years after the event complained of, or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably
to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint.
Looking at the second limb of DISP 2.8.2 (when Mrs W knew, or ought reasonably to have
known, that she had cause for complaint) to see if this extended the time under DISP 2.8.2R
(2)(b) it was suggested that she first became aware that she had cause for complaint in 2022 
- when she had sought professional advice. If the loan had been unaffordable, I thought I 
would have expected Mrs W to have realised this much earlier - but I accepted this wasnt 
the same as them knowing they had cause for complaint against BPF.
As I couldnt be certain that Mrs W knew (or ought reasonably to have known) that she had
cause for complaint against BPF regarding affordability before she took advice in 2022, I 
think she has brought this part of her complaint to us within three years of that and so
Ive gone on to consider this.
The Lending Decision
Mrs W said that there was no assessment or due diligence checks made by BPF as
to whether the credit agreement had been affordable for her in 2010. However, even if I were 
to find that BPF had failed to do everything it should have when it agreed to lend (and I 
made no such finding), Id have to be satisfied that the lending was unaffordable for Mrs W, 
before also concluding that she had lost out as a result. As I hadnt seen anything to 
persuade me that was the case at the time of sale, I didnt think this was a reason to uphold 
this complaint given its circumstances. 
So, for the reasons set out above I wasnt intending to uphold Mrs Ws complaint. 
Neither Mrs W nor BPF has asked me to look again at any parts of my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
2 This was highlighted in the recent judicial reviewreasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Even though neither party has asked me to review any part of my provisional decision I have 
still looked again at the evidence and the conclusions that I reached. And I havent changed 
my view.
I still think it would be unlikely that a court would conclude in the circumstances set out 
above that the terms of the timeshare documents created an unfair relationship between Mrs 
W and BPF. Nor do I think there is sufficient evidence to reasonably say the lending to Mrs 
W by BPF had been unaffordable. Im therefore not upholding Mrs Ws complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2023.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman