DRN-3663355
The complaint
Ms M complains that Hoist Finance UK Limited is unfairly trying to collect a debt in her 
name. 
What happened
In 2018 Hoist acquired a debt in Ms Ms name from another business Ill call S. Hoist says 
the debt relates to a current account with associated overdraft that was terminated by S due 
to non payment. Hoist sent a Notice of Assignment to the address the debt was recorded 
against. 
last year, Hoist wrote to Ms M at her current address after completing a tracing exercise. 
Hoist asked Ms M to make payments towards the balance. Ms M says Hoist gave differing 
address details and raised concerns that the debt in question wasnt opened by her. Ms M 
also asked Hoist to provide a copy of the credit agreement or statements to show the 
account was hers. 
Hoist contacted S and raised a fraud claim. Hoist also asked S to provide copies of the credit 
agreement and statements. S later responded and advised no credit agreement or 
statements remained on file. So none have been sent to Ms M. S responded to Hoist and 
said the fraud investigation shows the account was opened at Ms Ms old address and was 
closed at default in 2011. 
Hoist didnt uphold Ms Ms complaint and said it had a legitimate reason to contact her. An 
investigator at this service looked at Ms Ms complaint but didnt agree Hoist had acted 
unfairly. 
Ms M asked to appeal and said Hoist had first mentioned different addresses when linking 
her with the debt. Ms M also said she knew nothing about the account in question and that 
Hoist had failed to provide basic evidence to support its claim. Ms M said she had an old 
account with another business (A) but that it had been transferred to a different bank (C), not 
S. As Ms M asked to appeal, her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with Ms M that some of the information provided by Hoist has been confusing. 
Ms Ms told us Hoist first advised shed been linked to different addresses. But Hoist has 
more recently provided evidence that links Ms M to an address shes confirmed was her old 
residence. I can see there is some confusion on this point. But Hoist has provided a copy of 
the credit search it completed, and I can see it correctly linked Ms Ms current address to her 
previous address. And the previous address is the same one Hoist wrote to in October 2018 
when it first acquired this debt. 
In addition, S responded to Hoists fraud referral. S confirmed the account in question was 
opened in Ms Ms name in 1996 and operated for a number of years. S advised Hoist the 
account was registered at the address Ms M has confirmed she used to live at. 
I also think its reasonable to note that when S responded to Hoist it confirmed the debt 
came about as a result of an account that was opened in 1996 with A. Ms M has told us the 
account was later transferred to C, but that doesnt appear to be the case. S also confirmed 
the account operated until 2011 when it was closed and a default was reported. 
I agree there was some confusion over addresses Ms M was linked to. But, overall, Im 
satisfied the information on file indicates there was an account with S in Ms Ms name that 
Hoist acquired in 2018. 
As Im satisfied Hoist did acquire an account in Ms Ms name, I dont think its acted unfairly 
by contacting her about repayment. Ive looked at the nature and level of Hoists contact but 
havent been persuaded it amounts to harassment.
Hoist has confirmed it cant provide a copy of the original credit agreement or statements 
from the period the account was open. Whether the debt remains enforceable in the 
absence of account documents isnt something our service would comment on. And any 
record of the default by S willve dropped off Ms Ms account six years after the default date 
in 2011. 
Im sorry to disappoint Ms M but as Im satisfied Hoist is legitimately seeking to collect a debt 
in her name I havent been persuaded its acted unfairly.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman