DRN-3159510
The complaint
Mr A complains about the way AXA Insurance UK Plc administered his travel insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr A has travel insurance as a benefit of his packaged bank account.
In September 2020, Mr A got in touch with AXA. He was planning to go on holiday to a 
European country and he said he needed proof of his travel insurance policy in order to get a 
visa.
During the call, AXAs call handler went through medical screening. Mr A declared that he 
suffered from vitamin D deficiency and a thyroid problem. However, as he was unsure 
whether he suffered from an underactive or overactive thyroid, AXAs call handler couldnt 
complete the screening and instead had to exclude all cover for Mr As medical conditions. 
She suggested that he speak to his GP surgery to find out his exact diagnosis and to call 
back once he had this information.
In the meantime, the call handler let Mr A know that she would register his policy online, so 
that all of the documents he needed would be ready for his visa appointment.
Mr A was unhappy because he said that on a later call, AXA told him it didnt need 
information from the GP in order to set his cover up. So he felt hed been unnecessarily put 
to time and inconvenience. He was also unhappy that he hadnt been sent an email hed 
asked for.
AXA didnt think its call handler had led Mr A to believe that it couldnt register his policy 
online until hed spoken to his GP. But it did acknowledge that it hadnt sent Mr A an email 
when it said it would, so it offered him £10 compensation to reflect its error.
Mr A remained unhappy with the way AXA had administered his policy and he asked us to 
look into his complaint.
Our investigator thought AXA had treated Mr A fairly. She felt the call handler had been clear 
about the information she needed in order to update its records about Mr As medical history 
and why. And she was satisfied that the call handler had told Mr A that the policy information 
he needed for his appointment would be available online. She felt £10 was fair 
compensation for AXAs failure to send Mr A the email it said it would.
Mr A disagreed. He said he felt the assessment was one-sided. And he said hed spoken to 
his GP which had told him that if AXA needed anything medical, it would need to request it 
directly. But AXA had told him the opposite, which had caused him more trouble.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr A, I think AXA has treated him fairly and Ill 
explain why.
It seems to me that the key issue for me to decide is whether AXA wrongly told Mr A that it 
couldnt provide him with policy documents until hed spoken to his GP to get information 
about his existing medical conditions. Like the investigator, Ive carefully listened to the call 
between AXAs call handler and Mr A to understand what happened.
Medical screening
Mr A told the call handler that hed been into his bank branch to ask for the information he 
needed in order to get a European visa. The bank had directed him to call AXA directly. As 
AXA didnt have any details recorded about Mr As health, the call handler asked Mr A for 
information about any medical conditions hed received treatment for in the six months 
before booking his trip.
The terms and conditions of Mr As policy say, in summary, that AXA wont cover claims 
which are related to a policyholders existing medical conditions unless these have been 
declared to and accepted by AXA, unless the condition falls within a specific list. So I think it 
was appropriate for the call handler to ask Mr A questions about his health to try and ensure 
that Mr A had full medical cover.
Mr A told the call handler that he had a vitamin D deficiency. He also explained that he had a 
thyroid problem, for which he took one tablet. However, he didnt know whether he had an 
under or over active thyroid. This meant that the call handler couldnt accurately record the 
actual medical condition Mr A suffered from. In turn, this meant that AXA couldnt assess 
whether or not it was prepared to cover Mr As thyroid problem.
I think the call handler took reasonable steps to try and get the information she needed from 
Mr A and she clearly explained the potential impact on claims if a full medical declaration 
wasnt made.  And I dont think the call handler couldve reasonably made a decision about 
which type of thyroid problem Mr A suffered from, as she wasnt clinically trained.
In the absence of a full diagnosis and because AXA wasnt in a position to fully assess 
whether it would agree to cover Mr As conditions, the call handler let Mr A know that 
medical cover for his conditions would have to be excluded. I think she clearly explained 
though that once Mr A could confirm whether he had an under or over active thyroid, he 
could call back and complete medical screening.
The call handler suggested that Mr A could call his GP surgery and speak to the receptionist 
to ask what type of thyroid issue he suffered from. I think this was a reasonable and 
appropriate suggestion from the call handler and I find she was trying to provide Mr A with a 
practical way to get the medical information he needed. 
I appreciate Mr A says he had difficulties in getting this information and that this therefore 
impacted on his performance at work. But I dont think I could fairly hold AXA responsible for 
any trouble or delays Mr A experienced in speaking to his GP. And while insurers might 
often ask GPs for copies of a policyholders medical records in the event of a claim, AXA 
didnt need Mr As full records here. It simply wanted to know the specific diagnosis hed 
received in respect of his thyroid. And it was open to Mr A not to get this information and to simply leave the policy as it already was with no cover for his existing conditions. So Im 
satisfied that AXA treated Mr A fairly when it went through medical screening with him.
Did AXA lead Mr A to believe it couldnt register his policy without information from the GP?
Having listened closely to the call, I dont think AXAs call handler led Mr A to believe that it 
couldnt register his policy without the additional information from the GP. In my view, she 
discussed this request clearly and separately to the medical screening. I think the call 
handler made it clear that she would be registering Mr As policy online that day and that the 
documentation he needed for his visa appointment would be available to him online. I dont 
think this was in any way suggestive that AXA couldnt or wouldnt register the policy without 
information about Mr As full diagnosis.  
And I can see from AXAs records that it did upload Mr As policy schedule and some policy 
paperwork online shortly afterwards to allow Mr A to print the information he needed for his 
visa appointment. So I havent seen enough to persuade me that Mr A was unable to obtain 
his visa due to any error by AXA. 
While I understand Mr A may have linked the two issues during the discussion, Im satisfied 
that AXAs call handler gave him clear, fair and not misleading information about his policy 
and how it worked during the call. Im also satisfied she made the information he needed 
available to him promptly.
However, AXA accepts it told Mr A that it would send him an email which it didnt go on to 
send. So it offered Mr A £10 compensation. I dont doubt that this error caused Mr A some 
frustration and disappointment, so I think it was right for AXA to acknowledge this. In my 
view, £10 is a fair and reasonable amount of compensation to reflect the impact I think this 
administrative error is likely to have had on Mr A.
Overall, I think AXA has treated Mr A fairly and so Im not telling it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman