DRN-4233036
The complaint
Mr M complains Valour Finance Limited trading as Savvy.co.uk (Valour) provided him with 
a loan without carrying out appropriate affordability checks. 
Mr M also says he is unhappy a default has been recorded with the credit reference 
agencies. 
What happened
Mr M took one loan from Valour for £600 on 18 February 2022. Mr M was due to make eight 
monthly repayments of £150 but he had some problems repaying his loan and none of the 
contractual payments were made on time. But the loan was successfully repaid in 
November 2022. 
In response to Mr Ms complaint, two final response letters were issued, one in relation to the 
unaffordable lending and one to do with the default. Firstly, Valour said it hadnt made an 
error when it approved the loan because proportionate checks had been carried out. 
In relation to the defaulting of the loan account, Valour said no error had been made. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr M referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator. In the first assessment, he concluded 
Valour made proportionate checks which showed the loan repayments to be affordable. He 
also didnt think Valour needed to have verified the information Mr M had provided. 
Mr M disagreed with the outcome and sent several emails with his reasoning, all of which I 
have read and considered. Ive outlined below a summary of his points. 
Valour confirmed the account had been placed on hold but then defaulted the 
account -without any prior notice a number of days later. 
Mr M says he didnt apply directly to Valour  rather he applied through a third party. 
Mr M had problems dealing with Valour including their phone lines not working and it 
refused to call him back.
Mr M says, though he has repaid the loan it is still showing as having an outstanding 
balance.  Later, Mr M in July 2023, confirmed the loan balance was now showing as 
settled. 
Mr M provided a screen shot of a message he received from Valour in June 2022  
which showed it agreed to place the account on hold for 30 days.
Mr M provided evidence that the account is being recorded as being in default on his 
credit file from May 2022, even though the default notice is dated 31 May 2022.
Another adjudicator then made enquires with Valour about the default date and the date 
from which a default ought to show. She then proceeded to issue a second assessment 
dealing with the defaulting of Mr Ms account. She explained that Valour did place a hold on 
the account, but this was only a communication hold  and this wouldnt have prevented the 
default notice from being issued. 
And while, the alert from Mr Ms credit file showed a default from 15 May 2022, the 
adjudicator was satisfied the account was correctly defaulted and the information Valour is 
reporting to the credit reference agencies shows the account as being defaulted from 
15 June 2022. 
In addition, to the points Mr M previously made, he said:
Valour didnt consider his circumstances before granting the loan.
The main issue, Mr M has is that the default is showing as the wrong date on his 
credit file. The default was recorded before the notice was sent to Mr M.
Mr M says that Valour didnt make it clear to him that the hold it was placing on his 
account was for communication purposes only. 
The default notice was sent and then applied during a period when Valour says there 
was a hold on the account. 
Mr M settled the full balance but doesnt think it is fair a default has been recorded. 
Valour has acted in a way that was misleading and dishonest in their 
communication
Mr M wanted to settle the balance but was advised to wait to see the outcome of the 
complaint about the default complaint. 
Mr M asked for an ombudsmans decision and so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Ive split this decision into two parts, the first part will deal with what happened when the loan 
was granted and the second part with what happened when Mr M approached Valour for 
help and then the defaulting of the account. 
Unaffordable lending
Valour had to assess the lending to check if Mr M could afford to pay back the amount hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. Valours checks could have taken into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ms income 
and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Valour should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr M. These factors include:
Mr M having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr M having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr M coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr M. As there was only one loan, the 
adjudicator didnt think this applied in Mr Ms case. 
Valour was required to establish whether Mr M could sustainably repay the loan  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr M was able to repay his loan 
sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ms complaint.
Before this loan was approved, Valour received details from Mr M about his income, which 
he declared to be £3,100 per month. Valour says it carried out an electronic verification 
check of this amount  and the results confirmed that Mr M had received at least this 
amount, each month for the last 12 months. However, no evidence has been provided to 
support this check. In any event because this was the first loan, I think it was reasonable for 
Valour to have accepted what Mr M had said.  
As part of his application, Mr M provided Valour with details of his living costs, this was then 
discussed with Mr M on a telephone call (and a copy of the recorded call has been provided 
which I have listened to) in which he confirmed details of his application such as his 
employer and payment date, his living situation and details of his income and expenditure. 
As a result of these checks, Valour believed Mr Ms monthly expenditure came to £1,117. 
As part of the expenditure, Mr M declared that he didnt have any rent or mortgage costs. 
Ordinarily, this ought not to have been accepted, especially if there was information to 
suggest that Mr M had for example council tax payments. But in this case, Mr M declared he 
lived at home with parents and only contributed towards the bills, as outlined in the 
expenditure table in the final response letter. It was therefore reasonable to conclude that 
the housing were accurate.  
Valour therefore reasonably believed Mr M had £1,986 per month of disposable income to 
be able to afford the monthly repayment of around £150. The loan looked affordable. The agent did ask about Mr Ms large disposable income, and Mr M says that he had to 
cover the cost of an unexpected training session he needs for a qualification he was 
completing. It was reasonable for Valour to have relied on this because part of any 
affordability assessment is a consumer should be able make payments out of income 
and / or savings. So, I dont think Valour considering any savings deposits was unreasonable 
or outside of the regulations. 
Before this loan was approved Valour also carried out a credit search and it has provided the 
results it received from the credit reference agency. It is worth saying here that although 
Valour carried out a credit search there isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone 
one to a specific standard. But what Valour couldnt do is carry out a credit search and then 
not react to the to the information it received  if necessary. Valour was also entitled to rely 
on the results it was given as it didnt have anything to suggest the results were in anyway 
inaccurate. 
The credit check results gave an overview of all the active credit accounts that Mr M had. 
From the information it received, Valour knew Mr M had a recently opened a personal loan 
costing him £317 per month and he also had three credit cards with a total balance of 
£12,032. However, there wasnt any adverse information such as missed payment markers 
and these accounts including a current account appeared to have been managed well. 
Valour calculated from Mr Ms credit file that he had around £630 per month of existing credit 
commitments  which does appear to have been about right  based on the information it 
received from the credit reference agency. 
Taking everything into account, there wasnt in my view, anything solely from the credit file 
which wouldve led to Valour declining Mr Ms application or to have prompted it to carry out 
further checks. 
And as this was the first loan in a new lending relationship, it was reasonable for Valour to 
have relied on the information Mr M provided about his income and expenditure which 
showed sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments he was committed to making. 
Im therefore not upholding Mr Ms complaint about the affordability of the loan.  
Placing the account on hold and the defaulting of the account 
Ive been provided with a copy of communications between Mr M and Valour so I can see 
what both parties were told at various points. 
Initially, after the complaint was raised Mr M asked for the account to be placed on hold until 
an answer to his complaint was received. However, Valour made it clear, in an email to him 
a couple of days later that it wouldnt agree to that. I accept Mr M may have been 
disappointed by this, but there is no requirement to put a loan account on hold solely 
because a complaint has been raised. 
Mr M says that Valour placed the account on hold and then defaulted it.  And the evidence 
from a screen shot of an email sent to Mr M from Valour, on 24 May 2022 does say, In the 
meantime, we will place your account on hold for 30 days.  This was after Mr M had raised 
his unaffordable lending complaint and received the final response letter on 20 May 2022. 
Given what Valour said in the second final response (30 August 2022), either the hold 
detailed in the email mentioned above wasnt applied or it didnt supersede a hold that was 
placed on the account on 17 May 2022. And I can therefore understand why Mr M may have had concerns about a default notice 
which was issued on 31 May 2022. But, as I explain below, no payment was then made to 
the account. 
Valour has explained the holds placed on the account were communication holds only, so it 
wouldnt contact him about the debt. However, it didnt and that wouldnt prevent the account 
from defaulting. Valour says that this was explained to Mr M on 17 May 2022. 
A system note has not been provided to show what was discussed on the call on the 
17 May 2022. The note explains a settlement figure was generated for Mr M as he was 
looking to settle the loan and it explained a hold would be placed on the account. Although, 
as I comment on below, Mr M didnt at this time use the settlement figure he was provided 
with. 
The system note provided is silent about what Mr M was or was not told about the hold only 
applying to communications. Notwithstanding that the note is silent on this issue, in an email 
to Mr M from Valour on 29 March 2022, he was made aware that placing a hold on the 
account was for communication purposes only and not for example preventing the account 
balance increasing with daily interest. 
In addition, there is a call note from 29 April 2022, where Mr M had contacted Valour as he 
had started to receive collection notifications again, and the note suggests this has 
happened because of the communication hold expiring. 
So even if there was some confusion about the hold(s) and what they meant in May 2022. I 
am satisfied given the content of other emails and phone notes that Mr M ought to have 
reasonably understood that a hold was only for communication purposes only. 
Valour also said that when the hold on the account expired on 31 May 2022, it then 
proceeded to issue a default notice. And a copy of that default notice dated 31 May 2022 
has been provided and it was dispatched to the address Valour held for Mr M at the time. I 
accept, Mr M around a week later tried to update his address with Valour but at the time the 
notice was sent, it was sent to the address Valour had for him. 
The notice explained that Mr M had to take some action (paying £450) by 14 June 2022. If 
no further action was taken, than Valour made it clear that Mr Ms credit file would be 
updated to show the account was in default. 
Thinking about the relevant Information Commissioners Office guidance, by the end of 
May 2022 Mr M hadnt made any payments and the account was three months in arrears, 
which is the minimum amount an account can be for a lender to issue a default notice. So, 
the fact a default notice was issued isnt an error as the account arrears were such that one 
could be sent. 
Mr M didnt do what the default notice asked of him, and Valour defaulted the account. And it 
has provided two different screen shots, which is the information it is reporting to the credit 
reference agencies (CRA). Im satisfied, based on these screen shots that Valour updated 
the CRAs to show that the account default date should be 15 June 2022. 
Although Mr M hasnt provided a full screen shot of his credit file, the update he received 
from one CRA provider does say the date of default is 15 May 2022. The adjudicator 
suggested that Mr M contact the CRA which provided the screen shot for it to request an 
amendment. I dont think that is unreasonable considering the screen shots provided by 
Valour show the correct default date. Mr M says his screen shot shows the default was recorded before the notice was sent, and 
so even if he had made a payment, it wouldve been too late as the default had already been 
applied to his credit file. 
But, had Mr M made payment to Valour before the deadline in the notice, and still had a 
default recorded on his credit file than that would likely be an error by Valour. But as no 
payment was made, I cant say that Mr M has been disadvantaged by what may have 
happened. 
Overall, Im satisfied that the account was sufficiently in arrears for Valour to start the default 
process and as Mr M didnt pay the amount required by the notice in order to remedy the 
account than Valour was correct in placing a default on Mr Ms credit file. 
Finally, I can see from the information provided to Mr M that he did have some problems 
sending information to Valour around the 8 June 2022. And again, in response to these 
issues Valour said that a hold would be placed on the account for 30 days. But, as far as 
I can see, that didnt invalidate the default notice. 
I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman