DRN-3930745
The complaint
Miss S complains that Haven Insurance Company Limited (Haven) unfairly accepted she
was at fault for a claim on her motor insurance policy.
What happened
In April 2022, Miss S was involved in a road traffic accident. Miss S said shed followed the
road signage that showed the diversion of the two lanes with the introduction of a bus lane.
But the other driver hadnt acted upon this and had moved into her lane causing the collision.
A claim was made against Miss S comprehensive motor insurance policy that shed with
Haven. It was decided by Haven that they would accept liability on behalf of Miss S for the
accident. Miss S didnt agree and complained to them.
Haven said that the third party had given them dashcam footage that showed Miss S had
accelerated to undertake the third party when it wasnt safe to do so.
Miss S wasnt happy with Havens response as she said the road signage showed the third
party should have moved into the outer lane. She referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator asked Haven to review their decision as Miss S had shown the lanes hadnt
merged but that the two lanes had moved across with the introduction of the bus lane.
Haven maintained Miss S liability for the accident. Miss S complaint has been referred for
an ombudsman to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in early January 2023 that said:
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im currently minded not to uphold this complaint, I know this will be a
disappointment to Miss S, so Ill explain why.
I dont underestimate Miss S frustration and her strength of feeling about this accident, but
its not our role to decide whos at fault for road traffic accidents. Thats the role of the courts.
In reaching my decision I need to determine whether Miss S insurer has acted fairly and
reasonably in line with her motor insurance policy terms.
Under Miss S policy, and every similar policy of which Im aware, the insurer has the right to
take over a claim. This is sometimes referred to as "subrogation". This term essentially gives
the insurer a contractual right to settle the claim how they choose. This means they dont
need the agreement or consent of the policyholder. And its they who decide whether to
contest a third partys claim or accept liability.
I can see that Haven based their decision to record the incident as a fault claim against
Miss S from the dashcam footage provided by the third party. Haven has also referred to
specific sections of the Highway Code in relation to lane discipline when reaching their
decision. In particular section 133:
If you need to change lane, first use your mirrors and if necessary take a quick sideways
glance to make sure you will not force another road user to change course or speed. When it
is safe to do so, signal to indicate your intentions to other road users and when clear, move
over.
I do understand Miss S is upset about how the claim has been recorded. But these matters
are settled on the balance of probabilities, which is a fairly low standard of proof. If the
case was litigated, the court would have to decide beyond reasonable doubt that the
accident had been caused by negligence by the third party in order to find against them 
and thats something Miss S insurer has to consider when deciding whether or not to pursue
the question of liability through the courts.
As stated previously its not for me to decide liability its for Haven to consider the likelihood of
Miss S claim being successful in court if they challenged liability with the third party. Ive
considered the evidence used by Haven in reaching their decision about Miss S claim. From
what I can see the dashcam footage supports the decision by Haven in that Miss S appears
to accelerate to undertake the third-party vehicle. And by so doing has collided with the third
partys car. And her actions dont appear to conform to section 133 of the Highway Code.
So, based on this evidence, the dashcam footage in conjunction with the section of the
Highway Code theyve referred to I dont think Haven has acted unfairly and unreasonably in
reaching the decision, they have about the likelihood of Miss S claim being successful.
So, I dont think Haven has acted unreasonably in deciding to pay the claim on the grounds
that Miss S was at fault.
Responses to my provisional decision
Haven agreed with my provisional decision as they said Miss S had moved over when it was 
unsafe to do so.
Miss S didnt agree she said she had acted correctly as the two lanes hadnt merged but had 
become three lanes with the introduction of a bus lane. Miss S said shed signalled her 
intention. And it was the other driver who had moved lanes. Miss S said too much emphasis 
was put on the dashcam footage and highway code, and not enough on her evidence that 
the other driver was in her lane. 
I can understand Miss S frustration and upset as being involved in a road traffic accident is 
a distressing time. I hope she can be assured that I considered her testimony along with the 
dashcam footage and other evidence provided to me. I saw that the layout of the road ahead 
changed with the introduction of the bus lane. But as I explained in my provisional decision 
its not for me to decide whos at fault for road traffic accidents. Thats the role of the courts.
In reaching my decision I have to determine whether Haven acted fairly and reasonably in 
how they decided Miss S claim against her motor insurance. As Ive outlined in my 
provisional decision, considering the conflicting accounts and the photographic evidence 
from the time, I cant say Haven has acted unfairly or unreasonably in reaching the outcome 
they did. 
I know Miss S feels she would be successful if she persuaded the matter through the courts 
and this is an option for her. My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman