DRN-3182251
The complaint
Mr Gs complaint is about the premiums charged by Red Sands Insurance Company 
(Europe) Limited for pet insurance policy.
What happened
Mr G took out a lifetime pet insurance policy online, starting in September 2017. Mr G says 
the premium has gone up significantly each year since. The premium for the renewal in  
September 2021 increased by £25.32 pa, which means that since September 2017, the 
premium has almost doubled (from £118.08 pa to £206.40pa). He thinks this is unfair, as the 
increases are unreasonable. Mr G says he was not told that his premium would double in a 
few years or that they would keep increasing. He questions what the limit to the increases 
would be, if any? And says his cat is getting older and he has limited alternatives (than 
staying with Red Sands) so it keeps increasing the prices and he is being penalised for his 
cat getting older.
Red Sands says that the policy documentation, sent to Mr G when he first took out the policy 
and at each renewal, makes clear that the premiums might increase:
When inviting renewal of this policy we may, at our sole discretion (and for a valid reason as 
we deem appropriate, taking into consideration, but not limited to your pets age, medical 
and/or claims history) change the cover, benefits, premium, terms and/or conditions.
Red Sands says the premium was correctly calculated, taking account of its underwriting 
criteria, which includes the age of Mr Gs cat. Red Sands says it discussed other options 
with Mr G to reduce the price of the policy but this would require a reduction of cover, which 
he didnt want. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter. The investigator noted that Mr G had made 
several previous complaints about the price of the policy. A previous complaint was dealt 
with by this service and upheld that Mr G had not been made sufficiently aware that the price 
might increase, which is important as this is a lifetime policy. An award of compensation was 
made to Mr G because of this. The investigator explained that because those issues were 
dealt with by our service previously, he wasnt able to look at them again and he could only 
look at the latest renewal quote. The investigator didnt recommend that this complaint be 
upheld, as he was satisfied that Red Sands had calculated the premium in line with its 
underwriting criteria and Mr G had not been treated unfairly.
Mr G does not accept the investigators assessment and so the matter has been referred to 
me. In the meantime, Mr G also sent a copy of an article about changes by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) to the way insurers set premiums for existing customers and that 
they should not pay more than new customers. Mr G says we should report this to the FCA.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is generally up to insurers to decide what cover they wish to provide and the premium that 
they want to charge for that cover, based on the risk that it thinks a customer presents. We 
have no power to make an insurer lower its charges. Similarly, individual consumers have a 
choice about which policy and which insurer they wish to take insurance with, or not take 
insurance at all  unless its a requirement, legal or otherwise. 
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older and the 
cost of medical treatment rises. Standard pet insurance policies usually wont cover any 
medical conditions the pet had, or received treatment for when the policy was taken out or 
renewed, so ongoing or recurring medical conditions wont usually be covered. But 'life-time 
policies' like the one Mr G took out, will cover any conditions they develop on an ongoing 
basis for the rest of their lives, as long as the policy continues. The pet is usually covered up 
to a set amount each year, until the policy limit is reached and on renewal of the policy, the 
limit is then refreshed. Providing this cover is expensive and the yearly cost of these lifetime 
policies can go up significantly at renewal. There is no limit to how much the premium could 
be and I cant impose one. 
Normally insurers calculate a base premium rate for a policy that applies to all consumers 
and then other factors they consider relevant to the risk being covered, are applied, which 
might bring that base premium up or down. Different insurers apply different factors but they 
might include an individuals claims history, the cost of claims (e.g. vet treatment) in the 
locality, and the age and breed of the pet, among other things. Mr Gs premium has 
increased significantly in recent years but I havent seen any evidence to suggest Red 
Sands has treated him differently to how it would have treated any other policyholder in the 
same position. So I cant say it has acted unfairly when pricing the policy. 
As stated, I have no power to direct that Red Sands charge Mr G less for his policy. So while 
I acknowledge that there has been an increase I do not have the power to require it to 
charge less. This is how much Red Sands has determined it needs to charge to provide the 
cover for Mr Gs cat. 
I also do not think any compensation is warranted, as Red Sands had made it sufficiently 
clear to Mr G in response to his earlier complaint, that the premiums would be expected to 
go up each year, given the type of policy it was (i.e. that covers conditions for life with no 
limit, which lots of other policies dont). While Mr G may have been disappointed by the 
increase, Red Sands did not act incorrectly in setting the renewal premium and so I do not 
think it needs to pay any compensation. As stated, Mr G was free to either accept or reject 
the renewal terms. Red Sands also offered other lifetime/time-limited/maximum benefit 
policies, which provide a lower level of cover. Changing to one of these may reduce the 
premium payable on the policy.
As Mr G has pointed out, the FCA rules changed with effect from 1 January 2022: Insurers 
must not set a renewal price that is higher than the equivalent new business price. 
However, the new rule does not mean that insurers cannot increase their prices and in any 
event only applies to home and private motor insurance, so would not have applied to Mr Gs 
case even if it were retrospective (which it isnt). 
Finally, with regard to any referral to the FCA, I dont think I need to make a referral as there 
is nothing in the policy terms that I think is unreasonable. If Mr G wishes to ask the FCA to 
consider this it can refer the matter itself.
My final decisionI do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman