DRN-4220069
The complaint
Ms T has complained that Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limited took too long to send her
paperwork so that she could complete a withdrawal from her pension plan.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision, which I issued in June 2023. 
My provisional decision said:
What happened
Ms T holds a pension plan with Aviva. Ms T wanted to complete a one-off withdrawal from
her pension, so she contacted Aviva by email in late March 2022 to tell them that she
wanted to know the procedure to draw from her pension.
Aviva posted a Retirement Options Pack dated 1 April 2022 to Ms T. Within this pack, in a
section headed Let us know what you want to do, it was stated Once youve read all the
information and considered any guidance or financial advice, give us a call on 0800 151
2548 (or 01603 358570 if overseas) when you have made your decision. Ms T has said that
she never received this Retirement Options Pack.
In early May 2022 Ms T sent another email to Aviva. In this she said that shed been waiting
over a month for her request to drawdown from her pension. Ms T then emailed Aviva again
towards the end of May 2022 to say that she had requested a drawdown from her pension
and had tried calling numerous times but had received no response. Aviva treated Ms Ts
email as a complaint.
On 26 May 2022 Aviva sent Ms T an email in which they said: In order to receive the
payment forms you require, you will need to ring the number on the Retirement Options
Pack which has recently been issued. If you no longer have this, the number is 0800 151
2548 or +44 (0) 1603 358 570 if calling from overseas. A retirement specialist will then be
able to talk you through all your options and the risks involved before sending you out the
correct forms required.
On 5 July 2022 Aviva issued their response to Ms Ts complaint. They said they had told Ms
T that to receive the payment forms she needed to ring the number on the Retirement
Options Pack. Aviva gave Ms T the telephone number to call again and said that the next
step for Ms T to access her money was to call Avivas retirement centre.
Aviva say that Ms T contacted them again on 22 August 2022 and in response they sent her
another Retirement Options Pack, dated 25 August 2022. This again said that Ms T needed
to call Avivas retirement centre to obtain the withdrawal forms she needed.
Ms T says that at the end of September 2022 she did call the number for Avivas retirement
centre and left a message for them to call her back. Ms T says that Aviva did then call her
back on the same day and was told that she would get the paperwork she had requested in
five working days. However, Aviva have said that they have no record of Ms T calling their
retirement centre then
On 1 October 2022 Ms T emailed Aviva again. She said: I am still waiting on my retirement
package, if it was sent, then I didn't receive this. Can you 'resend' my retirement package to 
my home address. What I do have here, is a couple of pages of what is called retirement
options, is this the same thing as your retirement package ??. In response Aviva posted
another Retirement Options Pack to Ms Ts home address.
Ms T did then call Avivas retirement centre in mid-October 2022 and in late October 2022
she received the paperwork needed to complete her pension withdrawal. She posted the
completed paperwork back to Aviva two days later. This paperwork was received by Aviva in
early November 2022 and the withdrawal was completed and money paid into Ms Ts bank
account 6 days later.
Ms T wasnt happy with the response shed received from Aviva and she referred her
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
An Investigator within the Financial Ombudsman Service examined Ms Ts complaint. They
said that up until the time that Aviva issued their response to Ms Ts complaint in July 2022
Aviva hadnt done anything wrong. This was because Aviva had given Ms T the information
needed for her to complete the pension withdrawal.
However, the Investigator did think that after Ms T had contacted Aviva in late September
2022, it had taken them too long to issue the paperwork to her and that Aviva should
therefore pay Ms T £100 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience shed suffered.
Ms T and Aviva didnt accept the Investigators view and asked for this complaint to be
brought to an Ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have seen a copy of the Retirement Options Pack dated 1 April 2022 that Aviva say they
sent to Ms T. This has Ms Ts correct address, although it was addressed to Ms T under her
former surname. Ms T subsequently provided documentation to Aviva so that they could
change their records to her current surname.
Ms T has said that she never received the 1 April 2022 Retirement Options Pack. However,
whilst this did show Mrs Ts former surname it was otherwise correctly addressed and Im
therefore satisfied that the pack was correctly sent by Aviva.
On 25 April 2022 Aviva wrote to Ms T to tell her that they had updated their records with her
current surname. In response Ms T emailed Aviva on 5 May 2022 to say: Thank you for
informing me that my policy is in order but I am still waiting for my request for a drawdown of25% tax free from my pension. Its been over a month now and its not acceptable.
Ms T then emailed Aviva again on 21 May 2022 to say: I was trying to access my pension
yet one of security questions I seem to get wrong. Cant see how as I have every single
paperwork here. I am finding it very very frustrating to implement paperwork from Aviva to
get a drawdown from my pension. I emailed you nearly two months ago, requesting this, yet
still no reply. Hoping to hear from you very soon as Im definitely not happy about this.
On 23 May 2022 Ms T emailed Aviva again to say: I have requested a drawdown nearly two
months now and I had no response from you. I have tried calling aviva numerous times and
sent emails, still nothing which are all saved for future references. If I dont hear from you
immediately after this email, I shall be contacting the ombudsmen.
On 26 May 2022 Aviva emailed Ms T to tell her she needed to ring the number on the
Retirement Options Pack to get the payment forms she wanted. Aviva gave Ms T the
telephone number to call so that a retirement specialist would then talk her through her
options and would send out the correct forms required.
In their response letter of 5 July 2022 Aviva said: On 1 April 2022 we sent your Retirement
Options Pack. This advised the number to call when you had made your decision. We sent
you a letter on 5 April 2022 to let you know what we needed to update your name. We
received your documentation on 20 April 2022 and amended our records as requested. A
confirmation letter was sent on 25 April 2022. We received your email on 24 May 2022 to let
us know you were unhappy as you were waiting for the paperwork in order to access your
money. We replied on 26 May 2022 to let you know in order to receive the payment forms
required you will need to ring the number on the Retirement Options Pack which was
previously issued. If you no longer have this, the number is 0800 151 2548 or +44 (0) 1603
358 570 if calling from overseas. A retirement specialist will then be able to talk you through
all your options and the risks involved before sending you out the claim forms required.
When Aviva issued this response letter in July 2022 they would have known that Ms T had
still not called their retirement centre, even though they had emailed her to explain what she
needed to do on 26 May 2022 and had posted a retirement pack dated 1 April 2022.
Ms T had sent three emails to Aviva in May 2022 to say that she was trying to access her
pension. Specifically, in her email of 23 May 2022 Ms T had said that she had tried to call
Aviva numerous times.
I therefore think Aviva should have been aware that Ms T was having difficulty in completing
the instructions that they had previously given her and that as a result I think they should
have done more to help Ms T when they sent their response letter to her. I dont think that
just repeating what they had already told her and to call their retirement centre was
sufficient. I therefore dont think that Aviva responded sufficiently to Ms Ts complaint or took
adequate action to help her with her request to draw from her pension.
When Ms T subsequently contacted Aviva on 22 August 2022 she was sent a further
Retirement Options Pack, which again said that she needed to call Avivas retirement centre
to obtain the withdrawal forms she needed. Ms T then emailed Aviva again on 1 October
2022 to say that she was still waiting for paperwork.
Aviva have said that once they issue a Retirement Options Pack they will not chase a
customer as: the decision to take their retirement is theirs alone and needs to be made in 
their own time. However, I think that it was clear from Ms Ts emails that she was telling
Aviva that she did want to take her retirement benefits and she wanted the paperwork to
allow her to do this.When Ms T did manage to call the retirement centre in mid-October 2022, she had to leave
a voicemail message for a retirement specialist to call her back. A retirement specialist did
then telephone Ms T. I therefore dont think it unreasonable that a retirement specialist could
have called Ms T at an earlier date without her having to leave a voicemail message
requesting this, for example when she told them in May 2022 that she did want to make a
withdrawal from her pension and had been trying to contact them by phone.
I therefore think that Aviva should have done more to help Ms T complete the withdrawal
from her pension and they didnt respond adequately to her withdrawal requests. I think that
if they had done this then Ms T wouldve been able to complete the withdrawal from her
pension earlier than she did.
I think that this meant that Ms T received her tax-free lump sum of £5,427 later than she
should have. It wasnt until October 2022 that the payment of Ms Ts lump sum was set in
motion. I think that its reasonable that Ms T should be compensated for this delay. The
usual approach would be for compensation to be calculated at 8% of the tax-free lump sum
for the period of delay, which I think is five months. This equates to approximately £180. 
However, I also think that Ms T has suffered distress and inconvenience due to Avivas error.
Therefore, to compensate Ms T, Aviva should pay her £250 in total. I consider this to be a
fair and reasonable amount to settle this complaint.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my provisional decision is that I plan to uphold Ms Ts
complaint. 
I intend to direct Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limited to pay Ms T £250 to compensate her 
as detailed above.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva responded to my provisional decision. 
In their response Aviva said that they disagreed with what was being included in Ms Ts 
complaint. This was because some of the events referred to in Ms Ts complaint happened 
after Aviva had issued their final response letter to her in July 2022. Aviva said that as a 
result this service didnt have the jurisdiction to investigate those events.
Aviva has said that as they hadnt been able to investigate the events that happened after 
theyd issued their final response letter, they didnt think that they could fully respond to my 
provisional decision.
This service therefore told Aviva that if they didnt think that they were able to fully respond 
to my provisional decision, because some of the events happened after their final response 
letter, then in the interests of fairness they should now investigate those events.
However, Ms T has said that shes had no further response from Aviva, and more than eight 
weeks has now passed since we asked Aviva to investigate the events that occurred after 
their final response letter.
Aviva has however responded again to this service and have set out their full response to my provisional decision. Aviva has also said that they see little benefit to Ms T in prolonging 
her complaint further by setting up a new complaint, so have asked that I now consider all of 
the points that they raised in response to my provisional decision.
Aviva has said that Ms T received all correspondence sent to her prior to and since April 
2022 but didnt call Avivas Retirement Centre between April and October 2022, despite it 
being explained in different formats that she needed to call the Retirement Centre. Aviva has 
said they think that this was due to Ms Ts apathy.
Aviva has also said that they are unsure why they should be held responsible for a 
customers inability to act on instructions in good time.
Aviva has also explained that they operate a 2 step process in dealing with requests to 
draw retirement benefits. They have explained that a customer requests a Retirement 
Options Pack which explains what a customer needs to do next, which is to call Avivas 
retirement centre, so that specific requests of how a customer wants to retire are discussed 
and risk warnings are completed. Aviva have said that they asked Ms T to do this on a 
number of occasions.
Aviva has also said that they have no evidence of Ms T trying to call the retirement centre, 
as she has claimed, until Ms T successfully called in October 2022.
Aviva has further claimed that my provisional decision is saying that Avivas safeguarding 2 
step retirement process is flawed simply on the refusal of one customer to follow it. 
Aviva has also said that once a customer has received a retirement options pack it is then 
the customers decision to call the retirement centre when theyre ready to do so and that its 
not for Aviva to call a customer. Aviva has also said that it is an execution only business and 
they allow all customers time to reach their own decisions.
Aviva has added that when Ms T did call the retirement centre in October 2022, they did 
then call her back. Aviva has added that, in their opinion, Ms T was then ready to make the 
important decisions outlined to her. Aviva has also said that Ms T simply emailing and 
stating that she wanted to take her retirement benefits, but refusing to follow the necessary 
steps to do so until October 2022, should not constitute a failure on their part.
As Ive said above, Aviva has said that my provisional decision is saying that their 2 step 
retirement process is flawed, but I dont think that this is what is said in my provisional 
decision.
In my provisional decision I considered the specific aspects of this complaint. Id said that I 
didnt think it unreasonable that a retirement specialist could have contacted Ms T at an 
earlier date, without her having to leave a voicemail message. This was because Ms T had 
emailed Aviva to say that she had tried to call Aviva as instructed but had been unsuccessful 
in doing so.
Also, I dont think that I said in my provisional decision that Aviva should have bypassed the 
telephone call with their retirement centre and instead sent paperwork directly to Ms T. 
Instead, Ive said that I think Aviva could have recognised that Ms T was having difficulty 
contacting their retirement centre and could therefore have offered to help her in completing 
their 2 step retirement process.
Ms T did manage to contact the retirement centre in October 2022, but she was only able to 
leave a voicemail message. This then meant that one of Avivas retirement specialists did 
then have to call Ms T.As I said in my provisional decision, Ms T had sent three emails to Aviva in May 2022 to say 
that she was trying to access her pension and in her email of 23 May 2022 Ms T had said 
that she had tried to call Aviva numerous times. 
I therefore dont think that Ms T was refusing to follow the instructions that Aviva had given 
to her or was being apathetic. Instead, I think that Ms T was trying to follow their instructions 
but was being unsuccessful in doing so. I think this meant that she needed some help.
I therefore think that Ms T told Aviva in her email that she had been trying to contact the 
retirement centre and had tried to do so a number of times.
Aviva has said that they have no record of Ms T contacting their retirement centre before 
October 2021, but I dont think this means that Ms T hadnt tried to contact Aviva. As Ms T 
has said, her attempts to contact Aviva by telephone had been unsuccessful, so I wouldnt 
expect Aviva to have a record of a successful call from Ms T to their retirement centre.
I therefore think it reasonable for Aviva to have recognised from her emails that Ms T was 
having difficulty in following their instructions. Ms T also raised a complaint with Aviva, but in 
response Aviva again told Ms T to call the retirement centre. I have not seen any evidence to 
show if, when dealing with Ms Ts complaint, Aviva asked Ms T why she had been 
unsuccessful when she had tried to contact Aviva, or to ask if there was any assistance that 
they could give to her.
As I also said in my provisional decision, I think that Aviva should have done more to help 
Ms T when they sent their response letter to her complaint. I dont think that just repeating 
what they had already told her and to call their retirement centre was sufficient. I therefore 
still dont think that Aviva responded sufficiently to Ms Ts complaint.
Ms T contacted Aviva again in August 2022, after theyd sent their response letter to her. 
Aviva then sent her a further Retirement Options Pack, which again said that she needed to 
call Avivas retirement centre to obtain the withdrawal forms she needed. Ms T then emailed 
Aviva again on 1 October 2022 to say that she was still waiting for paperwork. Ms T has said 
that she spoke with Aviva in September 2022, but Aviva has said that they have no record of 
Ms T contacting their retirement centre then.
Aviva has said that they think Ms T wanted to delay the process of drawing from her 
pension. But I have seen no evidence to show that she did want to delay the process. 
Instead, from evidence that Ive seen, I think that Ms T did want to draw her pension, as she 
needed to meet certain financial commitments.
Aviva has said that once they issue a Retirement Options Pack they will not chase a 
customer as: the decision to take their retirement is theirs alone and needs to be made in 
their own time.
I understand the comment that Aviva is making, but in this particular complaint I think that as 
Ms T told Aviva on a number of occasions that she had decided to take her retirement 
benefits and had told Aviva by email in May 2022 that she had been trying to call them, then 
I dont think that it would have been unreasonable for Aviva to have offered some assistance 
to Ms T. 
I therefore still think that Aviva should have done more to help Ms T complete the withdrawal 
from her pension. I also still think that if they had done this then Ms T wouldve been able to 
complete the withdrawal from her pension earlier than she did.
I am therefore not persuaded by the points that Aviva has put forward and I uphold Ms Ts complaint.
Putting things right
Aviva should now compensate Ms T as Id set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Ts complaint against Aviva Life & Pensions UK
Limited and Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should compensate Ms T as I detailed
in my provisional decision above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Ian Barton
Ombudsman