DRN-4051663
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the way that Accredited Insurance (Europe) Limited 
(Accredited) handled his claim under his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H unfortunately suffered an escape of water from a burst pipe at his property which he 
felt had damaged the steps, lawn, and walls of his garden. Mr H reported a major leak and 
the damage to Accredited in February 2022, however Accredited declined the claim under 
Mr Hs policy. It didnt consider that escape of water was the main cause of damage. It 
thought that the damage had happened gradually, and that wear and tear was the main 
cause.
Mr H complained to this service. However the relevant investigator didnt uphold his 
complaint. She thought that the damage had happened gradually. She also thought that it 
was likely to have been visible for some time prior to Mr Hs reporting of the incident and was 
therefore excluded under the terms of the policy. The investigator considered that the most 
significant damage, such as the large cracks in the garden wall had already happened by 
May 2021. As Mr H had become aware that the garden wasnt draining properly some time 
before the major leak and, given how advanced the damage was in May 2021, the damage 
was likely to have been visible for some time prior to Mr H having taken action.
Mr H was unhappy with the outcome of his complaint to our service. The matter has 
therefore been referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue for me to determine in this case is whether Accredited applied the terms and 
conditions of the relevant policy in a fair and reasonable manner in declining Mr Hs claim. 
Mr H provided a useful chronology of events. He said that a local sports club had access to 
his property to read a water meter, however the club then decided to move the meter to a 
more convenient location. Hed not been able to establish, either from the club or the 
relevant utility company, as to when this change happened. He thought it might have 
happened around 2018. He later noticed a build-up of water in part of the garden, which he 
assumed was due to a wet winter or a drainage issue. He said it wasnt a serious issue at 
the time. He then noticed a major leak in May 2021. As Mr H was away at the time, he 
thought that it could have leaked for some weeks. 
Mr H called the utility company, and it eventually traced the leak to the site of the clubs old 
water meter, and the club arranged for the leak to be fixed. Mr H then obtained three quotes 
for the repair works in 2021. The highest quote was for £18,600 and the lowest was for 
£15,600 and included work to rebuild two retaining walls in the garden and other remedial 
work to the lawns. Mr H said that his claim had initially been moved to a law firm and that it 
had said he had a clear claim; but were not willing to pursue the matter without funding and 
thought it was an insurance claim. Mr H therefore made a claim to Accredited in February 
2022. 
Mr H said;- my garden had suffered considerable damage both from the slow leak and I 
think it a greater case from the major leak. He also said he thought it to be a one-off event 
caused by a build-up over time. He said the water leak was active for a period of months if 
not years, but only became apparent when it finally reached a burst situation which he 
recorded in a video. Mr H thought that Accredited should have followed up matters with the 
club and the utility company on his behalf. He felt abandoned and said that his mental health 
had suffered. He said hed been left to pay very significant costs through no fault of his own. 
In summary, Mr H was seeking settlement or support in his claim. 
In its final response letter, Accredited stated that Mr H had reported the matter in February 
2022. It noted that Mr H had said that the leak started off as a slow leak but then became a 
major leak, causing damage to retaining walls in the garden. The garden was on three 
levels, with two walls in between levels. It noted that the leak occurred on the top level and 
that Mr H said it had caused damage to the two walls. Accredited stated that it then 
appointed a loss adjuster to inspect the damage and validate the claim. The loss adjuster 
visited in mid-February 2022 and submitted a formal report. From this, it concluded that the 
damage wasnt the result of a one-off incident and had occurred over a long period of time. It 
also noted that garden steps were loose and showing signs of general wear and tear.
Accredited said it declined Mr Hs claim as it didnt consider the damage was as a result of a 
one-off incident. As Mr H had confirmed that the water leak was active for a period of 
months, if not years and caused by a build-up of water, the damage wasnt covered by the 
policy. In summary, it considered that the wall had been deteriorating over a period of time 
and the issue with the burst pipe merely highlighted an existing issue.
The loss adjusters report confirmed that in June 2021, water had started cascading down Mr 
Hs garden from the inspection chamber cover at the top end of his lawn which slopes down 
towards the house. The problem had been found to be due to a burst water feed pipe within 
the drain. Mr H said that it wasnt reported as an insurance claim initially as it was being 
dealt with as a liability type issue between his home insurers legal representatives and the 
club. Hed been told that he would have to submit a formal claim for the damaged walls 
under his buildings policy hence the delay in notification. The report confirmed that the cause 
of the escape of water was the burst mains feed pipe situated in an external drain. It also 
confirmed; we are not of the opinion that this was caused by a single event.Ashydrostatic 
pressure being exerted on the retaining walls will have been significant. The walls do not 
have any obvious weep holes and a rain pipe that has been added along the lower wall 
seems to offer no actual benefit to relieving pressure. 
Accrediteds loss adjuster concluded It is our opinion that the damage to the walls, steps 
and lawn have occurred over a significant period of time and were simply highlighted by the 
Escape of Water. In addition, the loss adjusters confirmed the view that the build-up of 
pressure would have been caused by inadequate or lack of drainage outlets. The steps 
rising up the garden were noted to be loose and are showing signs of general age, wear and 
tear the damage occurring under the policy has to be as a consequence of a specific 
single incident. Whilst water has escaped from the faulty drain, we are of the opinion that 
this has simply highlighted an existing issue present in the garden and is not therefore the 
sole cause of the damage claimed and is certainly not a single incident. 
The starting point for my consideration of this matter will be the terms and conditions of the 
policy documents, as they form the basis of the insurance contract between the insurance 
underwriter and customer. Unfortunately for Mr H, insurance policies dont cover all eventualities and all damage however caused. It is a standard provision in insurance policies 
to exclude damage which has happened on a gradual basis or where the predominant cause 
is wear and tear.
In the general exceptions section of the policy booklet here, it excludes Any claim resulting 
from gradual causes including deterioration or wear and tear. For Accidental damage to 
be covered the damage needs to be sudden, unexpected. Again, it doesnt include 
damage caused by wear and tear. In the absence of other expert evidence to the contrary, a 
loss adjusters formal report is normally considered to be persuasive. In this case, the loss 
adjusters report is clear in stating the view that the damage in Mr Hs garden had occurred 
over a significant period of time and was highlighted by the escape of water. Mr H candidly 
agreed that the damage was likely to have occurred due to a build-up of pressure over time.
Ive carefully considered the video provided by Mr H together with all photographic evidence. 
I note that they clearly show water-logged lawns and damaged walls. Ive also noted that the 
garden retaining walls show significant ageing and wear and tear as at May 2021. I also note 
the presence of a tree close to one vertical crack in the upper retaining wall. In all the 
circumstances, I consider it likely that the retaining walls were reaching the end of their 
useful lives in any event. It may well be the case that the build-up of hydrostatic pressure 
over a number of years precipitated the need for replacement. I must however determine the 
predominant cause of damage to decide whether the insurance underwriter acted in a fair 
and reasonable manner. In this case, I consider the damage to have occurred gradually 
through wear and tear and that this was the predominant cause. I also consider that the 
damage and water logging would have been visible for a significant period of time prior to 
the May 2021 video evidence, but hadnt been acted upon.
I have a great deal of sympathy for Mr H as I realise that he has had to deal with a 
distressing set of circumstances that came to his attention two years ago. The leak event 
itself will have been distressing and I note that hed been led to believe that he may have 
had a valid insurance claim. However, once a claim is received by an insurance company it 
must go through the process of considering and validating whether it is a matter covered by 
the insurance policy. I cant however say that Accredited has acted unfairly or unreasonably 
in its interpretation of the relevant policy terms and conditions here. The fact that damage 
isnt covered by an insurance policy doesnt necessarily preclude legal action against third 
parties where an escape of water may have contributed to damage over a period of years. 
However, this is not a matter within this services powers or jurisdiction.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint and dont require Accredited 
Insurance (Europe) Limited to do anything else in response.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman