DRN-4412443
The complaint
Mr B complains about the decision by Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to turn down his 
income protection claim. 
What happened
Mr B holds income protection cover with Aviva through his employer. The aim of the policy is 
to pay benefit if Mr B cant work because of illness or injury after a deferred period of 26 
weeks.
In 2020, Mr Bs son was sadly diagnosed with a serious illness. Mr B stopped work and later 
made a claim under the policy. 
Aviva turned down the claim. It concluded the evidence didnt support that Mr B was 
prevented from working due to ill health. Unhappy with this, Mr B brought a complaint to this 
Service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Avivas claims 
decision had been reasonable, based upon the medical evidence. 
Mr B didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficult circumstances that Mr B and his family have been going 
through. I can of course understand why he stopped work to support his son. But I can only 
require Aviva to pay a claim if the medical evidence shows that Mr B was unable to carry out 
the main duties of his role due to his ill health. And that this was the case throughout the 26-
week deferred period (June 2020  December 2020). 
I see that Mr B was signed off work by his GP throughout the deferred period and beyond 
with a stress related problem. However, theres no medical evidence from this time that 
explains what symptoms Mr B was experiencing, or how these were impacting him. I do 
recognise that this was in the middle of the Covid-19 pandemic and GPs had restricted 
contact with patients, but GP support was still accessible over the phone.
Mr B had a phone assessment with an occupational health adviser in January 2022, which 
was over a year after the deferred period had ended. The report said that Mr B had been 
diagnosed with depression and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). The adviser was of 
the opinion that Mr B wasnt fit for work.
Ive checked Mr Bs medical records, and I cant see any mention of depression or PTSD 
being diagnosed before January 2022. His GP continued to sign him off work at this time 
with a stress related problem. At this point, Mr B hadnt been given any treatment options by 
his GP, as would usually be the case if someone were experiencing a mental health 
condition. I understand that Mr B had accessed private counselling at some point, but I 
havent seen any information about that.
Towards the end of 2022, Mr B was signed off by his GP with depression, and offered anti-
depressant medication. I note that talking therapy was also recommended. Mr B described 
poor concentration, low mood, and poor sleep pattern. So the evidence does support that 
Mr Bs previous stress had developed into a mental health condition by this point. 
However, this was two years after the deferred period had ended. And I think it was 
reasonable for Aviva to say this evidence still doesnt show that Mr Bs symptoms were of 
such severity that they prevented him from carrying out his role. 
I recognise my decision will disappoint Mr B, but I think Aviva turned down his claim in line 
with the policy terms. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman