DRN-2519971
The complaint
Mr B complains that Starling Bank Limited is holding him liable for two payments he made in 
connection with the rental of a property. Mr B says the rental agreement was not legitimate. 
He wants Starling to reimburse him.
What happened
Mr B holds an account with Starling Bank. In 2019, he was renting a property hed found 
through a letting agent. In June, Mr B arranged to rent a new property through the same 
agent. Mr B has provided text messages showing this new rental was agreed for an initial 
period of two months with the possibility that it could be extended for a third month. The 
monthly cost was to be £800 including utilities, with two months to be paid up front.
Mr B duly paid £1,600 on 14 June by bank transfer to the same account as before  this was 
intended to cover the period from 21 June to 21 August.
After moving in, Mr B was dissatisfied on a number of counts. This included the landlords 
insistence that Mr B leave the property after two months. Mr B was also concerned to see 
bills addressed to people other than the person hed believed to be the landlord. 
He looked into the true ownership of the property and established that the landlord hed been 
dealing with was not the owner. Furthermore, when Mr B contacted the registered property 
owner, they claimed no knowledge of his tenancy. 
Mr B didnt move out at the end of the two-month period. He decided to send a further 
payment of £200 to the landlord on 21 August. He explains he intended this to cover the cost 
of the utilities because his dispute with the landlord was about the rental not the utility bills.
Mr B ultimately reported the matter to the Police and was advised to leave the property on 
13 September. In total Mr B had paid the sum of £1,800 towards the rental and bills. From 
the start date of the tenancy on 21 June until he moved out, hed resided in the property for 
just under three months. Mr B was extremely dissatisfied with what had happened including 
the supposed landlords conduct. He considered the rental agreement was not legitimate 
and that the person he had been dealing with was not entitled to the rental money. 
He reported the matter to Starling as having been a scam. Starling explained it didnt think it 
was liable to reimburse Mr B. It said he had authorised the payments and it hadnt been at 
fault in following his instructions. It also didnt consider that Mr B had established the 
transaction was fraudulent.
Mr B was unhappy with this outcome. He said he should be refunded in full under the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code). The CRM Code provides 
protection for consumers who fall victim to Authorised Push Payment scams (APP scams). 
In all but a limited set of circumstances the CRM Code says consumers should be 
reimbursed for payments they lose to APP scams. Starling is signed up to the CRM Code.
One of our investigators looked into things but didnt think Starling was liable under the CRM 
Code. He didnt think Mr B had suffered a loss to be reimbursed. The investigator also didnt 
think Starling was liable for any other reason. 
Mr B didnt accept our investigators view. He reiterated his view that under the CRM Code 
Starling should refund him, regardless of any fault on its side. He also said it did not give him 
any warning about sending money to this particular account or check the payees name. 
In light of this disagreement, the complaint has been passed to me to reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about what happened to Mr B. Mr B has detailed the impact this had on 
him. Hes given a detailed explanation of why he considers the person he was dealing 
with had not been acting legitimately. I also understand Mr B has been struggling 
financially for some time and that the events underlying this complaint have made 
matters worse. Im sorry hes had to go through all he has.
But regardless of the rights and wrongs of the agreement between Mr B and the alleged 
landlord, Im only able to consider the acts or omissions of Starling here - specifically in 
relation to the two payments Mr B made. Unless I thought Starling ought to have 
prevented Mr B making these payments, and so stopped him entering into the 
agreement altogether, I cannot not fairly hold the bank responsible in any way for the 
conduct of the landlord or what followed from that.
It might help to begin by explaining that in deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of a complaint, Im required to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time. In broad terms, the 
starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments and withdrawals 
that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the 
customers account.
At the time the payments were made there was no obligation on Starling to check the 
payee name. Nor was there a requirement to provide a specific fraud warning to Mr B 
unless Starling identified a scam risk (or unless it reasonably should have done).
The two payments Mr B asked Starling to make seem to have been in line with what the 
bank might reasonably have considered the normal operation of his account. I dont 
consider that at the time these were payments that should have particularly stood out to 
the bank as being unusual or as indicative of possible fraud. In such circumstances, and 
without any discussion between Starling and Mr B at the time of the payments, I find 
Starling was obliged to have make the payment in accordance with Mr Bs instructions 
and I do not find it at fault for having done so. I cannot reasonably expect Starling to 
have intervened or prevented Mr B from making these payments  there was no 
obligation upon it or other reason to have done so at the time. 
In short, I dont find Starling can reasonably be expected to have prevented what 
happened or needed to do more here.
Ive also thought about the CRM Code, which Starling has signed up to and which was in 
force at the time Mr B made the payments. As Mr B points out, reimbursement under the 
CRM Code doesnt require that the bank was at fault. 
Saying that, the CRM Code does not apply to every payment and nor does it mean that 
a bank must refund every payment where a dispute is raised. For example, the CRM 
Code specifically excludes private civil disputes, such as disputes about the quality of services provided under an agreement. Here Starling has questioned whether the CRM 
Code should apply to the payments Mr B made.
However, even if I were to find that the CRM Code should apply to either or to both 
payments Mr B made, I do not find there would be any requirement for Starling to refund 
Mr B. I say that because I am not satisfied these payments resulted in a direct financial 
loss that Starling could fairly be expected to reimburse under the CRM Code.
That is not saying nothing was wrong with the arrangements here  on the contrary, the 
evidence Mr B has provided suggests he was deceived about the true situation. He 
strongly holds that it was fraudulent and that he was the victim of a of scam of some 
type. Further, Mr B was very dissatisfied with the alleged tenancy for several other 
reasons. But Mr B also says the £800 per month cost was in line with the normal rate in 
that area. Considered purely in terms of the payments made against what was received 
in return, Mr B had resided in the property for a period greater than his payments would 
have covered had this been the legitimate tenancy hed thought it was at the outset. The 
CRM Code doesnt make Starling responsible for the poor quality of the rental.
I understand Mr Bs point about whether the person he paid was entitled to the money, 
but that is not the same thing as Mr B incurring a loss. If the person or lettings agent that 
Mr B paid did not pass on the rental payments to the true owner, then if anything the 
direct financial loss here was suffered by the owner of the property - not by Mr B.
I also understand Mr Bs points about the subsequent difficulties hes had after the 
issues with the tenancy came to light. But as explained earlier I cannot reasonably find 
Starling responsible for any of those difficulties  if anything these resulted from the 
actions of the person he was dealing with - not Starlings actions. None of this is 
intended to suggest that Mr B is not a victim here, but simply that the two payments he 
made through Starling were not direct losses he suffered in this transaction.
I am sorry to have to disappoint Mr B. But I do not find Starling is liable to refund him for the 
payments he made, either under the CRM Code or by other reason of fault.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint about Starling Bank Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman