DRN-3438295
The complaint
Miss R complains that AWP Assistance UK Ltd mis-sold her a travel insurance policy.
What happened
On 13 February 2020, Miss R took out an annual travel insurance policy through AWP, 
which was underwritten by an insurer Ill call W. She says that she took out the policy by 
phone and that during the call, she was told that the policy would cover claims caused by 
Covid-19.  Shed booked flights abroad and was due to travel in August 2020.
Subsequently, on 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a 
pandemic. Miss R hadnt received her policy documentation from AWP, so on 13 March 
2020, she chased this up. As she still hadnt received it by 16 March 2020, she chased the 
information again. On 17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office 
(FCDO) advised UK nationals against all but essential travel abroad. And on 23 March 2020, 
AWP sent Miss Rs policy paperwork.
Ultimately, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, Miss Rs airline cancelled her flights. She 
tried to recover her flights costs from the airline, but although it told her she would get a 
refund, it had gone into administration. Miss R made a claim on her travel insurance policy 
for her flight costs. However, W turned down the claim because it said it didnt cover 
cancellation which was down to changes in FCDO advice or the Covid-19 pandemic.
Miss R was unhappy with the way AWP had sold her policy and felt that shed been misled 
about the cover shed been provided with.
AWP said it couldnt confirm what had been said to Miss R when she took out the policy. But 
it apologised if Miss R had been given any mis-information. It offered to refund Miss Rs 
policy premium to resolve the complaint.
Miss R remained unhappy with AWPs offer and so she asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator asked AWP to provide us with its file to allow her to fully assess Miss Rs 
complaint. However, this wasnt forthcoming. Based on the evidence Miss R had provided 
though, the investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She found Miss 
Rs testimony persuasive. She explained that AWP had a duty to provide clear, fair and not 
misleading information to Miss R when it sold her the policy. In this case, Miss R had 
provided evidence that AWP hadnt sent her policy paperwork until over a month after shed 
taken out the policy. This meant she hadnt been able to check the cover and learn that the 
policy didnt cover cancellation due to changes in FCDO advice until after the World Health 
Organisation had declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic. So she thought this meant Miss R 
had been left in a position where she couldnt obtain alternative cover. 
And our investigator was satisfied that Miss R had demonstrated that her airfare had 
become an irrecoverable loss. She concluded that the fair outcome in this case would be for 
AWP to pay Miss R compensation equivalent to the cost of her flights.
AWP didnt respond to our investigators assessment and so the complaints been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think AWP has treated Miss R fairly and Ill explain why.
Theres no evidence to suggest that AWP advised Miss R to take out the travel insurance 
policy. This means it didnt need to check it was suitable for her. But it did need to give her 
enough clear, fair and not misleading information so that she could make an informed choice 
about whether or not it was right for her.
Miss R says that AWPs sales agent told her that claims caused by Covid-19 would be 
covered. Despite us asking for a copy of the sales call and for AWPs file of evidence, it 
hasnt sent us any information. Miss R, on the other hand, has provided us with a clear and 
consistent recollection about what was discussed. And in the absence of any evidence to the 
contrary, I find her testimony plausible and persuasive. Whats clear from Ws contract terms 
is that cancellation claims which were caused by Covid-19 or changes in FCDO advice 
werent covered by the policy terms. So if I accept that AWPs sales agent did tell Miss R 
that Covid-19 related claims would be covered, it follows that I must conclude she was given 
misleading information.
Even if Im wrong on this point though, I still find that AWP didnt meet its regulatory 
obligations. Insurance Conduct of Business rule 6.1.5 says that a firm must ensure that a 
customer is given appropriate information in good time and in a comprehensible form, so 
that they can make an informed choice about the proposed arrangements. As the broker 
which arranged Miss Rs policy, AWP was responsible for sending Miss R the policy 
documentation  in good time and so that she could decide if the policy was right for her.
Ive seen copies of emails Miss R sent to AWP after the policy sale had completed. The first 
of these was dated 13 March 2020. Miss R said that shed yet to receive an email of (her) 
insurance policy that she bought on 13 February 2020. She asked AWP to send her a 
confirmation and the policy. AWP responded on the same day to apologise and to say it 
would send the information as soon as possible. 
On 16 March 2020, Miss R chased AWP again, as she hadnt received the information. AWP 
replied on 17 March 2020 to say it had sent her itinerary and confirmation that day. Ive seen 
an email though which shows AWP didnt send Miss R the policy paperwork until 23 March 
2020. It wasnt until the policy documentation had been sent that Miss R was given a chance 
to check the level of cover she held and whether it matched what shed been told about the 
policy.
Its clear then that over a month passed after the sale before AWP sent Miss R information 
about the policy. By the time Miss R chased the paperwork, Covid-19 had already been 
declared a pandemic. Consequently, by that point, Miss R most likely wouldnt have been 
able to find a policy which covered changes to FCDO advice or which were down to Covid-
19. However, had AWP sent the documents promptly, in line with its regulatory obligations, I 
think its most likely that Miss R would still have been able to find products on the market 
which did cover changes to FCDO advice. So I think shed likely have opted to cancel the 
AWP policy and take out a new policy which provided the cover she wanted. Had she been 
able to do so, I think its most likely Miss Rs claim wouldve been covered. Instead, she was 
left with a policy which didnt cover her situation and in a position where she didnt get the information she needed to make an informed choice until after Covid-19 had been declared 
as a pandemic.
On this basis then, I find that AWP did fail to provide Miss R with enough clear, fair and not 
misleading information to allow her to make an informed choice about whether or not to take 
out the policy. So I dont think it sold her the policy fairly.
AWP has already offered Miss R a refund of premium. In some cases, I may find that this is 
fair compensation for the mis-sale of a policy. But thats not the case here. I say that 
because, as Ive explained, if the sale been carried out fairly, I think Miss R wouldve been 
able to find a policy which wouldve covered her claim. So I think Miss R has suffered a 
demonstrable financial loss as a result of AWPs failings in the form of her flight costs.
As the investigator explained, W would only have covered a policyholders irrecoverable 
losses. And generally, EU regulations state that an airline is responsible for refunding the 
costs of a flight it cancels. So usually, Id expect the airline to refund Miss Rs costs. In this 
case though, Miss Rs airline was placed in administration. Shes sent evidence of regular 
refund requests and chases shes sent the airline and despite having been told for over two 
years that her costs will be refunded, no refund has been paid. And the industry regulator 
has told Miss R that its unable to help her and closed its case. So on the facts of this case, I 
agree that Miss Rs financial loss has become irrecoverable and would likely have been paid 
by an insurer had she been properly informed and had she been able to take out the cover 
she wanted. 
This means I think the fair outcome here is for AWP to pay Miss R compensation to the 
value of her claim for her flight costs  a total of £876.85. However, I dont find that AWP 
also needs to refund Miss Rs premium as well as pay compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct AWP Assistance UK Ltd to pay Miss R £876.85 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman