DRN-3031112
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken in 1996. 
Mr and Mrs C say Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc, Bristol & West at the time, (BoI) mis-sold them 
the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, including the PPI policy 
benefits, limitations and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this 
information here. The policy cover was on Mr C who was employed at the time, had worked 
there more than 20 years and was entitled to sick pay and redundancy pay. Hes told us of a 
health issue he had around three years before the sale  but hes told us this had never kept 
him off work and he hasnt told us of having had any ongoing problems as a result of it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the mis-sale complaint but thought BoIs offer to pay back 
some of the cost of the PPI, because of the non-disclosure of high commission and profit 
share Mr and Mrs C paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs Cs representatives disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points, but repeated complaint points and arguments made previously. 
Mr and Mrs C also asked that their case proceed to an ombudsmans decision. As the 
complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Cs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. 
Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided BoI should 
have disclosed the commission it received - but that BoIs offer to refund some of the cost of 
PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused, is fair in the circumstances. 
Ive summarised my reasons for each of these conclusions below.
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
I think it likely BoI made it clear Mr and Mrs C didnt have to take the PPI and they chose 
to take it. I say this because the PPI started more than five years after their mortgage  
so although Mr and Mrs C have said it was just included with their mortgage package, I 
think it more likely it was offered to them separately. Also, as they already had their 
mortgage at the time, I think it likely they wouldve known they didnt have to take the PPI 
to have the mortgage. So I think it likely they wouldve known cover was optional and 
likely the cover was set up only after they chose to take it.
BoI didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs C - so it didnt have to check the PPI was 
right or suitable for them. But it did have to give Mr and Mrs C enough clear and timely 
information so they could decide for themselves if it was right for them.
Its possible the information BoI gave Mr and Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found they chose to take it, and I dont think they wouldve done 
without at a least a broad understanding of the cover it provided - so it looks to me like 
they wanted this type of cover. 
There were no extra restrictions on cover for mental health or back problems. The policy 
wouldnt have covered Mr C for work absence if due to a health issue he knew about at 
the start that then recurred in the first 12 months of the policy. But taking into account all 
hes told us about his health, and given what Mr and Mrs C could still claim for, I dont 
think their decision to take cover on Mr C wouldve changed if theyd been told more 
about how the terms might affect their ability to claim for work absences he might suffer 
in future from the health issue hes told us about. And Mr C hasnt told us of having had 
any other health issues the policy mightve made it hard to claim for. Also, nothing about 
his occupation or employment wouldve made it hard to claim. In light of all this and all 
Ive said above, I dont think the cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr and Mrs C.
I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs C wouldve agreed to the policy without at least a broad idea 
of its cost. With this in mind, and bearing in mind the benefit it could pay, having thought 
carefully about all Mr and Mrs C have told us about their circumstances, had they been 
told more about its cost I dont think it wouldve changed their decision to take the cover.
Overall I think it likely the cover wasnt too different to what Mr and Mrs C thought they 
were buying from the information its likely they were given. With this and all Ive said 
above in mind, I dont think they wouldve declined the cover had BoI done more in terms 
of the information it provided to Mr and Mrs C.
Overall, I consider Mr and Mrs C wouldve still taken the PPI. It was sufficiently close to what 
its likely they thought they were getting and I think it couldve provided a useful benefit were 
Mr C to have become unable to work in the circumstances it covered. And, in those 
circumstances, I think Mr and Mrs C wouldve taken the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Cs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; that these policies represented poor value 
because of the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low 
claims ratio; and that the duty of utmost good faith meant BoI should have disclosed the poor 
value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had 
on the chances of making a claim.Mr and Mrs Cs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Cs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Cs particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint. For the reasons Ive set out above, I 
dont uphold the mis-sale element of this complaint.
This means BoI doesnt have to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so, Ive decided BoI should have disclosed the commission it received and that 
BoIs offer, to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused, is 
fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
BoI didnt tell Mr and Mrs C about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this 
case. So, taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the 
non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between BoI 
and Mr and Mrs C was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
BoI didnt tell them about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case; 
I dont think BoI acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr and Mrs C, because it 
failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr and Mrs Cs representatives have made a number of representations about this part of 
the complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of 
the Consumer Credit Act on their complaint.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipIn summary they have said Mr and Mrs C should get back all the money they paid for the 
policy because: BoI failed to tell Mr and Mrs C about the high commission and profit-share 
rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they 
say that meant the policy was poor value, they say I should find Mr and Mrs C wouldnt have 
taken the policy had they known about the level of commission and they should receive a 
refund of all the premiums they paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- a court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a court 
would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a consumer 
would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; and
- the FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge the 
considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance about 
mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) and that the 
impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it should be 
considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mr and Mrs C in order to remedy the unfairness caused by BoI not disclosing the high level 
of commission to them before they purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr and Mrs Cs representative suggests, driven to conclude that they 
wouldnt have purchased the policy but for BoIs failure to disclose the level of 
commission for the reasons Ive given above;
I think it was fair for BoI to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and return 
some of the money Mr and Mrs C paid for their PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves 
Mr and Mrs C with the policy Ive concluded above they wouldve still taken if BoI had done 
everything it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that BoIs offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms, is fair in all the circumstances.
my final decisionOverall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mr and Mrs Cs complaint or make any 
award in favour of them for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc should pay Mr and Mrs C an amount equivalent to the commission 
and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where 
applicable) - if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2022. 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman