DRN-3878663
The complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly recorded a default on his credit file. 
What happened
In 2016, Mr M was added as a joint account holder to his brothers existing bank account 
with HSBC. The account had been open since 2012. 
In March 2022, Mr M said he received a letter addressed to his brother from HSBC. He 
opened it and found out that the joint account was overdrawn. Mr M said that was the first 
time hed seen anything to do with the account since he joined it. He repaid the outstanding 
balance in full. 
Mr M complains that HSBC has not administered the account properly and that as a result 
he didnt receive any communication about the account. That meant he did not know about 
the account or that it was overdrawn. So his credit file has been affected. Mr M said that his 
credit card limit was reduced as a result of the default, he couldnt remortgage a buy-to-let 
and that he couldnt proceed with a motor finance agreement.
When Mr M complained, HSBC paid Mr M £50 and agreed to remove any adverse 
information from his credit file relating to the joint account.
Our investigator thought that HSBC should pay Mr M a further £150 to reflect the distress 
caused to Mr M by what happened. 
HSBC accepted what the investigator said. Mr M did not. He said that the mortgage offer 
had been agreed and it was only the information recorded by HSBC that meant it couldnt go 
ahead. Any previous compensation was only for the difficulty he experienced when initially 
contacting HSBC and does not take into account the delays in HSBCs response. The £150 
does not reflect the huge costs he incurred now and going forwards  all due to HSBCs 
actions
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigator that HSBC has made errors here  and that the outcome she 
has proposed is fair. 
When Mr M was added to the joint account, he signed a mandate agreeing to be jointly and 
individually liable for any debt incurred on the account. The evidence provided by HSBC 
shows that Mr M completed the forms I would expect to see to do so. There is no evidence 
that the account was opened incorrectly  apart from one thing: 
The application shows that Mr Ms brother signed that there was no requirement for 
statements to be sent to both account holders. It would appear this was meant to be signed 
(if they agreed to that) by the person being added to the account, which was Mr M. So it 
looks like there was an error or some avoidable confusion when the account was set up  
and that meant statements werent being sent to Mr M. 
In saying that, Mr M must have known that hed opened an account. Although I do 
understand how he might have forgotten about the account, there was a reasonable 
expectation that he would check it from time to time. 
The account went overdrawn in November 2021. I agree that it would have been reasonable 
for HSBC to contact both account holders when this happened. But I also think it was 
reasonable for HSBC to record that the account had gone overdrawn on Mr Ms credit file. It 
could only notify him once that had happened  so there was always going to be some 
adverse information on his credit file.
HSBC has provided evidence that it wrote to Mr M at his address regarding the overdraft on 
28 January 2022 and 1 March 2022. Both letters are correctly addressed to Mr M  not his 
brother, as he said.
I consider that HSBC could have written to Mr M sooner than it did. Although I have to take 
into account that it did write to Mr M in January 2022 and Mr M did not take any action. Mr M 
may not have received that letter  or he may have overlooked it bearing in mind hed 
forgotten about the account. But that was not as a result of an error by HSBC.
I agree that HSBC took too long to fully respond to Mr M and that it could have 
communicated with Mr M sooner than it did. But it isnt responsible for the overdrawn 
balance or for holding Mr M responsible for that. And it is entitled to record information about 
how the account was conducted on Mr Ms credit file. Even if HSBC had sent statements to 
Mr M, he would not have known there was a problem until the account was already 
overdrawn. The best outcome for Mr M would have been to pay the overdrawn balance as 
soon as possible after receiving a statement showing the overdraft. 
Putting things right
Where a business has acted unfairly or unreasonably, we look to put the affected party back 
in the position they would have been had it acted fairly and reasonably. But I think the 
position Mr M ended up in was solely as a result of HSBCs mistakes.
HSBC has already agreed to remove all adverse information it recorded on Mr Ms credit file. 
That might be further than I would have gone, for the reasons set out above. The account 
went overdrawn and HSBC was entitled to record that on Mr Ms credit file. At best, Mr M 
could have repaid the overdraft earlier  but there still would have been some record of it on 
his credit file. HSBC has removed the adverse information and it should honour that. 
Mr M did not act on HSBCs letter of January 2022. There might be good reasons for that. 
But it is not as a result of any error by HSBC. Mr M has explained the financial impact of the adverse information recorded by HSBC. But 
Ive found that even in the best-case scenario for Mr M, the account would have gone 
overdrawn and he would have found out when he received the statement. By then the 
overdraft would have appeared on his credit file. We dont have the evidence to show that 
the mortgage lender would not have withdrawn the offer in any case  and I note this was a 
non-binding buy-to-let mortgage where the lender had a greater degree of latitude to 
withdraw the funding.
Im afraid the same applies for the credit card limit. Lenders take into account a number of 
factors in their decisions about who to lend to and how much to lend. There may have been 
factors other than the information recorded by HSBC that led to those decisions. As Ive 
said, if HSBC had acted correctly, there still would have been some adverse information. I 
dont see how I could reasonably conclude that the reduction in the limit was solely a result 
of HSBCs mistake.
In respect of the car finance. Mr M said his existing car finance was due to end in October 
2022 and he would need to arrange a new contract, pay off the balance or hand the car 
back. He said because of the adverse information, his wife had to take out a loan to repay 
the balance. But HSBC agreed to remove the adverse information in August 2022. And in 
any event, its not clear that Mr M has suffered a financial loss in respect of the car finance. 
I agree that HSBC hasnt handled this matter as well as it could have. It should have done 
more to contact Mr M over the life of the account and should have contacted him sooner 
once the account went overdrawn. I note what Mr M has told us about the impact of this 
matter on him. But those issues arise largely out of the fact hed entered into a joint account 
arrangement where he was jointly and severally liable for any debt on the account. The lack 
of communication from HSBC meant the debt wasnt repaid for a few months and added to 
his distress . And I can see the worry caused to Mr M by thinking things might have been 
different if HSBC had sent him statements. But overall I consider a total payment of £200 
(£150 on top of the £50 already paid) is fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Mr M £150 in addition to the £50 it 
has already paid and the removal of the adverse information it recorded on Mr Ms credit file 
in relation to this matter. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman