DRN-3634611
The complaint
Miss S complains that Loans 2 Go provided her with a loan she couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
In February 2022 Loans 2 Go approved a £250 loan for Miss S. She was to repay £51.39 
over 18 months.
Miss S says the loan was unaffordable.
Loans 2 Go disagree. They say that they completed reasonable and proportionate checks 
before approving the loan. They asked Miss S about her income and verified it and they 
considered Miss Ss likely expenditure. They also reviewed Miss Ss credit file before making 
the decision to lend. They didnt think they had evidence in these checks that the loan was 
unaffordable.
Our adjudicator didnt agree, and she suggested Loans 2 Go took some action to resolve 
matters for Miss S.
But Loans 2 Go disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. They said theyd completed 
reasonable and proportionate checks and that theyd used statistical information to estimate 
Miss Ss likely expenditure. They said that having done those proportionate checks there 
was no evidence the loan was unaffordable for Miss S.
The complaint has therefore been referred to me, an ombudsman, for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable here.
I dont think Loans 2 Go completed reasonable and proportionate checks before approving 
the finance. Whilst they took note of Miss Ss income and also considered what her likely 
expenditure would be. I think there was evidence on her credit file that warranted further 
investigation before they could assure themselves that the lending was affordable.
I say that because the credit file showed only a month prior to the loan being taken Miss S 
had fallen into arrears on a mail order account. She had also entered into an arrangement 
to pay with a communications business and I think that information should have alerted 
Loans 2 Go to the potential that she was under financial stress.
I dont think that information alone would have suggested that the loan was unaffordable 
but I do think Loans 2 Go should have gathered more information to clarify whether Miss S 
could afford repayments sustainably, before they lent to her.
I think it would have been proportionate for Loans 2 Go to have found out more about
Miss Ss committed expenditure, such as her actual living costs. I cant be sure exactly 
what they would have found out if they had explored further. In the absence of anything 
else, I think it would be reasonable to place significant weight on the information contained 
in Miss Ss bank statements as to what would most likely have been disclosed.
Ive reviewed three months of bank statements leading up to the lending decision. These 
show that Miss Ss income was about £1,122. Our investigator suggested Miss Ss 
expenditure was about £843 per month but I think the statements show it to be higher. Ive 
estimated regular monthly expenditure on items such as utility bills, credit repayments, 
insurance, rent, and fuel of about £1,000 and thats before food expenditure is taken into 
account. The statements also showed that Miss S was having direct debits returned for 
insufficient funds and that her account was often in unauthorised overdraft and incurring 
charges in the three months before lending was approved. I think all of that would suggest 
that this additional loan wasnt likely to have been affordable for Miss S and that Loans 2 
Go were irresponsible to further increase her indebtedness.
Putting things right
Loans 2 Go shouldnt have given Miss S the loan. They should therefore:
Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the loan, and treat 
any repayments made by Miss S as though they had been repayments of the 
principal. If this results in Miss S having made overpayments then they should 
refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the 
overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date 
the complaint is settled.
If there is still an outstanding balance once interest, fees and charges have 
been removed then Loans 2 Go should try to agree an affordable repayment 
plan with Miss S.
Once the capital has been repaid, Loans 2 Go should remove any 
adverse information recorded on Miss Ss credit file in relation to this 
loan.
It seems this loan is still outstanding, and the debt hasnt been sold. But, if Im wrong 
about that and the debt has been sold, Loans 2 Go should buy back the debt or liaise 
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined above.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest they 
should give Miss S a certificate showing how much tax theyve deducted, if she ask for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Loans 2 Go to put things 
right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Phillip McMahonOmbudsman