DRN-3208195
The complaint
In summary, Mrs N has complained about a failed chargeback claim that was made with 
National Westminster Bank Plc. 
What happened
In February 2021, Mrs N bought a car using her Visa debit card. She encountered problems 
with the car shortly after buying it. 
Unhappy with the quality of the car, Mrs N raised a chargeback claim with NatWest. She 
provided it with information in relation to her claim. And a temporary refund was provided to 
her by NatWest in May 2021, whilst the claim was pursued with the merchant that sold her 
the car. 
In June 2021, the merchant contested the claim and provided documentation explaining why 
it didnt agree with Mrs Ns claim. Mrs N didnt agree, so the claim was referred to arbitration 
under the Visa cardholder scheme rules.
Visa ruled in favour of the merchant. Dissatisfied with the ruling and NatWests conduct of 
her claim, Mrs N complained to NatWest. It didnt uphold Mrs Ns complaint in respect of the 
outcome of her chargeback claim. But it acknowledged it had provided a poor level of 
service to Mrs N, and credited £100 in compensation to her account. In addition, it credited 
her account with £322 in respect of the expert report she had obtained in support of her 
claim.  
Mrs Ns concerns were looked into by one of our investigators. They explained why they 
werent upholding her complaint in respect of the chargeback claim. They agreed that 
NatWest was responsible for delays in her claim being progressed but thought the 
compensation it had paid was enough. 
Mrs N didnt agree. She believed that inaccurate information had been provided to her. And 
she didnt trust that it sent everything through to Visa for an informed decision to be made. 
So, the case has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ns complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
Mrs N is unhappy with the way NatWest dealt with the chargeback claim that she made. I do 
understand from what Mrs N has said, why from her point of view, she feels aggrieved that 
the chargeback claim wasnt upheld in her favour. 
I think given the circumstances of Mrs Ns chargeback claim, it was appropriate for NatWest 
to have raised that claim with Visa. Mrs Ns claim related to the quality of the car she bought. 
She obtained an engineers report and provided a copy of that in support of her claim.
I can see that by the end of March 2021, Mrs N had provided NatWest with all of the 
information it needed to submit the chargeback claim. But it wasnt until nearly the end of 
April 2021 that her claim had been worked and the chargeback approved. And it was nearly 
another two weeks before the money credited her account. So, Im satisfied that NatWest 
didnt progress the chargeback request as quickly as it should have. And it does look like it 
gave her inconsistent information about the claim. 
NatWest accepts that the service it provided to Mrs N wasnt what it should have been. But 
Im satisfied that this didnt have an impact on the chargeback claim being considered by 
Visa. NatWest provided the information to Visa for the claim to be considered and within the 
timeframes set by the scheme. And the claim was considered by Visa consider in line with its 
rules.
In June 2021 the retailer contested the claim. The case went to arbitration and Visa ruled in 
favour of the merchant, because it didnt think sufficient steps had been taken to return the 
car to meet all of its requirements to attempt to return the vehicle.
NatWest isnt responsible for deciding whether the chargeback claim should be upheld or 
not. That was a matter for Visa the card issuer to decide, not NatWest. So, I dont think 
NatWest did anything wrong in respect of the chargeback claim being assessed.
As Ive already outlined, Mrs N is also unhappy with how NatWest progressed her 
chargeback claim and the incorrect information she thinks NatWest gave her. And as Ive 
said and as NatWest has acknowledged, there were delays in the chargeback claim being 
processed. 
I understand that Mrs N doesnt have any faith in NatWest and doesnt trust that it provided 
the relevant information to Visa. But the claim didnt fail in relation to an assessment of the 
quality of the car that was the crux of her concerns. It failed because the Visa didnt think an 
attempt to return the car had been made, that was in line with the card scheme 
requirements. And Ive not seen sufficient evidence that supports Mrs Ns concerns. The 
notes on NatWests system record that the file was sent to pre arbitration and then to 
arbitration. So, Im satisfied that its more likely than not that all relevant information provided 
by Mrs N and the merchant were sent to Visa for it to consider. 
I do understand Mrs N is disappointed that her chargeback claim was declined. But as Ive 
explained that isnt as a result of anything NatWest did or didnt do. And although there were 
shortcomings in the way it handled the claim and in how it communicated with her, Im 
satisfied that the compensation it has offered is sufficient to reflect the impact of those 
shortcomings. I dont think it needs to do anymore.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my decision is not to uphold Mrs Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 Simon Dibble
Ombudsman