DRN-3613588
The complaint
Mr T complains that Cynergy Bank Limited (Cynergy) blocked and closed his account, 
without explaining why. And delayed in providing him with information he requested by way 
of a Data Subject Access Request (DSAR).
What happened
On 18 August 2020, Cynergy blocked Mr Ts account. When Mr T called his relationship 
manager (RM) to find out what was happening, he was told the block was caused by a 
technical issue. However, the account remained restricted and Cynergy then wrote to Mr T 
on 3 September 2020, giving him 15 days notice of its intention to close his account.
Cynergy also took similar actions in respect of 3 limited company accounts in Mr Ts name. 
But this decision is solely concerned with Mr Ts personal account, and I will address the 
other complaints separately.
Mr Ts daughter then submitted a data subject access request (DSAR) on Mr Ts behalf. But 
Cynergy didnt allocate the request to the correct team, so it didnt complete the request. 
When Mr T complained, Cynergy issued a final response letter dated 9 December 2020. It 
apologised to Mr T, explained why there had been a delay, and said it would need his written 
consent to accept instructions from his daughter. It also offered him £50 in compensation 
given it had caused a delay.
Cynergy told our service it received written consent on 18 March 2021 and completed the 
DSAR within 30 days.
However, Cynergy didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint about access to his account. It said it had 
exited Mr T as he was outside of Cynergys policy, but said it wasnt obliged to provide any 
further rationale beyond that.
Mr T didnt accept Cynergys response, so he brought his complaint to our service. He said 
Cynergy had lied to him about the technical issue, and wanted to know the real reason his 
account had been blocked and closed. 
Our investigator looked at Mr Ts complaint, but she didnt uphold it. She looked at the 
evidence Cynergy provided to justify its actions and said she was satisfied it had acted in 
line with its terms of business, as well as its legal and regulatory obligations. And she said 
that, regardless of whether or not Mr Ts RM knew the block wasnt caused by a technical 
issue, the RM wouldnt have been able to disclose the real reason in any event.
Mr T didnt accept our investigators findings, so he asked for an ombudsman to review the 
matter afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I should say that Im aware Ive summarised the events of this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties, and that Ive done so using my own words. The reason for this is that 
Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here, which our rules allow me to do.
This approach simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts. And Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome in this case. So, if theres something Ive not 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, and I must stress that Ive considered everything 
both Mr T and Cynergy have said, before reaching my decision.
Account block
All banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers 
accounts while they carry out a review. And because of the nature of those obligations, 
banks often dont disclose the reasons for their decisions to their customers. However, our 
service has obtained information and evidence relating to Cynergys rationale, so while I 
cant disclose the reasons behind Cynergys actions, I can assure Mr T that I have reviewed 
all of the germane evidence.
With that in mind, in order to make an award in favour of Mr T, I would need to be satisfied 
that Cynergy acted unfairly or took actions it wasnt entitled to take. Having looked at the 
evidence it relied on in reaching its decision, Im satisfied Cynergy acted in line with its legal 
and regulatory obligations when it blocked Mr Ts account. And that it was entitled to do so 
under the account terms and conditions that governed the relationship between Cynergy and 
Mr T.
Because Im satisfied Cynergy was entitled to block Mr Ts account, I wont ask it to 
compensate Mr T for doing so, given it did nothing wrong. Mr T also says that his RM 
originally told him the account was blocked due to a technical issue, and that he later found 
out that that was not the case. 
But, as our investigator has explained, banking decisions are not always made by a single 
department and in circumstances like these, the rationale isnt always communicated to all 
members of staff. So, Mr Ts RM may not have known why the account was blocked. And in 
any event, Im satisfied Cynergy wasnt obliged to disclose the reasons for the block. So, Mr 
Ts relationship manager couldnt have given him any more information, regardless of 
whether or not he knew the true reason.
Account closure
A bank is entitled to close an account with a customer, so long as it does so in a way that 
complies with the terms and conditions of the customers account. 
Cynergy gave Mr T 15 days notice to close his account in a letter dated 15 September 2020. 
It explained Mr Ts account no longer fell within Cynergys criteria and confirmed the account 
would be blocked until it was closed. Because Mr Ts account was overdrawn, it wasnt 
closed until Mr T paid the outstanding balance on 27 October 2020.
Cynergy referred our service to its terms of business which, at section 18.5 sets out the 
circumstances in which it can close Mr Ts account with less than 2 months notice. The 
terms and conditions though dont oblige Cynergy to disclose the reasons for its decision to 
Mr T, and I can see Cynergy didnt want to tell Mr T why it closed the account.With that being the case, Ive looked at the evidence Cynergy provided our service to 
determine whether or not it acted fairly when it closed Mr Ts account. And having done so, 
Im satisfied that it did and that it was entitled to close Mr Ts account without giving 2 
months notice. And that it doesnt have to explain the reasons for its decision to Mr T.
Subject Access Request
Turning to the DSAR, Cynergy has accepted it delayed in completing the report. And while I 
accept it was right to request Mr Ts consent to correspond with his daughter, it should have 
identified that sooner, so I can see that it did cause an avoidable delay. But, while I 
recognise there was a delay, the impact of that delay on Mr T wasnt substantial so Im 
satisfied Cynergys offer of £50 in compensation is sufficient to put things right for him.
I understand this isnt the answer Mr T was hoping for, and that hell be disappointed with my 
decision. But, for the reasons Ive set out above, Im satisfied Cynergy was entitled to block 
and close Mr Ts account in the manner it did. And that it has done enough to compensate 
Mr T for the delay in complying with Mr Ts subject access request. With that being the case, 
I wont ask Cynergy to do anything further to put matters right for Mr T.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman