DRN-1678385
 
The complaint
This complaints about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Mr B says 
Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him the PPI. 
What happened
Mr B applied for a credit card with Lloyds in 1996. At some time between then and 2000, PPI 
was added to his account that was designed to help protect his repayments if he couldnt 
work due to disability or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. As Mr B didnt agree with the 
adjudicator, the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Bs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold because:
Unsurprisingly, given how long ago the PPI was sold, there are gaps in the 
information available from the time. Mr B says he bought the PPI by post, but Lloyds 
cant confirm how it was sold. From experience of how Lloyds sold PPI between 1996 
and 2000 across all its sales channels, Ive no reason to think it was added without 
his knowledge or agreement.  
If Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr B, it had to check that the PPI was right for 
him. And, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example, I cant see that hed have been affected by any of the exclusions 
to, or limits on, the PPI cover. And the PPI benefits would have paid out on top of his 
sick pay and redundancy pay, for up to 12 months per claim. I note he had some 
savings but it seems they were earmarked for a deposit for a property purchase. 
Overall, I think Mr B would have found the extra protection the PPI provided useful. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But I think it likely he chose to take it out  so it looks like he 
wanted this type of cover. And it looks as though it would have been useful for him if 
something went wrong. I also cant see that hed have found it unaffordable. 
 
Taking everything into account, I dont believe Mr Bs lost out because of how Lloyds sold 
him the PPI.Ive thought about what Mr B says regarding Lloyds compensating him for other PPI it sold 
him. But that doesnt mean it should automatically pay compensation for this policy. Each 
sale turns on its own facts and circumstances. So, this doesnt change my mind.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman