DRN-3155861
The complaint
Miss F complains that she incurred additional costs as a result of poor service provided by
TSB Bank plc in relation to her credit card account.  
What happened
Miss F opened a credit card account with TSB in May 2019.
On 5 August 2020 she contacted TSB to arrange for a new credit card to be issued to her as
her previous one had expired on 31 May 2020 whilst she was travelling abroad. She spoke
with TSB again on 25 August 2020 as she hadnt received anything. The advisor attempted
to order her another new card. But again it didnt arrive.
Miss F complained to TSB on 17 September 2020 and a new card was successfully ordered
at this point. She explained that she had hired a car on 24 August 2020 and again on 4
September 2020 and had to pay a total of £906.15 in extra charges for insurance as a result
of not having a credit card to leave an authorisation to satisfy the car rental companys
security requirements. To put things right, Miss F asked TSB to refund her this money.
TSB sent Miss F a final response to her complaint advising that a block had been placed on
her account which had prevented the earlier new cards from being sent out. It apologised for
the poor service shed received but said it would need more information and evidence to
consider paying her reasonable costs.
Miss F provided copies of the car hire invoices. But TSB said it couldnt see evidence of any
extra charges shed had to pay for car hire as a result of using her debit card  only that
shed paid for car hire and insurance. And it felt it would have been necessary for her to
purchase this insurance. It also noted shed used her debit card to pay for car hire again in
November 2020, after receiving her new credit card.
TSB did however pay Miss F £150 compensation to apologise for the delay in her receiving
her credit card. It also paid her a further £24 to cover the cost of calls shed made to it about
the issue.
Miss F wasnt happy with this response, so she brought her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and felt that in addition to the 
compensation it had already paid TSB should pay Miss F £308 by way of reimbursement for 
additional excess waiver charges shed incurred when she had to hire a car without a credit 
card.
TSB didnt agree with these findings. It feels the compensation it has already paid to Miss F
is enough to resolve her complaint. Miss F didnt accept the investigators findings either,
she feels TSB should refund her for all of the extra insurance charges she incurred totalling
£906.15. So the case has been passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision to both parties on 12 October 2021. In it I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss F spoke to TSB on several occasions during August and September 2020 to try and
obtain a new credit card following the expiry of her previous one earlier that year. She was
told on 5 August 2020 and again on 25 August 2020 that a new card had been ordered, but
nothing arrived. Miss F has also told us that during this period various members of the online
banking and telephone teams told her a new card had been posted to her when it hadnt,
and she feels that she was lied to about this matter.
I can see TSB and Miss F disagree as to whether these issues arose due to a block on Miss
Fs card or staff simply ordering the new cards incorrectly. But for the purposes of resolving
this complaint, I dont think I particularly need to determine what specifically went wrong
here, as it has already been accepted by TSB that errors were made on its part and Miss F
received poor service.
TSB has apologised for the delays and paid Miss F £150 compensation and £24 to cover the
cost of phone calls she made to it about the matter. But Miss F doesnt feel that this has
adequately resolved her complaint. Shes explained that if shed had her credit card when
she collected hire cars on 24 August 2020 and 4 September 2020 then on both occasions
shed have been able to let the car hire company take a pre-authorisation by way of a
refundable security deposit. As she only had a debit card, she instead had to purchase
additional insurance. And feels TSB ought to reimburse her for these costs.
TSB argues that it would have been necessary for Miss F to purchase insurance cover when
hiring a car, and its provided us with a screenshot showing different insurance options
offered by the car hire company Miss F used which it feels supports its view.
Ive thought carefully about whether or not I think Miss F would have had to purchase this
additional insurance cover had she had her credit card.
I can see that the FAQ section on the car hire broker website she used to make her first
booking advises that collision damage waiver insurance and theft protection cover are
included with a car hire booking made through its website. It also says that there is almost
always an excess applicable to this, and states that for most bookings made through its
website a security deposit for this amount will be required when the hire car is collected
which will be temporarily taken / blocked from the main drivers credit card for the duration of
the rental and returned to them if the car is brought back undamaged.
Ive also looked at the car hire companys rental terms and conditions. These state In order
to collect your car, we require a pre-authorisation deposit on a credit card in the name of the
main driver. Alternatively, you can purchase an excess waiver package with a credit or debit
card. Please note, payment by debit card requires excess to be reduced to zero. The car
hire companys website also confirms that this deposit will be returned at the end of the
rental.
Miss F has also provided us with an email from the car hire company which confirms that
hirers are required to provide a pre-authorisation deposit on a credit card in the name of the
main hirer before a hire commences. Alternatively customers can purchase an excess
waiver package to reduce their excess liability to zero... The email goes on to say that as
Miss F did not have a credit card her option was to purchase an excess waiver package in
order to hire the vehicle.I can see that there are various options for different levels and costs of insurance listed on
the screenshot TSB has provided from the car hire companys website. This includes a no
protection insurance option, (whereby the main driver is liable for the full excess) which has
a charge of £0 a day. In light of this and the information from the car hire broker and car
hire company which Ive set out above, Im not persuaded that Miss F would have had to pay
for additional insurance to reduce her excess to nil if she was instead able to leave a security
deposit using a credit card.
Miss F has explained that she doesnt have another credit card account so had no choice
but to take an expensive full coverage insurance option with a nil excess. Shes made it clear
that she relies on the use of hire cars when she is in the U.K., and it would not have been an
option for her not to go ahead with the hires. Shes also explained that she only ever takes
the basic insurance option when hiring a car, which in the case of the first hire she made
here I understand was included in her initial booking fee through the car hire broker. And for
the second hire I can see is listed on the car hire companys invoice as a separate item
costing £135. I understand she isnt asking TSB to cover these amounts.
TSB has pointed out that Miss F made a payment to a car hire broker with her debit card on
4 November 2020  after shed received her new credit card. Its said it feels this payment
shows that she was happy to arrange and pay for car hire with her debit card.
However again, Im not persuaded that this evidence suggests Miss F would have chosen to
purchase additional insurance cover to reduce her excess liability even if shed had a credit
card to use to by way of a security deposit. The invoices Miss F has provided for the
additional insurance charges she incurred here show they were was paid directly to the car
hire company itself at the time of hire  not the car hire broker. I cant see from the
statements provided that she made any corresponding payment to the car hire company
using her debit card around the time of the November 2020 payment to the car hire broker.
This evidence also supports Miss Fs testimony that having booked and paid for the first car
hire in advance through the broker she was initially unaware that without a credit card
against which the car hire company could take a pre-authorisation shed have to purchase
additional insurance. And that she arranged the second hire (having spoken again to TSB)
expecting her new credit card to have arrived before the second hire period started.
Having been told on 5 August 2020 that a new credit card was being sent out to her, I think
its reasonable Miss F feels she ought to have received this card before 24 August 2020
when the first hire period started. She spoke to TSB on 25 August 2020 and was again
assured that a new card was on its way to her and would normally arrive in 3-4 working
days. So I also think its reasonable she expected to have a new credit card prior to the
second car hire period which began on 4 September 2020.
I appreciate that due to the purchase of the additional insurance, had the cars Miss F hired
been damaged, she would not have had to pay an excess. But she didnt make a claim on
the insurance. So I think any benefit she gained from its purchase was minimal. And I do feel
it would be reasonable for TSB to reimburse Miss F for the money she spent on the
additional insurance cover, as I dont think she would have purchased this had she received
her credit card as she was advised.
Miss F has told us that these charges amounted to £906.15. But looking at the two invoices
shes provided I can see that the first dated 24 August 2020 details a charge of £311.88 for
full protection. And the second dated 4 September 2020 lists a charge for full coverage of
£594. Im satisfied from the information Ive seen that these charges were for the additional
insurance Miss F was obliged to purchase to reduce her excess to nil as she did not have a
credit card to use by way of security deposit. And so I think TSB should reimburse her for
these amounts, totalling £905.88. And it should do so with an additional 8% interest payablefrom the dates Miss F made these payments.
I intend to make this award in addition to the £150 compensation and £24 call costs it has
already paid her. I think it is fair that TSB pay Miss F this additional compensation to reflect
the trouble and inconvenience she experienced as a result of this issue.
Miss F responded to my provisional decision to advise that she had no further points to 
make about the matter. TSB hasnt replied with any further comments or information for my 
consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and noting that I have not received any new information about this 
complaint from either party, it follows that Ive reached the same conclusions that I set out in 
my provisional decision.    
Putting things right
TSB Bank plc must reimburse Miss F the amounts of £311.88 and £594 (totalling £905.88). 
It should apply an additional 8% simple interest per annum from the dates she made these 
payments.* 
This award is to be paid in addition to the £150 compensation and £24 call costs TSB has 
already paid Miss F.
*If TSB Bank plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Miss F how much its taken off. It should also give Miss F a certificate 
showing this, if she asks, so tax can be reclaimed from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint and direct TSB Bank plc to put things right as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Jenette Lynch
Ombudsman