DRN-2859042
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, unfairly recorded late 
payment markers against his credit file. 
What happened
Mr B holds a credit card with Barclaycard. In June 2020, an online block was placed on his 
account, following which, he missed his July; August and September repayments, which 
Barclaycard subsequently recorded against his credit file. Mr B contacted Barclaycard in 
October to clear the arrears, but was unhappy that he was told that the missed payment 
markers would remain on his credit file, as he said hed previously been told they would be 
removed upon clearing the arrears. He also said he was unhappy hed been told that he 
would need to go into a branch to fix the issue. So he complained. 
Mr B said the payments were missed as a result of him not being able to access his mobile 
banking application, and he said he was not given advice about alternative ways to pay. He 
said hed been told that upon clearing the arrears, Barclaycard would remove the late 
payment markers. So he thinks Barclaycard should remove any record of missed or late 
payments from those months, as the missed payments were not his fault.  
Barclaycard responded. They said a message was sent to Mr Bs mobile phone on 
24 June 2020, explaining that an online block had been placed on his online banking due to 
unusual activity on the account, and they requested he get in touch. They said they followed 
this up with a letter on 17 July 2020 but didnt hear back from Mr B.  
They accepted Mr Bs testimony that he may have been told he needed to go into the branch 
to fix this issue, so they paid him £50 in compensation as they felt this was poor advice 
during the pandemic. But they said there were other ways Mr B couldve made his 
repayments, such as a bank transfer. They said they did inform Mr B that his credit file would 
clear in time, once his repayments were brought up to date. But they said they never agreed 
to remove the late payment markers, and said they should remain, as they were an accurate 
reflection of the account status. Unhappy with this Mr B brought his complaint to our service. 
An investigator considered Mr Bs complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She said 
she felt the £50 Barclaycard had paid was fair compensation for the poor advice given. But 
she agreed there were other ways Mr B couldve made his repayments, and she felt he was 
aware of these, as he made a payment by bank transfer at the end of June. So she didnt 
think Barclaycard were wrong in recording the missed payments against his credit file.
But Mr B remained unhappy, so he requested an ombudsmans decision. The case has now 
been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs explained that he makes his repayments each month using mobile banking. So, I can 
appreciate why having a block placed on his online banking would have made things difficult 
for him. But I can see that Barclaycard wrote to Mr B on two occasions explaining to him that 
he needed to get in touch in order to remove the block.
I can see there was a call between Mr B and Barclaycard in September 2020, but 
Barclaycards notes suggest Mr B didnt have time to discuss the matter at this point, and it 
seems it was not until October 2020 that Mr B spoke to Barclaycard about the missed 
payments and clearing the arrears. 
While I havent been able to listen to these calls, whether or not Mr B was given advice on 
other ways of making his repayments during these calls does not remove his obligation to 
maintain monthly repayments towards his credit card during this time, in line with the terms 
and conditions of the account. So I think he shouldve still made his repayments. 
Barclaycards website sets out the different ways in which customers can make their 
repayments  including the mobile app, direct debit, telephone payments and bank transfers. 
I can also see Mr B was aware he could pay by bank transfer, as he made a payment in late 
June 2020 this way. So I think there were methods available at this time for Mr B to make his 
repayments. 
Mr B has argued in response to the investigators view, that our service has made the 
assumption that the Barclaycards website was working during this time. But Mr B has 
provided no evidence to suggest it wasnt. So, in the absence of any information 
contradicting that assumption, I think this is a reasonable conclusion to reach. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Bs credit card account set out that:
If you miss your minimum payment, well add a late payment fee to your account. You can 
miss your minimum payment, by only paying part of your minimum payment or by making 
your payment late (after the due date). If you miss a payment, the following will also apply to 
our account:
-You may not be eligible for offers or promotions
-We may take the payment from any other Barclays accounts you have
-Your records with credit reference agencies may be affected, meaning it may be harder or 
more expensive for you to borrow in the future. 
So Im satisfied it was made clear to Mr B that he needed to maintain his monthly payments 
on his cards, and if he didnt, that it may impact his records with credit reference agencies. 
Mr B has also made reference to the fact that he was refunded around £316 from 
Barclaycard in April 2021 in relation to unfair charges. And that they admitted their errors, 
which they would not have done if it was not for his persistence.  But Barclaycard has 
confirmed this refund relates to a separate remediation project they carried out, looking at 
how default fees were charged. They said they reached out to tens of thousands of 
customers in relation to this, including Mr B. But they have explained that this has no 
connection to Mr Bs current complaint, and Im satisfied this is the case. 
Turning to Mr Bs point about being told that his credit file would be cleared, Ive looked at 
the call notes from when Mr B spoke with Barclaycard in October 2020. They explain that 
Mr B was advised that once the repayments were brought up to date, if regular repayments 
continued on his account, his credit file will repair itself in time. But they also show that they 
explained to Mr B that they could not remove the payment markers themselves, as they were an accurate reflection of how his account had been managed. So Im satisfied Mr B 
wasnt told that the missed payments would be removed, but more what he could do to 
repair his credit file to lessen the impact of these missed payment markers moving forward.  
Barclaycard has accepted that if they gave advice suggesting Mr B should attend a branch 
to resolve the matter, that this would not have been the best solution to his problem given 
the pandemic. But they have paid Mr B £50 in compensation by way of an apology for this. 
And I cant see that Mr B did in fact have to attend a branch. So I think this is reasonable in 
the circumstances. 
In summary, Im satisfied that Barclaycard acted in fairly in reporting three missed 
repayments to the credit reference agencies in relation to the repayments he missed in July, 
August and September 2020; as while I appreciate he couldnt necessarily make these 
repayments by his preferred means, there were other ways in which he could have made 
them. Im also satisfied that the £50 compensation they paid him for the poor advice given 
was reasonable in the circumstances. So, for these reasons, Im not upholding Mr Bs 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman