DRN-1539764
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Mrs P says Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (BoS) mis-sold her the PPI. 
What happened
Mrs P took out a mortgage with BoS in 1999. At the same time, she took out a PPI policy.
The policy covered her against being unable to work due to accident, sickness or involuntary 
unemployment. The policy cost £33.33 per month and wouldve paid a monthly benefit of 
£550 for up to 12 months in the event of a successful claim.
An adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs P disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. So the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
The sale took place during a meeting over 20 years ago. Where there is limited information, I 
will make my decision based on whats more likely to have happened, taking into account 
the evidence available, what both parties have told me and what we know about these types 
of sale.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mrs P has told us he cannot recall the PPI being discussed with her at all and didnt consent 
to the policy being sold. Mrs P recalls discussing repayment and interest-only mortgages 
with the BoS adviser and thinks the PPI must have been included with the mortgage she 
opted for.
The mortgage and the PPI were sold during a meeting at a BoS branch.
From experience I think its unlikely the policy could have been set up entirely without Mrs 
Ps input. There would have been some questions around eligibility that would need to have 
been answered before it could have been put in place. BoS has shown us screenshots of its 
internal records from the time. And I can see a series of questions establishing Mrs Ps 
eligibility for the policy have been answered. BoS has also shown us a copy of an application 
form for the PPI which was separate to any mortgage application and has been signed by 
Mrs P.Weighing everything up I think its most likely Mrs P was made aware the PPI was optional 
and she chose to take it out. Although at the time it was likely to have seemed a relatively 
straightforward transaction, so after so many years I can understand why Mrs P might not 
recall this.
BoS has told us that its adviser should have recommended the PPI to Mrs P. In which case it 
had to check that the PPI was right for her and based on what Ive seen of her 
circumstances in 1999 I think that it was. I say this because:
Mrs P was not affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. For example, 
she didnt have any medical conditions that wouldnt have been covered. And she wasnt in 
an unusual employment situation which might not have been covered.
Mrs Ps employers wouldve paid her sick pay if shed become too unwell to work. But this 
particular policy wouldve paid a monthly benefit in addition to any sick pay, and for up to 12 
months. This is likely longer than Mrs Ps full sick pay would last. So, I still think Mrs P 
wouldve found the benefit useful if she had become too unwell to work, particularly if she 
was unwell for a prolonged period.
And if Mrs P lost her job the monthly benefit would mean she could use any redundancy pay 
for other living costs.
Mrs P did have some savings, but she chose to retain these savings rather than pay a larger 
deposit and have a smaller mortgage. So, I think it is likely Mrs P wanted to keep any 
savings intact. And the PPI policy would mean she didnt have to use her savings to pay the 
monthly mortgage repayment if he couldnt work.
Mrs P cant recall being given any information about the policy. I cant know after all these 
years exactly what she was told or given at the time. So, its possible the information BoS 
gave Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But she chose to take it out  - 
so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for 
her if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So, I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
In summary, I think its likely BoS made Mrs P aware the policy was optional, and she chose 
to buy it. From what Ive seen it looks as if the policy BoS recommended was right for her. 
And I dont think any clearer or more complete information wouldve made her act differently 
and decline it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman