DRN-3722570
The complaint
Miss H has complained about her car insurer Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited 
because it has refused her claim for her car which was damaged in an accident in 2015.
What happened
Miss H had an accident and Markerstudy was notified. But Miss H was making a claim for 
her losses, including her car, directly against the other driver. In 2016, following Miss H and 
her passengers appointing solicitors, Markerstudy decided it wanted to interview Miss H. 
Miss H spoke to an investigator appointed by Markerstudy but didnt arrange for an interview 
to take place. At this point Miss H had already signed court documents to enable her solicitor 
to issue proceedings  they detailed the cars pre-accident value as £4,530.00, claiming for 
this as a loss suffered by Miss H. Markerstudy wrote to Miss H in November 2016 and said 
that as she hadnt cooperated with it, it would not offer indemnity in respect of the incident. 
In 2017, Markerstudys solicitor (MS) spoke to Miss H. She offered to give a statement, but 
MS was also aware that Miss H had already given a statement to her solicitors. MS decided 
not to arrange to interview Miss H. 
In 2018 Miss Hs court claim was struck out. She told Markerstudy she wanted to make a 
claim under her policy for the car. Markerstudy subsequently wrote to Miss H stating that it 
was maintaining its decision from 2016  that indemnity had been withdrawn because she 
had not cooperated. It said it wouldnt be reinstated.
Markerstudy later, in 2021, issued a final response to Miss H stating it wouldnt be accepting 
her claim, for the reasons stated in 2016. It also added two further reasons why it felt 
Miss Hs court case, and it being struck out, had prejudiced its position. But, within further 
correspondence, these additional concerns were set-aside. Miss H complained to us.
Our Investigator felt Markerstudy hadnt shown that Miss H had prejudiced its position. She 
felt Miss H had acted reasonably when not cooperating with it. So she felt the complaint 
should be upheld with Markerstudy considering the claim and paying £150 compensation.
Markerstudy said its overall position had definitely been prejudiced because, with the court 
claim having been struck out, it was now prevented from seeking recovery from the other 
drivers insurer should any settlement under the policy be made. It also said Miss H had 
been aware of its need to obtain the statement. 
The complaint came to me for an ombudsmans consideration. I also felt the complaint 
should be upheld. But I felt Markerstudy should be making a payment to Miss H for her car 
to settle things, rather than merely considering her claim for loss. And I also felt it should be 
paying her £500 compensation. My provisional findings were:
I note Markerstudys concerns about the court case. But I think it really moved away from 
those issues when it issued its further correspondence on this complaint to Miss H. In any 
event, for completeness, I dont think those concerns create a fair and reasonable reason for 
it to decline Miss Hs claim. It knew of Miss Hs court claim and was happy for it to progress 
without its involvement. The court action failing and it ultimately not being able to take action 
of its own to recover a claim outlay, was a risk it took. The fact that risk didnt pay off and its 
position in respect of recovery is now prejudiced is not, in my view, Miss Hs fault.
Clearly Markerstudys main concern is that Miss H did not cooperate with it in 2016. It feels 
this has prejudiced its chance to validate the claim. And it is the case that, in 2016, Miss H 
did not cooperate with it. It is also the case that she should have done as her policy requires 
her to do so. I can understand why, in 2016, Markerstudy took the stance that it did. But 
I dont think that by the time the claim was made in 2018, following the court case being 
struck out, that was a fair and reasonable reason for Markerstudy to refuse indemnity.
MS became involved in late 2016, and in 2017 spoke to both Miss H and her solicitor. 
Markerstudy has shared content from MSs file with us and I accept that must remain 
confidential, meaning I cant comment too deeply on its content here. But I think its fair to 
say that MS was satisfied the incident had been validated. I also think I can safely comment 
on the part of the notes that reflects the conversation MS had with Miss H, as Miss H was a 
party to that conversation. MS said Markerstudy might need a statement from her and 
asked if shed be happy to provide one. Miss Hs reply was yes. So I think Miss H was 
prepared to cooperate and her reason for not having done so before was understood and 
accepted by MS. It was then decided though not to ask Miss H to make a statement, and 
whilst MS pursued other avenues, Miss H was never approached again with a view to 
furthering any need Markerstudy might have had for a statement.
In my view, that whole interaction in 2017 means that Markerstudy cant reasonably continue 
to rely on the 2016 activity and position reached. In 2017 the situation was re-set and 
Markerstudy had the opportunity to interview Miss H but didnt do so. In the circumstances 
here, Im not persuaded that Miss Hs failure to cooperate in 2016 means Markerstudys 
position has ultimately been prejudiced. If any prejudice has occurred it seems to me that 
has most likely resulted from Markerstudys own failures in 2017.
In any event, Im also mindful that whilst Miss Hs own court claim was struck out, a personal 
injury claim made by a passenger in Miss Hs car did proceed. It was resolved without a 
hearing by the other drivers insurer making a settlement. And that occurred even after 
Miss Hs claim had been struck out. So seemingly the other drivers insurer was satisfied that 
a genuine incident, causing loss to a passenger in Miss Hs car had occurred. 
Overall here I think Markerstudy has been unreasonable. Any policyholder always has the 
choice to utilise their insurance policy or take action themselves. Miss H shouldnt be 
penalised for the initial choice she made. Most policies, as this one does, requires the 
insurer to be notified, and Miss H did do that. She did make a mistake in 2016  but she is 
not the insurance expert. Im satisfied, given everything Ive seen, that it would be 
unreasonable for that mistake to be held against her as a technical breach of the policy 
allowing Markerstudy to decline liability for the loss. Especially in light of its action in 2017 as 
discussed above. So I think Markerstudy should be settling the remainder of Miss Hs losses 
for her car.
As part of the court claim an engineers report was completed setting the pre-accident value 
of the vehicle at £4,530.00, with repairs estimated at £4,333.60. Markerstudy has seen a 
copy of this report. And £4,530.00 was the value set out in the court claim for the loss of the 
car. Miss Hs solicitors later (following a complaint Miss H had made to the legal 
ombudsman) offered her settlement against this sum of £2,310.30. So that leaves her out of 
pocket for the loss of her car to the value of £2,219.70. 
To that sum I think Markerstudy should add interest* from 19 June 2018  the date Miss H 
made her claim on the policy to Markerstudy. Often this service will require interest to be awarded back to the date of loss  but I think that would be unfair in this instance because 
Miss H chose to pursue an alternative route before asking Markerstudy to settle her claim. In 
this instance I think interest from the date of the claim to Markerstudy is fair and reasonable. 
Miss H, to the point of Markerstudys final response in 2021, had been without the 
outstanding settlement for her loss for two and a half years (from the point she made her 
claim on the policy). Ive found that Markerstudys refusal to deal with her claim when made 
in 2018 was unfair and unreasonable. I dont doubt Miss H suffered some distress and 
inconvenience following that. I think £500 compensation is fairly and reasonably due.
Markerstudy said it wanted to clarify that the Legal Ombudsman did not comment on the 
vehicle value or make any award in that respect. It also said it feels it should have the 
chance to validate the claim now, that is what it would have done if Miss H had cooperated 
with it  moving directly to settlement for the outstanding sum is unfair.
Miss H said she had complained to us about her losses, but we had only investigated that in 
relation to her car. She said she has other losses outstanding totalling £1,201.72 and shed 
welcome an offer from Markerstudy to settle for these without having to raise further claims 
and complaints.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I noted provisionally that Miss H had made a mistake in 2016  that at that time she should 
have cooperated with Markerstudys enquiries. But I think Markerstudy has then overlooked 
that I also said that she did cooperate with it in 2017  but it failed to take advantage of that. 
In my view, it simply isnt fair to start this all over again now in 2022, with Markerstudy 
seeking to validate a six-year old incident, that it could have looked into in more detail five 
years ago and which it unreasonably declined a claim for, four years ago. Especially not 
given that MS and the other drivers insurer, as I referenced provisionally, were satisfied with 
the genuine nature of this loss. My view that Markerstudy should now pay the remaining 
vehicle value to Miss H has not changed.  
Im aware, and was when I issued my provisional decision, that the Legal Ombudsman had 
not made a finding about Miss Hs vehicle value. But it was following her complaint to the 
Legal Ombudsman that her solicitors (subject of that complaint) made a settlement offer to 
her in respect of the vehicles value. And it was following receipt of that offer that Miss H 
complained to this service about her remaining outstanding loss for the car. She did not 
complain about any other financial loss. I have considered and made findings about, the 
complaint as made to us. If Markerstudy and Miss H now wish to negotiate regarding 
anything else outstanding they are free to do so. And if Miss H remains unhappy with 
Markerstudys replies she can make a further complaint. 
 
Putting things right
I require Markerstudy to pay Miss H:
£2,219.70 in settlement of her claim for her car, plus interest* from 19 June 2018 until 
settlement is made.
£500 compensation.*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs requires Markerstudy to take off tax from this 
interest. If asked, it must give Miss H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited to provide the 
redress set out above at Putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 November 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman