DRN-2089042
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Bank of Scotland PLC trading at the time as 'Halifax' mis-sold
them two payment protection insurance policies alongside their mortgages in February and
December 2009.
What happened
In June 2020 I issued my provisional decision. In it I explained why I wasnt intending to 
uphold the complaint.
An extract of my decision is set out below and forms part of my final decision:
Mr and Mrs H took out a mortgage in February 2009 and again in December 2009. Mr and
Mrs H bought a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP) alongside each borrowing. TMPP is
a packaged protection plan and it consisted of three parts - PPI, critical illness cover and life
cover.
Mr and Mrs H took out the life cover as well as the PPI part of the policy on both occasions.
They did not choose to take out insurance for critical illness. To be clear, this decision is
about the PPI part of the policies only.
Both policies covered Mr and Mr H for accident, sickness and unemployment. In February
2009, it would have cost around £31.46. On a successful claim it would have paid out a
monthly benefit of £264.69 split between them initially 50/50 for up to 12 months per claim.
Soon after it was taken it looks like this split was changed so that Mr H received 80% of the
cover and Mrs H received 20%.
In December 2009 the policy cost increased to cover a larger mortgage. This policy cost
around £44.82 per month. The benefit was also altered so that Mr H would receive 65% and
Mrs H received 35% of the benefit. This policy would have paid Mr H £490.38 and Mrs H
£264.05. It would also have paid out for up to 12 months per successful claim.
The February policy was cancelled in November 2011.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account in deciding
this case.
Having done that, Im not intending to uphold this complaint. I realise Mr and Mrs H will be
disappointed with my decision, so I will explain why in some more detail below.
The first thing I want to explain is that two separate policies were sold. Both these policies
appear to have covered Mr and Mrs H for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Mr and Mrs H say they didn't think they had a choice about taking out the cover. They said
they felt forced to take out the policies. Ive taken that to mean that they felt pressured to
take out the cover because they have told us that they were informed by the representative
that if they didn't take it out it would adversely affect their mortgage application. In turn, they
said they were led to believe this would adversely affect their credit rating if the mortgage
application was declined because they failed to take out the PPI.
Halifax has been able to provide a copy of both application forms. Ive carefully considered
them. In October 2009 Mr and Mrs H received a quote for a PPI policy. The letter set out the
cost of the cover and the benefit. I can see in both February and December 2009 Mr and
Mrs H were sent a welcome letter which shows they had accepted cover for disability,
unemployment and life cover. These letters made it clear the TMPP was optional. They did
not on either occasion apply for critical illness cover. The letters also state that if you have
been declined for mortgage repayments cover on this occasion, this does not exclude you
from applying for this cover at a later date. Its also most likely that a direct debit mandate
was completed in both February and December. Halifax also sent confirmation of the
information they had provided about their circumstances.
I can also see from the screenshots Halifax has provided that various questions were asked
about Mr and Mrs Hs health, employment circumstances and their other financial provisions
in case of being unable to work or losing their job. Mr and Mrs H confirmed in February that
they had no other provision in case of that eventuality, and I can see that they agreed they
had a need for cover.
Overall, I think they had a conversation on both occasions about taking out the PPI. In
addition to this the mortgage offer in October 2009 didn't make it a condition to take out this
type of insurance. It may be that the representative told them it was a good idea to take out
the cover but thats different from saying that Mr and Mrs H had to have the cover to get their
mortgage. I can also see that various calls were made to Halifax by Mr and Mrs H about the
PPI cover on separate occasions. I have no doubt they have told me what they honestly
remember- its understandable if Mr and Mrs H cant recall everything that happened when
they bought the policies as it was such a long time ago. But taking into account all the
evidence, I think Mr and Mrs H engaged in the process about buying the PPI, they likely had
a conversation about the PPI on both occasions. I think its likely they knew they were taking
out the policies and had chosen to do so knowing they could decline them if they didn't want
them. I also cant say Halifax pressured Mr and Mrs H.
Halifax advised Mr and Mrs H to take out both the policies. That meant it had to take
reasonable steps to make sure the policies were suitable as well as giving Mr and Mrs H
enough clear information so that they could make an informed choice.
It looks to me from the screenshots Halifax has provided that Mr and Mrs Hs February policy
was cancelled in 2011. One of the screenshots shows that in November 2011 a
representative called to discuss the policies in place. Mr and Mrs H were advised that there
were two policies in place which provided dual cover. As a result, the February policy was
cancelled, and Halifax refunded the premiums which had been paid. It also looks like it
added interest to this refund. It appears that two separate policies were sold as there were
two different mortgage account numbers.
So, I dont think it was right that there was a duplication of cover from the time Mr and Mrs H
took out their cover in December. But as Halifax has refunded the total amount paid from the
time the cover was taken out in December and it also appears to have refunded interest to
Mr and Mr H for the cost of the policy, I provisionally dont think its likely Mr and Mr H lost out
because of this.
As the February policy was cancelled and refunded, Ive next gone on to look at whether the
February policy was suitable when it was sold and also whether the December policy was
suitable. To see whether it was suitable Ive looked at the terms and conditions of both
policies and taken into account the consumers circumstances at the time.
Mr H says he would have received six months sick pay followed by a discretionary sick pay
which could have continued to be paid up to 100% or reduced to 50%. Mrs H says she
would have received the same level of sick pay from her employers as Mr H, in and both
February and December 2009. This information which they have provided is slightly at odds
with the information given in their questionnaire to this service. But in any event, this policy
would have paid out in addition to any sick pay Mr and Mrs H got and likely it would havepaid out for longer. As both mortgages were a long-term commitment and secured over their
home, the consequences of being unable to repay the monthly mortgage repayments were
serious. If Mr or Mrs H couldn't work or lost their jobs, their household income would have
substantially reduced at what no doubt would have been a stressful time financially. Any sick
pay Mr and Mrs H received or any saving they had would have been useful to cover any
other essential living costs. So, I think overall the policies would have been useful for them.
Both Mr and Mrs H were eligible and as they were both working in February and December
and didn't have any pre-existing health conditions, I dont think they were likely affected by
any of the main limitations or exclusions which might have made it more difficult to make a
successful claim.
There is nothing to make me think the cover was unaffordable.
In addition, Halifax also had to give Mr and Mrs H enough clear information so they could
make an informed choice about buying the policies. Its possible not all the information was
as clear as it could have been but for much the same reasons as Ive explained why the PPI
was suitable, I dont think Mr and Mrs H would have made a different decision and not taken
out the policy.
As things stand, Im not intending to uphold this complaint. It looks like they chose the PPI 
so it looks like they wanted this type of insurance, even if its understandable if they cant
remember that now after such a long time. It also looks like it was affordable, and it could
have been useful for them if things went wrong. As it happened, I think a claim was made on
the December policy. So, Im not intending to uphold this complaint.
I asked both parties to come back to me with any further information they wanted me to 
consider before making my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.
Neither party has come back to me with any further information for me to consider. On that 
basis I see no reason to depart from the findings I set out in my provisional decision.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs H but for the reasons Ive explained here and in my 
provisional decision I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2020.
 
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman