DRN-3770550
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as C has complained that Xbridge Limited (Xbridge) mis-sold a 
commercial insurance policy that didnt provide cover when C closed its business premises 
due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
Mr P, a director of C, has brought the complaint on Cs behalf.
What happened
C is a consultancy business. Each year from 2013 to 2020 it took out a commercial 
insurance policy through Xbridge with various insurers. 
The Covid-19 pandemic led C to stop trading from April 2020. 
C claimed on the policy. Its insurer declined the claim. It said Cs policy didnt include 
business interruption cover. C was unhappy that the policy wording included information 
about business interruption cover when such cover wasnt actually provided. It said the 
policy schedule should have a section showing whether something was included or 
excluded.
Xbridge said the policy wording was generic to a number of different products and had to be 
read together with the schedule to establish which parts of the policy applied. It said 
business interruption cover wasnt available as part of the product C had bought. So, there 
was no option for it to be included. It said the schedule only showed the cover that was 
available and whether a policyholder had decided to include the available options.
Unhappy with Xbridges response, C brought a complaint to us. 
Our Investigator looked into Cs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He didnt 
think Xbridge had mis-sold the policy.
C asked for an Ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
Cs business. But I dont intend to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.
Insurance policies can be sold on an advised or non-advised basis. Xbridges Terms of 
Business stated that it didnt provide advice or a recommendation about the purchase of the 
policy. But Xbridge had a duty to make sure C was given enough information that was clear, 
fair and not misleading so that it could make an informed decision as to whether the cover 
being offered was suitable for it. 
From what Ive seen, C first applied to Xbridge online in 2013 for a quote for cover for 
employers liability, public and product liability and professional indemnity cover. C accepted 
the quote. The Schedule provided by the insurer of the policy at that time specifically stated 
that business interruption cover wasnt included. This indicates to me that C had decided at 
that time not to add business interruption cover to the policy. It also didnt want Xbridge to 
quote for cover for buildings or contents insurance. The policy renewed automatically in 
2014 and in later years C renewed over the phone. It does not appear that business 
interruption cover was ever discussed in those conversations.
Over the years with the change in insurers the format of the schedules also changed. The 
2015 schedule explicitly stated that business interruption insurance wasnt included. An 
email sent to Mr P after the 2017 renewal summarised the cover and said: Loss of revenue: 
not included.
Looking at the 2019 renewal, in the 8 page policy summary document the insurer said:
The policy is divided into a number of sections and not all sections may be included as part 
of your insurance. Please refer to the quotation or renewal documentation for confirmation of 
the sections of cover selected. 
It then listed the various policy sections which were professional indemnity, contents, 
buildings, business interruption, terrorism, employers liability and public and products 
liability. It also gave more information about what was and wasnt covered under the various 
sections. I think this would have made it clear that, for example, business interruption 
insurance was completely separate from the risks covered by any of the other sections.
At the beginning of the insurance schedule it says:
This document is a summary of the insurance you've bought. It includes information you or 
anyone acting on your behalf provided before we agreed to insure you. This includes details 
of the cover given, cover limits, the excesses and any changes to the standard policy 
wording which are specific to your own circumstances.
It also says:
You should always read this document together with the policy wording.
The risks listed as being covered were public and products liability, employers liability and 
professional indemnity. C had chosen not to insure its buildings or contents.
The policy also referred to the fact that it should be read together with the schedule. It said:
This document, together with its schedule and any attached endorsements is the policy 
which sets out this insurance. It is a legal contract so please read all of it carefully.  
and
Each section sets out the scope of the main coverage and the circumstances in which our 
liability to you is limited or may be excluded. Further, each section sets out other terms and 
conditions relevant to that section. The cover provided by each section is only operative 
if identified as insured in the schedule by stating a limit of indemnity or sum insured, or 
'insured'. Where any schedule heading or sub-heading states 'n/a'. 'not applicable' or not 
insured' then no cover applies for that item.The business interruption section of the policy stated:
The insurance by this section excludes and does not insure any amount in excess of the 
sum insured shown in the schedule that is the maximum amount we are liable to pay 
during any one period of insurance
The schedule listed the following sums insured:
Public and products liability  covered up to £1,000,000
Employers liability  covered up to £10,000,000
Contents: office contents - not included
Contents: portable business equipment  not included
Professional indemnity  covered up to £100,000
There is no mention of the buildings, business interruption or the terrorism sections of the 
policy within the schedule.
Im satisfied the schedule made it clear that what was covered by the policy and by 
implication, what wasnt covered. I agree it would have been even clearer if the 2019 
schedule had explicitly said that buildings, business interruption and terrorism also werent 
included. Xbridge said this was because these risks werent available as optional add-ons for 
the policy. Nonetheless I think the policy documentation taken as a whole was sufficiently 
clear that business interruption insurance wasnt included as part of this policy.
I appreciate my decision will be disappointing to C. But having read the policy documents, as 
explained above, I think it was made sufficiently clear that business interruption cover wasnt 
included in the policy. So, it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to uphold Cs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman