DRN-2796637
The complaint
 Mr D is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo 
Finance Limited was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
 On 8 August 2019, Mr D was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement 
with MotoNovo. He part exchanged his existing car for £8,850 and the agreement was for 
£20,523.14 over 49 months; with 48 monthly repayments of £373.56 and a final payment of 
£7,696. At the time, the car was three and a half years old and had done 54,259 miles.
Mr D had some problems with the car, and it was repaired under warranty on 24 October 
2019 and again on 18 November 2019. And on 15 February 2020 the engine seized. While 
the engine was replaced under warranty, Mr D didnt get the car back until 18 September 
2020. And the car had to go back in for repair in early October because the engine 
replacement repairs hadnt been completed correctly. In the meantime, Mr D spent £500 on 
buying another car to keep him mobile and ran this until it broke down.
On 9 March 2020, Mr D complained to MotoNovo that the engine had failed. MotoNovo 
arranged for a independent engineer to inspect the car, which took place on 2 June 2020. 
While the independent engineer agreed the engine had seized, they said that this wasnt 
because of a fault that had been present or developing at the time the car was supplied to 
Mr D. So MotoNovo didnt think they were responsible for the problems with the car.
Mr D wasnt happy with MotoNovos response, and he referred his complaint to us for 
investigation. Hes also said that, after the car was returned to him in September 2020, hes 
had ongoing problems. And further warranty repairs were carried out in October 2020 and 
twice in January 2021.
Our investigator said any reasonable person wouldnt expect a cars engine to fail after four 
years and less than 60,000 miles. And, while the independent engineer said the engine fault 
wasnt present when the car was supplied to Mr D, the investigator didnt think the engine 
was sufficiently durable. And this made the car not of a satisfactory quality when supplied.
The investigator said that, while the engine had now been replaced, this wasnt the first 
repair that Mr D had to have done to the car. And the engine replacement took a substantial 
amount of time to complete, meaning Mr D had to buy another car to keep himself mobile. 
So she didnt think the repair had been done within a reasonable period of time and without 
significant inconvenience to Mr D. And she thought he should be allowed to reject the car. 
The investigator said that MotoNovo should collect the car and unwind the agreement, 
removing any adverse information from Mr Ds credit file. She also said they should refund 
the payments Mr D paid between 15 February and 18 September 2020, plus interest; refund 
Mr D the road tax paid on the car while it was in for repair; and pay Mr D an additional £150 
for the stress and inconvenience hed been caused.
MotoNovo didnt agree with the investigator. They said she hadnt fully considered the 
independent engineers professional opinion, and they thought Mr Ds driving style may have 
contributed to the problems he was experiencing. MotoNovo didnt agree the car wasnt of a 
satisfactory condition when supplied. And they asked for the matter to be passed to an 
ombudsman to make a final decision.
Mr D has said that, on 16 July 2021, while this matter was waiting for a final decision to be 
made, he sold the car. So this affects what the investigator originally recommended about 
MotoNovo collecting the car, at no cost, from Mr D.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr D was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, 
MotoNovo are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale; and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also says that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, where 
a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed that the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless MotoNovo can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified 
after the first six months, its for Mr D to show that it was present when the car was supplied. 
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr D took possession of it, and this made the car not 
of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask MotoNovo to put this right.
Mr D was supplied with the car in August 2019, and Ive seen that it was repaired under 
warranty in October and November 2019, for issues potentially relating to the engine. And 
the engine seized on 15 February 2020 when Mr D had had the car for six months and 
seven days. Given the need for the warranty repairs, Im satisfied that Mr D started to have 
problems with the car within the first six months of supply, even though he didnt raise these 
issues with MotoNovo until March 2020.
Ive seen a copy of the independent engineers report, dated 2 June 2020. At the time of the 
inspection the car had travelled 57,000 miles  2,741 miles more than when it was supplied 
to Mr D. The report says the dealership claim that the vehicle was running low on oil and 
due to the customer driving on the motorway assuming it was the [diesel particulate filter] 
this has resulted in the engine being damaged and requiring replacement. The oil had been drained from the car, but this was available for inspection. The engineer 
said, the oil had a strong smell of burning which would suggest that the oil had been run thin 
and has had excessive heat applied. But the engineer concluded we were unable to 
confirm the amount of oil retained to how much oil this vehicles engine requires to be 
running in a serviceable condition so we cannot confirm if the vehicle was run low on oil 
causing the damage. 
The engineer also confirmed that the engine had seized and there were fault codes present 
that were associated with the engine failing to start and engine seizure. The engineer said 
that taking into consideration the time and mileage elapsed since finance inception we 
consider on the balance of probability the faults would not have been present at that time.
Based on this report, Im satisfied the independent engineer isnt saying the engine seized 
because it was run while low on oil, and they havent indicated it seized as a result of Mr Ds 
driving style. But they cant conclude the actual cause of engine failure without the engine 
being stripped down. The engineer is also saying the fault codes associated with the engine 
seizure in February 2020 werent present when the car was supplied to Mr D in August 2019.
Ive also seen a copy of the service record for the car and the last service was done on 27 
June 2019, when the car had done 54,259 miles  the same mileage as when it was 
supplied to Mr D. This shows that, as part of the service, there was a renewal of oil and oil 
filter. So its reasonable for me to assume that there was the correct level of oil in the car 
when it was supplied to Mr D. So, if it was a problem with the oil that caused the engine to 
seize, this issue wouldve been present when Mr D took possession of the car.
When Mr D was supplied with the car it was three and a half years old and had done 54,259 
miles. While Id expect some wear and tear in a vehicle of that age and mileage, Id expect it 
to be free from major defects and for it to be safe and durable. And I think any reasonable 
person would expect the car to be safe, driveable and without any undisclosed mechanical 
issues. And I have to consider the price Mr D paid for the car  almost £29,000. The more 
expensive the car, the fewer minor issues Id expect to be present.
Given the independent engineers report, Im satisfied there was a problem with the engine 
that caused it to seize. Engine components are a wear and tear issue, and they arent 
expected to last the lifetime of the car. But I dont think any reasonable person would expect 
the engine to fail after 57,000 miles. Especially when a major service had been done less 
than 3,000 miles earlier and it didnt indicate any major issues. So, while the independent 
engineer said this wasnt present or developing at the point of supply, I actually think this is a 
durability issue  the engine didnt last as long as it would reasonably be expected to. And 
this makes the car of an unsatisfactory quality.
Where the goods are of an unsatisfactory quality, the CRA allows consumers the right to 
reject. But it also allows for one chance at repair. Section 23(2) of the CRA says if the 
consumer requires the trader to repair or replace the goods, the trader must  (a) do so 
within a reasonable time and without significant inconvenience to the consumer. 
And section of the CRA 24(5) says a consumer who has the right to a price reduction and 
the final right to reject may only exercise one (not both), and may only do so in one of these 
situations  (c) the consumer has required the trader to repair or replace the goods, but the 
trader is in breach of the requirement of section 23(2)(a) to do so within a reasonable 
timescale and without significant inconvenience to the consumer.There have been a number of warranty repairs, and the engine has been replaced. So Im 
satisfied that the once chance at repair has happened. Mr D has said theres still problems 
with the car, and there have been further warranty repairs after the engine was replaced. But 
I havent seen anything that shows me these faults were present when the car was supplied 
to Mr D, or before the engine was replaced. So I cant fairly say that the repair failed.
But the engine failed on 15 February 2020, and the car was delivered to the supplying 
dealership, for repair at their onsite garage, a few days later. MoroNovos contact notes, 
which details their correspondence with the garage show that the warranty claim was 
accepted for a replacement reconditioned engine on 11 March 2020. 
There was a national lockdown from 25 March to 15 June 2020, because of the coronavirus 
pandemic. However, garages were classed as essential businesses, so were allowed to 
remain open to undertake car repairs. But the dealership was closed until 18 May 2020, and 
this delayed the repairs to Mr Ds car. The dealership also didnt have any courtesy cars 
available, and to remain mobile Mr D had to buy another car. He spent £500 on this and ran 
the car until it broke down in late 2020. And, while he was able to transfer his insurance to 
this car, he still had to pay road tax for both cars. 
MotoNovos notes say the engine was expected to be delivered to the garage on 10 June 
2020, but this didnt happen. And the engine wasnt replaced, and the car returned to Mr D, 
until 18 September 2020  seven months after the car went in for repair. Then the car had to 
go back into the garage on 8 October 2020 because the repairs werent completed correctly 
 gearbox updates hadnt been done and there was insufficient oil in the gearbox.
Taking all of the above into consideration, Im satisfied that the repair wasnt done within a 
reasonable timescale, and this caused Mr D significant inconvenience. So, under section 
24(5) of the CRA, Im satisfied that Mr D has the right to reject the car. And MotoNovo 
should allow this rejection and fairly compensate Mr D for what happened.
Putting things right
 Mr D was supplied with the car on 8 August 2019, and he had use of it until the engine failed 
on 15 February 2020. The car was then returned to him on 15 September 2020, and he had 
use of it until he sold it on 16 July 2021. So I think its fair Mr D should pay for this usage. I 
appreciate that he had issues with the car after the engine was replaced but, as Ive said, I 
havent seen anything to show me that these issues were caused by faults that were present 
when the car was supplied to Mr D.  
So Im satisfied that MotoNovo should refund Mr D the payments hed made when the car 
was having the engine replaced, as well as paying him compensation for the inconvenience 
caused by the car needing warranty repairs before the engine failed. I also think MotoNovo 
should refund Mr D the cost of his road tax while the car was having the engine replaced, as 
Mr D needed to pay this and the road tax for the replacement car hed brought.
Ive seen that Mr D received £8,850 in part-exchange for his existing car when he entered 
into the agreement with MotoNovo. But Ive also seen this was offset by the finance 
outstanding on the part-exchange car. So the dealership took the car in part-exchange and 
cleared Mr Ds outstanding finance. For this reason, I dont think itd be fair for Mr D to also 
receive the value of the part exchange as part of the remedy.
The investigator also recommended that MotoNovo should arrange to collect the car at no 
cost to Mr D. As the car has been sold since this recommendation was made, this is no 
longer possible, so it wont form part of my overall remedy.So, MotoNovo should now arrange to do the following:
remove any adverse information relating to the agreement from Mr Ds credit file;
refund the payments Mr D paid between 15 February 2020 and 18 September 2020, 
to reflect that he wasnt able to use the car at that time;
pay Mr D the value of the road tax (road fund licence) on the car for the period 15 
February 2020 and 18 September 2020, to reflect that he was having to pay this on 
two cars for that time;
apply 8% simple yearly interest on the payment and road tax refunds, calculated from 
the date Mr D made the payments to the date of the refund ; and
pay Mr D an additional £150 to reflect the trouble and upset hes been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires MotoNovo to take off tax from this interest. MotoNovo 
must give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
 For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Ds complaint. MotoNovo Finance Limited must 
follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman