DRN-1680579
 
The complaint
Mrs B has complained that Kensington Mortgage Company Limited will not refund any 
commission it received from her mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) premiums for 
the policy she took out in 2003. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be clear, my decision only deals with Mrs Bs complaint about commission.
Im not upholding Mrs Bs complaint. I know this will disappoint Mrs B, and Ill explain why. 
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about the 
non-disclosure of commission where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties. So, to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship provisions 
in the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which were added to 
the Consumer Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship provisions would only apply to credit agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. 
Kensington Mortgage Company Limited has given me information that shows Mrs Bs 
mortgage was taken out in 2003 and ended in 2006. So, based on what Ive said above, I 
dont think the unfair relationship provisions in the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court 
judgment, or the rules and guidance made by the FCA in relation to the non-disclosure of 
commission apply here.
So Kensington Mortgage Company Limited doesnt need to refund any of the commission 
Mrs B paid for the PPI she had with her mortgage. But I understand that Kensington 
Mortgage Company Limited has now offered to pay Mrs B £200 to compensate her for the 
level of service she received from it whilst dealing with her complaint. And I think this seems 
fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against Kensington Mortgage Company Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2020.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman