DRN-4493437
The complaint
Miss K complains through a representative that Evergreen Finance London Limited trading
as MoneyBoat.co.uk (MoneyBoat) gave her loans without carrying out proportionate
affordability checks.
What happened
A summary of Miss Ks borrowing can be found in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
monthly 
instalmentshighest 
repayment per 
loan
1 £200.00 07/05/2021 04/06/2021 2 £124.94
2 £300.00 04/06/2021 outstanding 6 £90.87
Miss K had some problems repaying her final loan and it appears from MoneyBoats
statement of account that she has been paying £5 or £10 per month towards the balance
since October 2021.
Following Miss Ks complaint about her loans, MoneyBoat considered the complaint and 
concluded it had made a reasonable decision to lend and so it didnt uphold it. Unhappy with 
this response, Miss Ks representative referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator, who didnt uphold it. She said MoneyBoat
carried out proportionate checks and there wasnt anything to suggest the loans would be
unsustainable for her.
Miss Ks representative didnt agree saying that before the loans were approved Miss K had
defaulted on a number of accounts and had at least nine accounts with late payment
markers recorded on her credit file. In the representatives view she was borrowing money
from other lenders in order to try and keep up with her repayments. 
The complaint was then passed to me, and I proceeded to issue a provisional decision 
outlining why I was intending to uphold Miss Ks complaint in full. Both parties were asked to 
provide anything further for my consideration as soon as possible, but in any event, no later 
than 8 December 2023. 
MoneyBoat said it didnt have anything further to add and Miss Ks representative let us 
know she had accepted the proposed outcome. 
Although the deadline for further submissions has not yet passed, as both parties have 
responded to the provisional decision, I see no reason to delay the issuing of this final 
decision.  
A copy of the provisional findings follows this in smaller font and forms part of this final 
decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat had to assess the lending to check if Miss K could afford to pay back the amount
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. MoneyBoats checks could have taken into account a
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments,
and Miss Ks income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MoneyBoat should have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss K. These factors include:
Miss K having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss K having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time 
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or 
was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss K coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss K. The adjudicator didnt consider
it reached the point in the lending relationship where this applied and I agree, as there were
only 2 loans.
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Miss K could sustainably repay the loans 
not just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having
enough money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss K was able
to repay her loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, that a borrower wont be able to
make their repayments without borrowing further, then it follows that it should conclude those
repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Ks complaint.
Before these loans were approved, MoneyBoat asked Miss K for details of her income,
which she declared as being £1,265 per month for both loans. MoneyBoat says the declared
income figures were checked through a credit reference agency.
Miss K also declared monthly outgoings of £947 for loan 1 and £972 for loan 2. As part of
the application, MoneyBoat used information from its credit search results and from the
common financial statement to adjust the declared expenditure Miss K had provided. As a
result, Miss Ks monthly expenditure was increased by a further £119 for loan 1 and an
additional £169 per month for loan 2.
After carrying out these checks, Miss K had sufficient disposable income to be able to afford
the repayments she had to make. But I would point out there wasnt very much of a buffer to
cover any unexpected costs  for example, for loan 2 after the loan repayment Miss K only
had around £33 per month left over each month for six months. That isnt a lot.Before the loans were approved MoneyBoat also carried out a credit search and it has
provided a copy of the results it received from the credit reference agency. It is worth saying
here that although MoneyBoat carried out credit searches, there isnt a regulatory
requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. But what MoneyBoat couldnt do
is carry out a credit search and then not react to the information it received  if necessary.
Both credit check results are fairly similar which isnt too much of a surprise given the close
proximity of the when they were conducted. MoneyBoat wouldve been aware of some
historic difficulties that Miss K had. I can see four defaulted accounts, but these were
defaulted in either 2016 or 2018 and all of them had since been satisfied. There was also an
unsatisfied County Court Judgement from September 2018. But this information was in my
view, too far removed from the loan start dates to have given MoneyBoat any cause for
concern.
But in saying that, MoneyBoat was given information from the search results that showed not
only that what Miss K declared about her credit commitments wasnt accurate but actually,
given her modest income it now made the loans unaffordable, and Ive explained why below.
MoneyBoat did know that Miss K had a number of outstanding credit card balances, an
outstanding loan, a monthly insurance payment and mail order accounts. And so MoneyBoat
ought to have known that the amount Miss K declared for her credit commitments as part of
her application for both loans (£197) wasnt high enough to cover her existing credit
commitments. The costs that Miss K did declare appeared to be sufficient to cover the cost
of one outstanding loan that she had, as the payments for that was £197 per month.
Had MoneyBoat increased her credit commitments in line with solely with the insurance cost
of £232 per month  which it knew about (and excluding the cost Miss K had for credit cards
and mail order accounts) so the actual monthly credit commitments Miss K had were larger.
This gave her (before any of the other adjustments MoneyBoat made) total monthly
outgoings of £1,179 for loan 1 and £1,220 per month for loan 2.
With a declared income of £1,265 this only left £86 per month for loan 1 and £45 per month
when loan 2 was advanced. This meant Miss K didnt have enough disposable income when
loans 1 and 2 were granted to afford the repayments to MoneyBoat. And of course,
MoneyBoat for both these loans added additional costs (which I havent factored into these
calculations). If those extra costs were factored in, then clearly Miss K didnt have enough
money to afford her repayments.
I am therefore intending to uphold both of Miss Ks loans because the checks MoneyBoat
carried out showed that Miss K couldnt afford her repayments. Ive outlined below what
MoneyBoat needs to do in order to put things right for her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss K, through her representative accepted the conclusions I reached in the provisional 
decision. MoneyBoat said it had nothing further to add. Therefore, as no new submissions 
have been made, I see no reason to depart from the findings I reached in the provisional 
decision. 
I still dont think MoneyBoat ought to have lent either loan to Miss K given the information 
she provided as part of her application as well as the results of the credit searches which 
MoneyBoat received. This information showed Miss K didnt have sufficient disposable 
income to afford either of her loans. 
Ive outlined below what MoneyBoat has agreed to do in order to put things right for her. Putting things right
In deciding what redress MoneyBoat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what
might have happened had it not lent to Miss K, as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly there
are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Miss K may have simply left matters there,
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, they may
have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Miss K in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Miss K would more likely than not have taken up any one of
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce MoneyBoats liability in this case for what
Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
MoneyBoat shouldnt have given Miss K any of her loans.
If MoneyBoat has sold the outstanding debt, then it should buy it back if MoneyBoat is able
to do so and then take the following steps. If MoneyBoat isnt able to buy the debt back, then
it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A. MoneyBoat should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss K towards 
interest, fees and charges on loan 1, not including anything MoneyBoat have already 
refunded.
B. MoneyBoat should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Miss K which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss K 
originally made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. MoneyBoat should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance of loan 2, 
and treat any repayments made by Miss K as though they had been repayments of 
the principal. If this results in Miss K having made overpayments then MoneyBoat 
should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the 
overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the 
complaint is settled. MoneyBoat should then refund the amounts calculated in A 
and B and move to step E.
D. If there is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on loan 2. If this results in a surplus 
then the surplus should be paid to Miss K. However, if there is still an outstanding 
balance then MoneyBoat should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with 
Miss K and I would remind it of its obligation to treat Miss K fairly and with 
forbearance.
E. MoneyBoat should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ks credit file 
in relation to loans 1 and 2.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to deduct tax from this interest. MoneyBoat
should give Miss K a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Miss Ks 
complaint.
Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk should put things right for 
Miss K as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman