DRN-4262976
The complaint
Mr S complains that Metro Bank PLC unfairly blocked his account. He says this caused him 
financial problems and he wants compensation.
What happened
Mr S has a current account with Metro.
In January 2023, Mr S contacted Metro about making a cash order for US dollars to take on 
holiday to Cuba. Mr S didnt end up completing the transaction and said hed contact Metro 
again closer to the time of his intended trip.
Following this Metro reviewed Mr Ss account.  Whilst it completed its review Metro blocked 
the account  which meant Mr S couldnt access the funds in his account.  As part of its 
review Metro asked Mr S to provide information about a number of transactions on his 
account, including the end remitting country. Mr Ss accounts were blocked between 12 and  
25 January 2023. Mr S provided the information Metro requested. 
Metro emailed Mr S and explained that there are a number of countries considered outside 
the banks risk appetite. It explained that Metro products and services must not be used to 
transact with or used in these jurisdictions, either directly or indirectly.  Mr S said hed 
happily comply with the banks instructions. Following this Metro unblocked Mr Ss account.
Mr S complained to Metro about the restrictions on his account. He said that none of the 
transaction Metro asked him about had anything to do with any of the countries mentioned to 
him by Metro. He says that the actions of Metro are racially motivated as all the transactions 
the bank asked him to explain were based solely on the foreign names of his friends which 
appeared in the transactions. Metro said it hadnt done anything wrong when it reviewed 
Mr Ss account and it had done so in line with the terms and conditions of his account. Metro 
also said there was no racial motivation behind the review of Mr Ss account.
Mr S wasnt happy with the banks response and brought his complaint to this service. He 
explained that the restrictions on his account meant he didnt have access to his funds and 
couldnt pay for things that he needed.  And that Metro didnt warn him about blocking his 
account. He says this caused him financial problems and strongly believes that Metros 
actions were racially motivated. He wants compensation for the trouble and upset he was 
caused by Metro blocking his account. 
 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint. He thought Metro hadnt done anything 
wrong when it blocked Mr Ss account. He said theyd acted in line with their legal and 
regulatory obligations. And had treated Mr S fairly when it decided to block and review his 
account. 
Mr S disagreed. He maintained that Metros actions were racially motivated and pointed to 
the names against the transactions to support what he said. He also said Metro should give 
him an explanation why it blocked his account. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, as the investigator has already explained, Metro has extensive legal and regulatory 
responsibilities they must meet when providing account services to customers. They can 
broadly be summarised as a responsibility to protect persons from financial harm, and to 
prevent and detect financial crime. To fulfil these obligations, they may need to review 
activity taking place on accounts and ask customers for information, for example about 
payments, and information about the individuals operating the accounts  its entitled and 
obliged to carry out such checks. The terms of Mr Ss account also permit Metro to review an 
account and ask its customers for information. 
Its clear from what Mr S has told our service and Metro that he believes he is a victim of 
racial discrimination by Metro. While I can appreciate this is his perspective, it is not the role 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service to decide whether the business has acted unlawfully or 
not  thats a matter for the Courts. Im required to consider a number of factors in order to 
decide Mr Ss complaint in accordance with what I think is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this complaint. Part of this has meant considering the provisions of the 
Equality Act 2010 . And after looking at all the evidence, Ive not seen anything to suggest 
that Metro decided to review and block the account for an improper reason. 
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances 
for Metro to block Mr Ss account. Banks have a duty to mitigate risks arising from any 
business relationship which can present a higher risk of money laundering and financial 
crime. Metro has explained that it completed its review to determine if any activity on Mr Ss 
account related to countries that fell outside its risk appetite and to comply with its regulatory 
obligations. Metro has explained that this was its standard procedure, and I accept that it 
was. 
I can see that in an email dated 25 January 2023, Metro told Mr S that certain countries sit 
outside its risk appetite and provided him a list of these countries. The list included Cuba, 
which is categorised as a country of concern in respect of money laundering and financial 
crime. The email also explained that Metro products and services must not be used to 
transact with or used in these jurisdictions, either directly or indirectly. 
 
Having looked at all the evidence and circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied that in 
blocking Mr Ss account Metro were complying with its legal and regulatory obligations. So, 
whilst I accept, the banks actions caused Mr S inconvenience and upset when it decided to 
block his account and asked him to provide information about transactions on his account, I 
cant say the bank did anything wrong and treated him unfairly in doing so. 
I understand that Mr S wants Metro to provide a proper explanation why it blocked his 
account in the first place. And says Metro should have warned him it was going to block his 
account. But Metro doesnt disclose to its customers what triggers a review of their accounts.  
And its under no obligation to tell Mr S the reasons behind the account review and block, as 
much as hed like to know. So, I cant say its done anything wrong by not giving 
Mr S this information. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it to do so. 
In summary, its clearly caused Mr S trouble and upset when he wasnt able to use his 
account. And I appreciate it must have been a worrying and frustrating time for him. So, I realise he will be disappointed by my decision. But having looked at all the evidence and 
circumstances of this complaint, I cant say Metro treated Mr S unfairly when it blocked his 
account.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman