DRN-3780221
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc told him that he had an active credit account when
in fact that wasnt the case.
What happened
Mr B contacted HSBC and asked them whether the credit account which was showing in his
list of accounts online with a credit limit of £10,000 was still active. HSBC told Mr B that it
was and that they would arrange for a replacement credit card to be sent out to him shortly.
Mr B then instructed work to be undertaken on his car which cost approximately £5,750 and
which he intended to pay using his HSBC credit account. However, Mr B didnt receive the
new credit card hed been promised. Mr B wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
HSBC looked at Mr Bs complaint. They apologised to Mr B for not sending the replacement
card and confirmed they would do so shortly. HSBC also offered Mr B a payment of £150
compensation for the trouble and upset hed incurred, which Mr B accepted.
However, HSBC then sent Mr B a follow up complaint response which advised that his credit
account had actually been closed some time ago and that as such no replacement card
would be issued. Mr B wasnt happy with HSBCs further response to his complaint,
especially as hed instructed the work to be done on his car in expectation of being able to
pay for it on the HSBC credit account, and so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that HSBC should be
asked to reopen the credit account as Mr B was wanting, and they felt that the £150
compensation that HSBC had paid already represented a fair and reasonable resolution to
the poor service that Mr B had received from them. So, they didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr B remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 25 October 2022 as follows:
HSBC have confirmed that they issued a default notice on the credit account in 
question in March 2019 due to outstanding arrears on the account and which was 
communicated to Mr B via a notice sent to his online banking folder. HSBC note that 
Mr B doesnt appear to have ever read that notice, even though HSBC sent two 
chaser letters to Mr Bs address which advised him that he had an important unread 
document in his online banking folder.
The default notice that HSBC sent Mr B was dated 29 March 2019 and included that 
if Mr B didnt clear the arrears outstanding on his account before 19 April 2019 that 
HSBC may issue a formal demand to pay the full outstanding balance on his account 
and that his account would be closed for future use at that time.
Mr B made a payment of £900 towards his account on 16 April 2019, which was 
enough to clear the arrears on his account and bring the account balance back within 
the agreed credit limit before the 19 April deadline. As such, HSBC didnt have cause 
to issue a formal demand notice to Mr B and his account wasnt closed for future use. 
Indeed, HSBCs notes confirm that Mr Bs account wasnt closed until 1 February 
2020, by which time Mr B had made payments sufficient to clear the full balance 
outstanding on the account and leave the account in the position of being £1.34 in 
credit in his favour.
But even though HSBC note the account as having closed in February 2020, HSBC
continued to send monthly account statements to Mr B until at least June 2022 which
indicated that the account remained open, with a balance of £1.34 in Mr Bs favour, 
and with the credit limit of £10,000 remaining available to Mr B. Notably, these 
account statements dont appear to make any indication that the account is closed for 
future use. Indeed, if the account was closed, its difficult to understand why HSBC 
wouldnt have reimbursed the £1.34 credit in the account to Mr B, either by cheque or 
via some other method, and given formal notice to him that his account was closed.
Furthermore, when Mr B contacted HSBC on 19 October 2021, he explained to 
HSBCs agent that hed lost his credit card and that he hadnt used the account for 
over a year, and he asked for a replacement card. And HSBCs agent, after placing 
Mr B on hold for a period of time, returned and confirmed to Mr B that they would be 
able to issue a replacement card to him and that hed receive that card within five 
working days. Mr B then reiterated to HSBCs agent that he hadnt used the account 
in at least a year and asked for confirmation that the account wasnt blocked, to 
which HSBCs agent specifically confirmed that there was no block on his account.
I therefore find it easy to understand why Mr B would have believed that his HSBC 
account was still open and active and included available credit of up to £10,000 that 
he could use. And this was because Mr B had made the arrears payments necessary 
to avoid a formal notice being issued on his account, because he was receiving 
regular monthly statements which indicated as such, and also because HSBC had 
told him verbally that his account was still open for use and wasnt blocked when hed 
called them to ask about it.
HSBC maintain that the account was closed in February 2020, and its notable that 
there hasnt been any activity on the account since that time. And HSBC also 
maintain that because the account has been closed for over six months, they are 
unwilling to reopen the account and that Mr B would now need to apply for a new 
credit account.
It isnt within the remit of this service to instruct a credit provider such as HSBC to 
provide credit to a customer that they arent willing to offer, and so I wont be 
instructing HSBC to reopen the credit account as Mr B would like. However, it is 
within my remit to instruct HSBC to pay compensation to Mr B for the trouble and 
upset that hes incurred here.
HSBC have already made a payment of compensation to Mr B of £150. But this was 
offered by HSBC in their initial response to Mr Bs complaint, which was issued on 
the incorrect basis that Mr Bs replacement credit card hadnt been issued to him on 
time and before HSBC had communicated to Mr B that his account was in fact closed 
and wouldnt be reopened. As such, I dont feel that the payment of that £150 for the late replacement of his credit card should also be considered as being compensation 
for the further issues that Mr B has encountered here surrounding his account being 
closed, and even if it were considered as such, I dont feel that it would be a fair or 
sufficient amount.
Mr B has explained that he contacted HSBC about the card because he was looking 
to find a way to pay for repairs that were due on his car which cost roughly £5,750, 
and that he only instructed the repairs to be undertaken after being told by HSBC that 
his account was open and unblocked and that a replacement card would be with him 
within the next five days.
Mr B has provided an invoice for the work on his car. Its notable this invoice was 
created on 27 September 2021  which was approximately three weeks before Mr B 
called HSBC and was told by them that his credit account remained open for him to 
use. Its also notable that the invoice appears to demonstrate that the work on the car 
was undertaken in stages, with an initial investigation, followed by a further 
investigation, followed by the completion of the works. And so it does seem likely to 
me that Mr Bs car may have been investigated and then further investigated by the 
repair garage, who then explained to Mr B the likely cost of fully repairing the car, 
which led Mr B to call HSBC, when he was told his credit account was still available 
for him to use  which would allow him to pay for the repairs.
Consequently, I can also appreciate how, having been told as such by HSBC, how 
Mr B may then have instructed the full repairs on his card before receiving the 
replacement credit card that hed been assured would soon arrive.
Finally, I note that Mr B was only able to pay the bill for the car repairs in March 2022 
 five months after his call with HSBC in October 2021 when he was told that his 
credit account remained available for use. And Mr B has explained that he found 
being unable to pay the bill for the work that he had instructed the repair garage to 
undertake to have been very distressing and that it had a significant effect on him 
throughout the time that it remained outstanding.
Taking all the above into consideration, I feel that HSBC should bear a considerable 
degree of accountability for what happened here, including for Mr B being put in the 
unfortunate position of being unable to pay a large bill that I feel hed unfairly been 
led to believe he would be able to pay by HSBCs miscommunication  in both written 
and verbal forms  to him.
As such, my provisional decision here is that Ill upholding this complaint in Mr Bs 
favour and instructing HSBC to pay further compensation to him of £900  which, in 
consideration off all the circumstances of this complaint as described above, I feel 
provides a fair level of compensation for the significant upset and trouble that Mr B 
incurred here.
Both Mr B and HSBC responded to my provisional decision and confirmed they accepted it. 
As such, I see no reason not to issue a final decision upholding this complaint in Mr Bs 
favour on the basis as outlined above. And I can confirm that my final decision is that I do 
uphold this decision in Mr Bs favour on that basis accordingly.
Putting things right
HSBC must make a further payment of £900 to Mr B.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc on the basis 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman