DRN-3418398
The complaint
Mr A complains about how Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) has dealt with 
his requests for help with his mortgage.
What happened
Mr A has a mortgage with Halifax. When he took out the mortgage he also took out home 
insurance that Halifax offered on behalf of an insurer.
In 2008 Mr As home was burgled. He made a claim on his home insurance but this was 
declined. This meant Mr A was unable to carry out the required repairs or live in the 
property. 
This set off a series of events in Mr As life that have caused him significant distress, poor 
health and financial difficulty. Mr A has made complaints about a number of different 
products that have been provided by Halifax, that have been impacted by the events. 
Due to the financial difficulty Mr A has been unable to repair his home and has struggled to 
make mortgage repayments to Halifax. He contacted it to ask if it could pay towards repairs 
but it declined. Around the same time he also noticed that his credit report showed a 
different company as the provider of his mortgage and he was concerned that Halifax had 
sold it to a debt collector and not informed him. 
He made a complaint to Halifax. It responded to confirm that the mortgage hadnt been sold 
but the credit report was showing an acronym that it uses internally rather than the name 
Halifax. It also said it wouldnt be able to help with repair costs but that Mr A could apply for 
additional credit for the required repairs and would need to speak to his mortgage or 
financial advisor to discuss this. 
Mr A wasnt happy with this response. He said the problems he faced were due to the 
insurance he had bought through Halifax, so he thought it was fair that it helped him sort out 
the repairs so that he could sell the property. He also said that since the complaint hed 
spoken to a manager at Halifax who had been rude and threatening. And this had been 
particularly distressing considering he was dealing with an already stressful situation. He 
brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He 
said he was satisfied the mortgage hadnt been sold and that Halifax werent obliged to offer 
financial help with his home repairs, so couldnt say it had done anything wrong. Further, he 
said hed listened to the calls Halifax had been able to identify between Mr A and its 
mortgage staff and didnt agree it had provided poor service. 
Mr A didnt agree with the outcome, so the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Mr A has a number of complaints with this service, however the one I am considering 
in this decision relates only to his mortgage provided by Halifax. So I will only make findings 
relating to this issue. I understand Mr A would like all complaints to be considered as one, 
however as they relate to different products that are provided by different business areas, 
and on some occasions by Halifax on behalf of different businesses, it isnt possible to 
consider them together. 
Wrong company listed on credit file
I understand Mr As concerns about the company listed next to his mortgage on his credit 
file, especially considering other issues he has experienced with debt being sold. However 
Halifax has confirmed that its not sold the mortgage and it has contacted the relevant credit 
agency to ensure the name on the file is changed. So Im satisfied there hasnt been an error 
here and Halifax doesnt need to do anything further. 
Financial assistance with repairs
Mr A has explained that he is in severe financial difficulties. And hes said this is because of 
problems with the home insurance provided by Halifax, so it should assist him with the 
repairs through his mortgage. 
I understand Mr A is unable to meet repair costs due to not having insurance cover. 
However Halifax arent required to provide repairs as part of the mortgage agreement he has 
with it, so it hasnt done anything wrong by not agreeing to assist with these. Its said that Mr 
A may consider exploring additional lending on the mortgage or through other means, 
although it will be subject to lending eligibility requirements being met. This may be 
something Mr A wishes to consider. However as Halifax arent obliged to offer assistance 
with the repairs, I cant say its done anything wrong here, so I wont ask it to do anything 
differently. 
Service
Mr A has said he had a phone call with a manager at Halifax either late last year or early this 
year where they were threatening and rude. 
Halifax has provided all calls its been able to retrieve during this time period. Ive listened to 
these and I dont agree the call handlers acted inappropriately. I therefore dont agree 
Halifax has provided a poor service so wont ask it to do any more in this regard. 
Impact
Ive read the account Mr A has provided, along with all the evidence, of the severe impact 
the related matters have had on him and many areas of his life. I can see that this has been 
an extremely difficult period for Mr A and I sympathise with him greatly. However, I can only 
ask a business to put things right where I find that its got something wrong. And not just 
because of the general impact the circumstances have had on its customer. As Ive not 
found Halifax has got anything wrong here, I cant ask it to put anything right. But by not 
upholding this complaint, I dont wish to diminish Mr As situation or the problems he has 
faced. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr As complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman