DRN-4025642
The complaint
Mrs S has complained that Allianz Insurance Plc unfairly declined a claim under her pet 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs S took out a pet insurance policy on 18 March 2013 for her rescue dog.
In March 2019 Mrs S made a claim to Allianz for the treatment of seizures. Allianz asked for 
the dogs clinical history in order to assess the claim. 
Later that month Mrs S made two more claims for treatment of otitis (an ear 
infection/inflammation) in her dogs right ear.
Allianz paid the first claim. But it declined the claims relating to otitis as it said her dog had 
had ear conditions previously and pre-existing conditions werent covered by her policy.
As Mrs S was unhappy with this response, she brought a complaint to this service. Our 
Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He thought the exclusion in the 
policy for pre-existing conditions was clear and Allianz had acted fairly in treating Mrs Ss 
dog as having a pre-existing condition.
Mrs S has asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ss policy, like many other pet policies, doesnt cover pre-existing conditions. 
The term Pre-existing Condition is defined as 
Any injury or illness that happened or first showed clinical signs before your pets cover 
started,
Any injury or illness that has the same diagnosis or clinical signs as an injury, illness or 
clinical sign your pet had before its cover started,
Any injury or illness that is caused by, relates to, or results from, an injury, illness or 
clinical sign your pet had before its cover started.
This applies in all cases regardless of whether:
-The injury or illness presents in the same, or different part of your pets body, and/or
-We do, or do not, place any exclusion(s) for the injury/illness.
I think this exclusion was clear. So, Ive gone on to consider whether it was reasonable for 
Allianz to apply it to decline the claim. As a general principle, where an insurer relies on an 
exclusion, the onus is on them to show it was reasonable to apply it. That means Allianz 
should establish that Mrs Ss dog had clinical signs of otitis in order to rely on this exclusion. 
With this in mind Ive looked at the history of the dogs previous visits to the vet.
Mrs Ss dog had had recurrent ear problems. The clinical history showed that the dog had 
had sore ears and ear mites while in the animal shelter before Mrs S rescued him. That had 
resulted in his ears being flushed/cleaned several times before the policy began.
Insurers often use experts experienced in this area to review a claim. Thats what Allianz did 
in this case as it referred the claim to a vet in its technical claims team. I think its a fair thing 
to do and its also reasonable for an insurer to rely on the experts comments when deciding 
how to deal with a claim. In this case the vet said she would consider the dogs most recent 
ear problems to be a continuation of the ear infections this dog had had since 11 March 
2013, that is before the policy started.
The report from the vet in the claims team shows she took into account the clinical notes 
relating to Mrs Ss dog and she was of the opinion that the treatment claimed for was linked 
to a pre-existing condition. So, taking this into account, I dont think Allianz has acted unfairly 
in declining Mrs Ss claims. 
Mrs S has pointed out that her dog had previously had a total ear canal ablation in his left 
ear. She thinks the infection in the left ear is separate from the problems the dog later had in 
his right ear and so it should not be classed as a pre-existing condition. I appreciate what 
she is saying. But the expert evidence is that the clinical signs of otitis were present before 
the policy started and according to the wording of the exclusion it does not matter whether 
the illness presents in a different part of the animals body, as in this case a different ear.
Ultimately, its not the role of this service to determine exactly when symptoms of a particular 
condition first appeared. My role here is to decide whether the insurer has reached its 
decision fairly and reasonably based on all the evidence. In this case I think it did.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs S but taking everything into consideration, Im satisfied that 
Allianz fairly declined the claims in line with the policy terms. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman