DRN-2403309
The complaint
  Mr I has complained to us about a single premium payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy he took out with Norton Financial Services Ltd (Norton FS) in May 2005 alongside a 
secured loan. 
Mr I took out the policy in connection with loan finance of around £12,000 to help him 
purchase a motorbike. The loan was for a term of 90 months, but the PPI ran for just 60 
months. The PPI cost £2,040. 
Mr I says he believes the PPI was mis-sold because he didnt know hed taken out PPI until 
much later and it was never explained to him how the policy worked.
What happened
  Norton FS said it wasnt responsible for the sale of the policy. In my jurisdiction decision 
dated 1 May 2020 I explained why I was satisfied that Norton was responsible for the sale. I 
didnt agree with Norton FS that another company, Norton Finance UK Ltd, had sold the 
policy. 
On 4 August 2020 I prepared a jurisdiction decision where I considered Norton FSs 
assertion that Mr I had brought his complaint to us too late. I explained that since Mr I had 
said that he wasnt aware of having PPI until July 2019  which was when he first made his 
complaint to Norton FS  the time for him to start his complaint didnt begin until then. It 
followed that I considered Mr Is complaint had been made in time. 
Norton FS has continued to dispute that its responsible for the sale of Mr Is policy. To that 
end, it has provided some further evidence.
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Is complaint to see if the PPI hed bought from Norton 
FS had been mis-sold. As he decided that the policy was mis-sold, and Norton FS 
disagrees, the complaint has come to me for a final decision about the mis-sale. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Is mis-sale 
complaint.
Ive already issued my decision finding that that Norton FS is responsible for this complaint. 
However, I would like to comment briefly on some additional evidence that Norton FS sent in 
to us following my decision. This consists of evidence from an ex-employee of Norton 
Finance (UK) Limited saying that the loan and PPI was sold by that business and not 
Norton FS. I dont consider that this takes things further. I have already reached my 
conclusion that Norton FS was responsible for the sale based on the available paperwork 
and other evidence and information relating to the sale itself. I remain satisfied that Mr I 
bought his PPI from Norton FS. There is nothing in the sale and post-sale documentation to 
show that a company other than Norton FS was responsible. I should also like to reiterate 
that the FCA register shows that Norton FS was a regulated insurance broker at the time of 
the sale. 
Ive next looked at the merits of the complaint. Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. 
Ill explain why.
Ive seen that Mr I sent a signed a loan application to Norton FS in July 2004 but that the 
loan itself didnt begin until May 2005. This was because Mr I subsequently applied to 
borrow a higher amount, after the motorbike hed originally wanted to buy was no longer 
available. And although the copy we have is unsigned and shows the lower loan amount of 
£9,000  the amount Mr I initially applied for - Norton FS has confirmed the format and terms 
of the agreement would have been the same on the one Mr I signed. Unfortunately 
Norton FS hasnt been able to give us any further evidence or information about the sale, 
although that isnt unusual given that it happened quite some time ago. 
Mr says he may have bought the PPI at a meeting. However, Norton FS say the sale 
wouldnt have happened that way. Given the amount of time since the sale took place I do 
accept that the sale may not have happened as Mr I remembers. In any event, given what 
Mr I has told us, it doesnt look as if Norton FS made a recommendation to Mr I about taking 
out the policy. But Norton FS still had to ensure that the information it gave Mr I about the 
policy was clear, fair and not so that hed be able to make an informed choice about buying 
the cover. I think that included giving him information about how the cover would work and in 
particular how long it would last. 
As Ive said, theres only limited sale documentation still available but we do have a copy of 
the Mr Is initial agreement for which the format and terms are the same as the one he 
eventually signed. The agreement says that any PPI sold with it will be for a maximum of 
60 months. Given what Mr I has told us about the sale, I have concerns about whether Mr I 
was ever made aware of the implications of this to him. As this was a single premium policy 
Mr I would still be paying for it over the whole term of the loan. This would also mean that 
Mr I would be unable to make a claim after the PPI ended after the 60 months. And if hed 
wanted to stay covered hed have to buy a new, and potentially more expensive, policy. 
I also have concerns that the agreement doesnt make it at all clear how interest was being 
charged on the PPI or provide a separate figure for the amount of interest hed be paying for 
it over the term of the loan. I think this failing would have mattered to Mr I and, taking into 
account his circumstances at the time, I think had this all been set out for him, more likely 
than not he would have decided against taking out the policy. And even though it would have 
paid out in addition to Mr Is existing employer pay entitlement, I am not persuaded that he 
would have considered the net benefit sufficient for the continued monthly cost of the PPI 
that was added to his loan payments.
To sum up, from what Ive seen and taking into account what Mr I has told us, it doesnt 
seem that the PPI was properly explained to Mr I, if at all. Had he been made fully aware of 
the how the policy worked, I dont think Mr I would have agreed to buy this PPI cover. I dont 
think Mr I would have seen the policy as being good value for money and right for him. So I 
dont think he wouldve bought it.
It follows that Im upholding Mr Is complaint.
Putting things right  Mr I borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it should have been and 
he paid more each month than he should have done. So Mr I needs to be given back the 
extra hes paid.
So Norton FS must do the following:
Pay Mr I the amount he needs to pay his lender so he can reduce the amount he 
owes on the loan to what it would be without PPI.
Work out and pay Mr I the difference between what he paid each month on the loan 
and what he would have paid each month without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr I paid each month from when he paid it 
until hes given the money back. The rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr I made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Norton FS can take what he 
received for the claim off the amount it owes Mr I.
Norton FS should set out for Mr I how it has worked out what it owes him.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Norton FS to take tax off the interest. Norton FS must 
give Mr I a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold Mr Is complaint. Norton FS must pay him 
compensation in in the way Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2021. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman