DRN-3564511
The complaint
Mr H complains about Bank of Scotland plcs (BoS) decision to close his accounts. He 
feels theyve discriminated against him and wants them to pay compensation. 
What happened
Mr H held accounts with BoS but then received a letter to say theyd taken the decision to 
close his accounts due to his behaviour. Mr H says he believes theyre referring to a visit to a 
branch where a member of staff made an error and he said she may need to brush up on 
her English listening skills. Mr H says he was trying to be positive, so he doesnt understand 
why the staff member became upset. Mr H says he has a naturally louder voice than the 
locals in the area and feels his character has been damaged as a result of BoSs decision.     
Mr H complained to BoS and they responded and explained they dont tolerate abuse of any 
kind towards their staff. They said their decision to close Mr Hs accounts was due to 
previous and recent behaviour towards staff members at branch.  
Our investigator looked into things for Mr H. He thought BoS hadnt acted unfairly in closing 
Mr Hs accounts. Mr H disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr H will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My starting point is the terms and conditions of Mr Hs accounts. This says BoS can end 
their services to a customer if you are or may be behaving improperly (for example, in a 
threatening or abusive way). And, in these circumstances, BoS can end their services 
without any notice. So, Ive looked to see whether BoS have acted fairly and reasonably.  
It appears the decision to close Mr Hs account was triggered by an incident which occurred 
in branch in February 2022. Ive taken into account Mr Hs account of events and understand 
he feels he was offering an opinion following an error he says the staff member made. Mr H 
has told our service what he said and that this was in the form of an opinion. So, I do 
understand why Mr H was left frustrated when he then received notice to close his accounts. 
Ive listened to a call between Mr H and the complaints manager during which Mr H is asking 
for further clarity around what specifically he had done. The complaints manager says Mr H 
has received multiple warnings which Mr H disputes. Mr H says he has received one 
warning. The complaints manager explains during the recent incident Mr H was being 
aggressive and abusive to colleagues in branch. 
The information provided by BoS doesnt provide much information about the incident in 
question and I cant see what specifically BoS feel amounted to aggressive and abusive 
behaviour on that day. But, Mr H has told our service what he said and, given the action BoS 
then took following this visit to the branch, I believe its more likely than not, Mr Hs comment 
is what BoS believe was aggressive and abusive. Mr H has told our service what he said 
and his motive for making this comment. Given what Mr H says, I can understand why he 
might feel this wasnt aggressive or abusive but there can often be a subjective element to 
such comments. Just because one person might feel its not abusive, it doesnt necessarily 
mean another person wont. And, given the action taken by BoS, I think this suggests the 
staff member did find this abusive.
 
I would add however that context and tone can sometimes tip the scales when assessing 
whether a comment is abusive or offensive. Theres no information about the manner and 
tone in which Mr H made the comment so, as mentioned above, I do understand why Mr H 
remains concerned about BoSs decision, particularly in light of what he feels was him 
offering an opinion. So, while that incident has understandably led to Mr H questioning BoSs 
decision, I dont believe theyve acted unfairly or unreasonably in taking the decision to close 
Mr Hs accounts. I say this because, BoS say, as well as the recent incident, their reason for 
closing Mr Hs accounts is also based on previous incidents. Account notes provided by BoS 
show that there has been a history of incidents which have led to BoS previously issuing 
warnings about Mr Hs behaviour and also banning Mr H from specific branches. These 
events relate to 2017 but the notes also refer to more recent events in 2021 where BoS say 
Mr H was being very aggressive and was told in branch that he needed to calm down or 
leave and a further incident where BoS note Mr H was being abusive.    
Notes provided by BoS show that these previous incidents were taken into account and 
supported their decision to close Mr Hs accounts. So, while I do understand why Mr H is 
concerned about the more recent incident, I dont think this was the only factor  but one of a 
series of incidents which led to BoSs decision. I note Mr H says a branch manager told him 
she didnt find him aggressive. While I do acknowledge this, it doesnt persuade me that BoS 
have acted unfairly in deciding to close his accounts based on a series of incidents. In view 
of the reasons for closing Mr Hs accounts, the terms and conditions allow BoS to take this 
step immediately and without notice. I can see that BoS do still give Mr H a notice period to 
support him with the closure. So, I think BoS have acted reasonably here.  
I understand Mr H feels BoS have discriminated against him. But, Ive seen no evidence BoS 
have acted in a manner which they wouldnt with any other customer. The information shows 
theyve based their decision on Mr Hs behaviour towards staff members. And, for this 
reason, I dont think BoSs decision to close Mr Hs accounts was unfair. And, in doing so, 
they have acted in line with their terms and conditions. I am sorry to hear about Mr Hs 
experience and wish to reassure him that I have carefully considered his comments. But, for 
the reasons I have set out, I dont think BoS have acted unfairly or unreasonably.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman