DRN-3573832
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Ageas Insurance Limited unfairly turned down her business 
interruption insurance claim after her business was forced to close due to the Covid-19 
pandemic.
What happened
Mrs D holds a policy with Ageas that includes business interruption insurance. She claimed 
on the policy after being forced to close her business in March 2020 due to the 
Governments actions in response to the Covid-19 pandemic.
Mrs Ds insurance broker initially indicated that she could not make a successful claim under 
her policy because there had not been any damage to her property, as required under the 
policy terms. Mrs D saw that some insurers had changed their position both about damage 
and Covid-19 not being named on the policy. She made a claim in September 2020.
Ageas accepted that Mrs D had business interruption insurance but it declined her claim. 
Ageas said that it could consider claims only where the reason for the closure was due to the 
notifiable disease being present at the premises. There was no cover for Government 
enforced closures or reduced trade. 
Our investigator looked into Mrs Ds complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He 
thought the policy would cover closure due to Covid-19 only if there had been a case at 
Mrs Ds business premises. 
Mrs D asked for an ombudsmans decision. She said there is no way of proving Covid-19 
was (or was not) at the premises. Other insurance companies have paid out and she feels it 
is unfair that she is in the same position as someone without insurance cover. She would be 
in a stronger position if a utility company had dug up the path outside her door, causing her 
to close, rather than the Government telling her to close. There were fines for going into 
work and so her business was totally interrupted.
Mrs D said that she and her four staff members can state that as far as they know they had 
Covid-19 at work on 23 March 2020 (the first day of the lockdown), in the same way Ageas 
cannot prove this either way. In response to our investigators question about this, she says 
that she does not have any more evidence she can provide. She says there was no push for 
testing at the time, and businesses had to close whether there was Covid-19 at the premises 
or not. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Mrs Ds business. However, I am not going to uphold her complaint. Ill explain 
why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
if Ageas have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy 
when declining Mrs Ds claim. 
The most relevant part of Mrs Ds policy is an extension covering business interruption loss 
as a result of:
i  any occurrence of a Notifiable Disease (as defined below) at the Premises or 
attributable to food and drink supplied from the Premises
ii any discovery of an organism at the Premises likely to result in the occurrence of a 
Notifiable Disease (as defined below)
The policy defines Notifiable Disease as:
illness sustained by any person resulting from:
i  food or drink poisoning
ii any human infectious or human contagious disease (excluding Acquired Immune 
Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) or an AIDS related condition) an outbreak of which the 
competent Local Authority has stipulated shall be notified to them. 
For this extension to provide cover, the policy requires the loss to have been the result of a 
case of notifiable disease occurring at the premises. Covid-19 is a notifiable disease, as 
defined in the policy, so Ive then considered the evidence to decide if I think its more likely 
than not that there was a case of Covid-19 at Mrs Ds premises. 
As Mrs D has said, widespread testing wasnt available at the start of the pandemic. The 
Government advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms 
of Covid-19, save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a business will be able to produce 
a positive test result from that period. To treat that as a minimum requirement would, in my 
view, be unfair. 
Therefore, it is necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on balance, that Covid-19 occurred at the insured 
premises. As with any insurance claim, the burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder 
to demonstrate that they have suffered a loss which their policy covers. 
Mrs D didnt initially suggest there had been a case of Covid-19 at her premises. Rather she 
said that her business had closed as required by the Government, and no-one knew where 
the virus was or how long it lived. I dont think this is enough for me to find there was a case 
of Covid-19 at the premises. 
Mrs D later said that she and her four staff members can state that as far as they know they 
had Covid at work on 23 March 2020 (the first day of the lockdown) but she says that she 
does not have any more evidence she can provide. She says businesses had to close 
whether there was Covid-19 at the premises or not. 
I appreciate the point Mrs D is making but I dont think I can fairly conclude it was more likely 
than not that there was a case of Covid-19 at the premises. So, I dont think the extension 
provides cover in the circumstances of her claim.Mrs D says she might have been in a stronger position in different circumstances and 
questions the value of her policy. She also says that other insurers have back tracked and 
paid out on claims. But in this decision, I can consider only Mrs Ds claim and I have decided 
that Ageas fairly declined it. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mrs D was hoping for but, having considered the matter 
very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Ageas to pay her claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
Amanda Maycock
Ombudsman