DRN-3213067
The complaint
 Mrs W has complained that Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) allowed her to increase her 
overdraft limit beyond what she could afford to maintain when she was in financial difficulty.
What happened
 Mrs W complained to BoS about her overdraft facility. She said BoS had been irresponsible 
to allow her to increase her overdraft facility several times over a short period, particularly 
when she was experiencing financial difficulties at the time. BoS didnt uphold the complaint. 
And as Mrs W was dissatisfied she referred the complaint to our service.
Mrs Ws complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that when Mrs W 
applied to increase her overdraft limit in July 2016 BoS ought to have realised that Mrs W 
was experiencing financial difficulty and would be unlikely to be able to repay the additional 
borrowing. She recommended that BoS refund any fees or interest incurred as a result of the 
overdraft limit being increased, and that it should backdate the default of Mrs Ws account to 
reflect what would have happened if it had stated taking action on her account in July 2016.
BoS agreed to refund all charges incurred on Mrs Ws account from July 2016, but said that 
as her account had been defaulted before this date there would be no benefit to her of 
amending her credit file.
Mrs W remained unhappy, she feels that the default date should be changed, and doesnt 
think the refund offered goes far enough to recognise the impact of BoS actions. As an 
agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 BoS will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges, and when considering whether a lender acted responsibly in providing 
further lending. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think that BoS acted unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft fees from July 2016. By this point, it ought to have been clear 
that not only was Mrs W unlikely to be able to repay any additional borrowing in a 
reasonable period of time, but also that Mrs W was no longer operating her account in a 
sustainable manner. BoS has already agreed to refund these charges to Mrs Ws account to 
reduce the outstanding balance.
Regarding the default registered on Mrs Ws credit file, BoS has said that there would be no 
benefit to Mrs W of changing the default date to reflect what would have happened if it had 
taken action in July 2016. But I can see from the evidence BoS has provided that Mrs Ws 
account wasnt defaulted until 2017  the account was still being used throughout 2016 and 
wasnt closed until early 2017. So I think that amending the default date as set out by the 
adjudicator would be of benefit to Mrs W, and would more accurately reflect what should 
have happened with her account.
I appreciate that Ms W thinks BoS should do more to recognise the impact of what has 
happened on her. But Im satisfied that a refund of the charges applied since July 2016 and 
an amendment of her credit file to reflect what should have happened is an appropriate way 
to resolve this complaint, I dont think BoS needs to do anything more.
Putting things right
 Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs Ws complaint for BoS to put things right by:
Reworking Mrs Ws current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it from 22 July 2016 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made BoS should contact Mrs W to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mrs Ws credit 
file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the process of 
taking corrective action on the overdraft in July 2016.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mrs W along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then BoS 
should remove any adverse information from Mrs Ws credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires BoS to take off tax from this interest. BoS must give 
Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Ws complaint. Bank of Scotland Plc 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman