DRN-2482614
The complaint
Mr M complains Barclays Bank UK Plc trading as Barclaycard has failed to respond to 
some of his letters and his data subject access request (DSAR) in a timely manner and has 
given him misleading information about getting in touch with the relevant team. Hes also 
unhappy as he thinks Barclaycard either breached his data or its failed to give any evidence 
to show it hasnt.
This complaint has arisen out of another complaint Mr M has. But as that complaint is being 
dealt with separately, Ill only deal with the issues relating to the DSAR.
What happened
A lot has happened on this complaint and Mr M has sent us and Barclaycard numerous 
letters outlining things. Ive looked at everything weve been given but this background 
focusses on whats happened in relation to the three main complaint points raised. 
In March 2019, Mr M was sent a breakdown of a refund paid by Barclaycard. As Mr M 
disagreed with the amount refunded, he submitted a DSAR online to Barclaycard in 
April 2019 for all letters, calls and statements between 2004 and 2018.
Barclaycard has said Mr Ms initial DSAR was rejected because his address on his request 
was different from the address it held for him. And around 21 May 2019, Mr M was told his 
information had been requested by and sent to a third party he hadnt heard of. So he says 
Barclaycard breached his data.
On 5 June 2019, Mr M sent Barclaycard a letter which hes also given us, clarifying his 
previous addresses and reiterating the complaint hed made. And a final response letter was 
sent to him the following day. Barclaycard said Mr Ms data hadnt been breached as no 
information was sent to the third party due to the ongoing address discrepancy. 
Following some further correspondence, Mr M wrote to Barclaycard on 14 June 2019 
referring back to his letter of 5 June 2019 and listing his addresses again. This letter was 
addressed to the GDPR team. Mr M has said he didnt get a reply to this letter. Barclaycard 
has given us internal contact notes which show the customer service team spoke to Mr M 
over the phone on 19 June 2019. It also sent Mr M a further final response on this date. 
In August 2019, Mr M was sent a letter with the GDPR teams address saying We need to 
speak to you as there was still an address discrepancy. It provided the general customer 
services number to call. Barclaycard has since said its not its normal process for the GDPR 
team to speak to customers directly. Later that month, during a call with customer service, 
Mr Ms address was updated so the DSAR could be sent.
Barclaycard has said it sent Mr M his requested data on 20 August 2019. It said it couldnt 
provide everything hed asked for as it wasnt all available anymore and it needed further 
information from Mr M about the specific call recordings he wanted.
Around 29 August 2019, Mr M contacted the GDPR team again asking amongst other things 
for clarification of a number of abbreviations hed identified in his data and providing 
information about the calls he wanted. Mr Ms unhappy Barclaycard didnt respond to this 
letter. Barclaycard has said the letter was addressed to the GDPR team who arent customer 
facing  and Mr M was aware of this. And because of the amount of correspondence Mr M 
sent its different departments, it didnt realise there was information still outstanding. It gave 
us answers to Mr Ms questions to pass onto him.
Barclaycard sent Mr M a number of final response letters and in total, offered him £225 to 
compensate him for what had gone wrong. Dissatisfied with this offer, Mr M asked us to look 
into things. He thinks it should pay him around £1,000 in compensation. Our investigator 
didnt uphold the complaint. She thought the compensation made up for what had gone 
wrong. As Mr M didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this case in November 2020. In summary, I didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld because:
Whilst I thought it mustve been worrying for Mr M when he thought his data had been 
passed to a third party, I was satisfied it hadnt been and hed been told this in error. So I 
didnt think Barclaycard was in a position to evidence something that hadnt happened 
and it had already done enough to make up for things.
I accepted Mr M hadnt received a direct reply from the GDPR team to his letters. But I 
considered it was a non-customer facing team and could see the customer service team 
had maintained contact with him throughout. Having looked at all of the information Mr M 
had sent to Barclaycard and the number of points raised, I didnt think it had treated him 
unreasonably.
Whilst I highlighted it isnt our role to decide if Barclaycard had complied with data 
protection law, I did think it couldve responded quicker to Mr Ms DSAR. But, I couldnt 
say it was necessary for Mr M to call and write to Barclaycard as often as he did  and 
instead I thought it slowed things down. And I could see Mr M was able to bring his other 
complaint to our service in time. So I didnt think Barclaycard needed to do anything 
more to make up for the delay. 
I didnt think it was unusual for the GDPR team not to speak directly to customers as 
often specific teams are trained to do this. And I didnt accept the letter to Mr M directed 
him to speak to the GDPR team specifically. So I didnt agree it was deliberately 
misleading or that Barclaycard should change its normal process. 
Overall, based on what Id seen, I thought the compensation Barclaycard had already 
paid Mr M was enough so I didnt consider it needed to do anything more. 
I asked both parties to make any further comments before I reached a final decision. 
Barclaycard didnt have further comments. In summary Mr M said he didnt think I had 
adequately explained my provisional decision and I hadnt analysed the separate offers 
made by Barclaycard nor assessed them based on precedent. He pointed out that it had 
taken over a year to get to this stage. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr Ms said in response to my provisional decision. 
And I still dont think the complaint should be upheld. I know that will be disappointing for 
him. 
Firstly I would like to acknowledge and apologise for the time its taken for Mr Ms complaint 
to be resolved by our service. I know hes been waiting for a long time and I appreciate his 
patience. But that doesnt make a difference to the outcome of the complaint. 
I understand Barclaycard has made three different offers to Mr M which came to £225 in 
total. And Mr M thinks I shouldve thought about these offers separately when deciding 
whether it has done enough. But when considering the trouble and upset caused by a 
business, our service looks at everything thats happened to decide how, overall it should put 
things right. Our website sets out some information on our approach to these types of 
awards which Mr M might find useful. In any event, Ive also thought about what Barclaycard 
did to make up for each thing that went wrong. And Im still satisfied its done enough in this 
case.
Mr Ms said he doesnt think Ive assessed the offers made by Barclaycard by looking at 
precedent. By this, I assume he means our previous cases. I can assure him Ive considered 
whats fair and reasonable in this case having regard to relevant law, guidance and what our 
service would generally consider good practice. But we look into complaints individually, 
based on all of the information given by both parties in the complaint. And the outcome of 
previous complaints doesnt determine the outcome of this complaint. 
Overall, having looked at the responses Ive received, I havent changed my conclusions set 
out in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2021.
 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman