DRN-3295063
The complaint
Miss T has complained that Progressive Money Limited was irresponsible in lending to her.
What happened
In 2016 Progressive Money provided Miss T with a loan of £5,000 repayable over 60 months 
with a monthly repayment of £232.31. The loan has now been repaid.
Miss T complained that the loan was unaffordable. Progressive Money looked into her 
complaint. It said it had carried out proper checks and it thought the loan was affordable. 
Miss T referred her complaint to us. She said shed had to work extra shifts to keep up with 
the repayments and the stress of doing so had affected her mental health. Our adjudicator 
upheld her complaint. He didnt think Progressive Money should have offered the loan to her. 
As Progressive Money didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions 
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Miss Ts complaint. These two 
questions are:
1. Did Progressive Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Miss T would be able to repay the loans without experiencing significant adverse 
consequences?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Miss T wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did Progressive Money act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Progressive Money to carry out a reasonable 
and proportionate assessment of Miss Ts ability to make the repayments under this 
agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Progressive Money had to think about 
whether repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had 
to ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Miss T undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Progressive Money to simply think about the likelihood of 
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss T. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ts complaint.
Progressive Money asked for information about Miss Ts income and expenses. It also 
requested a payslip to verify her salary. Progressive Money obtained a credit report and 
reviewed her bank statements for the period leading up to her application. I dont need to 
draw any conclusions about the checks that Progressive Money carried out on this 
occasion. This is because, on balance, I dont think Progressive Money made a fair lending 
decision for the loan and Ill explain why.
On the face of it, Miss T had sufficient disposable income to be able to afford the loan from 
Progressive Money. But it was aware from the credit check and also from Miss Ts 
submitted bank statements that she had a number of credit impairments that I think showed 
that she was having ongoing problems managing her finances. In particular, she had an 
outstanding county court judgment from two years previously, had been using payday loans, 
had four delinquent accounts in the last twelve months, had recently been in arrears on her 
mortgage repayments though since cleared and had been above the credit limit on her 
credit card. Her bank statement showed that a recent direct debit payment had been 
returned.
Overall when I think about what was on the credit search results and also what was showing 
on the bank statements Miss T submitted, I dont think Progressive Money made a fair 
lending decision. I think on balance that Progressive Money ought reasonably to have 
realised that Miss T was finding it difficult to overcome her debt problems with the defaulted 
balance that she had accrued and also her existing debt commitments, and that it was 
unlikely that she would be able to sustainably repay the loan over the 60 month term. It 
follows that I dont think it made a fair lending decision.Ive also thought about whether Progressive Money acted unfairly in some other way and I 
havent seen any evidence that it did.
Putting things right
As I have concluded Progressive Money shouldnt have provided the loan, it should:
  refund all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan;
pay interest* of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest, fees and charges from the 
date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement; and
remove any negative information about the loan from Miss Ts credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Progressive Money to take off tax from this interest. 
Progressive Money must give Miss T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Miss Ts complaint and require Progressive Money 
Limited to put things right for Miss T as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman