DRN-2847836
The complaint
Miss H complains about Admiral Insurance Company Limited accepting liability for a third 
partys claim against her on a motor insurance policy.  
What happened
Miss H insured her car with Admiral. She contacted it to say that a third party had alleged 
shed driven into the rear of their car and caused damage. Miss H said no impact had 
occurred.
Miss H subsequently contacted Admiral to say that shed been informed that the third party 
was taking action against her. Admiral made enquiries and agreed to cover the third partys 
costs and damages. As a result, Miss H lost her No Claims Bonus (NCB). 
Miss H was unhappy about Admiral accepting liability for the claim and complained. It 
agreed it should have contacted her before settling the claim and paid £50 compensation. 
But it said that it was satisfied that based on the evidence available, the decision to accept 
liability was correct.
As she remained dissatisfied, Miss H referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
thought that Admiral hadnt acted fairly, and so it should reinstate the NCB, record this on 
the appropriate databases and pay a further £150 compensation.
Admiral disputed this, and our investigator explained why she thought this was the correct 
outcome. As Admiral didnt respond to this further explanation, the complaint has been 
passed to me to make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My starting point here is that Im not in a position to make any findings about whether the 
alleged collision did or didnt occur, or who is liable for any claim made following the incident. 
What Im considering is whether Admirals actions in accepting liability were fair and 
reasonable.
It isnt disputed that, shortly after the incident occurred, Miss H contacted Admiral and gave 
her account of what had happened. At that point, Admiral hadnt been notified of the third 
partys claim against Miss H. Im satisfied that this indicates Miss Hs desire to defend any 
claim made against her and her confidence that she would be able to demonstrate that no 
collision had occurred. Admiral acknowledges that Miss H had asked that she be contacted 
before it agreed any liability for the third partys claim.  
Having been informed of the third partys claim, Admiral appointed an engineer to inspect 
Miss Hs car and also commissioned a consistency report to compare damage to Miss Hs 
car and the third partys. The inspection did indicate that there was damage to the front of 
Miss Hs car, and photos seen of the third partys car did show a small amount of damage. 
The fact that both vehicles had evidence of damage (and the nature of that damage), in 
conjunction with Miss H not disputing having been present at the time of the incident, 
appears to have formed the basis for Admiral admitting liability for the third partys claim. But 
I think that the evidence of the consistency report is such that there were questions which 
could reasonably have been raised. 
The author of the consistency report, from what Ive seen, hasnt had the opportunity to 
inspect the third partys car, as the heights of the damage arent known and it also doesnt 
refer to any transfer of paint from Miss Hs car being noted. Reference to the damage to the 
third partys car is by way of photographs. By contrast, the heights and locations of the 
damage to Miss Hs car are known. 
I also cant see anything to suggest that, on receipt of these reports, Admiral asked Miss H 
for an account of how the damage noted by the engineer had occurred. The consistency 
report also suggests that further enquiries may be required to ascertain the circumstances of 
the damage.
I think, as a minimum, that on receipt of these reports, it was reasonable for Admiral to make 
further enquiries with Miss H about the damage to her car. It didnt do so. There were also, 
on balance, opportunities to challenge the third partys account based on what Miss H had 
told Admiral.
I cant say with any degree of certainty that, on carrying out further enquiries, the outcome 
would have been any different. Admiral may have admitted liability, or disputed it and the 
matter could have proceeded to court. I cant say what a court would have found. But what I 
can say is that by not undertaking further, reasonable enquiries in light of the engineers 
reports and Miss Hs account, it prevented Miss H from having the opportunity to dispute 
liability. Instead, by admitting liability, she lost her NCB and as a result has (based on what 
shes told us) found it more difficult to insure her car.
On this basis, I agree with our investigator. Admiral hasnt acted fairly here and so should 
reinstate Miss Hs NCB, and also ensure that the relevant databases are updated to reflect 
this. It should also provide her with written confirmation of this which she can provide to her 
current insurer. 
I also agree with our investigator that Admiral should pay an additional £150 compensation 
to Miss H, making £200 in total. Shes been caused distress and inconvenience because of 
the difficulties shes encountered in arranging insurance which has been at a higher cost 
because of the loss of her NCB. 
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint. In order to put things right, I order Admiral 
Insurance Company Limited to:
Reinstate Miss Hs No Claims Bonus.
Amend relevant databases to reflect that the NCB has been reinstated.
Provide written confirmation to Miss H that the NCB has been reinstated
Pay an additional £150 compensation to Miss H, making £200 in total.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Ben WilliamsOmbudsman