DRN-3676619
The complaint
Mr W complains that Skipton Building Society did not specify a penalty for transferring his 
Cash Individual Savings Account (ISA) to another Skipton ISA.
What happened
Mr W opened a five year fixed rate Skipton Cash ISA in 2021. In 2022, he requested this to 
be transferred internally, as he believed based on the terms and conditions that this would 
be penalty free. But Skipton said there would be a penalty to transfer it to an internal 
account. Mr W made a complaint to Skipton. 
Skipton did not uphold Mr Ws complaint. They said he contacted them by telephone on 3 
May 2022 following a branch visit, where he was informed a penalty would be applied if he 
closed his ISA and transferred funds to another Skipton ISA, prior to maturity. They said that 
a withdrawal of funds would include an internal transfer, as he would be closing his ISA and 
withdrawing funds to deposit into another account. And they cited points 4.1 and 4.3 of their 
Key Facts section of the terms and conditions. Mr W brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ws complaint. He said within the terms of the ISA it 
states that partial withdrawals cant be made, but the account could be closed if Mr W 
withdrew the full balance, and this would incur penalties. He said while Mr W stated that it 
does not specify in the terms that a penalty would be applied for an internal transfer, the 
actions needed on his account would fall into the terms that are stated in the Key Facts. Mr 
W asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to explain to Mr W that it is not within this services remit to tell a business what the 
wording of their terms and conditions should be. It would be the role of the regulator  the 
Financial Conduct Authority, who have the power to instruct Skipton to make changes to the 
wording of their documents, if necessary. Our service acts as an informal dispute resolution 
service for complaints about financial businesses. We look at the circumstances of individual 
complaints and, on a case by case basis, taking into account relevant industry guidance for 
example, make findings about whether a financial business has failed their customer.
Ive had a look at the Key Facts document that Skipton says Mr W was provided with prior to 
the account opening. And Im satisfied it does not give the impression that an internal 
transfer can be completed penalty free. The document does stipulate occasions when funds 
can be removed from the account without penalty which I will document later in my decision. 
But an internal transfer is not documented as one of these reasons. 
For an internal transfer to happen, a withdrawal would need to occur as the funds would be 
withdrawn from the account to credit the new account. The Key Facts document is clear that 
the fixed rate ISA might not be right for him if you want to withdraw money before the end of 
the fixed term. There is a section on this document which says Can I withdraw money. 
This section tells Mr W that You can't withdraw part of your account balance, however you 
can close your account at any time and withdraw the full balance.  So Im satisfied that this 
section tells him that a withdrawal (which as Ive already mentioned would include a transfer) 
can be achieved by closing his account at any time. 
This section also states that If you do this more than 21 days after the end date of your 
Original Maturity Product you'll lose interest as shown below. And then it details the penalty. 
While I understand the point Mr W makes about the document not specifically mentioning an 
internal transfer in this section, Im satisfied this does not mean any withdrawals via an 
internal transfer would be penalty free, when the Key Facts is clear withdrawals before 
maturity would attract a penalty apart from specific reasons  of which an internal transfer is 
not listed as a reason.
But while the withdrawal section doesnt specifically mention an internal transfer, Im 
satisfied that section 4.1 of the terms and conditions clearly stipulates what will happen in 
the event of an early closure. As Ive previously mentioned, the only way Mr W could transfer 
to an internal account is via a withdrawal and as partial withdrawals arent allowed, this could 
only be facilitated via an early closure. 4.1 of the terms state that After 21 days from the end 
date of the Original Maturity Product, early closure is subject to an interest penalty, except 
on receipt of satisfactory evidence in respect of the following:
 terminal or critical illness of you or an immediate member of your family
 bankruptcy (by the Trustee in Bankruptcy).
So Im satisfied that it is clear here that there would be an interest penalty for an early 
closure, regardless of the reason apart from the events detailed above. So it follows I dont 
require Skipton to do anything else.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman