DRN-2411840
The complaint
Miss H is complaining that her finance agreement with FCE Bank plc trading as Ford Credit 
(FCE) was mis-sold to her. She believed she could make a lump sum over payment and 
this would reduce her monthly payments, but this turned out not to be the case.  
What happened
Miss H originally entered into a 3-year hire purchase agreement in 2016 for her car. As the 
end of the 3 years approached, she wanted to make a lump sum payment towards the final 
balloon payment due on the car, and then to refinance the remaining balance of the balloon 
payment so she could keep the car. 
She was told by the business that she could not make a part payment to the balloon 
payment before refinancing, so would need to refinance the whole balloon payment. She did 
this in December 2019, and then contacted FCE wanting to make a lump sum payment off 
the new agreement. She believed this would reduce her monthly payments but was told that 
it would only reduce the term of the agreement, not the monthly payment. 
Miss H has said that this left her paying a higher monthly payment than she could 
comfortably afford, well over her budget. She managed to make these payments and the 
agreement has now finished and she owns the car. 
She complained to FCE in December 2019, saying that the dealership (the broker) had 
confirmed for her, having said they had spoken to FCE, that she could make a lump sum 
payment and it would reduce her monthly payments. In January 2020 FCE rejected her 
complaint, saying that in phone calls with Miss H and the dealership, they had told both 
parties the correct information, and all the correct information was provided in the finance 
agreement itself, which Miss H had accepted and signed. 
Miss H brought her complaint to us in February 2020. An investigator here investigated the 
complaint and agreed that Miss H had been given wrong information which caused her to 
enter into the agreement. They upheld the complaint and asked the business to pay her 
£350 to recognise the trouble and upset caused to her in having to make higher payments 
than she felt comfortable with. 
Initially both sides accepted this outcome, however when Miss H chased us saying she had 
not received the payment from FCE, FCE then said they did not agree with the view.  They 
felt that there were notes on their system that they had told the customer, and the broker, the 
correct information. They didnt agree therefore that they had done anything wrong and 
asked for an Ombudsman decision on the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is relevant here. It says that the finance 
provider can be held responsible for what the credit broker said. In this case, Miss H is 
saying that she entered into the finance agreement based on information she was given by 
the dealership.  
FCE do not feel they did anything wrong so dont feel the complaint should be upheld. This is 
because they have system notes to say they gave the customer, and the broker, the correct 
information on telephone calls. They have not been able to provide the recordings of the 
phone calls, as they have been deleted due to the passing of time. 
FCE have also said that they believe it is clear in the paperwork terms and conditions that a 
customer couldnt reduce their monthly payments even after making overpayments. They 
also feel this is backed up by the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Its unfortunate that we dont have the call recordings to listen to, so I have weighed up the 
remaining evidence. FCE have a call note confirming that they told the customer the correct 
information on a phone call. However, alongside this, the broker has confirmed that they and 
the customer were told by the business that the customer could reduce her monthly 
payments on making a lump sum partial repayment. 
It also seems clear that the customer believed this would be the case, as she contacted the 
business straight away to make the partial lump sum repayment and expected her monthly 
payment to reduce. This gives weight to the customers evidence that she had been told she 
could make the partial repayment and reduce her monthly payments. On balance, I think its 
most likely that the customer was told she could make an overpayment and reduce her 
monthly payments by the dealership. 
Miss H has said that she asked about making an overpayment and reducing her monthly 
payments in discussions with the broker and she was given incorrect information. I wouldnt 
expect a consumer to have detailed knowledge of their rights to change monthly payments 
detailed in the Consumer Credit Act. Equally, I wouldnt expect them to cross reference 
every answer to questions they ask the broker with the terms and conditions, to ensure they 
were given the correct information verbally. It would be reasonable to assume that the 
information they were given when they ask the broker a direct question about whether they 
can reduce the monthly payments would be accurate. 
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, FCE are responsible for what the credit 
broker, tells the customer. In this instance, the car dealership was acting as a credit broker 
for FCE. 
Miss H has provided an email from the dealership sent to her when she contacted them after 
being told she could not reduce her monthly payments when she paid a lump sum payment 
off the loan. In this email, the dealership has confirmed that when she visited them to 
discuss setting up the finance agreement, FCE told the dealer and customer that she could 
reduce her monthly payments if she paid a lump sum off. 
Miss H has said that at this point, the dealership discussed with her the impact of paying off 
the £3000 lump sum. They worked out that it would bring her monthly payments down to 
around £200 per month. This was her preferred budget, and similar to her monthly payments 
on her existing agreement which was coming to an end (£222 per month). 
On this basis, she accepted the agreement. Whether the broker, or FCE made an error in 
the information they provided, what seems clear is that she entered into the agreement 
based on information which was not true. Miss H wanted an agreement paying around £200 
per month, so I dont believe she would have signed up to the agreement if she felt she 
needed to make monthly payments of £376 per month going forward. Miss H immediately contacted FCE to make a lump sum payment once the agreement was in place, confirming 
that this was always her plan to enable her to bring down the monthly payments. 
The credit broker has implied that they misrepresented the finance agreement to Miss H, 
based on information they believe FCE gave them. And I think from what Miss H has said 
and her conduct after the agreement was amended, she was most likely led to believe that 
she could reduce her monthly payments. For this reason, I will be upholding the complaint. 
In this instance, FCE is responsible for the information that the credit broker provided to the 
customer.  
Putting things right
Fortunately, Miss H managed to make the £376 per month payments on the agreement, and 
because she still paid the lump sum of £3000 off, the agreement finished early. Miss H has 
told us however that making these payments caused her distress and inconvenience on 
many occasions. She mentioned being worried about whether she could make the payment 
each month and having to borrow from friends/family on occasion to ensure she could meet 
all her commitments. 
She now owns the car outright. I agree with the view previously issued that FCE should pay 
Miss H £350 for the trouble, distress and inconvenience caused to her. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, and direct FCE Bank Plc trading as Ford 
Credit to pay Miss H £350 for the distress and inconvenience caused.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman