DRN-3538642
The complaint
Mr R complains about the advice given by Equitable Life Utmost Life and Pensions Limited 
(Utmost) is now responsible for the pension and complaints about the advice provided. He 
complains about the advice to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) 
occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for 
him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
Mr R and Equitable Life met in 1995. Mr Rs recollections of the sale of the plan are sparse, 
this isnt surprising given the length of time that has passed. Utmost does have a copy of the 
point of sale information which largely consists a of a suitability letter, a transfer value 
analysis report (TVAS), the point of sale illustrations and the sale administration documents. 
As far as I can see Utmost didnt complete a fact find or establish what Mr Rs attitude to risk 
was. But the point of sale information does show that:
Mr R was aged 53.
He was married and he expected to retire at age 65. 
He wanted to invest in the with profits fund. 
As part of the complaint Mr R has said that he had been made redundant from the business 
where he had accrued the DB scheme benefits a few years earlier. He was employed within 
the same industry, but possibly not in a permanent position, when the transfer took place.  
On 20 September 1995 Equitable Life advised Mr R to transfer his pension benefits into a 
personal pension and invest the proceeds in its with profits fund. The suitability report said 
that, after considering his options, Mr R had concluded that a Personal Pension Plan was 
the most appropriate choice as, with a reasonable growth rate on the With Profits Fund, it 
would be able to provide you with a higher pension than the revalued DB Scheme. In 
addition, it would also provide you with the flexibility to take certain benefits early.  
Mr R signed Equitable Lifes confirmation of advice form which said he had received advice 
from one of its representatives and was happy with this advice. He also confirmed that he 
wasnt an insistent customer.
Mr R proceeded with the transfer. And in 1996 Equitable Life received the transfer proceeds 
of his DB scheme. The total proceeds were transferred in two parts as I understand the DB 
scheme did have some funding issues. 
I understand the total transfer amount was £34,913.39 and the funds were invested in 
Equitable Lifes with profits fund. Some of the transfer comprised Mr Rs guaranteed 
minimum pension (GMP). 
At a later point in time Mr R transferred some additional voluntary contributions (AVC) he 
had made to Equitable Life. It was documented that Equitable Life didnt advise Mr R to do 
this. 
Mr R complained in 2021 to Utmost about the suitability of the transfer advice. He said that 
the Equitable Life adviser did not look into his circumstances fully before recommending the 
transfer. He also says he was told the personal pension would provide greater benefits than 
the DB scheme and he doesnt think this will now be the case. He thinks he has lost out 
significantly. He doesnt think the transfer of the DB scheme was suitable for him.
Utmost didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. It said that it thought it had been brought out of time. 
Unhappy with this, Mr R referred his complaint to our service. 
An Investigator first looked into the jurisdiction of the complaint. He thought that Mr Rs 
complaint had been brought in time. Utmost agreed with this, and the Investigator went on to 
consider the merits of the complaint. 
Our Investigator upheld the complaint and recommended that Utmost pay compensation. He 
said that the transfer of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Rs best interests as he was unlikely to 
match the benefits he would get from the DB scheme due to the transfer. And there was no 
compelling evidence that he required flexibility. Our Investigator also didnt think it was likely 
that Equitable Life had fully discussed Mr Rs options with him at the time. 
He didnt uphold any complaint that Mr R had made about the AVC. It wasnt certain that 
Equitable life had advised Mr R to transfer this. It had also taken place a significant time after 
the main DB transfer advice was given so it wasnt part of this advice.  
Utmost disagreed, but it didnt say why this was. It didnt agree to pay compensation. 
Mr R, and his representative, agreed with what the Investigator said. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint was referred to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. 
And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, Ill reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The advice was provided by Equitable Life in 1995. At this time it was regulated by the 
Personal Investment Authority (PIA). Equitable Life was a previous member of the Life 
Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation (LAUTRO). When the PIA took 
responsibility for LAUTRO businesses in 1994, they adopted the LAUTRO rules. And these 
adopted rules applied at the time of the advice in this case.
The LAUTRO rules included a Code of Conduct at Schedule 2 to the rules. This required 
advisers to exercise due skill, care and diligence and deal fairly with investors. Paragraph 
6 of the Code of Conduct required advisers to give best advice, which included that they 
should not:Make inaccurate or unfair criticisms of other investments, or of any occupational or 
state pension; or
Advise the investor to convert, cancel or allow to lapse any investment contract, 
occupational or state pension, unless they genuinely believed it to be in the 
consumers best interests and clearly disclosed all relevant consequences and 
disadvantages.
Paragraph 8 required an adviser to consider the investors financial position generally and to 
all other relevant circumstances - which included their rights under occupational and state 
pensions. It required them to recommend the contract from within the provider or marketing 
groups range which was most suited to the investor.
However, none of this went as far as meaning that the adviser could just sell the least 
unsuitable contract from within the providers range. Paragraph 13(4) made clear that if a 
customer required a type of policy that couldnt be satisfied by the provider, they should be 
referred to an IFA.
Ive considered the advice given to Mr R with this in mind.
Our Investigator didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint about the transfer of the AVC. And Mr Rs 
representative agreed with the investigators findings. So, I dont think there is any ongoing 
disagreement about this part of Mr Rs complaint. I wont comment in detail about it this part 
of it. But for the avoidance of doubt, Im not persuaded that Equitable Life advised Mr R to 
transfer this part of his DB scheme benefits and Im not upholding this part of his complaint. 
Financial viability 
The advice was given during the period when the regulator was publishing 'discount rates' 
for use in loss assessments resulting from the industry-wide Pensions Review. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable when the advice was given in this case. 
Mr R was 53 at the time of the advice and wanted to retire at 65. The investment return 
(critical yield) required to match the occupational pension at retirement was 10.5% per year. 
This compares with the discount rate of 10% per year for 12 years to retirement in this case.
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 12%, the middle 
projection rate 9%, and the lower projection rate 6%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr R's 
attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. 
 
From what I can see Mr R wasnt an experienced investor. He wouldnt have gained this kind 
of knowledge through his employment.  And this was his main private pension. Overall, what 
I know about Mr Rs circumstances doesnt lead me to conclude that he wanted to take a 
large risk, or perhaps very much risk at all, with his pension planning. 
In order to provide better benefits than the DB scheme the personal pension fund had to 
provide a return greater than 10.5%. This is higher than the discount rate and above the 
regulators middle growth rate. I dont think it was likely that Mr R wanted to take this risk. Added to this a with profits fund is generally regarded as a lower risk investment (leaving 
aside the specific circumstances that surround Equitable Lifes fund). So, it was likely to 
provide returns nearer the lower end of the regulators projection rates than anything else. 
This return would be much lower than Mr R would need to improve on the DB scheme.  
So, I think Mr R was likely to receive benefits of a materially lower overall value than the 
occupational scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in the way he was advised to do. 
For this reason alone, a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Rs best interests. Of 
course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. The point of 
sale information says that Mr R may have wanted some flexibility. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income needs
Whilst there was mention of Mr R taking his benefits flexibly there doesnt seem to have 
been any detailed consideration of this at the time of sale. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think Mr R had a genuine need to access his tax 
free cash earlier than the normal scheme retirement age and leave his funds invested until a 
later date. I say this because it was recorded that he wanted to take his benefits at age 65. I 
also cant see evidence that Mr R had a strong need for a variable income throughout his 
retirement. This doesnt seem to have been discussed.  
It wasnt outlined what Mr Rs income requirements were exactly, But the evidence from the 
time of sale indicates that Mr Rs primary aim was to maximise his retirement income. The 
DB schemes income would have been guaranteed and increasing. And so, I think it offered 
the best chance of doing this. Im satisfied Mr R could have bet met his needs in retirement 
through the DB scheme at 65. 
I dont think the DB transfer was suitable because of any increased flexibility it may have 
provided. 
Any concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
I understand the DB scheme was in deficit at the time. But as far as I know the funding of 
Mr Rs employers DB scheme wasnt in a position such that he should have genuinely been 
concerned about the security of his pension. And there is nothing from the time of sale that 
shows Mr R was concerned about this at the time. 
Suitability of investments
Utmost recommended that Mr R invest in Equitable Lifes with profits fund. As Im upholding 
the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr R, it 
follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is 
because Mr R should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the 
investments in the with profits fund wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the increased income that Equitable Life said he may receive, and some 
flexibility through a personal pension, would have sounded like attractive features to Mr R. 
But Equitable Life wasnt there to just transact what Mr R might have thought he wanted. 
The advisers role was to really understand what Mr R needed and recommend what was in 
his best interests.Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr R was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr R was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits, and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which 
would justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mr R shouldnt have been advised to transfer out 
of the scheme on the basis that he would receive a better pension when this was unlikely. 
This wasnt worth giving up the guarantees associated with his DB scheme.
So, I think Utmost shouldve advised Mr R to remain in his DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr R would've gone ahead anyway, against Utmost's 
advice. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr R wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Utmosts advice. I say this because Mr R seems 
to have been an inexperienced investor. And this pension accounted for the majority of 
Mr Rs personal retirement provision. So, if Utmost had provided him with clear advice 
against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I 
think he wouldve accepted that advice. 
In light of the above, I think Utmost should compensate Mr R for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr R, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for Equitable Lifes unsuitable advice. I consider Mr R 
would have most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr R whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance/rules to come into effect.
He has chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr R. Utmost must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mr R retired at 65, so this should be the basis for the calculations.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Rs acceptance of the decision.
Utmost may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Rs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Rs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Rs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr R as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr R within 90 days of the date Utmost receives notification 
of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Utmost to pay Mr R.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Utmost to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Utmost Life and 
Pensions Limited to pay Mr R the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £160,000.Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Utmost Life and Pensions Limited to pay Mr R any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Utmost 
Life and Pensions Limited to pay Mr R any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Utmost Life and Pensions Limited pays Mr R the balance. I would additionally recommend 
any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr R.
If Mr R accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Utmost Life and 
Pensions Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr R can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr R may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman