DRN-3404022
The complaint
Mrs S has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold her a Silver account. Mrs S 
says she was told that upgrading to the Silver account would be better for her.
What happened
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint about the Silver account. He didnt think 
that this account had been mis-sold. Mrs S disagreed and asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. Having considered everything that has 
been provided, I dont think the Silver account was mis-sold. I will explain why. 
I think it may help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is missing, I 
have to base my decision on what I think was likely to have happened  based on everything 
that is available. And Ive started by thinking about whether Mrs S was given a fair choice to 
take out the Silver packaged bank account.
Firstly, I can see that Mrs S held a fee free account for a number of years prior to the 
upgrade and therefore I think that she wouldve been aware in general that fee free accounts 
were available and an option for her. 
Mrs S has explained that she was told that she needed to upgrade because it was better for 
her and that it would avoid some of the overdraft charges that she was paying. Prior to when 
the account was taken out, I can see that Mrs S was paying a £10 a month fee for an added 
feature called control this was a feature which limited the cost of returned items and 
payments for exceeding an agreed overdraft facility. Mrs S was also paying £5 a month 
every time she used her overdraft facility, so she was paying £15 for every month she used 
her overdraft. This overdraft usage fee increased to £6 in October 2012, which was around 
the time the Silver account was taken out. I should highlight that I am not looking into 
whether the control facility was added correctly and I am only looking at the sale of the Silver 
account.
After the upgrade to the Silver account Mrs S was paying £9.95 a month and if she remained 
inside the first £50 of her overdraft she did not need to pay the monthly overdraft usage fee. 
Looking at the charges that she paid she did remain inside this £50 limit on occasion which 
saved her £6 each time she did this. So I think that the intention of the upgrade in relation to 
the overdraft was to save Mrs S money if she remained inside the first £50 of her overdraft 
facility. So I think at the time Mrs S upgraded her account - knowing that she did not have to 
- due to the benefits that it came with, rather than because she thought she had no choice.
The other benefits the account came with at the time included European Travel Insurance, 
Breakdown Cover and Mobile phone insurance. I can see that Mrs S did occasionally travel, 
drove a car and from her bank statements it seems that she had a mobile phone too. So I 
think that these benefits, coupled with the potential to save money when using her overdraft, 
is most likely what attracted Mrs S to take out the account.
Based on what I have seen I think Lloyds made a personal recommendation to Mrs S to 
upgrade her account to the Silver account. This means that it had to ensure that the account 
was a good fit for Mrs Ss circumstances at the time. And based on the above I think that the 
Silver account was broadly a reasonable recommendation based on Mrs Ss situation at the 
time of the sale. 
I accept that Mrs S may not have been told all the information about all of the account 
benefits but I am satisfied that the major benefits and the cost of the account wouldve been 
mentioned during the sale of the account. These wouldve also been highlighted in the 
documentation issued during and after the sale. I also have not seen anything specific that 
makes me think she wouldve been put off from agreeing to the account, had she been given 
more information about it. 
I accept with the benefit of hindsight, the account may not have provided value for money. 
Im also mindful that Mrs S mayve later gone on to use her overdraft in a way that meant 
she may not have received as much benefit from having the Silver account, as she initially 
thought she would. But this does not mean Lloyds did anything wrong in selling Mrs S the 
account in the first instance. And Ive seen nothing that wouldve prevented Mrs S from 
changing her account, if she later felt that the Silver package was no longer worth the 
monthly fee. 
I note Mrs Ss comments that she is aware that other Lloyds accounts held by other account 
holders were mis-sold. But I can only consider the specific circumstances of this complaint, 
when deciding whether the Silver account was mis-sold. And based on everything I have 
seen in this particular complaint, I dont think that Mrs S was mis-sold her Silver account.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint about her Silver 
account.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman