DRN-1970935
The complaint
Mrs C has complained Paybreak Limited, trading as afforditNOW, is holding her liable for a 
loan which she never applied for.
What happened
In June 2019 Mrs C contacted afforditNOW after getting correspondence about failed 
repayments to a loan. She told them shed not taken out a loan for £859 in April 2019. This 
application for a fixed-sum loan agreement had been completed by her husband for alloy 
wheels to his van. Hed admitted hed taken out this loan in her name. She didnt believe 
there was any basis on which she should be repaying this loan. 
After discussion afforditNOW confirmed they expected Mrs C to make repayments towards 
this loan. Although they accepted shed not taken out the loan, they believed this was a civil 
matter for her to pursue directly with the police.
Mrs C brought her complaint to the ombudsman service. She said this had been taken out 
without her consent. The money had gone directly to pay for goods on her husbands van 
which wasnt part of their joint possessions.
After a detailed review of what had gone on, our investigator told afforditNOW as Mrs C 
hadnt applied for the loan or benefitted from the goods, she was asking them to stop 
pursuing her for the loan.
AfforditNOW werent satisfied with this outcome. Theyve asked an ombudsman to consider 
Mrs Cs complaint. They still consider this is a civil matter and see no reason why they 
should be out of pocket.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Theres only one real issue at the heart of this complaint. If Mrs C didnt complete the loan 
application or benefit from the goods, can afforditNOW still hold her liable? 
To help me reach a decision, Ive considered evidence from afforditNOW including details of 
the loan application. Weve also got evidence from Mrs Cs showing a text conversation 
between her and her husband (who now lives separately) where its clear he took out the 
agreement in her name.
Theres no dispute Mrs C didnt take out the loan. AfforditNOW have made this point to us in 
their correspondence and obviously Mrs C has confirmed this. I can also see:
The application for this loan was made using Mrs Cs genuine joint account bank 
details (which afforditNOW also checked). 
The email address and mobile phone details used in the application dont match 
those that Mrs C has used in her correspondence with this service. Mrs C has 
confirmed the phone details actually belonged to her husband.
These facts alone dont mean that Mrs C didnt apply for the loans but do indicate this was 
done by someone who had access to enough information about her; and set these up 
without wanting to alert her to what was going on.
Based on what the evidence shows, Im satisfied Mrs C didnt apply for the loan.
AfforditNOW has confirmed the money from this loan was paid directly to the supplier of 
alloy wheels for Mr Cs van. Nobody has given me any evidence to show other than this van 
was in Mr Cs name. And in fact Mrs C doesnt drive or have any share in this van. So overall 
I dont believe Mrs C benefitted from this financial agreement.
Its clear this has all had a massive impact on Mrs Cs relationship with her husband. 
Although hed taken out a financial agreement without her knowledge more than five years 
before, I cant see theres anything which suggests Mrs C should have taken further steps to 
ensure her husband didnt defraud her. Thats not generally what one expects in a 
relationship.
Overall and on balance I believe Mrs C didnt apply for this loan. As afforditNOW has no 
contractual agreement with her and I cant see that Mrs C benefitted from the funds, they 
cant ask her to repay the money or lodge any data about this agreement on her credit 
record. They are of course free to take whatever action they feel is appropriate towards 
Mrs Cs husband who I believe was involved with the loan application and the use of the 
money.
Although a direct debit was set up to repay this loan, no payment was made towards this 
loan by Mrs C. 
Putting things right
On the basis Ive decided Mrs C didnt take out this loan, or benefit from it, I will be asking 
afforditNOW to clear any information from Mrs Cs credit record about this loan and stop 
asking their debt collection company to get her to repay any debt.
It appears that afforditNOW accepted early on that Mrs C hadnt taken out the loan. So I find 
it surprising they felt it was fair and reasonable to continue to say they believed she was 
liable for repayment. This isnt the case and Id have expected them to know this.
I believe this must have added to the emotional distress Mrs C has gone through during this 
period. I think its fair and reasonable afforditNOW pay her £100 in compensation for the 
trouble caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct Paybreak Limited, trading as 
afforditNOW, to:
Stop pursuing Mrs C for repayment of a loan as she didnt apply for it; 
Remove any information from her credit record relating to this loan; and
Pay Mrs C £100 for the trouble caused.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman