DRN-2828045
The complaint
Mr D complains about the level of service provided by Hastings Insurance Services Limited 
in regard to correspondence about his motor insurance policy.
 
What happened
Mr D received an email from Hastings telling him that the name of the insurer of a policy 
add-on had changed and it had added an exclusion to cover related to the pandemic. Mr D 
rang Hastings and its agent thought the email may be a scam. It took a month before 
Hastings confirmed to Mr D that the email was genuine. Hastings offered Mr D a refund of 
the premium for the add-on and £40 compensation. Mr D declined this offer.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Hastings 
had reasonably refunded the premium for the add-on. So he didnt consider the mis-sale 
issue. But he thought Hastings offer of compensation wasnt enough for the stress and 
trouble caused to Mr D. He thought it should increase its offer to £100. 
Hastings didnt respond to the investigators view. So the complaint has come to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a business makes a mistake, as Hastings accepts it has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error had on the consumer. 
I think Hastings offer to refund the premium for the policy add-on puts Mr D back into the 
position he would have been in if he had been given better information when he renewed his 
policy. This is what Id require if I thought Mr D may have made a different decision at 
renewal if hed been given better information. So I dont need to consider this further. 
But I can see that Hastings level of service had a significant impact on Mr D:
1. It firstly told him, incorrectly, that the email looked suspicious and may be a scam. Online 
security was important to Mr D and this caused him alarm and concern that there had 
been a data breach.
2. Mr D made several follow up calls and sent emails to try and get further information from 
Hastings. Hastings said it was told that the email was genuine seven days after Mr D 
received it. But it didnt then pass this information on to Mr D when he called but still told 
him that the email may not have been from Hastings. I think Hastings should have 
promptly informed Mr D of the correct information.
3. I think Hastings could have told Mr D the exclusion wouldnt have affected his policy as 
the insurer was being cautious and had added the exclusion to all its products. So Mr D 
could then have better decided whether to keep the add-on or not. 
4. It took a month for Hastings to write to Mr D to tell him that the email was authentic. So I 
think Hastings caused Mr D to suffer avoidable concern and stress for three weeks 
longer than necessary.
Hastings offered Mr D £40 compensation for his trouble and upset. But I agree with the 
investigator that this is insufficient in Mr Ds particular circumstances. I agree that £100 
better reflects the level of upset, the time spent and the trouble thats been caused to Mr D. 
This is in keeping with what Id award in similar circumstances.
Putting things right
I require Hastings Insurance Services Limited to pay Mr D £100 in total compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by its level of service.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Hastings Insurance Services Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman