DRN-3814808
The complaint
Mr T complains HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC): 
- unfairly locked him out of his account
- its telephone staff treated him poorly and calls were abruptly disconnected 
- sent him a new telephone PIN outside of the agreed timescales
- its use of overseas staff, who work from home, has led to him receiving poor 
customer service; and
- HSBCs error on its letters has caused him detriment 
Mr T would like his calls to be reimbursed and compensation for the trouble and upset 
HSBCs actions have caused.   
What happened
Im aware Mr T has other complaints at this service. To avoid any ambiguity, this decision 
only deals with the complaint points as above. 
In April 2022, Mr T called HSBCs telephone banking services to check his balance and to 
initiate and process payments. Several calls took place that day. In some, Mr T passed 
HSBCs telephone verification and was able to carry out the actions he wanted. On another 
call, he was told he had failed security  and would have to go into a HSBC branch to verify 
his identity. 
Mr T, for reasons I dont necessarily need to disclose here, was physically prevented from 
doing this. Mr T made other calls in which he was told the same thing, but later that evening 
he was able to get through the telephone banking security and access his account. 
Unhappy with what had happened Mr T complained to HSBC. Mr T also complained that it 
took ten working days for him to receive a new telephone PIN number when he was told it 
would take around five days.
HSBC did not uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
Mr T called HSBC again a little over a week later, on 20 April 2022. Mr T was asked for his 
date of birth and telephone banking PIN, but he was told it didnt match. Mr T tried again and 
was successful the second time.  As part of his complaint, Mr T has said he gave the same 
details as before, and so he questions whether HSBCs staff had made an error  or whether 
he was being unfairly victimised. Mr T says the prospect of having his account locked again 
caused him severe distress. 
Mr T raised a complaint with HSBC about this. In its response, and in summary, HSBC said: 
- The correct process was followed by the agent Mr T spoke to on 20 April 2022
 
- The agent could understand him and there was no language barrier 
- HSBC isnt in any way victimising Mr T nor discriminating against him 
Unhappy, Mr T referred his complaint to this service. One of our Investigators looked into it. 
In summary they found: 
- This service does not have the power to tell HSBC where its staff should operate 
from  this is a matter for the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
- Calls were disconnected on several occasions, but there isnt evidence to show this 
was intentional, nor due to the location of HSBCs staff. This would have frustrated 
Mr T
- They were satisfied HSBC had acted fairly when locking Mr Ts telephone banking 
services. And they were persuaded HSBC were following its processes correctly. As 
HSBC did nothing wrong here, it doesnt need to pay compensation for any trouble 
and upset this caused 
- HSBCs staff members suggestions were neither short sighted nor rude. These 
suggestions were provided to support Mr T  and were not designed to be 
obstructive given his circumstances 
- HSBC were following its procedures to verify Mr T and pass security
- HSBC arranged to send Mr T a new telephone PIN within two days. It cant be held 
liable for any delays in the postal service
- HSBC did make an administrative error by sending Mr T letters with the wording DO 
NOT USE as part of his name. This would have caused him distress
- They couldnt find any record that Mr T asked for three months statements as he 
says he did. But they had seen some statements were sent. There wasnt any 
evidence to show Mr T was declined account services with other providers because 
of not having three months statements 
- Our Investigator asked HSBC to send Mr T three months statements
- HSBC should pay Mr T £150 compensation for the letter error and for calls 
disconnecting 
HSBC agreed with our Investigator. As Mr T did not, the complaint has now been passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to assure Mr T that even if I do not expressly reiterate all his complaint points and 
arguments in my decision, I have very carefully considered all the information he has sent 
us. By not doing this I mean him no discourtesy. I have however addressed the heads of his 
complaint.  Ive decided to uphold Mr Ts complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
The key event from which most of Mr Ts other heads of complaint stem from is of HSBC 
locking his telephone banking services and requesting that he go into a branch to verify 
himself. 
I can appreciate this matter would have caused Mr T significant frustration and upset given 
he was unable to go to a branch due to his circumstance at the time. But having carefully 
listened to the calls, and given HSBC has strong regulatory obligations to protect its 
customer from financial harm, which includes having robust verification procedures in place, 
Im satisfied it did nothing wrong. 
Mr T has argued he was giving HSBC the correct information when asked for certain digits 
from his telephone PIN. Mr T had just received his new PIN around that time, which he says 
he changed on the calls. Im not able to see whether Mr T had given the correct or incorrect 
detail here as often these prompts are computer generated at HSBCs end. 
So I must make a finding on balance here. Having listened to the calls, I havent seen 
anything which suggests HSBCs staff member deliberately tried to prevent Mr T, or 
erroneously stopped him from passing its security protocol. HSBC also has other guidelines 
in place which formed part of its staff members decision to block Mr T from accessing its 
telephone banking services. 
Taken together, Im persuaded HSBC most likely followed its processes fairly when locking 
the account. Its also common practice for banks to ask its customers to go into a branch to 
verify themselves before unlocking the telephone or online aspect of its banking services. 
In the calls I listened to, Mr T said he was always working on the weekdays, and the branch 
isnt open on the weekends for him to do this. Given no other reason was put forward at that 
time, Im satisfied HSBC wasnt being inflexible nor unwilling to adapt its services. After all, it 
has a duty to ensure that its talking to its customer and not someone impersonating them. 
So, in summary, Im satisfied HSBC acted fairly and reasonably, and in line with obligations 
placed on it, when it locked Mr T out of his account. 
Mr T says HSBCs commercial decision to have overseas staff providing a telephone service 
is poor. Some of his key observations are that the calls are of low quality; there are language 
and communication barriers to overcome; agents are often working from home with 
background interference; and the distance to these overseas locations make calls unstable. 
Our Investigator was right to say that HSBCs overall commercial decisions, and how it 
chooses to operate, are not matters this service has been set-up to address. That is more for 
the regulator. 
I must of course decide the individual merits of this case. And having listened to all the calls 
HSBC have sent me, Im satisfied all the agents Mr T spoke to were able to communicate 
effectively with him. So Im satisfied the conversations he had with all the agents were not 
rendered ineffective or caused Mr T detriment due to their overseas location. Nor have I 
seen evidence that Mr T was treated poorly or that there was a deliberate and underhand 
intention to make matters more challenging for him. 
It's clear some of the calls disconnected abruptly midway. From listening to the calls I cant 
tell either way why this happened. Mr T feels this could have been deliberate. But given 
theres no compelling evidence either way, I cant find this was the case here. But I do agree 
the calls disconnecting would have caused trouble and upset, and in turn lead to Mr T having to call in again several times. The fault could have been at Mr Ts end given the prevailing 
circumstance which dictated how he was making the calls. But given there were a handful of 
calls where this happened, some fault most likely fell on HSBC.
Its also clear that HSBC erroneously sent Mr T letters with the wording DO NOT USE 
interspersed with his name. HSBC accept it got this wrong. Mr T says this would have 
prevented him from opening another account elsewhere. But I havent seen anything to 
persuade me this happened. Its equally plausible another financial service would have seen 
this as an obvious administrative error. 
Having said that, I can see this would have caused Mr T some trouble and upset for the 
reasons hes given about it potentially casting some suspicion.  
Mr T says he received a new PIN some five working days after he was told he would. HSBC 
have sent me an internal screenshot which Im satisfied shows his request was processed in 
reasonable time. So its likely any delay was caused by the postal services  something 
HSBC arent responsible for. 
Lastly, and for the sake of completeness, I note Mr T feels he was victimised and thereby 
discriminated against. This is a serious allegation. I want to make clear I do not doubt how 
genuinely Mr T feels about this matter and the upset HSBCs actions have caused him.
But Ive not seen any written policy document to that effect. Nor have I seen anything else 
which shows HSBC was treating Mr T differently because of a protected characteristic. And 
while I appreciate this is his perspective, it is not my role to decide whether discrimination 
has taken place as a matter of law  only the courts have the power to decide this. 
I have, however, considered the relevant law in relation to what Mr T has said when deciding 
what I think is the fair and reasonable outcome. Part of this has meant considering the 
provisions of The Equality Act 2010. But after doing so Ive not seen evidence to indicate 
Mr T was discriminated on the grounds of any protected characteristic. So I havent found 
that HSBCs behaviour was improper.
Given the errors in the letters, and the calls disconnecting HSBC should pay Mr T 
compensation for the trouble and upset this caused. In reaching this funding, Ive taken on 
board that he had to make more calls at a cost to him, the inconvenience this caused, and 
the anxiety he says this caused him. The letter error too would have caused him some 
worry. 
So, to put things right, HSBC should pay Mr T £150 compensation. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. To put things right, HSBC UK Bank Plc should compensate 
Mr T as directed above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman