DRN-3330714
The complaint
Mr Gs complaint is that Wise Payments Limited has treated him unfairly in regard to 
transactions for flights abroad and his account closing.
 
What happened
Mr G used his account with Wise Payments Limited (Wise from now on) to pay for two sets 
of flights. There were two transactions disputed, one with a travel company which I will call 
Firm B and another transaction with a different travel company which I will call Firm W. Mr G 
says he didnt use any of these flights, so he raised a dispute with Wise. Mr G has latterly 
complained that Wise closed his account.
Wise raised the Chargebacks with Firm B and Firm W. Both Firms responded by rejecting 
the Chargebacks and providing evidence. Wise says in both cases the evidence showed that 
Mr G did get on the flights as planned and did travel to and from the destinations booked. 
Wise also says it did close his account in line with its terms and conditions. 
So Mr G complained to Wise disputing the evidence provided and providing what he says is 
evidence he was in the UK throughout the times when the flights were booked. He says he 
still wants a refund for these transactions. Wise said it hadnt done anything wrong. So Mr G 
complained here.
Our Investigator considered the matter and decided that Wise had treated Mr G fairly. Mr G 
doesnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G says he made these transactions and he hasnt disputed that he knew the amount he 
was paying. Taking everything into account Im satisfied the transactions were properly 
authorised by Mr G and correctly applied to Mr Gs account by Wise. 
Chargeback
Wise uses one of the available card schemes for some of its payment services. Within this 
scheme is a set of rules where companies such as Wise can challenge transactions made 
through the scheme, through a process known as Chargeback. In essence this involves 
Wise challenging the transaction by way of one of the many chargeback reason codes. The 
merchant (Firm B and Firm W here) would receive this chargeback code and can either 
accept the chargeback by which the consumer, Mr G in this case, would receive a refund or 
it can defend it by evidencing why it believes the transaction should stand. 
There then follows a process to decide on this chargeback which goes back and forth. 
Ultimately the scheme provider can decide on whether the chargeback is successful or not. 
So it is not up to Wise in the end whether Mr G should be refunded or not. Its important to 
note that chargeback isnt an automatic right for consumers. Wise is also allowed to decide 
whether there is a realistic prospect of success before it decides whether to pursue the 
chargeback further or not. And it can make this decision at any time during the process. But 
if it does decide to make a chargeback it needs to do so properly.
Wise says it raised a Chargeback with both Firm B and Firm W and that once it had received 
the evidence it did in response, it felt that neither Chargeback had a reasonable prospect of 
success. And accordingly it didnt take the Chargebacks any further.
Ive considered the evidence that Firm B and Firm W have provided. I note that in both cases 
they have shown that the flight tickets were issued in line with the purchases and that 
someone checked in to all the flights using the tickets Mr G bought and boarded those 
flights. Ive also seen evidence showing the identification provided to check-in and board the 
flights in the seats corresponding to the tickets that Mr G bought. Using identification which 
identified that person as Mr G. I think it unlikely that someone with Mr Gs exact name and 
other identifying characteristics who isnt Mr G managed to intercept these tickets and chose 
to fly to the respective countries on the respective dates and return without Mr Gs 
involvement. 
Wise has also pointed out that Mr Gs account with Wise was used to make transactions in 
either the destination country or a country where the flights stopped over at the times that Mr 
G was due to be in those countries based on the flight tickets he accepts he bought. Wise 
points out that Mr G hasnt disputed those transactions at all.
Ive considered the evidence from Mr G which he says shows he was in the UK throughout. I 
note that it is far from persuasive and doesnt demonstrate what he says it does with regard 
to his location during the periods his flights covered. It isnt even persuasive that this 
evidence actually pertains to Mr G considering its nature. I think the evidence provided by 
Firm B and Firm W and that provided by Wise is more persuasive as to his likely location at 
those times.
So considering all of the evidence Ive considered in this dispute I dont think Wise has 
treated Mr G unfairly in not refunding him these ticket costs for his transactions with either 
Firm B or Firm W.
Mr G has also complained that Wise has since closed his account with it. To have an 
account with Wise Mr G had agreed to its terms and conditions. In those terms and 
conditions it is explained in what circumstances Wise can chose to end its relationship with 
customers such as Mr G. Its also explained what notice periods Wise needs to give if it 
chooses to end a relationship, including situations where it doesnt have to give notice. 
Having considered everything here I dont think Wise has treated Mr G unfairly or not in line 
with the agreed terms and conditions. So I dont think Wise has done anything wrong here.
Summary 
So all in all, Im not persuaded Wise has done anything wrong here. I think Wise has treated 
Mr G fairly throughout. Accordingly Mr Gs complaint isnt successful.
My final decision
Accordingly I do not uphold the complaint against Wise Payments Limited. It has nothing 
further to do on this matter.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman