DRN-3674085
The complaint
Mr N has complained that Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited cancelled his motor 
insurance policy unfairly and added him to an insurance fraud database. This has led to him 
having to pay more for the policies hes taken out with other insurers after this. 
What happened
Mr N had a policy with Markerstudy, which he took out through a broker in August 2020 to 
cover his car on a laid up basis. He then changed the cover to fully comprehensive with 
effect from 12 December 2020. Markerstudy wrote to Mr N on 22 December 2020 to tell him 
theyd be cancelling his policy with effect from 29 December 2020. Mr N didnt challenge this 
at the time and arranged a new policy to cover his car. 
Mr M called Markerstudy to complain about their decision to cancel in May 2021. Their 
adviser told him his policy had been cancelled due to suspicious quotes being taken out to 
cover his car in the period between August and December 2020 when he changed to 
comprehensive cover. At this point Mr M said he hadnt got any other quotes for his car, 
although he did mention other people may have been insured to use it on a short-term basis. 
He also asked the adviser where information about him and the suspicious activity relating to 
the policy had been shared. The adviser gave him the details of a fraud database 
Markerstudy had placed it on. In the end, the adviser agreed to set up a complaint for Mr N. 
Markerstudy then issued a final response letter on the complaint maintaining that it was 
entitled to cancel the policy. 
Mr N asked us to consider his complaint about Markerstudy. One of our investigators did 
this. He originally said he thought Markerstudys approach in cancelling the policy was 
unreasonable. But, in the end, he concluded that it was reasonable, but that they shouldnt 
have placed what is termed an inconsistent marker against Mr N on the fraud database. He 
said this had caused Mr N distress and inconvenience and Markerstudy should remove the 
marker and pay him £200 in compensation. 
Markerstudy dont agree with the investigator and have asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the terms of the policy Mr N had with Markerstudy they were entitled to cancel his 
policy by giving him 7 days notice in writing, which is what they did. So, they complied with 
the policy terms. However, Id only expect them to do this for a good reason. Markerstudy 
have provided evidence to show that several quotes were taken out for Mr Ns car using 
false details in the period between when he took out his policy with them and when he 
changed to comprehensive cover. Three of these were a few days before he changed to 
comprehensive cover. This concerned Markerstudy and is why they cancelled Mr Ns policy. 
And I think their concerns were understandable and justified their decision to cancel. I 
appreciate they sent notice of cancellation over the Christmas period when it was harder for 
Mr N to contact Markerstudy. But, I think their decision was reasonable in the circumstances 
and Mr N did have the opportunity to contact them, albeit not on some of the days in the 
period concerned. 
Markerstudy have explained they didnt record the cancellation itself on any external 
databases. But, I can understand why it has affected the premiums Mr N has had to pay for 
new policies, as he has had to declare it and insurers usually charge more for people who 
have had previous policies cancelled. However, as Ive said, I think the decision by 
Markerstudy was reasonable, so Mr N will have to accept that he needs to declare the 
cancellation moving forward and the implications of this. 
Although, Mr N didnt actually complain to Markerstudy specifically about having information 
concerning him placed on a fraud database, he did complain about the impact of the 
cancellation. And I think the entry on the database can be seen as part of this. Therefore, 
Markerstudy should have addressed this aspect, especially as it was discussed with their 
adviser when Mr N first complained. 
Ive spoken to Mr N and asked him why he got several quotes for short-term cover for his car 
just before changing to comprehensive cover. Hes explained that this was because he was 
thinking of getting a spoiler fitted to it and was just going to drive it to the garage to get this 
done. Hes said when he got a certificate from the broker hed been using with the wrong 
details for him on it, he realised there was something wrong and decided to insure the car 
comprehensively with Markerstudy. He also explained that his reference to other people 
being insured on the car was on occasions where is brother and father had used it. 
Ive looked at the guidelines for the fraud database that Markerstudy entered an inconsistent 
marker against Mr Ns name. These say they should only do this where following 
investigation fraud has not been proven but the member (Markerstudy) has suspicions 
concerning the policy or claim. And, while I can understand why Markerstudy had concerns 
about Mr Ns links to the broker who had obtained cover for his car fraudulently, they did not 
have actual suspicions about Mr Ns policy with them. They were perfectly satisfied the 
details he had provided were correct  and the only reason they cancelled it was because of 
Mr Ns links with someone who might be best described as a ghost broker.
In view of what Mr N has said and the fact that Im satisfied that as soon as he realised the 
broker was using false details he stopped using him, I dont think Markerstudy should have 
placed an inconsistency marker against Mr N on the fraud database. He already had 
information recorded against him by another insurer or others as a result of his association 
with the broker. And I dont think its fair for him to be penalised twice for his inadvertent error 
in using this broker. So, I think Markerstudy should remove the inconsistency marker they 
placed on the database with regards to Mr N. 
I also think the fact they placed a marker on the database inappropriately caused Mr N 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience and that Markerstudy should pay him £200 in 
compensation to reflect this.
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, Markerstudy must remove the entry theyve placed on the 
fraud database about Mr N and pay him £200 in compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. 
My final decision
My final decision is to uphold Mr Ns complaint and order Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited to do what Ive set out above in the putting things right section. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman