DRN-2842709
The complaint
Mr H says CMME Mortgages And Protection Limited (CMME) gave him incorrect and 
incomplete information when it recommended a mortgage to him in 2017  which he feels 
has caused him a loss. 
What happened
CMME gave Mr H mortgage advice in November 2017. It recommended he take a 
repayment mortgage with a lender over a term of thirty years, with a five-year fixed interest 
rate. If the mortgage was repaid within the first five years an early repayment charge (ERC) 
would be payable. CMME said that the mortgage was portable.
In June 2020 Mr H was looking to port his mortgage to a new property and borrow additional 
funds. He became aware around that time that a broker could not make a porting application 
on his behalf. He discussed porting his mortgage with the lender directly, but it said it 
thought the application for new borrowing was likely to fall outside of its lending criteria. As 
the lender couldnt assure Mr H that an application for the borrowing he wanted would be 
successful, he chose not to go ahead with one.
Mr H contacted CMME and asked for its help in arranging a replacement mortgage with a 
new lender  to allow him to borrow additional funds and complete the sale of his existing 
property and purchase of a new one. CMME charged a fee for the service provided. And it 
sourced a mortgage for Mr H, as requested.
Mr H took up this new mortgage. As a result, he had to pay an ERC to exit his existing 
mortgage.
Mr H then complained to CMME. He said it hadnt made it clear when it sold him his original 
mortgage in 2017 that a broker would not be able to assist with a porting application. And so, 
he said he didnt feel it was in fact portable at all. So, he didnt feel it was fair he had incurred 
an ERC. He also said he was unhappy at having had to pay a fee for the advice provided by 
CMME in 2020.
CMME didnt uphold the complaint. It said the mortgage recommended in 2017 had been 
suitable for Mr Hs needs at the time. Portability of the mortgage wasnt a need that was 
identified. But in any event the recommended mortgage was portable  subject to the 
lenders criteria at the point of this being requested. It didnt think the restriction on a broker 
not being able to act for Mr H in a porting application made the advice unsuitable. And 
CMME said Mr H was aware hed need to pay an ERC before proceeding with his new 
mortgage and had accepted this. So, it didnt think it had done anything wrong that had 
caused Mr H to incur the ERC. And it said the fee it charged for the services provided in 
2020 had been charged correctly.
Unhappy with this response Mr H asked our service to consider his complaint.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt think CMME had done anything 
wrong. He didnt think CMME was required to say whether a broker could be involved in 
porting a mortgage  as this was down to the lenders criteria. He felt it was enough that it 
said whether the mortgage was portable or not. So, he didnt think CMME could reasonably 
be required to refund Mr Hs ERC  which hed knowingly agreed to pay. And he didnt think 
the broker fee charged by CMME in 2020 needed to be refunded as it had provided Mr H the 
requested service.
Mr H did not agree with the investigators opinion. In summary, he said that hed approached 
CMME for advice when taking out a mortgage in 2017 because it promoted itself as having 
significant experience in dealing with customers in his position  with non-standard 
employment contracts. He said CMME had been aware of this when providing advice. And 
he felt that his position meant, if a broker was not able to help with a porting application, an 
application to port was always likely to be unsuccessful  so the mortgage he took was not in 
fact portable. So, he said he felt CMME needed to make him aware that the mortgage it 
recommended to him in 2017 was not portable via a broker. And that by not doing so, he felt 
CMME had not provided an adequate explanation of the mortgage and had given misleading 
and unsuitable advice and acted contrary to a number of mortgage regulations.
As Mr H did not agree with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been provided with a copy of the suitability letter CMME sent to Mr H in 2017, setting out 
the reasons for its recommendation at that time. This outlines Mr Hs stated needs and 
requirements and the reasons why CMME felt the mortgage it was recommending met them. 
Mr H hasnt disputed the information recorded about his needs. And I note that the ability to 
port the mortgage was not a highlighted requirement. Based on the information in this 
document and the mortgage offer Ive seen, the mortgage seems to have been in line with 
the needs Mr H made CMME aware of at the time it gave advice.
Mr Hs argument is that the information about the mortgage being portable was mis-leading. 
He says it wasnt made clear any application to port couldnt be made through a broker. And 
he says that means, in his circumstances, the mortgage wasnt actually portable. So, he 
feels the advice was unsuitable. 
As Ive said, the mortgage being portable isnt listed as one of Mr Hs requirements at the 
time the advice was given. So, based on what Ive seen I dont think the mortgage being 
portable or not would necessarily mean the advice given was unsuitable anyway. But in any 
event, the information given by CMME, in its summary about the reasons for its 
recommendation, is correct. It said that the mortgage was portable. And the mortgage offer 
from the lender confirms this to be true.
Mr H says that in his circumstances, due to the nature of his employment contract, the 
mortgage would not be portable without the assistance of a specialist broker. But an 
application to port, as detailed in the mortgage offer from the lender, is subject to the lenders 
criteria at the point the application is made. These criteria are applicable whether an 
application is made directly with the lender or via a broker. So, I dont agree that the 
mortgage was not portable or that the success of any such application was dependent on 
using an intermediary.
And I dont think CMME needed to provide any information beyond what it did, about the 
porting criteria  specifically whether a broker could be used in an application to port. Whether or not the lender would accept a porting application from a broker is a matter of its 
lending criteria and judgement. And that criteria is subject to change. So, if CMME had 
included information about this, it could have quickly become out of date.
I also note, as part of his complaint, Mr H provided a letter he received from the lender when 
he raised a complaint with it about not being able to port his mortgage. This indicates that it 
was the additional borrowing he needed that it could not support, rather than the mortgage 
not being portable. And I cant see any evidence that, at any stage, the lender has refused to 
consider a request to port the mortgage.
Taking all of this into account I dont think the information given by CMME about whether the 
mortgage was portable was wrong. And I dont think it was required to include any further 
information about the lenders criteria for accepting a porting application in the future. As a 
result, I think the advice given by CMME in 2017 to Mr H appears to have been suitable. 
When Mr H took further advice from CMME in 2020, Im satisfied that it made it clear to him 
that, by taking a new mortgage, hed incur an ERC from his existing lender. And he made an 
informed decision to do so. Mr H has said he only paid the ERC so that the purchase of his 
new property did not fall through. But given I dont think CMME made an error in 2017 with 
the advice it provided and that it made him aware that by proceeding with its later advice this 
would be payable, I cant reasonably require CMME to cover this cost.
Mr H has also said he is unhappy that he had to pay a broker fee to CMME in 2020 for the 
advice it provided. Hes indicated that he thinks this wouldnt have been payable had the 
issue with not being able to port via a broker been made clear in 2017. As Ive said, I dont 
think CMME made an error in 2017. But even if the application he made via CMME in 2020 
was to port his existing mortgage rather than take a new one, I think this fee would still have 
been payable. The fee relates to the advice given and service provided in 2020  which was 
a separate service to that provided in 2017. 
In any event the fee seems to have been charged correctly and relates to the service 
provided. And given this, and as I dont think CMME has done anything wrong, I cant 
reasonably require it to waive this fee.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman