DRN-2718388
The complaint
Miss F complains that a finance agreement was misrepresented to her by Hyundai Capital 
UK Limited, trading as Hyundai Finance Contract Hire (Hyundai Finance). She says she 
should have been told about the early termination charges.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss F, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss F acquired her car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
If Miss F was told something that was false and if that false information led her to enter into 
an agreement she most likely would not have entered into, had it not been for that false 
information, I would think the agreement was misrepresented to her.
The relevant legislation doesnt hold the finance provider responsible for what is said by the 
broker of credit in a hire agreement. So, Im not able to consider Miss Fs concerns that the 
dealership didnt provide a copy of the finance agreement at the point of supply or that they 
didnt explain the charges that could apply if she settled the agreement early.
But I have considered the actions of Hyundai Finance and whether they provided false or 
misleading information.
I dont think they did because:
their records show a welcome pack was sent to Miss F on 29 October 2019. That 
was only a few days after Miss F had taken receipt of the car. That welcome pack, 
which included the finance agreement, was sent to the address we have for Miss F, 
so Im persuaded its most likely Miss F received it;
the agreement is signed by Miss F and I think its fair to say that by signing it Miss F 
confirmed she had read and agreed with the terms;
clause 9.1.6 sets out Miss Fs liability if the agreement is terminated early. Im 
therefore satisfied that the information was provided to Miss F on inception of the 
finance and that it is reasonable to suggest Miss F should have been aware of the 
requirements if the agreement was settled early;
Im not persuaded the payment on termination clause needed to be more prominent 
in the agreement. There are many terms and conditions and I dont think this was 
essential first page reading. Id expect the financial details to be on the first page as 
they would apply in all circumstances, but I think it is reasonable for terms that would 
be relied upon less frequently to be listed later.
So, I am not persuaded there is sufficient evidence that this agreement was misrepresented 
to Miss F.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman