DRN-2170033
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the decision of Dentists' Provident Society Limited (DPS) to 
decline his claim under his income protection exclusion policy and to retrospectively add an 
exclusion to the policy.
What happened
In 2014, Mr H took out an income protection insurance policy with DPS. The policy would 
pay a monthly benefit in the event that Mr H was unable to perform his occupation due to 
illness or injury.
In 2016, Mr H took out a further income protection policy with DPS to increase the amount of 
benefit he would receive in the event he was unable to work (Mr H actually applied for the 
second policy in December 2015).
In 2018, Mr H stopped working for a period of time. He later made a claim to DPS saying 
that the reason he stopped working was due to stress and anxiety following the breakdown 
of his marriage.
While assessing the claim, DPS noted that Mr H had visited his GP in 2011 complaining of a 
six-month history of stress and panic attacks. It further noted that when Mr H had taken out 
each of his policies, he had told it he had never suffered any stress or anxiety. It considered 
Mr H had given wrong information and that if he had given the correct information it would 
have applied an exclusion to his cover so that no benefit would be payable for his current 
claim. It therefore told Mr H that it was going to retrospectively apply this exclusion to his 
cover and thereby decline his claim.
Mr H complained to DPS about its decision. He said he had forgotten about the 2011 GP 
visit because the issue was so minor. He said it was a single appointment during a stressful 
period while he was undergoing exams and that his GP had incorrectly recorded the duration 
and severity of his condition. He disputed that DPS would have chosen at the time of his 
application to impose such an exclusion based on this single episode.
DPS wouldnt change its position. Mr H therefore referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. In his opinion, DPS 
had acted fairly.
Mr H didnt accept the investigators findings. He disputed the accuracy of the GPs record 
and stated that he had never suffered panic attacks or a six-month history of mental distress. 
He pointed out that no diagnosis was made, no medications were prescribed and no referral 
was offered. He considered it hadnt been necessary for him to disclose such a minor 
episode and that, in any case, DPS should have reviewed his medical records as part of the 
underwriting process. He considered the decision to impose an exclusion was 
disproportionate and unfair.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr H applied for the policy in 2014, and again in 2015, he had to answer a number of 
medical questions. These included the following:
Have you ever suffered any stress, anxiety or depression?
On both occasions, Mr H answered no.
The GP records show that Mr H visited his GP in 2011 complaining of panic attacks and 
stress related to exams and his girlfriends illness. He requested that the GP provide him 
with a letter which he could use to plead mitigating circumstances in respect of the exams 
which he said he had recently failed. The GP subsequently wrote a To whom it may 
concern letter in which he stated:
[Mr H] informed me of the difficulties he had been experiencing over the past 6 months. He 
has had what sounds like panic attacks and had a lot of stress related to exams, re-sits and 
also in relation to illness of his girlfriend.
Mr H disputes that he had a six month history of distress or had suffered any panic attacks. 
However, I consider that the GPs letter is likely to reflect what Mr H had reported to him at 
the time.
I consider that, in light of what Mr H had reported to his GP in 2011, he clearly had suffered 
from stress previously and so should have answered yes to the question which was put to 
him at each application.
Mr H says that he wasnt diagnosed with any mental illness, given any medication or referred 
onwards to any specialist. However, he wasnt asked about those things; he was simply 
asked whether he had ever suffered from stress. And the correct answer to that was yes.
Mr H says that the episode was so minor that he had forgotten about it. However, given that 
it was serious enough for him to visit his GP, and obtain a letter from the GP asking for his 
condition to be taken into account by his examination board, I consider it was something he 
should reasonably have mentioned. This is particularly as the episode had taken place within 
five years of even the more recent application. It doesnt matter whether, as Mr H has said, 
he didnt eventually use the letter which his GP had provided. However, I accept that his 
failure to mention the episode was likely due to carelessness rather than a deliberate 
misrepresentation.
Mr H says that DPS should have obtained his medical records before accepting his 
application. However, there was no obligation on DPS to do this. The onus was on Mr H to 
provide accurate information and it was reasonable for DPS to rely on this when deciding 
whether to offer him cover and on what terms.
DPS has provided a very detailed explanation of its underwriting approach at the time both 
applications were made. This underwriting approach makes specific reference to exam-
related stress. Im satisfied from the information provided that, if Mr H had answered the 
question correctly at the time of application, DPS would have applied an exclusion to his 
cover relating to psychiatric and other disorders.The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 contains provisions for 
what happens when a consumer makes a careless misrepresentation which would have 
affected the insurers decision to offer cover. In a situation such as this one here, the Act 
allows DPS to retrospectively apply special terms to the cover which it would have applied at 
the time had the misrepresentation not been made. This being the case, Im satisfied that it 
was fair for DPS to apply the exclusion retrospectively to Mr Hs cover and thereby decline 
his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman