DRN-2948774
The complaint
Miss M complains about the renewal of an insurance policy brokered by OVO (S) HOME 
SERVICES LIMITED trading as SSE.
What happened
Miss M had a home services policy sold and administered by OVO. The policy covered her 
boiler and central heating system, amongst other things. 
The policy had two elements. There was an annual service. This was in effect a service 
contract and not an insurance contract. And so isnt something we can look into because its 
not a regulated financial activity. There was also a breakdown contract, which was an 
insurance contract underwritten by an insurance company (not OVO). 
Miss M took out the policy in 2007. In December 2020, Miss M made a claim under the 
breakdown (insurance) contract after shed experienced some problems with her boiler.
An engineer attended but found that he couldnt obtain the parts required to fix the boiler. 
These were obsolete and no longer made by the boilers manufacturer. The boiler is more 
than 20 years old.
OVO told Miss M the boiler was obsolete and beyond economic repair. Miss M tells us they 
offered to refund payments made since the last renewal of the policy (in November 2020) 
and to give her a £250 contribution to the purchase and installation of a new boiler. 
When Miss M asked OVO some further questions about the boiler, they told her the model 
has ceased production in 1996 and over time the parts became obsolete. They said 
production of the electrodes (one of the parts which needed replacing in Miss Ms boiler) had 
ceased in 2010.
Miss M complained to OVO. She was annoyed that they took her payments since 2010. She 
thought they ought to have known that from that point on, they couldnt fulfil the contract and 
repair her boiler.
She also said she was without heating for a week or so  at a very cold time of year. And 
she eventually got an independent engineer who fixed the boiler for just under £200.
OVO responded to say they might have done things differently (they didnt go into detail). 
And they accepted her complaint and refunded the payments since the latest renewal and 
for the previous year. 
Miss M wasnt happy with this outcome and brought her complaint to us. She wants 
compensation for the week without heating. She wants OVO to pay her back what she paid 
to the independent engineer to fix her boiler (just under £200). And she wants some or all of 
her payments from 2010 onwards refunded.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think OVO had done anything wrong.
Miss M disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to say at the outset that Im only looking at the sale / renewal of Miss Ms 
policy. Its not for me to make any judgements about the annual service side of the contract 
 which is not a regulated financial activity. 
Nor am I, in this decision, making any judgement about the handling of Miss Ms claim  
which is the responsibility of the underwriter rather than OVO. Miss M has been made aware 
that complaints about the handling of the claim will have to be considered separately.
So, the sole focus of this decision is about the renewal of the policy since 2010. I have to ask 
myself whether OVO should have realised, at some point between then and December 
2020, that they would not be able to repair Miss Ms boiler if she had a problem with it. 
If OVO were  or should have been - aware that the policy wasnt suitable for Miss M, at any 
point before 2020, then its likely fair to say they shouldnt have invited Miss M to renew the 
policy. Or that, at the very least, they should have made aware of the limitations in what they 
were likely to be able to do for her if her boiler failed.
I dont think its disputed that OVO ought to have come to that conclusion in September 
2020, when the last annual service was carried out under the policy. In the engineers report 
after that service, they said: 
 please cancel contract as we can no longer repair this boiler
OVO have recognised their error. They went ahead and renewed the policy in November 
2020, despite their engineers clear indication  two months earlier - that the policy should be 
cancelled. 
Accepting their error, OVO refunded Miss Ms payments from the time of the latest renewal  
in November 2020 - and for the previous contract year.
This is in line with the terms of the policy, which state (in the section General Conditions, 
paragraph 4.6):
If we identify that your System is not suitable for our Products, we will notify you of 
this. We will then cancel this Agreement and refund you any monies we have 
received from you in your current contract year
I know this will disappoint Miss M, but I dont think it would be fair to conclude that OVO 
should have realised this any earlier. I say this for a number of reasons.
First, I dont think a boiler  or boiler part  becomes obsolete when production ceases (in 
this case, in 2010). Those boilers or parts will still be in stock with suppliers for some time 
afterwards. They will become obsolete gradually over time as stocks are depleted and/or the 
parts are no longer available.I dont think it would be fair to ask OVO  or other companies  to keep a fully up-to-date 
inventory of all boilers and all boiler parts to keep track of (ready) availability  and to then 
check all customers boilers against that inventory at every annual renewal.
Its not unreasonable for OVO to rely on their engineers to pick up  either at annual service 
or when called out to deal with a claim  that they can no longer reasonably repair that 
particular make and model. And that is exactly what happened in this case at the annual 
service in September 2020.
The policy documents themselves  which Miss M would have seen when she first 
purchased the policy and at renewal each year  say explicitly that the insurer will provide a 
contribution to the cost of a new boiler in cases where an older boiler (over seven years old) 
is found to have faulty parts which are obsolete. Miss Ms boiler is more than 20 years old.
So, its very clear to the reader that there will be occasions where a claim is made and its 
found that the required parts are obsolete. The policy doesnt say OVO  or the insurer  will 
identify when boilers and parts become obsolete in advance of any such claim being made. 
In fact, the terms say  or at the very least strongly imply  that the opposite may be true and 
that parts will be discovered to be obsolete only after a claim is made.
Perhaps more importantly, I cant agree that the policy was of no use to Miss M after 2010 
(or at some point thereafter when some of the parts became obsolete). Not all repairs 
require new parts. And some parts may remain available when others have become 
obsolete. 
I can see form OVOs records that Miss M had repairs carried out on her system in October 
2017 (when a faulty timer was replaced). She also called out an engineer in August 2019, 
when a possible system leak was in fact diagnosed as being water ingress. And in 
November 2019, Miss M had her system drained and a radiator replaced.
In light of that, I dont think the argument that Miss M was sold a useless policy after 2010 
holds any water. She was benefitting from the policy up until November 2019. And OVO 
have refunded all of her payments back to and including that month.
So, in summary, I cant agree that OVO mis-sold the policy to Miss M either in 2007 or at 
each annual renewal thereafter.
The only remaining question for me is whether OVOs error in renewing the policy in 
November 2020 caused Miss M to effectively be without insurance when her own engineer 
repaired her boiler in December 2020. If so, then it would be reasonable to suggest that 
OVO should cover the almost £200 cost Miss M incurred at that point.
However, Im satisfied that wasnt the case. If OVO had cancelled the policy in September 
2020, as they should have done, Miss M might have sought insurance from another source.
However, given the age of her boiler, its very unlikely she would have been able to find 
cover. If she had, it would likely have been so expensive that shed now be out of pocket 
even if the claim for the £200 was settled. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept or reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman