DRN-3249111
The complaint
Mr R has complained about the service he has received from St James's Place UK plc 
(SJP) in relation to the administration of his pension arrangement that he holds with it.
What happened
I have previously issued a provisional decision regarding this complaint. The following 
represents excerpts from my provisional decision, outlining the background to this complaint 
and my provisional findings, and forms part of this final decision:
Mr R has a pension managed by SJP. In 2018 he asked SJP to crystallise part of the fund 
so he could continue to access pension benefits. There was an IT issue that meant SJP had 
to pay the benefits manually. There was some delay in paying Mr Rs benefits and SJP paid 
£500 for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr R assumed the IT problem had been fixed, but this wasnt the case. The problem wasnt 
corrected until January 2020 and Mr R only became aware of this when there was a sudden 
drop in the value of his fund. While the IT problem had been ongoing the value of Mr Rs 
pension had been overstated, because SJP hadnt been able to sell units to pay his benefits. 
Once the IT problem was fixed the number of units was corrected, which caused the drop in 
fund value.
SJP accepted it should have communicated better with Mr R and paid another £500 
compensation. 
Mr R was concerned that charges had been calculated and paid on the basis of the 
overstated fund value. He wanted assurance from SJP that the value of the fund had been 
adjusted to allow for the correct amount of fees. Mr R also considered it reasonable for SJP 
to move his pension fund elsewhere without charge. SJP couldnt provide all of the 
information Mr R wanted and offered a further £250 for the continued trouble and upset. 
Unhappy with SJPs response to his concerns, Mr R brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered SJPs compensation offer was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. Subject to clarification of charges, the investigator was also satisfied that the 
current value of the fund was accurate. The investigator wasnt persuaded that Mr R had 
made any significant financial decisions based on the inaccurate value of the fund.
The investigator acknowledged that SJP had committed to providing Mr R with statements 
so he could check the fees hed paid had been properly corrected. The investigator said SJP 
should provide this information in reasonable time, and that failure to do so would be 
grounds for the complaint to be reopened.
Mr R said he was willing to accept SJPs compensation amount, but he hadnt received the 
latest £250 it had offered. He was also concerned that the fee information he wanted from 
SJP would not be forthcoming, and he wanted a deadline by which SJP would have to 
provide the relevant details.
Mr R said that financial decisions hed taken were based on an overvaluation of the fund that 
was supplied to him and his SJP adviser. He said if hed known the true position of the fund, 
he wouldnt have increased his monthly drawdown payments by £500 for a twelve month 
period, or taken an additional £12,000 lump sum.
In light of the errors that had been made, Mr R reiterated his request that SJP allow him to 
move his pension elsewhere without penalty.
The investigator issued a further view in light of Mr Rs comments. This said that the £250 
should be promptly paid, and gave a timescale for SJP to provide Mr R with a breakdown of 
the fee discrepancies. The investigator said the difference in fees should be refunded to Mr 
R together with simple interest of 8% per annum. But the investigator didnt consider SJP 
had to waive fees or applicable penalties if Mr R wanted to move his pension elsewhere.  
SJP didnt respond directly to the investigators second view, and the fee information Mr R 
was waiting for remained outstanding. There was then some communication sent from SJP 
to Mr R, including twenty three statements and details of a withdrawal which Mr R said he 
hadnt asked for. The information provided didnt allow Mr R to check that the fees charged 
on his account had been properly corrected. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed by 
an ombudsman.
Following his request, SJP provided a detailed explanation for its failings in the 
administration of Mr Rs pension within a letter that it sent to him dated 30 April 2021. In this 
letter, SJP accepted that its review of his pensions account had uncovered a number of 
issues, and it said that certain fixes have not gone to plan. However, SJP stated that the 
net impact was that the value of the investment was greater than if nothing had gone wrong.
In addition to confirming some of the background detailed above, SJP explained that whilst 
the fund was overvalued from late 2018 to January 2020, monthly unit deductions in the form 
of the annual management charge (AMC) were based on this overvaluation. SJP attempted 
to reverse these incorrect AMC deductions because they were too high, but it was unable to 
completely correct the situation because the property fund Mr R was partially invested in was 
suspended from March 2020.
When the property fund suspension was lifted in September 2020, SJP has stated that there 
was a further reduction in the fund valuation because the unit price of the property fund was 
revalued, and it was significantly lower than had been the case in March 2020. SJP 
attempted to correct the AMC deductions, but it then identified that it had applied some 
duplicate AMC unit deductions. SJP says that reversing these led to Mr R receiving various 
statements that he shouldnt have been sent.
SJP also stated that some of the funds have had an AMC applied of 1.26%, when this 
should have been a higher charge of 1.32%. Taking into account the various errors that it 
has made, SJP has confirmed that the lower charge of 1.26% will continue to apply going 
forward. Looking at the overall effect of its errors relating to AMCs, SJP calculated that as at 
April 2021, the fund was around £570 higher than would otherwise be the case. SJP 
proposed to leave that amount in Mr Rs fund.
SJP also identified that when it had resolved its IT issues, it had retrospectively applied early 
withdrawal charges (EWCs) of around £340 to reflect payments that had been made to Mr R 
from his pension fund. Although the terms of the policy allow for these EWC deductions, SJP 
now accepted that it was unreasonable to apply these retrospectively. It calculated that 
adding investment loss to this EWC charge increased it to £386.05 as at April 2021. SJP 
offered to pay Mr R the greater of £386.05, or its latest value at the time of refund.In response to Mr Rs request for historic valuations so that he can ensure the value of his 
fund has been appropriately corrected, in its April 2021 letter SJP provided valuations as at 
the year end from 2017-20. These detailed the values based on the funds current holdings 
compared to what was actually reported on annual statements to Mr R initially.
In response to Mr Rs request for the full fund to be made available for transfer to another 
provider without the application of any penalties, SJP gave contradictory replies that I will 
expand on further below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
SJP accepts that it shouldnt have issued annual statements to Mr R at the end of 2018 and 
2019 without providing an explanation to him and his adviser to clarify that these were 
overstated. One of the key aspects of Mr Rs complaint is that he says the overvaluations he 
saw on the statements and via the online app led him to take financial decisions he would 
otherwise not have done. He has highlighted an overvaluation of £43,000 that was provided 
to him in August 2019.
Mr R met with his SJP adviser in August 2019, when the fund was believed to have grown 
by around £32,000 since the December 2018 statement date. Mr R says that on this basis 
he withdrew £18,000, with the money being paid to him in October 2019. This was split 
between £6,000 used to cover an increase of £500 per month for a year of income 
payments, and a further £12,000 for family gifts and a holiday.
I accept that the overstated valuation of the fund is likely to have given Mr R additional 
confidence regarding the position of his pension resources when making the withdrawal that 
hes referred to. However, I have also taken into account the amount of the withdrawal when 
compared to the overall size of the fund.
I have carefully considered Mr Rs comments about the circumstances which led him to elect 
to request the withdrawal that he did in August 2019. He has explained the objectives that he 
had for the money that he took at this time. Overall, my view on balance is that it has not 
been shown that Mr R would not have chosen to take this sum if SJPs valuation of his fund 
had been accurate. It seems unlikely to me that the main cause of Mr R making the 
withdrawal was due to the overstated fund value.
SJPs letter issued in April 2021 set out in detail the issues which have occurred following 
the initial IT problems that it had in 2018. Understandably Mr R is seeking reassurance that 
any overcharges have been refunded, and that the valuation of his fund has finally been 
corrected, with charges having been properly applied. He has requested to see the charges 
that were applied to the overstated fund value, together with the charges that should have 
applied if the fund had been correctly valued. Mr R has explained that this would allow him to 
check that the value of the fund has been properly corrected.
SJP has stated that because of all the amendments it has referred to in its April 2021 letter, 
its not able to provide the information that Mr R would like to see. As an alternative, its 
provided details relating to the end of year valuations for Mr Rs pension account.
I understand Mr Rs reasons for requesting the information from SJP that he has. He has 
clearly lost confidence in SJPs ability to value his fund correctly, and this is the result of the 
repeated errors that SJP have made since its initial IT problem emerged in 2018. However, 
Im not persuaded that providing Mr R with the specific information that hes requested would be of greater benefit to him than the revised end of year valuations SJP provided in April 
2021. Consequently I dont intend to require SJP to provide further information relating to 
historic valuations along the lines that Mr R has suggested.
The underlying issue remains that multiple errors have left Mr R with severe doubts that SJP 
is able to administer his pension account accurately. I consider this is be completely 
understandable, bearing in mind that Mr R has been provided with incorrect valuations over 
a lengthy period of time. But having read the more detailed explanation relating to its errors 
in its April 2021 letter, I dont consider I have sufficient reason to doubt what SJP has said in 
that letter. It would appear that as things stand, the valuation of Mr Rs pension account is 
now correct.
That being the case, my view is that SJPs offer to continue to apply an AMC of 1.26%, 
rather than 1.32%, to certain funds that Mr R is invested in is a fair one. I also consider it fair 
that SJP has left Mr R with a slightly higher fund value (calculated at £570 in April 2021) due 
to its error of applying this lower AMC.
In terms of the EWC of around £340 that was retrospectively applied to reflect payments that 
had been made to Mr R from his pension fund, my view is that SJP has acted reasonably by 
offering to reverse that retrospective change. I consider the offer of a refund to Mr R of the 
greater of £386.05 (taking into account investment loss), or its latest value at the time of the 
refund, is also fair.
Mr R has asked that he be allowed to move his fund away from SJP without EWCs being 
applied. Our investigator asked SJP to clarify its stance on this request, because comments 
in its April 2021 letter appeared contradictory. It said:
I appreciate your confidence may be beyond repaid and you are now considering the option 
of transferring your pension from us. You have asked for this to be done without incurring 
any of the EWCs that would be due. We do think this would be appropriate [my 
emphasis].
But in the next paragraph it said: 
EWCs are taken to recoup the cost of setting up your pension, including advice costs, and 
the administration issues have no bearing on your decision to entrust pension money with us 
to meet your objectives. These objectives have not changed and this why [sic] we cannot 
consider the removal of the EWCs.
SJP has now clarified that the emphasised sentence above should have read: We do not 
think this would be appropriate. In other words, SJP is not willing to waive EWCs.
I have thought carefully about Mr Rs request that he be allowed an EWC-free transfer of his 
funds, and the reasons for that request. I note his point that even if this were to happen, he 
would still incur setting up costs with a new pension provider, and consequently that 
transferring wouldnt be a cost free choice for him.
SJP has undoubtedly made a number of errors administering Mr Rs account, and in my 
view this has been compounded by its very poor communications with him. I consider that 
many of Mr Rs concerns about the true value of his fund could have been alleviated by SJP 
being clear with him at an earlier date about the administrative problems it was having. 
Incorrect valuations could have been suppressed, rather than sent to Mr R  or at the very 
least, they could have been accompanied by an explanation that would have given Mr R a 
proper understanding of the situation regarding his pension funds value. A timescale could 
have been given to Mr R to reassure him when the valuation problems would be fixed.But I am mindful of the reasons for an EWC deduction being applied to a fund value in the 
event of a transfer away. SJP has explained that this is to take into account the costs of 
setting up the pension account, including costs related to advice.  Despite the very poor 
service SJP has provided to Mr R in terms of its administration and valuation of his pension 
fund, I do not consider that it would be reasonable for me to require it to waive the EWC 
deduction upon transfer. The EWC is in place for a specific purpose, relating to setting up 
costs. My view is that the poor administration that Mr R has experienced would not currently 
justify the EWC not being charged on transfer. Instead, I consider that SJPs poor 
administration should be reflected in compensation that relates to the unnecessary distress 
that has been caused to Mr R. 
Mindful of the length of time it has taken for SJP to rectify the fund valuations, I dont doubt 
the considerable worry and distress that has been caused to Mr R. SJP gave him valuations 
that inflated the true value of his pension fund. Correcting the value of his holdings caused 
further confusion and alarm to Mr R, and I consider much of the communication from SJP 
during this time was unclear.
When making awards for distress and inconvenience caused by a business actions, this 
service takes into account the impact on the individual concerned, along with factors such as 
how long the business errors persisted. In letters sent to Mr R in December 2018, February 
2020 and June 2020, SJP offered sums of £500, £500 and £250 respectively to reflect 
distress caused to him relating to its administration/valuation errors. Taking into account 
awards made on cases with similar circumstances, my view is that the total compensation of 
£1,250 offered by SJP represents fair compensation for the upset that it has caused Mr R.
In conclusion, I sympathise with Mr Rs concerns about his pension fund remaining with SJP, 
having seen the errors that he has with its valuations. He has clearly been caused significant 
frustration, and worry. Based on the weight of evidence provided, my view is that the 
pension fund is now being valued correctly. And I consider that the compensation outlined 
above that has been offered by SJP is fair.
But in the event that problems with the valuation of the pension fund were to occur again, Mr 
R would be able to raise a new complaint about this. Were that further complaint to come to 
this service, we would be able to assess what further remedy would be appropriate to 
resolve matters.
responses to my provisional decision
Mr R responded that he was disappointed with my findings as they were only partly in his 
favour. He said that this meant his pension funds would need to remain with SJP until the 
EWC expires.
Mr Rs view is that the compensation offered does not adequately reflect the stress and 
anxiety that SJPs management of his pension fund has caused. He has highlighted the 
number of times that SJP has made errors in the valuation of the fund over a significant 
period of time. This included the SJP adviser representing the incorrect values to Mr R as 
being accurate. Mr R has commented that he has continued to pay service charges to SJP 
and the adviser during a period whilst he was being provided with incorrect valuations. His 
view is that the outcome in my provisional decision means SJP has escaped very lightly.
SJP stated that it accepted the findings in my provisional decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge that Mr R would like my final decision to go further than I proposed in my 
provisional decision, both in terms of allowing him an EWC transfer of his funds away from 
SJP, and the level of compensation offered to him. For the reasons set out in the provisional 
decision, my view remains that it would not be reasonable to require SJP to permit the funds 
to be transferred without application of the EWC.
Mr R has mentioned that he continued to incur charges whilst being provided with inaccurate 
valuations by SJP. I understand his reasons for questioning whether it is reasonable that 
those charges were applied. However, for similar reasons to why I havent proposed that the 
EWC be waived on transfer, my view is that SJP shouldnt be required to refund charges 
which were permitted to be applied under the terms of the pension account. Instead, I 
consider that stress and anxiety caused by SJPs errors should be compensated in the form 
of a monetary payment to Mr R. 
Mr R has explained why he doesnt consider the total sum of £1,250 offered by SJP fairly 
reflects the difficulties which its multiple errors over a prolonged period caused him. I 
appreciate that Mr R is likely to be disappointed with my conclusions in this regard, but 
looking at the circumstances of this case, my view remains that this represents a fair sum to 
compensate him for the distress and inconvenience he has experienced.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
If it has not already done so, St James's Place UK plc should pay Mr R the sums of £500, 
£500 and £250 that it has offered to him in respect of distress and inconvenience caused.
If it has not already done so, St James's Place UK plc should also arrange for the refund of 
the retrospectively applied EWC deductions that were valued as at April 2021 (including 
investment loss) at £386.05. St James's Place UK plc should pay Mr R either £386.05, or its 
latest value at the time of the refund.
I make no other award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022. 
John Swain
Ombudsman