DRN-3029445
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) handled a claim under his 
upholstery insurance policy.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ill only summarise 
them here.
In March 2020 Mr M contacted Amtrust advising of damage to his sofa.
A technician was appointed and, once Amtrust had all the information it required, an 
appointment was arranged in June to assess and repair the damage.
Mr M wasnt happy with the quality of the repair and reported this to Amtrust.
Amtrust didnt respond and in September 2020 Mr M made a complaint.
Amtrust accepted it had caused substantial delays and offered Mr M £40 
compensation.
It also set out options to either replace the parts of the sofa that were damaged or 
provide a cash settlement of £144.
Mr M wasnt happy with the actions Amtrust proposed and brought his complaint to 
this service.
Our investigator felt Amtrust had offered to deal with the damage in line with the 
policy terms and conditions. And noted it had increased its offer of compensation to 
£100 which was in line with what he wouldve asked them to do. So he didnt uphold 
the complaint.
Mr M remained unhappy and asked that an ombudsman decide his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with our investigator and largely for the same reasons.
Its not in dispute that Amtrust and its technician caused delays, and Amtrust have made an 
offer to compensate for this. Our investigator explained that the offer of £100 was in line with 
what he wouldve asked them to do. And I agree with him and wont be asking Amtrust to do 
any more in this respect.
The heart of this complaint is that the repairs to the sofa were not carried out to Mr Ms 
satisfaction. Indeed, he says the repairs caused further damage. Amtrust havent disputed 
that this attempt at a repair wasnt to an acceptable standard. And have provided Mr M with 
2 options.
Option 1 -
Your plan allows for the damaged areas to be replaced, so we can look to order parts
from the manufacturer of your furniture if they are still available. We need to make you
aware of 3 things: firstly, As the area of your furniture that needs replacing is fixed
upholstery, a fully qualified upholsterer will be appointed to inspect and report back to 
us the areas that need replacing. Secondly, as these parts are made to order it can,
potentially, take some weeks to obtain them. Lead times do vary between suppliers and
we cannot give you a more accurate indication until we have spoken with the
manufacturers after the upholsterers visit. We need to check to see if the part is still
available and how long it will take. The last thing to make you aware of is as these 
parts are made to order we are unable to guarantee an exact match of colour, pattern 
or grain which may be an issue if your furniture is well worn or has faded significantly 
since new.
We will do all we can to get as close a match as possible however putting a new part 
on an older item of furniture may highlight differences between them.
Option 2 
Instead of replacing the damaged area(s) we can provide you with a cash settlement.
Some customers are happy to accept financial compensation to live with the damaged
item in its current state. The compensation is based upon the anticipated costs of
making a repair. The cash settlement of £144 would end our liability for repairs on this
particular claim and for this particular area of damage. This settlement would not affect
any future claims you may need to make for new accidents as your plan remains in
force.
In summary these options are to either replace the damaged parts of the sofa or make a 
cash settlement of the amount it would cost to repair the damaged part of the sofa. 
Mr M isnt happy with these options and wants the sofa to be replaced. I can understand Mr 
Ms frustration given the delays and the quality of the initial repair. But I have to decide the 
case taking account of the policy terms and conditions and what is fair and reasonable. I 
note section 3 of Mr Ms policy states:
if the item cannot be repaired, we may choose to replace the damaged part or provide 
a replacement item (whichever we see fit). Or we may settle the claim by giving you a
payment of up to the cost of a repair or replacement.
So, I find it clear that the policy allows Amtrust to replace the damaged part of the sofa rather 
than replace the sofa itself. Amtrust have offered a choice of replacing the damaged part of 
the sofa or a cash settlement and in the circumstances of this case I find this fair and 
reasonable. 
Amtrust have provided Mr M with contact details to progress his case with either the cash 
settlement or replacement of the damaged parts. It has also requested Mr Ms bank details 
so it can pay the compensation if it hasnt already done so. I cant fairly ask Amtrust to do 
any more in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons above Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman