DRN-3290451
The complaint
Mr J complains that Oakbrook Finance Limited (Oakbrook) gave him incorrect advice and 
reported inaccurate information to credit reference agencies.
What happened
Mr J took out a loan and made a partial settlement towards it in 2016.
He says he was advised to do this by Oakbrooks collection agents, but that he couldve 
afforded to pay it off completely and that he shouldve been advised that this wouldve 
looked better on his credit file.
Mr J also says Oakbrook hasnt reported accurate information to credit reference agencies. 
He says Experian was reporting an active default and an outstanding balance on his account 
between December 2016 and August 2017, and TransUnion was reporting the same until 
January 2021, despite the fact that the account was settled in December 2016. He also said 
Equifax wasnt showing the account at all.
Mr J complained to Oakbrook about these issues. Oakbrook said it didnt make a mistake in 
reporting information to credit reference agencies and that it didnt give incorrect advice  
because its records showed that Mr J had asked to pay part of the debt and had been told 
this would be recorded as a partial settlement. Mr J was unhappy with Oakbrooks response 
so he referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into the issues and ultimately thought that although it didnt give Mr J 
incorrect advice, Oakbrook still hadnt acted fairly. She recommended it pay Mr J 
compensation for the information it reported to credit reference agencies.
Because neither party agreed with our investigators opinion, the complaint was passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigators assessment and will be upholding this 
complaint in part. Ill explain why.
A previous ombudsmans decision determined that this service could look into the advice 
Mr J was given in late 2016 about making a payment towards his debt and about the 
account showing incorrectly with credit reference agencies. So those are the two key issues 
Im focusing on in this decision.
The advice Mr J received in 2016
I agree with our investigator that the advice Mr J received over the phone in 2016 doesnt 
appear to have been unclear or misleading. I say this because:
The call notes provided by Oakbrook suggest that its agent explained to Mr J that he 
had made a partial settlement and had the option of paying the remainder.
Im also satisfied from the notes Ive seen, that Oakbrook listened to the call once 
Mr J complained, and that following this, it told Mr J that during the call he was 
advised that the credit reference agencies would show a partially settled account. 
I appreciate its frustrating for Mr J that the call recording is no longer available, but 
the call was made over five years ago  and we dont expect businesses to keep call 
recordings indefinitely.
Mr J says he had the money to pay off the entire debt, and that he wouldve done this 
if he had known the account would only show as partially settled on his credit report. 
But this doesnt persuade me that this is what his intention was at the time. I can see 
from the call notes that a settlement offer of £4000 was agreed and the outstanding 
balance of £1195 would be written off. So Im satisfied that this is what Mr J intended 
and that he was given the correct information about what this meant for his credit file. 
So Im afraid theres not enough evidence that Mr J was advised incorrectly.
For the above reasons, I wont be asking Oakbrook to do anything further in respect of this 
aspect of Mr Js complaint.
The information reported to credit reference agencies
Mr J says two of the credit reference agencies have been reporting the account incorrectly, 
and one hasnt been reporting the account at all. Oakbrook says none of the reported 
information was inaccurate because it sent the same information to all three agencies. So 
Ive looked carefully at the evidence which includes copies of Mr Js various credit reports. 
And Ive found the following:
Equifax reports a satisfied default, which is correct  because the account has been 
in default. But its also showing that the account defaulted in December 2016, which 
is incorrect as the account defaulted in October 2016. Oakbrook should correct this 
information with Equifax.
The information provided to us by Oakbrook shows that it reported information to 
Equifax, and Equifax is reporting the account, contrary to what Mr J says. As our 
investigator mentioned, if Mr J is unable to see the account reported, then hed need 
to take this up with Equifax directly.
Experian and TransUnion are both reporting the account correctly, after the 
information was corrected by Oakbrook. Oakbrook has sent us evidence that 
although the partial settlement was made in December 2016, it was not correctly 
reported to credit reference agencies until August 2017. Ive considered the impact of 
the incorrect information showing during that time on Mr Js credit report with these 
two agencies. 
Mr J says this caused him distress and inconvenience because he applied for loans 
and his applications were declined. Hes sent us some evidence and after 
considering this, Im satisfied the incorrect reporting affected his ability to obtain a 
loan in November 2017. This is because the reason given for the decline is an 
unpaid default  which was showing on Mr Js credit report. However, there isnt 
enough compelling evidence to show that any of the other applications were declined 
solely due to Oakbrooks error. I can see from the emails Mr J has provided, that the rental application was declined 
due to referencing checks, and in particular because Mr Js credit score was too low. 
But no other information has been provided so theres not enough evidence to show 
his score wouldve met the threshold had it not been for Oakbrooks actions.
Mr J has provided information that he says shows that an active default has 
significantly more impact than a settled default. Ive considered the information hes 
sent us and I dont disagree with what hes said about this. But Id still need to be 
satisfied that the reason his other applications were declined was a direct result of 
Oakbrooks actions  and theres not enough persuasive evidence to show this. So I 
consider it possible that the decline was as a result of the default itself, rather than 
due to it showing as having an outstanding balance. 
Mr J has sent us an email from his forensic accountant, which he says evidences the 
loss he suffered as a result of the declined application in 2017 which was for a 
business loan. But having considered the contents of this email, its clear that the 
loss would still need to be evidenced in two ways for a claim against Oakbrook to 
succeed. The forensic accountant says Mr J would need to show (1) that you were 
unable to obtain financing for this plan as a result of Oakbrookes actions, and (2) 
that the plan was viable and realistic on the balance of probabilities. Im not 
persuaded that this shows there was indeed a loss of over £500,000 as this is based 
on a forecasted profit from Mr Js own business plan  and Ive no evidence of the 
viability of that plan.
Ive considered what Mr J has said about the impact these errors had on him. And I 
appreciate why it was frustrating for him to see incorrect information showing on his credit 
reports. But I wont be requiring Oakbrook to compensate Mr J for the losses he says hes 
experienced. I do, however consider Oakbrook should compensate Mr J for distress and 
inconvenience caused to him as a result of the incorrect reporting and the significant time its 
taken for this to be sorted out.
I appreciate Mr Js strength of feeling and his request that we consider the bigger picture to 
hold Oakbrook accountable for everything thats happened. But I cant make assumptions 
about the consequences of Oakbrooks actions and can only require Oakbrook to put things 
right where Im persuaded by the evidence that it caused a loss. 
Oakbrook acknowledges incorrect information was showing on Mr Js Experian report  but it 
has also said that the fact that a default was recorded for a substantial amount from October 
2016 would have been an important factor in any credit assessment. I agree with this in part, 
but I also have enough information to show that Mr Js application in 2017 was declined on 
the basis of the unpaid default  and not just the fact the account had defaulted. And Ive 
seen an email from Experian which says it contacted Oakbrook about this and Oakbrook told 
it not to make any changes. 
So for the reasons Ive explained, I find that its most likely Oakbrooks error in reporting 
caused Mr J to lose out on the loan in November 2017 and that he was caused distress and 
inconvenience as a result of Oakbrooks actions overall. I consider £700 to be a fair and 
reasonable amount given the difficulties Mr J has described and considering the length of 
time these issues have taken to resolve.
So Im requiring Oakbrook to put things right for Mr J in the following ways.
Putting things right
Oakbrook Finance Limited must now:- Update the information it passed to Equifax to show the correct date of default.
- Pay Mr J £700 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Oakbrook Finance Limited to put 
things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2022.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman