DRN-3610186
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Nationwide Building Society wont refund the money they lost 
when they sent a payment to invest in a scheme they now believe was fraudulent.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M hold an account with Nationwide. They knew an independent unregulated 
adviser, whod previously suggested investments to them. These had proved successful. 
One of those investments had been a one-year bond (or loan note) offered by a property 
development company. Mr and Mrs M had invested and subsequently received their capital 
back, together with the expected interest payments.
Having attended a presentation by the company and seen properties it intended to 
redevelop, together with others it had already completed, they believed this to be a sound 
investment. 
In 2017, they decided to invest more into the same scheme, this time into a loan note with a 
five-year term. They sent £100,000 by CHAPS payment, using the account details specified 
in the loan note documentation.
Initially, Mr and Mrs M received the scheduled interest payments as expected. When one 
payment didnt arrive on time, it was nevertheless sent shortly afterwards when Mr and 
Mrs M contacted the development company. But the next interest payment didnt arrive at 
all. Mr and Mrs M have since learned that the property development company is now in 
liquidation.
While Mr and Mrs M have registered their loss with the liquidator, they are not hopeful that 
their capital will be recovered. Mr and Mrs M now fear the development company was 
essentially being operated as a Ponzi scheme, whereby the returns were not paid from 
profits, but rather from money received from other investors.
They had understood that the investment payment would have additional protection, by 
virtue of their payment first being sent to a solicitors client account. That solicitor was then 
bound to hold their payment until Mr and Mrs Ms investment funds could be secured against 
specific property to be redeveloped. However, when they later contacted that solicitor, it 
denied having received their funds or being involved with the scheme at that point. 
Mr and Mrs M were extremely concerned that their payment had apparently failed to reach 
the solicitor  that being their intended beneficiary. Even although it might nevertheless still 
have been received by the development company, it didnt appear to have gone via the 
solicitors account. This would have had the effect of removing protection they expected from 
this additional step. They complained to Nationwide. 
Specifically, Mr and Mrs M said Nationwide hadnt fulfilled its obligations when sending their 
CHAPS payment. They said Nationwide ought to have taken steps to check that the 
payment was indeed going to an account held in the solicitors name. In the alternate, as 
theyd provided a payee name as part of their payment instruction, Nationwide should have 
let them know in advance if it would not be validating that name against the beneficiary 
account. The relevant CHAPS rules required customers to be made aware of this before 
making a payment, but Nationwide hadnt done so. Nationwide should refund them.
Nationwide didnt agree and didnt accept it was liable. It said it hadnt been required to 
check payee names against the beneficiary account at the time, nor could it have done so 
because of data protection rules. It had carried out the instructions Mr and Mrs M had given 
it at the time as it was obliged to. There was no reason for it not to have done so.
Dissatisfied, Mr and Mrs M referred their complaint to our service for an independent review.
Our Investigator considered their complaint. But she didnt think Nationwide was liable for Mr 
and Mrs Ms losses. She said Nationwide hadnt been required to check payee names at that 
time. Nationwide couldnt establish whether it had made Mr and Mrs M aware it wouldnt 
check the name. But even if it had failed to explain this, she didnt think this had caused the 
subsequent loss. She thought Mr and Mrs M would most likely have gone ahead regardless - 
even had it been made clear that Nationwide would be sending the payment based solely on 
the sort code and account number specified. She didnt find any other reason to say 
Nationwide was now liable for Mr and Mrs Ms losses.
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree and so their complaint has been referred to me to reach a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the 
time. 
Where I find there to have been a fault or error, I have to consider what the consequences of 
this were. And where definitive evidence is unavailable, I must reach my findings on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words on what I consider most likely in all the 
circumstances, given the evidence available to me.
Upon reading all the available evidence and arguments, I have reached the same outcome 
as our Investigator and for broadly the same reasons. I consider the fair and reasonable 
outcome, in all the circumstances, is that Nationwide is not liable to refund Mr and Mrs M for 
this payment. 
I am extremely sorry to hear about what happened to Mr and Mrs M. They have incurred a 
substantial loss. I appreciate this answer will be a significant disappointment to them. But I 
hope the following explanation will help them understand why I have reached this decision.
While Ive considered all the arguments and evidence presented by both sides to this 
dispute, in what follows I will address what I think is the heart of the matter here. I consider 
that to be the question of whether Nationwide is liable for Mr and Mrs Ms losses because 
either:
- it failed to carry out its obligations in relation to Mr and Mrs Ms CHAPS payment, and 
this failure caused the payment to be made where otherwise it wouldnt have; and/or,- it should have recognised this payment as being suspicious and intervened, and had 
it intervened this would have likely resulted in a scam being identified at the time.
Firstly, as I think Mr and Mrs M now accept, there was no obligation on Nationwide to check 
the name of the beneficiary account against that recorded on the payment instruction. This 
was not a requirement under the CHAPS rules at that time. 
However, even had that somehow been possible, I note that in the correspondence Mr and 
Mrs M received from the recipient bank, that bank confirms that the name on the account 
credited was consistent with the intended recipient of your payment. So, it seems more 
likely than not that, in the event such a check had been required of Nationwide at the time 
(which I am satisfied it was not), this would most probably have elicited the same response 
and the payment would still have gone ahead.
Mr and Mrs M say Nationwide ought to have made them aware the payee name would not 
form part of the payment information used to specify or validate the correct recipient 
account. They quote the following from the CHAPS rules applicable at the time:
A Participant (as a sending Participant) shall ensure that its contract with a Customer 
who wishes to make payments through CHAPS using the sending Participant's payment 
services provides (in easily understandable language and in a clear and comprehensible 
form): 
[] that the sending Participant will make a payment solely on the basis of a unique 
identifier and will not execute it on the basis of the intended recipient's name; 
Unique identifiers are defined (for domestic CHAPS transfers at that time) as normally being 
the sort code and account number
Mr and Mrs M contend that Nationwide did not make them aware of this at the time, and that 
if it had done so they would not have proceeded with the payment. I agree with Mr and 
Mrs M that the evidence Nationwide has now provided to them is insufficient to demonstrate 
that it met this clause in relation to their payment. Simply put, their recollection is that 
Nationwide did not make this clear, and Nationwide has seemingly been unable to evidence 
that it did.
But, even were I to find Nationwide at fault on this, taking everything into consideration, I do 
not find that a failure here made a material difference in Mr and Mrs Ms choice to make the 
payment. Given Mr and Mrs M had previously invested successfully in this scheme and 
given the other numerous factors that had persuaded them about the legitimacy of the 
investment, I consider it most likely theyd have been comfortable relying on the information 
provided to them specifying the payment destination - essentially the combination of the 
appropriate account number and sort code. I think they would have chosen to go ahead - 
presumably doing so on a similar basis to that which had applied when theyd previously 
made payment to the same scheme without issue. 
Even if that werent the case, undertaking further enquiries (assuming of course that was 
possible) would likely have indicated that the account name was in fact consistent with the 
unique identifiers  and so it seems to me the payment would still have been made.
Mr and Mrs M further quote from the CHAPS rules: The requirements [] above shall not 
affect a sending Participant's right or ability to send the intended recipient's name with any 
Payment Message in order to comply with any legal and regulatory requirements to which it 
is subject, as well as for their internal risk management processes to either prevent or detect 
financial crime.They consider this could be read as a requirement for Nationwide to have supplied the name 
of the beneficiary account in order to prevent or detect financial crime. However, again I do 
not (even were I to agree this requirement follows, or that it was, or was not, met) consider 
that this makes a difference here. The recipient bank says the name was consistent with the 
account. So, it does not seem that any concerns would have been uncovered by these 
means. The payment would still have been concluded in line with Mr and Mrs Ms 
instructions.
In brief, while I have carefully considered the requirements on Nationwide concerning the 
CHAPS payment and taken account of the points Mr and Mrs M have highlighted, I do not 
find a failure on Nationwides part that caused their loss.
I have gone on to consider the broader requirements on Nationwide concerning this 
payment, and whether Nationwide needed to do more to protect Mr and Mrs M in relation to 
the risk of fraud or scams.
Now, in broad terms, the starting position in law is that a building society or bank is expected 
to process payments and withdrawals that its customer authorises it to make. Mr and Mrs M 
had taken the necessary steps to authorise Nationwide to make this payment  this was an 
authorised payment. In other words, at the time they sent the money, they authorised the 
payment and wanted it to be made. So, under the Payment Services Regulations 2009 
(applicable at the time), and the usual terms and conditions of building society and bank 
accounts, Mr and Mrs M are presumed liable for any resulting loss in the first instance.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, any relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time, I consider Nationwide should fairly and reasonably: 
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which building societies and banks are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer. 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
It follows that I consider Nationwide should have been on the lookout for unusual and out of 
character transactions. From what I understand, it did not identify this payment as being 
unusual or out of character at the time.
However, given the high value of this payment, and the other circumstances, I consider this 
was unusual and out of character in the context of Mr and Mrs Ms typical account usage 
(evidenced for example by their payment history on the account). 
Further, I think there was sufficient cause for Nationwide to consider this transaction as one 
therefore carrying a higher than usual risk of loss or financial harm to Mr and Mrs M. Given 
this, I consider Nationwide ought to have taken steps before releasing the payment, such as 
calling to discuss the transaction with Mr and Mrs M.Such an intervention did not take place, so I have gone on to consider what the 
consequence of that failure was. In particular, I have to consider what the result of such an 
intervention would likely have been, including whether it would have brought the risk of loss 
to light at that time. 
In doing so I need to take into account the extent of intervention that could reasonably be 
expected (given the relevant considerations I have outlined above) of a building society such 
as Nationwide in relation to an authorised online CHAPS transfer at the time in question.
Firstly, had Nationwide contacted Mr and Mrs M to ask them further details about the 
transaction, I consider Mr and Mrs M had no reason but to have explained the situation 
openly and honestly in response to Nationwides enquiries.
As such, I consider it most likely they would have explained that they were investing money 
in a bond or loan instrument issued by a property redevelopment company, and that this had 
been recommended to them by an adviser whom they knew from previous successful 
investments.
They would perhaps have further explained that they had invested in this very same scheme 
previously, successfully receiving the interest and capital exactly as expected. They might 
have explained that they had visited the company and personally seen properties it had 
redeveloped. 
In short, I consider they would have explained that they had carried out sufficient checks to 
feel comfortable that they were investing in a legitimate scheme, and they were making the 
payment as the result of a considered decision.
Arguably, at this point Nationwide could have considered it was entitled (and indeed 
required) to proceed with the payment it was being requested to make. It needed only to be 
reassured that this was not a payment likely to result in financial harm to Mr and Mrs M 
through fraud or scam. It could not provide what could be construed as unsolicited financial 
advice on the suitability or investment risk applying to such a scheme. For example, 
Nationwide was not required to conduct a detailed investigation into such things as the 
soundness of the investment or whether, for example, the sales literature or the terms of the 
loan note were accurate or true. I cannot reasonably expect it to have taken such steps 
unbidden.
But even had Nationwide pressed further, I dont think the scam would have come to light at 
the time. I say this bearing in mind that, based on what Mr and Mrs M have described, to all 
appearances this was an unusually complex and sophisticated deception. The property 
redevelopment company had been operating, apparently successfully and perhaps even 
legitimately, for some years prior to the investment now being disputed.
The documentation Mr and Mrs M have provided, and which they were given at the time, 
seems to me both convincing and professional in appearance. If these documents did 
contain falsehoods, that was far from apparent, and I do not believe could reasonably have 
been uncovered by Nationwide at that time. There simply was nothing obvious here that 
would have indicated to either Nationwide or Mr and Mrs M that all was not as it seemed.
In other words, it is unfortunately the case that the circumstances here would have made it 
very difficult for anyone to have uncovered that this might not be the legitimate investment 
opportunity it had otherwise appeared to Mr and Mrs M at the time. 
When such concerns did later arise, Mr and Mrs M reported the matter to Nationwide. While 
it attempted to recover their funds, from what I have seen these had long since been removed from the receiving account. I dont think there was anything more Nationwide could 
reasonably have done at this point to recover Mr and Mrs Ms funds.
To reiterate what I said earlier, I have considerable sympathy for the position Mr and Mrs M 
are now in, and the substantial loss they have incurred. But I dont find that Nationwide was 
the cause of that loss, that it could reasonably have been expected have prevented the loss, 
or that it should otherwise be liable to reimburse them now.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ms 
complaint about Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman