DRN-1446750
 
The complaint
Mr H complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund a disputed transaction from his current 
account.  
What happened
Mr H says a disputed transaction of £625 was made from his Monzo account on the 
30 May 2019. 
Mr H explains that on the 30 May 2019 he was at a restaurant with friends. At around 8pm 
that evening a transaction of £625 was processed via Mr Hs Monzo app to a new payee. 
Mr H made six genuine transactions within twenty minutes of the disputed transaction. And 
Mr H explains that at the time of the disputed transaction his phone was on the table at the 
restaurant and the PIN for his phone and Monzo account was the same. 
Mr H says he noticed the disputed transaction on the 13 July 2019 when he was checking 
the money in his Monzo account and reported the transaction to Monzo. 
Monzo investigated and decided not to refund the disputed transaction. It said there was no 
evidence of fraudulent activity. It thought Mr H had authorised the transaction or made it 
himself because:
Mr Hs PIN was required to carry out the transaction.
Mr Hs device was used. 
Money was moved shortly after the transaction from Mr Hs savings pot.
They find it hard to believe Mr H didnt notice the disputed transaction sooner. 
 
As Mr H didnt agree with Monzos decision, he asked us to investigate. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. In summary, he felt 
unable to conclude that the transaction had been made fraudulently and was persuaded it 
was most likely made and authorised by Mr H. 
As Mr H didnt agree its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously set out and for much the same reasons. Generally, Monzo can hold Mr H liable for the disputed transaction if the evidence suggests 
that its more likely than not that he made or authorised it himself. 
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mr Hs PIN was used to make the 
disputed transaction. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own, 
enough to enable Monzo to hold him liable. So I also need to think about whether the 
evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr H consented to it being made.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Monzo to conclude that Mr H 
authorised the transaction. This is because:
Monzo have provided evidence that the disputed transaction was carried out via 
Mr Hs app, which was installed on his phone at the time. And required Mr Hs PIN for 
the transaction to be authenticated. Mr H explained that he was in a restaurant at the 
time of the disputed transaction, with friends and his phone was on the table. Hes 
confirmed his phone also had a security PIN and nobody knew this or his Monzo PIN 
 but the PIN was the same. For a fraudster to carry out the disputed transaction 
theyd need to have obtained Mr Hs phone from the table  without him noticing  
and known the PIN to access it. Mr H has said a fraudster could have seen him enter 
the PIN in his phone and as it was the same as his Monzo PIN could have used it 
both to access his phone and the app. Hes also said his phone takes a minute to 
lock so might have been open at the time of the transaction. I agree this is a possible 
explanation. But I dont find this scenario likely considering all of this needed to be 
carried out without Mr H noticing. 
 
Mr H explained that he noticed the disputed transaction on the 13 July 2019, which is 
when he reported it to Monzo and some six weeks after the fraud. I find it surprising 
that Mr H didnt notice the disputed transaction sooner, especially considering the 
account activity after the transaction. Mr Hs statement shows that after the disputed 
transaction was carried out he had a balance of just over £1 in his main account. But 
ten minutes later he transferred in £60 from his savings pot and soon after made a 
transfer out for £55. It seems unusual that hed transfer in money from his savings 
when without the disputed transaction his balance would have been more than 
sufficient to cover the £55 payment.  
 
Mr H had money remaining in his savings pot after the disputed transaction. I find it 
surprising that a fraudster didnt transfer out all of the available funds.
 
Taking everything into account, I find, on balance, that Mr H authorised the disputed 
transaction. It follows that Monzo is entitled to hold him liable for it.
My final decision
My final decision is I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2020.
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman