DRN-3514760
The complaint
Mr M complains that Vanquis Bank Limited wont refund him the money he paid for some 
photographic images.
What happened
Mr M says he spoke to a photographic company (the company) about providing 
some aerial images. He wanted the images to help him with a boundary dispute, 
which had led to a hedge being cut down without consulting him. 
Mr M used his Vanquis credit card to pay £300 to the company to provide images 
that would show the edges of a road beside his house. He says he wanted the 
company to take aerial photographs of the boundary after the hedge had been cut 
down.
Mr M says the company failed to provide the images hed paid for and he asked for 
his money back. The company refused to provide a refund.
Mr M claimed a refund from Vanquis under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974.
Vanquis decided to hold Mr M liable for the £300 hed paid to the company. It said it 
was unable to pursue the claim further because it hadnt seen enough evidence of a 
clear breach of contract or misrepresentation at the point of sale. 
Mr M remained dissatisfied so complained to this service. He said hed been assured 
the images would show the physical features of the road beside his house in great 
detail. But the images provided didnt show that because the hedge was still in situ. 
He said the company had led him to believe it would be carrying out new aerial 
photography rather than providing historical images. 
Our investigator didnt think Mr M had given the company any specific instructions to 
provide images without the hedge. And so he thought Vanquis had acted fairly in 
concluding there had been no breach of contract. 
Mr M doesnt agree. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against 
the supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. For completeness, Im satisfied those 
circumstances apply here.
Im not determining the outcome of Mr Cs claim under section 75 as only a court 
would be able to do that. Instead, my role is to decide whether Vanquis acted fairly 
and reasonably when dealing with Mr Cs claim and subsequent complaint, taking 
into account what section 75 says. 
Mr M says the contract he had with the company was made by phone. He didnt 
receive their terms and conditions but thinks there was a breach of contract as he 
asked for aerial photography without the hedge and received aerial photography with 
the hedge. 
Mr M says he called the company before he sent them an email. But Ive not seen 
any evidence of that call and while I dont doubt Mr Ms recollection of what was said, 
I have to base my decision on the evidence I have seen. And that includes the email 
he sent to the company in May 2020 and the invoice thats dated the same day. 
The invoice shows that Mr M paid £300 for archive aerial photography research. 
The email of the same day outlines the problems Mr M was having and sets out that 
he needed photographic proof that the edges of the roadway next to his house were 
the boundary lines. He also explained that the hedge was so large it had blocked 
aerial views.
I can understand why Mr M might have thought hed set out what he wanted and why 
he wanted it. But the invoice shows he paid for archive aerial photography and 
theres no specific request in the email for images without the hedge. Indeed, the 
email includes a statement that says, any aerial photography that shows the 
[roadway] would be helpful.
In light of the above, Im not persuaded theres enough evidence to show that there 
was a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the company that would justify a 
refund of the money Mr M paid for their services.
And so, I think Vanquis acted fairly and reasonably in declining Mr Ms claim under 
section 75. 
Im sorry to hear about the problems Mr Ms experienced but I dont think it would be 
fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to ask Vanquis to refund the money 
he paid to the company. 
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Vanquis Bank Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman