DRN-3433205
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Vitality Health Limited (Vitality) continued to charge premiums for 
services that had been suspended. 
What happened
Mr B has a private medical insurance policy, underwritten by Vitality. 
In 2021, Mr B needed to have some minor tests but the Vitality GP couldnt refer him for 
these and said he had to go back to his NHS GP, as some private services were suspended. 
Mr B complained to Vitality who offered to refer him to a specialist but he didnt want to take 
this option as he would have to pay an excess and potentially higher premiums. 
Vitality explained that due to the Covid-19 pandemic, many services werent available and 
virtual GPs had no choice but to suspend referrals. 
Unhappy with Vitalitys response, Mr B referred his complaint to this Service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Vitality had done anything wrong 
as the effects of Covid-19 on its services were out of its control.
Mr B disagreed and said Vitality didnt tell him the service had been suspended. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. And largely for the same 
reasons as already explained by the investigator.
Ive seen Mr B had additional benefits on his private medical insurance policy including up to 
£100 for minor diagnostic tests and most private prescriptions when referred or issued by a 
Vitality GP. This was in addition to his core private medical insurance cover.
But when Mr B saw the Vitality GP, he wasnt able to get a referral for blood tests as some 
private services were suspended, in response to the pandemic. Mr B doesnt think hes 
getting the service hes paid for.
Mr B feels Vitality should reimburse the £100 to him as he wasnt able to use the benefit 
when needed. Vitality has explained many private hospitals were given up to the NHS and 
whilst Mr B wasnt specifically advised about this, it was common knowledge. All its 
members had to wait for treatment and investigations until the situation improved and this 
was outside of Vitalitys control. 
Ive carefully considered Mr Bs complaint but I dont think Vitality has done anything wrong. 
Private medical insurance policies dont provide refunds in the event that no claim is made or 
if all additional benefits arent used up. 
I also dont think Vitality can be held responsible for the non-availability of services as a 
result of the pandemic. I appreciate Mr Bs strength of feeling in this matter and his point of 
view. But I dont think Vitality needed to tell him the service had been suspended until he 
needed to use it  as the availability of private treatment would no doubt, keep changing as a 
result of the pandemic. In any event, the benefit limit also covered private prescriptions and it 
wasnt exclusive to just blood and diagnostic testing. So Mr B could still have benefitted from 
the policy and the £100 limit wasnt completely removed or unusable.
In addition, Vitality told Mr B he could have used his core cover to get the tests he needed 
but understandably, he chose not to do this as he would have to pay an excess and it could 
also have affected his premiums. Mr B was still able to use his core cover which is what his 
premiums cover. So I dont think hes lost out on that and as he isnt out of pocket (because 
he was referred to his NHS GP instead), I cant fairly ask Vitality to give him money he hasnt 
had to spend. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman