DRN-2596002
The complaint
Mr S complains that Vanquis Bank Limited charged interest on a credit card transaction 
which was later refunded by the merchant.
What happened
Mr S made two transactions on his Vanquis credit card to a tour operator  a deposit of £120 
in 2019, and the holiday balance of £1,044.76 in March 2020. 
Unfortunately, due the Covid-19 pandemic, Mr S holiday was cancelled. Initially, he raised a 
transaction dispute with Vanquis, but before it could raise a formal dispute, the tour operator 
refunded both transactions on 3 May 2020. 
In between these dates Mr S noticed that Vanquis had applied interest of £81.23 to his credit 
card account. He contacted Vanquis as he didnt think that he should pay the interest for a 
holiday that didnt take place as this wasnt his fault. 
Vanquis didnt agree. It said the interest had been applied correctly and in line with the 
account terms and conditions. As Mr S remained unhappy, he brought his complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint but didnt think that Vanquis had done anything 
wrong. She agreed with Vanquis in that interest had been applied in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account. She noted that Vanquis had made a credit interest adjustment of 
£40.85. But she didnt think Vanquis needed to refund any further interest. 
Mr S disagreed. He said that hed been a customer with Vanquis for 20 years and he 
expected it to show some appreciation of this when handling his complaint. And that Vanquis 
was on notice that the transaction was due to be refunded as hed called to let it know. 
He added that hed only been able to pay £1,000 off his statement balance because of 
trouble accessing his bank account due to the pandemic. Mr S says that Vanquis should 
have shown him some forbearance given the wider circumstances at this time. 
Our investigator acknowledged Mr S concerns but remained of the opinion that Vanquis 
hadnt done anything wrong. 
Mr S didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator's outcome for broadly the same reasons. I 
know Mr S will be disappointed, so I'll explain why.
Firstly, I do acknowledge that the Mr S holiday was cancelled for reasons beyond his 
control. And I can understand why he feels its wrong that he should pay interest on a 
transaction that was later refunded. But I can only uphold the complaint if I found that 
Vanquis has done something wrong. 
So, I think it would be helpful to explain that money refunded to a credit card account is an 
account credit. It doesnt count as a payment or partial payment. If a purchase is made using 
a credit card and the statement balance is not repaid in full, the account holder is 
responsible for any accrued interest  even if a transaction is later refunded.  
Here, Vanquis issued Mr S with his regular monthly statement in March 2020. This shows 
that on 12 March 2020 a payment of £1,044.76 was taken by the tour operator. And Im 
satisfied the statement also shows that this transaction plus Mr S other spending on the 
card left a balance owing of £2,238.59. 
The terms and conditions of Mr S account say that interest is applicable each month if there 
is an outstanding balance left on the account by the payment due date even if there is a 
dispute with a retailer/merchant. This means that Mr S needed to pay £2,238.59 by the 
payment due day to avoid interest. In this case, Mr S statement shows this was 16 April 
2020.
But Mr S only made a payment of £1,000. This meant he left an outstanding balance of 
£1,238.59. So, as the balance wasnt cleared in full by the payment due date, Im satisfied 
interest was applicable in line with the terms and conditions of the account.
On 3 May 2020 the tour operator provided a full refund. But this was after the payment due 
date. That said, I can see that Vanquis applied an interest credit adjustment of £40.85. Given 
the above findings, I think this is fair. 
I acknowledge that Mr S informed Vanquis that the holiday payment was due to be refunded. 
But I dont agree that this means Vanquis should have put his bill on hold or interest should 
be suspended. Vanquis is required to issue regular monthly statements and payments are 
due accordingly in line with the terms of the account.
I also acknowledge that Mr S has held an account with Vanquis for many years. But its 
down to Vanquis to decide if it wanted to refund all the interest as a gesture of goodwill. As 
mentioned above, I dont have the power to tell Vanquis to refund any interest charged 
unless I found it had been applied incorrectly. And for the reasons given above, Im unable to 
conclude a mistake was made. 
Mr S has said that he only paid £1,000 in respect of his March statement as he had 
problems contacting his bank due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Its not clear what these 
problems were  particularly as Mr S was able to make a £1,000 payment to his credit card, 
although I dont dispute what Mr S has said. But this isnt something I can say that Vanquis 
was responsible for. If Mr S believes his bank did something wrong to the extent that it 
prevented him from making a payment to clear his credit card balance in full, then I think 
thats something for Mr S to talk to his bank about. 
I can only look at the actions of Vanquis and I don't think it has done anything wrong. So, I 
wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman