DRN-4057747
The complaint
Ms P and Mr P complain that Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited provided poor service 
and didnt act in a timely manner when they made a claim on their motor insurance policy.
What happened
In May 2022 whilst driving abroad Ms P and Mr Ps car was involved in an accident with 
another car. They assumed Mulsanne would ensure the car was repaired or written-off 
before they had to return to the UK in mid-July 2022, but that didnt happen. Meanwhile, they 
found the lack of communication about the claim to be unacceptable. Although they made a 
formal complaint, there was no response to it, so they complained to us in September 2022. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and issued her view about it in March 2023. 
At that point, Ms P and Mr P still hadnt been told by Mulsanne when the car was going to be 
repaired. And they hadnt been given an explanation for the excessive delay in moving the 
claim forward. The investigator didnt think it had been progressed properly. Although she 
thought some delays had been caused by the non-UK based claims handler, she said 
ultimately it was for Mulsanne to ensure the claims reasonable progression. 
The investigator said it should pay £500 compensation for poor service and that it should 
also treat the car as a total loss and pay Ms P and Mr P for it. They accepted her proposed 
solution, but Mulsanne said we couldnt require it to go outside the policys terms and 
conditions. It said it wouldnt treat a car as a total loss without a recommendation from an 
engineer. The investigator replied to Mulsannes comments and added that Ms P and Mr P 
shouldnt have to pay any storage charges. Mulsanne asked for further time to consider its 
position. But as it had provided no further information or comments by the due date, the 
complaint was passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt clear from the limited information provided by Mulsanne why it failed to ensure that the 
claim wasnt progressed as it should have been from the outset. It didnt attempt to explain 
the situation even after the investigator upheld Ms P and Mr Ps complaint.
In the absence of a valid explanation, I think the service provided by Mulsanne and its agent 
is very far below the standard a consumer could reasonably expect to receive. I appreciate 
that in dealing with claims arising outside the UK, there may be complications that make 
progression more difficult that it would normally be in the UK. But that doesnt explain why it 
took months for an engineer to inspect the car. Nor does it explain why his report (issued in 
August 2022) was so poor that Mulsannes agent couldnt work out whether or not he had 
decided the car was repairable. And theres nothing to show that immediate efforts were 
made by Mulsanne to remedy that situation. 
The claims notes show that over the next few months Ms P and Mr P had to call repeatedly 
for updates. On numerous occasions they couldnt get through to an advisor and had to 
leave messages. They say that was often after waiting in a queue for an hour or more. The 
notes show that many of their calls were returned - but if they werent available, it seems no 
further effort to contact them was made. The notes show that Mr P complained about calls 
not being returned, about the ongoing lack of any explanation about what was happening -  
and about the failure of managers to contact him, despite his requests being logged.
Meanwhile, Ms P and Mr P remained without a car and without any idea about when they 
could expect it to be repaired. In October 2022 Mr P asked for an expected repair completion 
date  and for his requests to be called by managers to be chased up. He heard nothing 
further about either issue. But in November 2022 the notes show that one of Mulsannes 
advisors queried the delays with its agent and asked for an explanation about what had gone 
on during the previous five months, The agent was unable to provide one, so the advisor 
said the query should be raised at a senior level and that a timeline of events was required.   
As the notes end at that point, its not possible to know what happened next. But as Ms P 
and Mr P werent given a further update, I think its reasonable to assume that an 
explanation and a timeline werent provided (or chased). There are references in the notes to 
claims handlers being away on some occasions, and to the garage where repairs were to be 
done being difficult. But I think thats insufficient to explain such an extensive delay. 
I think Mulsanne should have taken much firmer control of the claim once it became 
apparent that it wasnt being dealt with expeditiously. The attempt by its advisor to do so in 
November 2022 was too late (and not firm enough) to make a difference. By then Ms P and 
Mr P had been without the car, without a date for its repair - and without an explanation for 
the huge delay in progress - for over six months. Theyd faced excessive frustration, worry, 
and upset, as well as a great deal of inconvenience. And there was still no end in sight. 
In my opinion Mulsanne should have done far more than it did to move matters on. And I 
think its communication with Ms P and Mr P was poor, including its failure to ensure a 
manager contacted them, despite their obvious distress about the situation. Given the impact 
of the poor service and delay on Ms P and Mr P I think it would be appropriate for Mulsanne 
to pay them £500 compensation. I also think it would be fair and reasonable for it to treat the 
car as a total loss and to pay its market value, so Ms P and Mr P are finally able to put the 
hugely stressful situation theyve faced following the incident in May 2022 behind them.
I appreciate that Mulsanne doesnt agree that it should settle the claim on the basis of the 
cars total loss. But as the investigator has already explained, our role is to make any 
recommendation that we think is fair and reasonable, having taken into account all the 
available information. We can require an insurer to depart from the policy terms and from its 
usual process if we think thats justified  and in my opinion, that certainly applies in this 
case. I also think it would be fair for Mulsanne to pay interest on the settlement sum. As I 
think Ms P and Mr P could reasonably have expected the car to have been repaired (or 
written-off) by the time they returned to the UK, I think the interest should run from then.   
Mr P told us recently that he and Ms P have been contacted by the storage company where 
the car is being held. As it isnt their fault the car is in storage, I think Mulsanne should 
ensure they arent required  to pay storage charges, which it should deal with.
Finally, when Mulsanne offers a settlement sum to Ms P and Mr P (based on the cars 
market value immediately before the accident) it will need to explain to them how it arrived at 
that sum. If it isnt acceptable to them, Ms P and Mr P can make a formal complaint about it 
to Mulsanne (and if necessary, to us).      My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Mulsanne Insurance Company 
Limited to do the following:
Pay Ms P and Mr P £500 in total for distress and inconvenience
Pay Ms P and Mr P the market value for their car immediately before the accident
Add interest to the settlement sum, at the simple yearly rate of 8%, from 16 July 2022 
to the date of settlement
Deal with any storage charges 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Ms P to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2023. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman