DRN-2600665
The complaint
Ms K complains that National Westminster Bank Plc has recorded a marker against her 
name at CIFAS, the national fraud database.
What happened
Ms K says that in February 2018 NatWest told her it would be closing her account. In July 
2020 she complained about the fraud marker it added at that time as this was preventing her 
from getting an account elsewhere. 
NatWest said that it hadnt made a mistake in registering the marker and that the decision to 
close her account remained the same.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that funds paid 
into Ms Ks account in February 2018 has been confirmed as having been obtained 
fraudulently. NatWest had contacted Ms K about this then and noted that she told it that 
these were from birthday gifts but couldnt say who had sent the money. She had then told 
NatWest that she had lost her card. 
Ms K hadnt given a consistent account of what happened and had told this service that she 
was manipulated by a friend in college into giving her card details. And that she was told she 
would get a part time job. It wasnt clear why she expected to be paid when she wasnt doing 
any actual work. She says she didnt know about the specific entries to the account and felt 
coerced by her friend into saying that these were a gift and was frightened of what might 
happen. There was no evidence to support what she said happened and part of the money 
had been quickly withdrawn. NatWest had reasonable grounds to apply the marker and to 
close her account in line with the terms and conditions.
Ms K didnt agree and wanted her complaint to be reviewed. She said that this has had a big 
impact on her life and that she didnt foresee the consequences. She was a child and 
vulnerable at the time and convinced by a friend to provide her details.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, NatWest 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities.
Funds of over £12,000 were paid into Ms Ks account in February 2018 in two separate 
payments. The first of them was all quickly moved on and some withdrawn from a cash 
machine and the second was frozen before it could be accessed. Im satisfied that this 
money had been fraudulently obtained and wasnt legitimately due to Ms K.
Ive looked careful at her explanations of what happened. She has given a number of 
different ones and her first lacked any credibility and does support her at least panicking and 
being nave. Having said that I dont have anything to support what she says about what was 
happening and to help me determine that she had no knowledge of this. And one of her 
explanations seemed to be that she was expecting to be rewarded for work that she hadnt 
been undertaking. If as she says she had no role in these payments then this means she 
had given all her account details, her card and her PIN to the person involved. There is 
nothing to support her being coerced to do so and Im afraid I think she is fairly responsible 
for the way in which her account was then used.
NatWest says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Ms K received fraudulent funds into 
her account. So, Ive looked at whether NatWest was fair to apply the marker, based on the 
evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business must 
have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set by CIFAS. This 
essentially means that NatWest needs to have enough information to make a formal report 
to the police. And that any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable grounds to 
believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion. 
Having reviewed Ms Ks account of events and the evidence NatWest has provided, Im 
satisfied that NatWest had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In 
coming to this view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Ms K received fraudulent funds into her account and didnt report this to NatWest at 
the time or when she had the opportunity to do so.
- She was in control of who had the benefit of this money even on her version of 
events by allowing someone else free access to her account.
- NatWest had grounds to believe that Ms K had allowed the receipt and dispersal of 
fraudulently obtained funds through her account based on the evidence it had.
So, Im afraid given this finding I also think it had grounds to close her account under the 
terms and conditions. I understand the impact of the marker for her, but I dont have a 
reasonable basis to require NatWest to do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman