DRN-4514151
The complaint
Mrs S complains about the price quoted by U K Insurance Limited (UKI) to renew her motor 
insurance policy. 
Mrs Ss complaint has been brought by a representative  who Ill refer to as Mr S. 
What happened
Mrs S took out a policy where the premium is made up of two components, a fixed cost 
element and a variable miles element. Mrs S received a quote to renew her policy and she 
says the miles element was significantly higher than what shed paid the previous year.    
Mrs S says she was informed by UKI the reason for this was because the price when she 
first took out the policy was kept deliberately low. And in order to shield new customers from 
price increases, UKI increase the price for existing customers at renewal. Mrs S says this 
practice goes against FCA pricing rules.  
UKI responded and explained theres two parts to Mrs Ss premium. They explained in 
relation to the upfront fixed cost, they now had the data to show Mrs S was less likely to 
have an accident while parked up, so theyve lowered it to reflect that. They said, this does 
mean theyve had to raise the per-mile rate to remain sustainable. They said, on reviewing 
the renewal, they now had more information on Mrs Ss ID score which has had a large 
impact on the price. They said the renewal quote also has a higher level of cover (with 
commuting use added). They said these factors, together with the general cost of repairs 
and car parts across the industry have had an affect on the price. In relation to Mrs Ss 
concern about UKI not following FCA pricing rules, they explained Mrs S had misinterpreted 
what theyd said. They explained their reference to shielding customers from rating changes 
was said in the context that customers are protected from any rating changes being applied 
during the course of a policy term  but they will apply these when providing a quote.     
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs S. He upheld the complaint as he felt UKI hadnt 
provided our service with sufficient information to show no error had been made when 
calculating Mrs Ss renewal  so he recommended they pay Mrs S £300. UKI disagreed so 
the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation is a fair way to resolve matters. 
Pricing 
The role of this service when looking at complaints about insurance pricing isnt to tell a 
business what they should charge or to determine a price for the insurance they offer. This is 
a commercial judgement and for them to decide. But we can look to see whether we agree a 
consumer has been treated fairly  so is there anything which demonstrates theyve been 
treated differently or less favourably. If we think someone has been treated unfairly, we can 
set out what we think is right to address this unfairness.
The policy booklet describes how the premium works. It says, over the course of the policy, 
Mrs S will pay a fixed premium which covers her car while its parked. It says Mrs S will also 
pay a miles premium  this being a per-mile rate multiplied by the number of miles she 
drives. The way this part of the premium works is that UKI will send out a device which is 
installed in the insured car, and this allows them to track how many miles are being driven 
and then charge accordingly. 
I can see Mrs Ss premium in 2022 was made up of an upfront fixed cost of £260.45 and a 
Per-mile rate of 3.8p a mile. Mrs S then receives a renewal price quoting an upfront fixed 
cost of £264.90 and a Per-mile rate of 16.1p. Mrs S doesnt have any concerns about the 
price increase in relation to the fixed cost, but shes concerned about the per-mile rate being 
more than 320% higher than the year before. So, I understand why Mrs S is concerned 
about the price increase. 
When our service looks at complaints about pricing, well ask for information from a business 
to demonstrate why and how a price has increased. What information is considered 
reasonable will depend on a case by case basis, but insurers generally will provide 
confidential business sensitive information to explain how a customers price has been 
calculated. This might involve evidence of rating factors and loading tables to show, more 
specifically, which loadings have increased to justify the price increase. Generally, and 
particularly in cases where the price has increased significantly, its this level of detail that 
allows our service to check the information and provide a customer with reassurance that 
there hasnt been a mistake in the calculation and that theyve been treated fairly and no 
different to any other customer in the same circumstances.  
UKI explain one of the reasons the price increased at renewal was because the panel of 
insurers they work with has changed. They say the renewal quote was provided by UKI, but 
Mrs S was with a different insurer the previous year. They say UKI have an entirely different 
pricing model to the previous insurer. I agree its for a business to decide what risks theyre 
prepared to cover and how much weight to attach to those risks - different insurers will apply 
different factors. Thats not to say an insurer offering a higher premium has made an error 
compared to an insurer offering a cheaper premium  but rather, it reflects the different 
approach theyve decided to take to risk. Different insurers will have different rating factors 
and loadings, so its not unreasonable, and completely understandable, there will be 
differences in the price of a policy. But that alone, doesnt provide me with sufficient 
evidence to demonstrate that, in this case, Mrs Ss price was calculated fairly.       
I can see, in relation to the rating criteria used to calculate the renewal, UKI refer to Mrs Ss 
car being rated in insurance group 15. They say this is in line with the insurance groups 
which are now publicly available on a price comparison site. Ive checked this, and I agree 
Mrs Ss car has been grouped in line with this. 
But while this shows Mrs Ss car was categorised correctly in relation to its insurance group, 
it doesnt demonstrate theres been no mistake when pricing the policy at renewal. For this, 
and given the facts of this case, I would need to see evidence of the rating factors used and 
the loadings applied when calculating the per-mile rate. I have carefully considered all points 
made by UKI, but in the circumstances of this case, Im not persuaded theres sufficient 
evidence to satisfy me the increase is fair. 
I do wish to make it clear Im not saying there has been an error in the pricing calculation. 
Instead, the reason Im upholding Mrs Ss complaint is, given the significant increase in the per-mile rate, I would need to see evidence and a clear explanation showing why and how 
the price increased as it did for Mrs Ss renewal  and in this case, this information hasnt 
been provided in a way which would allow me to reassure Mrs S that theres been no error 
here. So, taking this into account, I understand why Mrs S was left upset, frustrated and 
confused by the price increase  so Ive thought about the impact on Mrs S and how UKI 
should put this right. 
Mrs S cancelled her policy as a result of the price increase. Its clear this decision was taken 
very reluctantly, and Mr S, when contacting UKI to cancel the policy, even describes it as a 
real shame. Its clear Mrs S was in favour of a policy which provides innovation to the 
standard industry practice of providing cover and bases part of the premium on how much a 
customer drives their car. Mr S explains its very unfortunate he had to take the step of 
cancelling but felt it necessary as he didnt think Mrs S was being treated fairly. So with this 
in mind, Im satisfied its caused Mrs S significant upset and frustration that our service isnt 
able to reassure her the price was calculated correctly. So, taking into account the specific 
circumstances of this case, and the impact on Mrs S, I think compensation of £300 is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.     
FCA pricing rules 
I can see Mrs S is concerned about comments made by UKI which she feels suggest she, as 
an existing customer at renewal, wasnt treated the same as a new business customer when 
UKI calculated a price for her policy. 
The rules for general insurance pricing which Mrs S refers to were introduced by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in January 2022. They apply to motor and buildings 
insurance only and insurers need to make sure they comply with these rules when offering 
renewals. The rules arent retrospective and only apply to renewals generated from 1 
January 2022. The rules were put in place to remove the risk of existing customers paying 
more than new customers. It places an obligation on insurers to make sure they charge 
renewing customers the same as new customers. The FCA refers to this as the equivalent 
new business price (ENBP). 
The ENBP needs to be reflective of the new business price the day the renewal invite is 
generated. It is accepted the view of risk can change and the rules dont mean all insurers 
need to charge the same price and the FCA accepts that policies bought through different 
brands will likely offer similar cover at different prices. It also understands that different sales 
channels for the same brand might result in different prices and it accepts this is fair. The 
new pricing rules were in place when Mrs S was offered her renewal by UKI, so they did 
need to follow these at the time. 
I understand Mrs S is concerned about a comment made by UKI when Mr S queried the 
price increase. UKI said, over the course of a policy term, there will be underwriting and 
rating updatesthat come in regularly. We are able to shield your policy from these changes 
during the year but unfortunately at renewal, we do need to take the new data into account. 
Mrs S believes this suggests UKI penalise existing customers at renewal by shielding new 
business customers from price increases. I acknowledge Mrs Ss point here, but I dont 
agree that is what UKI are saying here. They appear to be suggesting that, while rating 
factors change regularly, theyll only apply these when pricing a policy  whether thats for an 
existing customer at renewal or a new business customer. Theyre suggesting here that 
even if rating factors change, they wont apply any amended ratings or loadings to a policy 
mid-term during the policy year. This isnt an unusual or uncommon approach and is general 
industry practice.      UKI say they offer the same price to a renewing customer as they would a new customer. 
They say all quotes they offer, whether renewal or new business customer, are priced 
against the models in place at that time. In support of this, UKI have carried out a pricing 
calculation based on Mrs Ss details as a renewing customer and as a new business 
customer. And this shows the price as a renewing customer is cheaper than as a new 
business customer. So, I cant say theres any evidence Mrs S wasnt offered an ENBP.   
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that UKI havent provided sufficient information or a clear explanation to 
demonstrate why and how Mrs Ss price increased as it did for her renewal. So UKI should 
pay Mrs S £300 compensation for the upset and frustration caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. U K Insurance Limited must take the steps in 
accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman