DRN-3384474
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about the way UK Insurance Limited (UKI) are handling their claim
under their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S have a multi-trip travel insurance policy through their bank account. This policy
is provided by UKI.
In 2019, they booked a skiing trip to Europe, departing on 13 March 2020. They arranged
hotels and ferry crossings for their trip, and also booked places at a cattery for their two pets.
As a result of the Covid-19 outbreak, the relevant local government announced a range of
restrictions on travel and events. And they also closed the ski resorts. Mr and Mrs Ss hotel
bookings were subsequently cancelled the day before they were due to travel and full
refunds were provided.
Mr and Mrs S made a claim to UKI for the remainder of their cancelled trip. They claimed for
the cost of the unused ferry travel, along with 50% of the cattery fee. And they also
requested a 50% refund for the snow cards (commonly known as ski passes) they had
purchased for the full ski season on an earlier trip, with the intention of using them again
during this holiday.
UKI said it couldnt pay the claim as it needed more information. It said it wanted proof that
no refund could be obtained for the ferry costs and the ski passes. UKI also requested
evidence that the cost incurred for the cattery was a cancellation charge.
Mr and Mrs S were unhappy with the way the claim was being handled. They said they had
provided information from the ferry company website showing that no refunds would be
given if the booking was cancelled less than 24 hours before the sailing  so they felt this
was enough. Mr and Mrs S also provided the ski pass company terms and conditions
showing these were non-refundable, along with additional information that came from its 
website. And in relation to the cattery, Mr and Mrs S said the charges were usually non-
refundable but, as a result of them being regular clients, the cattery had agreed to only
charge half of the cost. They supplied the original invoice, along with an updated one
showing the 50% charge which they felt was enough evidence to support their claim. So,
they complained to UKI.
UKI accepted it could have handled the claim better and recognised it had duplicated some
of its requests for information. It offered £100 to Mr and Mrs S as compensation for the
errors. But it stated that the policy didnt provide cover for recoverable losses and so this is
why it couldnt cover the claim based on the information it had available to it. Mr and Mrs S
subsequently brought their complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into the matter. But she didnt think UKI had acted unreasonably
when refusing to pay the claim. She found that the policy doesnt provide cover for costs that
are recoverable elsewhere and that the information supplied wasnt sufficient to show that
the providers wouldnt be considering refunds. She also said that, due to the unprecedented
nature of the Covid-19 outbreak, some providers were being more flexible and so she didnt
think it was unfair of UKI to ask Mr and Mrs S to approach the providers about a refund,
regardless of what was published on their terms and conditions.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed. They said that whilst UKI asserted that the policy terms and
conditions must be observed, it didnt extend the same principle to the terms and conditions
of the providers of their arrangements  which said there was no refund due.
UKI subsequently contacted our investigator to put forward an offer. It said that it still felt it
was necessary to obtain confirmation of the amounts claimed not being refundable from all
of the providers, however, it said it was prepared to obtain this information on Mr and Mrs
Ss behalf. And once this was obtained, UKI said it would also consider paying Mr S a pro-
rata refund of the ski passes.
This offer was put to Mr and Mrs S. Before they were prepared to accept the offer, they
asked for clarification on how the settlement of the ski pass would be calculated. Following
further correspondence with our investigator and UKI, Mr and Mrs S agreed the calculation
method being used by UKI for the ski passes was acceptable, however, they maintained that
UKIs requests for information to support the claim were unreasonable.
As no agreement could be reached, the matter was passed to me to decide.
On 3 March 2022 I issued my provisional decision. In it I said the following:
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
The cancellation section of the policy provides cover for the portion of trip costs applicable to
each person, should it be necessary to cancel the trip for one of the listed covered reasons.
There doesnt appear to be any dispute regarding the cause of the cancellation, or whether
the costs claimed for are otherwise covered by the policy, so I dont intend to make any
findings on these points.
What remains in dispute is whether Mr and Mrs S have done enough to demonstrate that the
costs they are claiming for are irrecoverable from elsewhere. UKI has said that there is
currently not enough information to show that the costs claimed are not recoverable
elsewhere. Mr and Mrs S feel that they have given enough information.
From looking at Mr and Mrs Ss policy terms and conditions it, like most, if not all, travel
insurance policies on the market, doesnt provide cover for recoverable costs. It describes
these as Any costs you can recover from elsewhere. This is because insurance is designed
to indemnify the policyholder only if they are unable to reclaim their losses from any other
source.
The policy also states that the policy holder must provide a cancellation invoice, unused
tickets and tickets receipts along with any other supporting documents that we reasonably
ask for to support your claim. The purpose of requesting evidence of the cancellation of any
service is to ensure that the service hasnt been used and give details of what, if any, refund
is being made available as a result of the cancellation. It can also demonstrate that there
havent been any delays in notifying the service provider which could impact on any refund
which may be due. Generally, its for a policyholder to provide sufficient evidence in support
of their claim, and an insurer is entitled to make reasonable enquiries to satisfy itself that a
claim is covered.I will now go on to consider individually the items being claimed, and whether I think UKIs
position that it needs further evidence is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Ski passes
In January 2020, Mr and Mrs S purchased ski passes for the full ski season  which was
until May 2020. They used the passes during a two week holiday in January and they have
told us that this trip in March 2020 was the only other trip they had booked during this
season. Due to the resort being closed down, the ski lifts were not allowed to operate. UKI
has requested evidence that the ski passes have been cancelled and that the provider wont
be giving a refund.
Ive looked at the evidence provided by Mr and Mrs S. They have supplied details of the
terms and conditions from the ski pass company and I can see these state that no refund is
due as a result of the non-availability of facilities. I can understand why Mr and Mrs S may
have thought this was enough evidence to support their claim.
However, the impact of the Covid-19 outbreak was unexpected and was an unprecedented
situation for the travel industry. As a result, some suppliers were prepared to be more
flexible about refunds than the approach detailed in their standard terms and conditions. So,
I dont think it was unreasonable for UKI to request further information regarding the stance
of the ski pass provider in relation to this particular circumstance.
Mr and Mrs S did send screen shots from the providers website which was updated in July
2020  nearly four months after they were due to travel. And I can see that this information
referred to extending the passes to include the summer operating season. But I also note
that the website specifically states if someone cannot use the pass, no refunds will be
provided. As this information from the website is dated several months after the initial 
closure of the resort, I think it is fair to accept this information as sufficient evidence that no
refunds are available for the ski pass cost.
In terms of the cancellation of the passes, Mr and Mrs S have made it clear they had already
been used on a previous skiing trip earlier in the year. And following the travel restrictions
which were placed on UK citizens from 23 March 2020, Im satisfied that they wouldnt have
been able to utilise the passes from that point  and certainly not before the end of the ski
season. So, I dont think it is reasonable for UKI to require Mr and Mrs S to provide any
further information to support that they have not used these passes following the closure of
the ski resort.
Based on the information provided, Im persuaded Mr and Mrs S have done enough to show
that they were unable to use their ski passes following the closure of the ski resorts in March
2020. And Im satisfied that the information they have provided shows that no refund is
available.
Im aware that both parties have been in contact in relation to how the refund of the unused
portion of the ski passes would be calculated. UKI has provided two different calculations
which Mr and Mrs S have confirmed are acceptable to them. So UKI now needs to settle the
claim for the unused proportion of the ski passes, based on the calculations they have
provided to, and which have been agreed by, Mr and Mrs S.
Cattery fees
Mr and Mrs S provided UKI with an invoice from October 2019, which showed the cost for a
two week stay for two pets. They also provided a further invoice, dated 13 March 2020 
their intended departure date, which then showed the cost of a two week stay for one pet.They have explained that, as regular clients of the cattery, they were able to obtain a lower
fee for the unused stay  only being charged 50% of the cost. UKI says it requires evidence
that the booking is cancelled and that this charge is the cancellation fee.
From looking at the second invoice supplied, this document doesnt confirm that the booking
has been cancelled, nor does it mention that the fee charged was for the cancellation. Based
purely on what is written on the second invoice, it would suggest that the booking was used,
but only for one pet. So, I can understand why UKI has requested this additional information
 I dont consider this to be an unreasonable request. I also note that, since the matter has
been with our service, UKI has offered to contact the cattery for Mr and Mrs S in order to
obtain clarification of the charge.
Im conscious that this matter has been outstanding for quite some time and so in an effort to
resolve matters Ive arranged for our investigator to contact the cattery to confirm the
situation regarding the charges. And having listened to the conversation with the cattery, Im
satisfied that the 50% charge shown on the invoice is a cancellation fee for the unused
booking. I would ask UKI to now make the payment for this charge.
Ferry
As with the above, I havent seen anything to show that the booking was cancelled, and so I
dont think its unreasonable for UKI to request this information. However, I understand that
Mr and Mrs S have now withdrawn this part of the claim as they have been able to obtain a
credit note for the cost of the booking from the relevant ferry operator. As this is no longer
part of the claim, I will make no further comment on this aspect.
Handling of the claim
Mr and Mrs S complained to UKI about the way the claim was being handled. UKI has
acknowledged that it could have handled the claim better. It has confirmed that some of the
requests it made were duplicated. It has offered £100 to Mr and Mrs S for the inconvenience
these repeated requests would have caused.
I appreciate it would have been very frustrating for Mr and Mrs S to receive duplicate
requests for the same information. Im pleased to note that UKI has accepted that it has
made mistakes in the way it has dealt with the claim. Based on what has happened, I think
that the sum of £100 is fair and reasonable compensation for the impact of the situation on
Mr and Mrs S. I dont require UKI to pay anything further.
Mr and Mrs S replied to say they had nothing further to add to what had been provided 
before but confirmed they would be content with the outcome the provisional decision 
reached. UKI also responded to confirm that it accepted the outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr and Mrs S and UKI for responding to my provisional decision. As both 
parties have accepted this outcome, I see no reason to alter my findings. 
Putting things right
I require UKI to:settle the claim for the unused proportion of the ski passes. UKI has already provided 
information to Mr and Mrs S on how this will be calculated. 
pay the cattery charges of £192.95 as detailed in the invoice dated 13 March 2020. 
UKI can take into consideration any policy limits that my apply or deduct relevant policy 
excess when settling the claim.
I understand that UKI has already processed a payment to Mr and Mrs S in settlement of the 
claim following my provisional decision. If this payment is in line with the requirements 
detailed here, then UKI doesnt need to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I uphold this complaint. 
UK Insurance Limited needs to put things right as detailed above, if it hasnt already done 
so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman