DRN-3898305
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy Citibank UK Limited will not refund the money he lost as the result of an 
authorised push payment (APP) scam.
What happened
All the details are well known to both parties and were set out in the investigators view of 20 
October 2022 - so I wont repeat them in full here. In summary, Mr F fell victim to a safe 
account scam on 14 October 2021. He made payments of £50,000 and £9,638.86 from his 
Citibank account to another bank as a scam caller instructed. Citibank declined the first 
payment as it was detected as a fraud risk and only processed it after speaking to Mr F. As it 
was satisfied with the outcome of this call, the second lower value was processed without 
intervention.
Mr F says he did not speak to Citibank and says the scammer must have intercepted the 
call. He says Citibank have failed to protect him and he has lost all his savings. This has 
caused significant stress and he seeks full reimbursement.
Citibank declined Mr Fs refund claim saying it had spoken to Mr F before processing the 
payment and he had confirmed it was genuine.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Fs complaint. She said Mr F recalled authorising the 
payments using one-time passwords. Citibank has evidenced it called Mr Fs mobile before 
processing the first payment and it has shared a recording of that call. Whilst Mr F is sure he 
did not receive the call, Citibank had it reviewed by voice matching experts and they 
confirmed the voice is identical to other recordings of calls Mr F accepts making.
She said the bank also explained it uses SIM swap fraud prevention technology and this did 
not show any concerns for Mr Fs mobile number at this time. So she concluded there was 
no evidence the scammer had intercepted the call. She noted Citibank completed caller 
verification when it rang Mr F. She said the questions asked on the call were proportionate 
and the replies ought not to have promoted it to decline the transaction. So she could not 
fairly conclude Citibank ought to have done anything differently to prevent the fraud. She 
explained she could not place significant weight on Mr Fs screenshot showing he had not 
received the disputed call as it was not dated.
In response, Mr F said the transaction was totally out of character with the account history 
and Citibank should have requested a branch visit for identification verification. As the 
investigator disagreed, he requested an ombudsman review the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mr Fs complaint. Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute that Mr F made and authorised the payments. Mr F knew why he was 
making the payments. At the stage he was making these payments, he believed
he was moving his money to a safe account to prevent fraudsters from gaining access to it. I 
dont dispute Mr F was scammed and he wasnt making the payment for the reason he 
thought he was, but I remain satisfied the transaction was authorised under the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017.
Its also accepted that Citibank has an obligation to follow Mr Fs instructions. So in the
first instance Mr F is presumed liable for his loss. But there are other factors that must be 
taken into account.
To reach my decision I have taken into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, 
relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. To note, as Citibank (unlike Mr Fs other bank involved in the same scam) is not a 
signatory to the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code its principles do not apply in 
this case. This means I think that Citibank should have:
been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering, and the financing of terrorism.
had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years,
which financial institutions are generally more familiar with than the average
customer.
in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, taken
additional steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the
possibility of financial harm.
In this case I dont think Citibank can fairly be held liable for the transactions. Ill explain why.
When Mr F made the first payment for £50,000 Citibanks fraud prevention system worked 
as I would expect. It identified the payment as out of character and therefore a risk. This 
triggered an outbound call to Mr F. This is the first point of dispute between the parties. Mr F 
has been consistent in his testimony that he never received such a call. I note he tried to 
obtain phone records from his provider at the time to support this claim, but was unable to.
Citibank has been able to supply evidence to show it called Mr Fs primary mobile number, 
verified his identity and asked about the transaction. I find the responses to its questions 
were plausible and that its line of questioning was sufficiently probing in the circumstances  
and the tone of the call respondent was neither defensive nor reluctant such that Citibank 
ought to have suspected anything. I note the independent experts the bank uses to measure 
the integrity of such calls have found a voice match to Mr F, and that there is no evidence 
the SIM card had been swapped to allow calls to be intercepted. Mr F has also confirmed he 
didnt notice any loss of signal at around this time.
I dont doubt it is Mr Fs honest recollection that he did not receive that call, but we are an 
evidence-based service and in this case the balance of evidence means I have to conclude 
the bank rang Mr F; it was wholly reasonable for the bank to conclude it was speaking to    
Mr F; and he satisfied their checks. 
Mr F also argues a call was not sufficient, Citibank ought to have requested he visit a branch 
with identification. But I am satisfied it followed its standard fraud prevention policy and so 
treated Mr F fairly  that is, as it would all other account holders in the same circumstances. I 
would expect a bank to make direct contact in these circumstances and a phone call offers that.
It follows I find Citibank detected the at-risk transaction as it should have and intervened 
appropriately. I also find it fair and reasonable that it processed the second payment based 
on the findings of its checks into the first.
I have then thought about whether Citibank did enough to try to recover Mr Fs money once 
he reported the scam. I find it acted in a timely manner and did what it should have. Citibank 
has shown Mr Fs call to report the scam was at 14.45 on 15 October 2021. It contacted the 
receiving bank at 16.00 that same day to attempt recovery. The receiving bank has 
confirmed that the money was withdrawn from the scammers account on 14 October 2021 
30 minutes after the payments arrived. So whilst I appreciate Mr F did not realise he was the 
victim of a scam then, the money had gone prior even to Mr F first contacting Citibank.
It follows I am not instructing Citibank to refund any money to Mr F. This is difficult
decision to make, Im sorry Mr F has lost a considerable amount of money and I can
understand why he would like to be compensated for his losses. I do accept he has fallen
victim to a sophisticated scam. But I can only consider whether Citibank, which had no
involvement in the scam itself, should be held responsible for what happened. For the
reasons set out above I do not find Citibank can be held liable in the circumstances of this
case. 
I note Citibank offered Mr F £100 to acknowledge the distress and inconvenience he 
suffered as a result of the delay in its fraud investigation. I will leave it to Mr F to contact 
Citibank directly if he wishes to accept that offer, if he hasnt already. 
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman