DRN-1840508
 
The complaint
Mr P complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) hasnt refunded 
money under a chargeback request he made. 
What happened
Mr P placed an order through an on-line market place for 399 singing bowls for a total cost of 
$17,029.39, in June 2018.  The order was sent from abroad, to a shipping address abroad. 
Mr P says when the goods arrived, in July 2018, only one bowl was contained within the 
parcel, not the 399 ordered. And he also said the bowl that was delivered wasnt as 
described. He attempted to obtain a refund through the on-line market place without success 
and so raised a chargeback through Amex.
Amex temporarily credited Mr Ps account whilst it raised the chargeback dispute. However, 
the on-line market place defended the chargeback in October 2018  providing evidence that 
the delivery company delivered 399 items at a weight of 01200lbs.  Amex re-debited Mr Ps 
account a few days later. Mr P complained about the outcome, but Amex didnt uphold his 
complaint.  
Mr P asked us to look into his concerns. He let us know that a lawyer acting for the on-line 
market place had confirmed a refund had been sent to Amex in September 2018. And so he 
wanted the refund debited to his account.  Our investigator didnt find Amex had done 
anything wrong and she didnt uphold his complaint; she was satisfied the chargeback had 
been defended and the account re-debited correctly. 
Mr P has asked for a final decision. He provided further evidence in the form of discussions 
with the seller through the on-line market place about the order and his attempts to obtain a 
refund. In particular, he doesnt believe the shipping information relied on to be genuine. He 
also reemphasised the lawyers letter which suggested Amex was sent the chargeback 
funds and he recourse was through Amex. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly like to reassure both Mr P and Amex that although I have only summarised the 
background and arguments above, I have read and considered everything provided in its 
entirety. Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I explain why below. 
A chargeback is not a legal right that Mr P has. Chargeback schemes are voluntary schemes 
set up between card issuers  such as Visa, Mastercard or Amex  and merchants. It means 
that in certain circumstances, in line with the scheme rules, a transaction can be refunded if 
theres a problem with the goods or services supplied by a merchant. My role here is decide 
whether Amex has dealt fairly with Mr Ps chargeback request, not the underlying dispute   
Mr P had with the merchant.
Mr P made the chargeback request in August 2018.  Although we wouldnt expect a bank to 
raise a chargeback if it knew it wouldnt be successful (if it was out of time, for example), we 
do think it a matter of good practice for it to be attempted. In accordance with what I would 
expect, Amex did temporarily credit the account whilst it processed the chargeback request.
From the records provided, it sent the chargeback request to the on-line market place on the 
basis of goods or services not received.  I consider this to be the most appropriate basis 
given Mr Ps complaint that only one bowl was received. Amexs records also show that the 
chargeback was defended, with information being sent to it showing that 399 items, at a 
weight of 01200lbs, were delivered to Mr Ps chosen shipping address via a third-party 
delivery service.  This was sufficient evidence for the chargeback to be reversed. 
I understand Mr P doesnt believe the shipping information provided to be genuine. But that 
doesnt mean Amex hasnt followed the chargeback process in accordance with the scheme 
rules. And Im not aware that Mr P provided any persuasive evidence to Amex to show the 
shipping information wasnt genuine (such as evidence it was fabricated), as he has alleged. 
I therefore dont find Amex was wrong to re-debit the amount against Mr Ps account when 
the chargeback was defended successfully.  
Finally, I turn to the letter that Mr P has provided, from the on-line market places lawyer. 
This letter suggests that $17,029.39 was refunded to Amex in September 2018. I can 
appreciate why Mr P has been left with an impression that Amex has these funds. But Amex 
has explained the on-line market place will usually do a refund automatically, and then this is 
reversed later if a chargeback is defended. Amex has provided information to show the on-
line market place sent the defence at the beginning of October 2018  after the refund had 
been made. And I have seen evidence that Amex returned the funds accordingly (which I 
have agreed to accept in confidence as the information is commercially sensitive).  
I do understand Mr P feels very strongly about his complaint and firmly believes he is entitled 
to a refund. But I find that Amex has dealt with the chargeback fairly and so I wont be asking 
it to do anything more.  I would make it clear here that I make no comment or finding in 
relation to Mr Ps underlying dispute with the merchant, that is something hell need to 
pursue elsewhere.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision 
before 14 August 2020. 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman