DRN-3314437
Complaint
Mrs M has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) unfairly increased the interest rate 
on her overdraft. Shes also complained that HSBC had previously been charging her even 
when she was in financial difficulty.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at Mrs Ms complaint and thought while HSBC was entitled to 
vary its overdraft interest rate, it should have realised it was unfair to do so in Mrs Ms case 
as her overdraft had already become unsustainable for by June 2014. So it needed to refund 
all the interest, fees and charges it added to Mrs Ms overdraft from this point. HSBC didnt 
agree in full and as Mrs M didnt accept its alternative offer of settlement, the complaint was 
passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and industry codes of practice we 
consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
applying overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this 
decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think HSBC acted unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees from June 2014. By this point, it 
was evident Mrs Ms overdraft had become demonstrably unsustainable for her.  A cursory 
look at her statements leading up to this period shows that Mrs M only ever saw a credit 
balance on her account for a few days at a time. She was also regularly exceeding her 
overdraft limit and had returned direct debits too. 
In reaching my conclusions, Ive seen what HSBC has said about Mrs Ms application for a 
loan in 2014 and her clearing the overdraft sometime after this. But the overdraft being 
cleared happened sometime after. And although I dont have the details of how HSBC 
arrived at Mrs M having a monthly disposable income of over £450, I think the conduct of 
Mrs Ms account overdraft calls this figure into question.
So I think that by June 2014 HSBC should have stopped providing the overdraft on the same 
terms and treated Mrs M with forbearance rather than adding even more interest, fees and 
charges on the overdraft. As HSBC didnt react to Mrs Ms account usage, and instead 
simply continued charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably 
towards her. Mrs M ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges at a time when 
her overdraft was already unsustainable. So Im satisfied that Mrs M lost out because of 
what HSBC did wrong (I dont think that the Mrs M using the overdraft after having cleared it 
changes this) and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what HSBC needs to do to put things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs Ms complaint for HSBC to put things right by:
Reworking Mrs Ms current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it from June 2014 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made HSBC should contact Mrs M to arrange a suitable repayment plan, 
Mrs M is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with HSBC to reach a 
suitable agreement for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative 
information on Mrs Ms credit file, it should reflect what would have been 
recorded had it started the process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in 
June 2014. HSBC can also reduce Mrs Ms overdraft limit by the amount of any 
refund if it considers it appropriate to do so, as long as doing so wouldnt leave 
her over her limit.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mrs M along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then HSBC 
should remove any adverse information from Mrs Ms credit file. HSBC can also 
reduce Mrs Ms overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it considers it 
appropriate to do so.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give 
Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Ms complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman