DRN-4097931
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy Barclays Bank UK PLC will not refund the money he says he lost as the 
result of an authorised push payment (APP) scam.
A representative has brought this complaint on behalf of Mr P, for ease of reading I will refer 
to Mr P in this decision.
What happened
Mr P made two faster payments online  the first on 26 April 2019 for £1,000 and the second 
on 4 May 2019 for £3,000 to an individual that he believed he was buying an online 
business from. He had found the contact on a legitimate website that lists businesses for 
sale. He made an initial payment of £1,000 using a different e-payment method. He says it 
was a scam and the website was never properly developed, nor was the business stocked. 
When he challenged the individual(s) involved they ended all contact with him. He says 
Barclays ought to have stopped the payments as they were unusual and suspicious.
Barclays said any dispute should be between Mr P and the supplier, there was not a scam - 
rather Mr P was unhappy with the quality of the goods/services he received. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ps complaint. He said he understood why Barclays felt 
this was a civil dispute as it seemed Mr P received some of the services he expected, but 
not all. He also did not think Barclays had failed to intervene when it ought to have and it did 
what he would expect with regards to trying to recover the money after Mr P reported the 
scam.
Mr P disagreed with this assessment and asked for an ombudsmans review. In summary he 
said this was definitely a scam  he never received control of anything in return for the 
payments he made and Barclays failed to evidence the business he thought he was buying 
existed. Had the bank stopped the transactions and asked the right questions the scam 
would have unravelled. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mr Ps complaint. 
Theres no dispute that Mr P made and authorised the payments. Mr P knew why he was 
making the payments. At the stage he was making these payments, he believed
he was buying a fully functional online business. I dont dispute Mr P didnt receive what he 
thought he would, but I remain satisfied the transactions were authorised under the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017. 
Its also accepted that Barclays has an obligation to follow Mr Ps instructions. And when 
simply executing authorised payments, banks do not have to protect customers against the 
risk of bad deals. So in the first instance Mr P is presumed liable for his loss. But there are 
other factors that must be taken into account. 
To reach my decision I have taken into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, 
relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. To note, as the payments pre-date the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code 
its principles do not apply in this case. This means I think that Barclays should have:
been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering, and the financing of terrorism.
had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years,
which financial institutions are generally more familiar with than the average
customer.
in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, taken
additional steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the
possibility of financial harm.
I need to first make clear that from the available evidence I cannot be sure whether a scam 
took place or not. It seems Mr P received some of what he understood he was buying for 
£5,000, but he has not supplied any contractual agreement that shows what the £5,000 was 
meant to cover. However, in any event, I have still considered whether the bank ought to 
have intervened because of the nature of the transactions.
In this case I dont think Barclays missed a trigger and failed to hold a transaction that it 
ought to have run more checks on. The first payment on 26 April 2019 was for £1,000. This 
was to a new payee but it was not of such a high value that it was significantly out of 
character and it was to a UK bank account. There is a balance to be struck between 
identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent and minimising disruption to 
legitimate payments. If all payments such as the first one Mr P made were blocked while 
further enquiries were made, many genuine payments would be stopped which would cause 
significant disruption and delay.
The second on 7 May 2019 for £3,000 was to the same payee  so whilst of higher value it 
was several days later following an initial transaction that had Mr P had not contacted the 
bank with any concerns about. It did not follow the first payment in rapid succession, nor did 
it drain Mr Ps account. It had none of the hallmarks of scam payments. The value of the 
payment, though clearly not insignificant, wouldnt alone be enough in these circumstances 
to give Barclays any cause for concern. 
I appreciate that now, with the benefit of hindsight, Mr P feels that Barclays ought to have 
stopped the payments. But based on the knowledge that Barclays had at the time, I dont 
think there was anything about these payments that ought to have put Barclays on notice 
that Mr P was at risk of financial harm. It follows I dont think Barclays was wrong to process 
the payments and I cannot fairly find it liable for Mr Ps claimed losses. 
 
Did Barclays do enough to try to recover Mr Ps funds?
Ive seen evidence that Barclays contacted the receiving bank to try to recover Mr Ps funds 
on the day he reported to it that he had been the victim of a scam. That bank later confirmed 
no funds remained. So I dont believe Barclays could have done anything more.My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman