DRN-4369554
The complaint
Mr M and Miss H are unhappy that it took Zurich Insurance PLC three months to pay them 
what it had already agreed they were owed.
Mr M and Miss H had buildings insurance underwritten by Zurich. The policy was in joint 
names but, for ease of reading, Ill refer only to Mr M throughout my decision.
What happened
First complaint
Mr M claimed under his policy for damage caused by a leak. Zurich settled the claim, but it 
took seven months. Mr M thought that was too long for a straightforward claim, so he raised 
a complaint. At the same time, he asked whether he shouldve received disturbance 
allowance (DA) for the time he was without water, and a refund of the invoices hed paid.
Zurich looked into Mr Ms complaint and sent its final response. Zurich agreed it hadnt 
handled the claim as well as it couldve done and awarded £350 compensation. It also 
confirmed Mr M shouldve been offered DA (£525) and a refund of his invoice payments 
(£308).
Mr M was satisfied that this resolved his complaint.  
Second complaint
Mr M didnt receive the DA or invoice payment, totalling £833. He chased up with Zurich, but 
he didnt hear back from it on most occasions. So, Mr M raised his second complaint to 
Zurich about the following:
Waiting three months to receive the DA without being given any reason.
Zurich ignored much of his communication and didnt give reasons.
Mr M needed to chase progress on his complaint due to Zurichs inaction.
Needing to raise a second complaint to get what was agreed in his first complaint.
The stress and anxiety this matter caused Mr M and his family. 
Zurich looked into Mr Ms complaint and issued its final response letter. While Zurich agreed 
it hadnt made the payment to Mr M as promptly as it shouldve done, it regarded the delay 
as just five weeks. Zurich offered £75 compensation which Mr M declined.
Unhappy with its response, Mr M brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator initially upheld the complaint. She thought compensation of £250 plus 8% 
simple interest per annum on the delayed DA was reasonable given the overall delay.
Zurich disagreed. It clarified that the first complaint was resolved, and it had already paid 
£350 compensation. So, our investigator reconsidered the evidence. She decided not to 
uphold Mr Ms complaint because Zurich had done enough to resolve the second complaint.
At this point, Mr M disagreed. He didnt think £75 was sufficient compensation. He asked for 
an apology, increased compensation, and an explanation for Zurichs failure to pay the 
agreed DA and invoices.
I issued a provisional decision in September 2023 explaining that I was intending to uphold 
Mr Ms complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
To be clear, in reaching my provisional decision I havent taken into consideration the first 
complaint. Thats because Mr M confirmed Zurich resolved it to his satisfaction. Ive referred 
to it for background and to put the second complaint into context.
The main issue of complaint is Zurichs delay making payment to Mr M.
If Zurich had paid the DA and refunded the invoice payment as agreed in its 6 February 
letter to Mr M, promptly, the matter wouldve been settled. Instead, he had to chase up 
payment on a number of occasions, often without response from Zurich. Zurich eventually 
paid the amount due to Mr M towards the end of March. 
Looking at the evidence, I note that there was some question with Zurich and its agents 
about whether a second excess payment was due. Mr M didnt dispute this. However, he 
was aware of the query in early January, when the loss adjuster said they would look into it. 
And Zurich said in its February letter that it would pay the amount due to Mr M once it 
confirmed whether the second excess was due.
Two weeks later, Mr M chased contact again having heard nothing back from Zurich. At the 
end of February, Zurich confirmed the second excess was due and what the final payment 
would be. Zurich made payment three weeks later.
Turning to Zurichs final response letter, it acknowledged the delay and offered £75 
compensation. The dates referred to imply that Zurich only acknowledged delay of five 
weeks. Theres no mention of the poor communication, noted in the evidence provided, 
which caused Mr M to chase up responses to his contact and payment due. I note Zurich did 
apologise for its service failure.
The evidence tells me that Mr M waited from early January to the end of March for Zurich to 
confirm whether the second excess was due and make payment. Taking into account the 
fact that Zurich had already agreed it owed Mr M for the DA and invoice in December, I see 
no reason why it didnt make payment promptly and simply withhold the excess until a 
decision was made. Instead, it withheld the full amount for three months. I think thats an 
unacceptable length of time to wait for a payment which Zurich had already agreed 
shouldve been paid almost a year earlier.
Mr M said he wasnt given any reason for the delayed payment or failure to respond to him. 
Ive noted in the email trail between Zurich and its agents that staff leaving contributed to the 
delay. I havent seen anything to show that it explained that to Mr M. However, I dont think it 
really matters here. Thats because Zurich shouldve made sure Mr Ms claim was handled 
properly regardless of its staffing issues. So, I see no reason to ask Zurich to give reasons 
for the delay or try to explain why it didnt respond to communication when it shouldve done. 
I dont think it would serve any useful purpose to either party.
Putting things right
Again, to be clear, Im only referring to the matters which took place in direct relation to the second complaint. 
In summary, the evidence shows: 
Zurich caused avoidable delays of around three months in making payment to Mr M 
for the DA and in reimbursing him the invoice costs. 
Zurich failed to respond to Mr M on a number of occasions when he tried to chase up 
payment. 
Mr M said he and his family suffered stress and anxiety. While I accept that it 
wouldve been inconvenient to repeatedly chase updates from Zurich, I must bear in 
mind that the claim itself had been dealt with. So, the inconvenience appears to be 
limited to Mr Ms contact with Zurich for the payment due.
Zurich offered £75 compensation for what appears to be five weeks delay only.
Zurich has already put matters right by making payment to Mr M. However, I think Zurich 
should increase the compensation from £75 to £150. This is intended to address the lost 
opportunity to Mr M to use the payment due to him, the avoidable delays, the frustration 
caused and the shortfalls in Zurichs service to him in respect of the communication. I think 
this compensation is fair and reasonable under the circumstances.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Mr M accepted my provisional decision.
Zurich didnt provide any further comment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Zurich didnt provide any comment in response to my provisional decision, for 
completeness I looked again at all the evidence provided.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr M and Miss Hs complaint.
Im satisfied that the evidence shows Zurich didnt handle Mr Ms communications as it 
shouldve done, and it failed to pay the amount it had already confirmed was due to him. I 
havent seen anything to suggest that there was a reasonable explanation for the delay.
Mr M explained about the inconvenience of having to chase payment, yet not receive a 
response. I can understand that it wouldve been frustrating, especially as there was no 
dispute that Zurich owed the payment.
In light of the evidence, Im satisfied that my provisional decision was fair and reasonable. 
Therefore, it becomes my final decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Ms and 
Miss Hs complaint and Zurich Insurance PLC must:
pay Mr M and Miss H £150 compensation by way of apology for the avoidable delay 
making payment; the failure to respond to communication and the frustration that caused, and for their lost opportunity to use the payment due to them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman