DRN-3798552
The complaint
Mrs J has complained that Admiral Insurance Gibraltar Limiteds windscreen repair agent, 
wholl I refer to as A, handled her claim under her motor insurance policy for a broken glass 
panel in her sunroof badly and this has led to her losing out. 
What happened
The glass in the sunroof in Mrs Js car broke and she made a claim under her policy. Admiral 
arranged for A to repair it. As technician replaced the glass. Mrs J has said he told her after 
hed done this that she could open the sunroof on tilt, but shed have to get someone to look 
at it if she wanted it to open fully. Shes explained that when she used her car soon after the 
glass had been replaced she noticed some bits of glass had been left on the material cover 
of the sunroof. Shes further explained she tried to call the technician within an hour of him 
leaving about this, but couldnt get hold of him. Shes said she then pressed the button to 
open the material cover on the sunroof the next day and it went back a little way and then 
jammed and it is totally distorted.
Mrs J contacted A and they sent someone out to have a look at her sunroof. Mrs A has said 
this technician said it wasnt As job to remove the broken glass. Her car was booked into 
one of As centres for inspection. Mrs A has said the technician at the centre said the 
original technician should have removed all the broken glass they could when they replaced 
the glass in the sunroof. He said the mechanism needed to be stripped down, but A was not 
willing to do this or pay for it to be done. Mrs J has said she also noticed the technician used 
a screwdriver or something similar to prize open the roof lining and damaged it in the 
process. 
Mrs J complained to Admiral. She said the fact the technician told her she could open the 
sunroof on tilt meant she thought she could open the material cover. And, if he had warned 
her there could be glass in the mechanism and not to open it at all, shed have taken it 
somewhere to get it looked at before trying to open the material cover. 
Admiral rejected Mrs Js complaint. They said the technician had told her there could be a 
problem with the sunroof. And, in view of this, they didnt think they were responsible for any 
damage caused when Mrs J opened it. 
Mrs J wasnt happy with Admirals decision and asked us to consider a complaint against 
them. One of our investigators did this. She said it should be upheld and Admiral should pay 
for Mrs Js sunroof to be repaired. This was because she was persuaded by Mrs Js 
testimony that the technician told her she could open the sunroof on tilt. And she thought the 
technician should have removed all the broken glass before replacing the glass in the 
sunroof. And  if he didnt  he should have warned Mrs J there could be glass in the 
mechanism and not to use the sunroof at all until shed had it checked. 
Admiral dont agree with the investigators view and have asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. Theyve said Mrs J was told by the technician there was glass in the mechanism of 
the material cover and sunroof and what needed to be done regarding this. So, they dont 
think theyre responsible for any damage caused by Mrs J trying to open the material cover.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Js complaint. This is because I accept her 
testimony that at the time of the original repair As technician told her she could use the 
sunroof on tilt and didnt say not to use it in case there was glass in the mechanism. Admiral 
have suggested there is evidence in the notes provided by A that the technician told Mrs J 
there was glass in the sunroof mechanism. Theyve referred to a note dated 31 December 
2021. But, the repair was carried out on 13 December 2021. So, I dont think this note 
proves the technician told Mrs J this when he replaced the glass in her sunroof. It is what the 
technician who inspected Mrs Js sunroof after she complained to A said. But, by this time, 
the sunroof mechanism was already damaged because Mrs A wasnt aware she shouldnt 
open the sunroof. 
I think the evidence shows As technicians made three errors. First of all, the original 
technician didnt make sure he got all the broken glass out of the sunroof mechanism before 
replacing the glass. I think he should have done this as part of the repair. If this meant the 
sunroof needed to be stripped and he couldnt do this at Mrs Js home, he should have told 
her this and arranged for it to be taken somewhere where this could be done either by one of 
As technicians or by someone on As behalf. Secondly, having not done so, he should have 
told Mrs J hed not been able to remove all the broken glass from the mechanism and that 
she shouldnt use the sunroof until this had been done. There is no compelling evidence he 
told her this and I think Mrs Js testimony suggests its most likely he didnt. After all, if he 
did, then Id need to accept, that irrespective of Mrs J knowing she shouldnt use her sunroof 
and it being obvious to her that doing so could cause damage, she still went ahead and used 
it. I think this is extremely unlikely and I find it surprising Admiral actually thinks this was the 
case. Thirdly, when Mrs Js car was inspected at As centre the technician there 
damaged/dislodged the roof lining on her car with a screwdriver or something similar when 
he was trying to inspect the sunroof mechanism. I say this because of Mrs Js testimony and 
photographs that shes recently provided.   
Putting things right
As Admiral are responsible for the actions of A and it was As technicians errors that led to 
the damage to Mrs Js sunroof and roof lining, I think the fair and reasonable outcome to her 
complaint is for Admiral to pay for these things to be repaired. Admiral can arrange this 
themselves and pay for it or ask Mrs J to provide an estimate, which they can approve and 
then reimburse Mrs J when she has had the work done and paid for it and provided a copy 
of the invoice. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs Js complaint. Admiral Insurance Gibraltar 
Limited must pay for her sunroof and roof lining to be repaired by one of the ways set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman