DRN-2516859
The complaint
Mrs I complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has turned down a cancellation claim she
made on her travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs I has travel insurance as a benefit of a packaged account with her building society.
On 6 November 2019, Mrs I called UKI to go through medical screening ahead of going on
holiday on 17 December 2019. She declared four medical conditions, including Parkinsons
Disease. Mr I also declared that hed had stent surgery after suffering a heart attack. UKI
told Mrs I it wouldnt be able to cover anything to do with Mr Is heart. It told her it could
insure her medical conditions for an additional premium of £149 for the year. Mrs I decided
against paying for her conditions to be covered and said shed check whether Mr I had
previously had a heart attack.
Mrs I called UKI back a couple of days later to let it know that Mr Is stents had been inserted
because hed had a mild heart attack. UKI confirmed that it wouldnt be able to offer Mr I any
cover for cardiac conditions. The call handler discussed Mrs Is quote for medical cover with
her. Mrs I chose to decline cover for her pre-existing medical conditions.
Unfortunately, on 11 November 2019, Mrs I was admitted to hospital suffering from delirium,
which her treating doctor said was secondary to medication she took for Parkinsons. The
doctor advised Mrs I against travelling. So Mrs Is trip had to be cancelled and Mr I made a
claim on the travel insurance policy.
UKI turned down Mrs Is claim. It said that Mrs I had decided not to pay for her pre-existing
conditions to be covered. As her illness and hospital admission was linked to Parkinsons, it
said her claim wasnt covered by the policy terms.
Mr I complained on Mrs Is behalf. He said she hadnt been of sound mind when she went
though medical screening and that if hed managed the call on her behalf, he wouldve
covered her conditions.
UKI considered what Mr I had said, but noted hed been present during both screening calls.
So it felt he couldve stepped in if he felt Mrs I had wrongly declined medical cover. Mr I
remained unhappy with UKIs decision and he asked us to look into Mrs Is complaint.
Ultimately, based on the available medical evidence, our investigator thought the complaint
should be partly upheld. He felt Mrs Is consultant had shown she didnt have the capacity to
enter an insurance contract when she called up medical screening. So he concluded that the
contract was legally void and that UKI should refund the premiums Mrs I had paid for the
policy.
Both parties disagreed. UKI maintained that Mr I had been present during the calls and
couldve stepped in. It also sent internal records which showed Mrs I had previously declined
to cover her medical conditions.
Mr I didnt think Mrs Is delirium was linked to Parkinsons disease. He said hed maintained
throughout that shed been lucid when shed spoken to UKI. Her symptoms had been very
sudden and hed had no choice but to cancel the holiday. The hospital records showed shed
been admitted with psychosis and confusion  it was nothing to do with Parkinsons Disease.
Mr I said he had evidence which showed there wasnt a link, but he didnt want to send it in.
I issued my provisional decision on 1 December 2020. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I thought UKI had treated Mrs I fairly. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive thought carefully about the
circumstances of Mrs Is claim and the evidence Ive seen to decide whether UKI handled
her claim fairly.
First, its important I explain how Mrs Is travel insurance policy works. Mrs I holds her policy
as a benefit of her packaged account with her building society. She doesnt pay an annual
premium to UKI for the policy itself. It seems Mrs I has had this account (and the travel
insurance) for at least nine years. Theres been no suggestion that she didnt have capacity
to agree to take out a packaged account and the associated benefits that came with it at that
point.
The policy only covers pre-existing medical conditions though if theyve been declared to
and accepted by UKI  the insurer of Mrs Is policy. UKI will calculate and charge an
additional premium during the medical screening process to cover pre-existing medical
conditions if it agrees to take on the risk. In this case, Mrs I chose not to pay the premium
UKI quoted for the conditions she declared to be covered. So she didnt pay anything out to
UKI at this point and she didnt enter into a contract with UKI during the screening call. This
means theres no premium for it to refund following the medical screening, even if I were to
conclude that Mrs I wasnt legally able to enter into a contract with it on 6 November 2019.
Ive turned to consider what happened during medical screening and whether I think Mrs Is
Parkinsons was linked to the cause of the claim.
The medical screening process
When Mr I first complained to UKI and when he brought this complaint to us, he said Mrs I
had been suffering from psychosis and had been confused when she went through medical
screening. He told us, on our complaint form, that he didnt think Mrs I was of sound mind
when she spoke with UKI. Hes provided medical evidence from Mrs Is consultant which
says:
I can confirm on November 6th 2019 Mrs I was suffering from psychosis along with
confusion. Although specific tests of capacity to take out holiday insurance was not
performed at that time, I think it entirely likely that, in November last year, she would not
have had the capacity to take out a holiday insurance policy.
Mr I now says that Mrs I was lucid when she took out the policy. Based on the available
medical evidence though, it seems most likely Mrs I was suffering from symptoms of
confusion and psychosis when she spoke with UKI which mightve affected her capacity to
decide whether or not to cover her conditions. In that case, any contract Mrs I mightve
entered into with UKI would be void. If I accept what Mr I now says though, that Mrs I was
lucid when she declined to pay for medical cover, then Id think she made an informed
choice not to cover her conditions and to take on the risk of claims arising as a result of them
herself.Ive listened carefully to the medical screening calls between Mrs I and UKI. Its clear that Mr
I was in the background during the calls and Mrs I referred back to him to ask him questions
at various points. It seems Mr I was there for the duration of both calls. Im satisfied both call
handlers clearly explained the possible implications of not paying for medical cover  that
claims related to the pre-existing medical conditions wouldnt be covered. Mr I was present
while Mrs I was discussing her own medical history and the medication she took and he
spoke to UKI himself to talk about his own health. I think he was most likely aware that Mrs I
had chosen not to cover her own conditions.
Mrs I mentioned aloud what the quote was to cover her conditions and she clearly explained
during the calls why she was declining to pay the additional premium  because she didnt
think theyd lead to a claim. And while Mr I said he was distracted during the calls and thats
why he didnt cover Mrs Is conditions on her behalf, I think it was open to him to interject
during the calls and agree to pay the additional premiums for her pre-existing conditions to
be covered.
UKIs also provided call notes which show that Mrs I had declined to cover her medical
conditions in 2011, 2014 and 2016. This makes me think that ensuring her medical
conditions were covered by her travel insurance wasnt necessarily a priority for Mrs I. So Im
not persuaded she wouldve chosen to cover her conditions even if she hadnt been suffering
from symptoms at the time she went through medical screening.
Taking the above into account, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to tell UKI
to pay Mrs Is claim on this basis.
Was there a link between Mrs Is pre-existing conditions and her claim?
Theres no dispute that Mrs I suffers from Parkinsons Disease. She declared this to UKI and
explained it was a long-term condition. Mr I says that Mrs Is symptoms of psychosis and
confusion were sudden and separate to Parkinsons. He maintains theres no link between
these conditions. So Ive looked carefully at the available medical evidence.
Mrs Is hospital records say that she was: admitted with delirium secondary to Parkinson
medication. The claim form completed by Mrs Is GP states that the condition which caused
the claim was: psychosis related to Parkinsons Disease. Mrs Is consultant also wrote a
follow-up letter which said: this lady has had Idiopathic Parkinson's Disease for many years
and she suffered a significant and unpredictable deterioration towards the end of last year
The problems which arose were of psychosis and behavioural disturbance and this was
difficult to control. During the period of her inpatient stays there was daily manipulation of her
PD medication.
Theres no dispute that Mrs Is symptoms of psychosis developed very suddenly and couldnt
have been foreseen. I dont doubt how upsetting this mustve been for Mrs and Mr I and I
sympathise with their position. But it seems to me that Mrs Is treating consultant and her GP
both drew a direct link between Parkinsons Disease and the deterioration in her symptoms
which caused the cancellation of the holiday. The consultant in particular had the opportunity
to examine Mrs I and investigate what was causing her symptoms. This means Ive placed
significant weight on the consultants evidence. So Im currently persuaded that it was fair for
UKI to conclude that there was a link between Mrs Is Parkinsons Disease and the condition
which led to the holiday cancellation.
Overall, based on all Ive seen so far, I currently think it was fair for UKI to turn down Mrs Is
claim. Im not planning to tell it to pay Mrs I anything.I asked both parties to send me anything further they wanted me to consider by 11 January 
2021.
UKI had nothing more to add.
Mr I didnt agree with my provisional findings and he felt they were very unfair. He 
considered that the psychosis Mrs I had suffered from was a new condition which wasnt 
linked to Parkinsons Disease. He told us that the consultant in A&E and the staff nurse who 
treated Mrs I didnt think there was a link between the conditions. Mrs I hadnt had any 
symptoms of psychosis when the trip was booked. He provided a letter from Mrs Is 
consultant which stated that Mrs I didnt have pre-existing symptoms of psychosis. Mr I 
added that hed spoken to a specialist team at the hospital, made up of three nurses. He 
said that while they accepted psychosis was a common symptom of Parkinsons disease, 
they didnt think it had been in Mrs Is case. They hadnt put their opinion in writing though, 
as they thought it would be better coming from a doctor.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still think UKI treated Mrs I fairly and Ill explain why.
Mr I says that Mrs I didnt have pre-existing symptoms of psychosis when their holiday was 
booked. Hes provided new evidence in support of Mrs Is claim. So Ive looked very carefully 
at the information hes sent me and thought about all hes said.
Mrs Is consultant has written a further letter which Mr I kindly sent to me. This letter says:
At the time you booked the holiday, whilst the Parkinson's disease was a pre-existing 
condition, I accept that (Mrs I) had never had any pre-existing psychosis. The psychosis 
was, I feel, related to Parkinson's disease. Psychosis is quite a common feature in 
Parkinson's disease but there are absolutely no ways of predicting who it will affect and 
when it will occur. The nature of (Mrs Is) psychosis was entirely typical for that caused by 
Parkinson's disease and our investigations did not reveal any other cause of the psychosis 
and therefore I think we have to assume that (Mrs Is) psychosis was, indeed, a 
manifestation of her Parkinson's disease.
At the end of the letter, the consultant concluded: I really dont thinkthat there was any 
other cause for the psychosis apart from the Parkinsons disease.
I understand Mrs Is symptoms of psychosis were new and that they didnt appear until 
around the time Mrs I called UKI to go through medical screening. But the key issue here is 
whether the psychosis was a new and unrelated condition, or whether it was linked to the 
Parkinsons disease shed chosen not to cover. The consultants letter draws a very clear 
link between Mrs Is pre-existing Parkinsons disease and the psychosis which led to her 
admission to hospital and cancellation of the trip. So I still think it was fair for UKI to conclude 
Mrs Is symptoms were related to her pre-existing medical condition.
Mr I has referred to other medical professionals he says he spoke to about Mrs Is condition. 
Ive noted he told our investigator that his GP had declined to provide him with a further 
letter. But while Ive considered what hes said, none of the other professionals Mr Is 
mentioned have provided any written evidence to state that Mrs Is psychosis wasnt related 
to her Parkinsons disease. On the other hand, Mrs Is consultant, who was responsible for 
her care and who had the chance to examine her at close hand, clearly thought the psychosis was a manifestation of it. So on balance, Ive still placed more weight on the 
consultants conclusions, taking together the hospital records, claim form and medical 
evidence from the consultant and Mrs Is GP.
While Im sorry to disappoint Mrs I, I still think it was fair for UKI to turn down her claim.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold Mrs Is complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman