DRN-1727263
 
The complaint
Miss H complains that Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
When this policy was sold, Canada Square Operations Limited was trading as Egg. So, to 
keep things simple, Ill refer to Egg in this decision. 
What happened
In 2001, Miss H applied for a credit card online and at the same time was sold PPI.
Our adjudicator didnt think Miss Hs complaint should be upheld. Miss H didnt agree with 
the adjudicators decision, so the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding Miss Hs 
complaint for reasons that Ill now explain.
Miss H says she wasnt aware that she had been sold PPI when she was applying for her 
credit card. She also says that she wouldnt have knowingly agreed to take it because she 
had other means of making her repayments on the card if she couldnt work. And she says 
that she wouldnt have wanted to pay for the cover because money was tight at the time.
This was an internet sale, where Miss H would have been able to complete the application in 
her own time and at her own pace. Egg has provided some screen shots taken from its 
standard online application process in use at the time. And it has provided copies of the 
electronic records it has retained which are specific to Miss Hs application. This service has 
also seen details of many other Egg credit card applications from around this time. 
So, from all this information, I think I can be reasonably certain about what Miss H would 
have seen on her screen when she made her card application. This would have included a 
screen about PPI where she would have had to select one of two equally prominent option, 
in order to progress further with her application:
 
Yes, I want to protect my repayments, or
No, I understand it is my responsibility to keep up my repayments should I fall ill or 
lose my job
 Eggs electronic records indicate that Miss H selected to take the PPI cover offered. 
Egg has also provided a copy of the first monthly credit card statement which Miss H 
received. And I can see that the PPI charged to her account is shown quite clearly on this 
statement on a separate line next to the heading Credit Card Repayment Protector. And I 
think Miss H is likely to have queried with Egg why she was being charged for this if, as she 
has said, the PPI was added without his knowledge.
So, having carefully considered all the information available to me, I think its most likely that 
Miss H actively chose to take the PPI, knowing that she had a choice. But I can understand 
why she may not be able to recall this now, as the sale took place almost twenty years ago.
As this was not an advised sale, Egg didnt need to ensure that the PPI policy was suitable 
for Miss H. But it still needed to give enough information for Miss H to decide, herself, if she 
wanted to take it. The screen shots which Egg has provided show that a reasonable detailed 
summary of the key aspects of the policy would have been available to Miss H when she 
was completing her application. Nevertheless, I think the information Egg provided could 
have been better than it was. For example, it could have made it clearer that the PPI 
premiums would be added to her account balance and, therefore, might attract interest. But I 
dont think that better information would have changed Miss Hs mind about taking the policy. 
I say this because:
 
Miss H appears to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its 
main exclusions or limitations.
 
Miss H says that she didnt need the PPI cover because she was eligible for sick pay 
from her employer and could have relied on support from family and friends  
including her partner  at the time in need. But this policy would have paid out for up 
to twelve months if she couldnt work and in addition to her other means. And she 
chose to take out the policy, which makes me think she wanted this type of 
protection. So I still think that she would have found the extra cover useful if things 
had gone wrong.
 
Miss H has said that she wouldnt have wanted to pay the extra cost of the PPI 
policy. But Ive no strong reason for thinking the policy was unaffordable for her. And 
as the premiums were charged monthly, she could have cancelled it if it no longer 
met her needs.
 
So, from what Ive seen, I dont think that Miss H has lost out by anything that Egg may have 
done wrong when it sold this PPI policy to her.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint against 
Canada Square Operations Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 June 2020.
Simon FurseOmbudsman