DRN-1623606
 
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy that Gladstone Brookes (GB) didnt pursue a number of claims for mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mrs S instructed GB to make a number of claims for potentially mis-sold PPI claims on her 
behalf. Shes unhappy that GB didnt tell her they didnt deal with claims against Lender C or 
Lender N. Because of this she feels she lost out on the opportunity to make these claims, 
because the deadline for making new PPI claims has passed.
Our investigator said that, in the initial call they had with Mrs S, GB said they didnt deal with 
Lender C. So he didnt think theyd done anything wrong by not making this claim.
GB also didnt deal with Lender N, but the investigator said they didnt make this clear to Mrs 
S. He said that GB didnt send Mrs S any paperwork about Lender N, which he thinks 
shouldve prompted her to ask why this was missing. But, because Mrs S had contacted 
Lender N herself about a claim before the PPI deadline, he didnt think shed lost out. So he 
didnt think GB should do anything more.
Mrs S didnt agree with the investigator. She doesnt think GB made it clear they didnt deal 
with Lender C, and shes asked for an ombudsman to review the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same 
overall conclusions as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
Ive seen the paperwork Mrs S signed to instruct GB to act for her. GB sent Letters of 
Authority (LOAs) for each individual lender they would be making a claim against, but there 
was no LOA for Lender N or Lender C.
Ive also listened to the call where Mrs S discussed the lenders she wanted to make claims 
against. She told GB that she had a mortgage with Lender N and that she had paperwork 
from Lender C about the PPI linked to the mortgage. GB said that unfortunately we do not 
deal with them so we cant look into that for you.
I think GB couldve been clearer in this call, in that they couldve told Mrs S they didnt deal 
with Lender N or Lender C, instead of just referring to them as them. They also couldve 
told Mrs S that she would need to make alternative arrangements to make these claims. 
But Im looking to see if GB provided a reasonable service, not a perfect one. When Mrs S 
spoke to them about Lender N and Lender C, GB told her they didnt deal with them. And GB 
didnt send her any LOAs for either Lender N or Lender C. Because of this, Mrs S shouldve reasonably known that GB werent dealing with these claims for her. So I think they provided 
a reasonable service and they dont need to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint about Gladstone 
Brookes. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2020.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman