DRN-3233777
The complaint
Mr M complains about changes Zopa Limited made to the withdrawal process of funds from 
his Peer to Peer (P2P) lending account  leaving him unable to access his money. He says 
the changes caused him a loss as well as distress and wasted time.
What happened
Mr M held an account on Zopas P2P platform for a number of years. He was seeking to 
reduce his investment on the platform by withdrawing funds as payments were returned from 
his investment. He had been able to withdraw funds successfully but in February 2021 he 
encountered a problem, which caused him to raise a complaint. 
In March 2021, Mr M complained to Zopa. In summary he said:
Despite making withdrawals regularly over several years, he is now being asked to 
verify his bank details. 
The link provided to verify the bank account doesnt work. 
He doesnt accept that the reason for verification is linked to anti-money laundering, 
but rather is caused by errors arising from a recent extended upgrade to Zopas 
website which it used to prevent withdrawals and to profit from. 
A hard credit search has been carried out without his permission causing loss and 
distress in breach of the DPA.
Zopa didnt uphold the complaint. In summary it said:
While Mr M wasnt able to withdraw funds for a period of time, this wasnt due to an 
error but because his bank account hadnt been verified. And it needed the account 
to be verified to comply with anti-money laundering controls.
Validating the account ensures the account really belongs to Mr M and helps protect 
his money. The changes enhanced the security of the account and was done with 
members interests at heart. 
With regards to a search conducted appearing on Mr Ms credit file, this was 
confirmed as a feature of the validation process and was a soft search, so would 
have no impact on the credit file. But a request has been made to remove it from Mr 
Ms credit file.
Mr M didnt accept the response and referred his complaint to this service for independent 
review. One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He didnt find that Zopa had done 
anything wrong. He was satisfied Zopa had given notice of the website being unavailable 
due to maintenance. Also, the decision and process to ask Mr M to verify his bank details 
was a legitimate commercial decision and didnt cause him detriment. He also noted Zopa 
had made Mr M aware that there was a possibility of it carrying out a credit file check and 
this is a common practice for businesses when carrying out anti-money laundering checks. 
Mr M didnt agree with the investigators assessment and says Zopas actions are 
unreasonable. In summary he said:
He believes Zopa profiteered by withholding funds, to cover up systems negligence. 
Zopa is unreasonably attempting to obtain personal details for marketing and putting 
clients at risk of potential fraud. It decided to close all personal P2P accounts, he 
suspects because its alleged false return claims have become known.
When he attempted to comply with the account verification process, Zopa made it 
almost impossible to do so  for example it demanded a colour scan of a bank 
statement. 
Many hundreds of withdrawals were made prior to this so-called maintenance. 
There was and is no need to check either again unless the details had been lost. It is 
not reasonable to seek repeated verification or carry out repeated credit searches. To 
do so arose not to protect clients but because of Zopas negligence in losing data.
Because he has taken steps to limit the potential for a data breach, this doesnt mean 
there has been no impact because of Zopas actions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Mr M has very strong feelings about Zopas actions  not just the act of requesting 
his bank account be verified, but also how it then dealt with him and his concerns when 
raised. Ive read and considered all of the concerns he has raised. However, I trust he wont 
take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and that theyre 
expressed in less detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision is not to address 
every point raised in detail, but to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
At the crux of the complaint is Zopas request that Mr M verify his bank account details in 
order to allow him to continue to make withdrawals. I appreciate his frustration at having to 
go through a verification process for the bank account he had been using for a number of 
years to withdraw funds. I also accept Mr M initially did encounter some problems in 
following the verification process  including not being able to access the link and having to 
resubmit the statement in the format Zopa required. But I dont think that this means Zopa 
must have done something wrong by making the request or it amounts to errors that warrant 
a compensation payment for inconvenience caused. 
Rather, Im satisfied Zopas request for the account to be verified was reasonable in light of 
its ongoing responsibility to meet its obligations in terms of anti-money laundering controls. 
These are varied and theres no prescribed methodology, so it falls to each financial 
business to determine how best to meet the requirements. Its therefore a matter of 
commercial discretion. But, that said, its also important that whatever methodology is 
adopted is proportionate and treats customers fairly. I dont think that against the backdrop 
of the regulatory requirements, asking a customer to verify an account that had been used 
regularly before to withdrawn funds but not verified for a number of years was unreasonable, 
or unduly onerous.
Mr M says the bank account used to withdraw funds had been used many times in the past - 
so didnt need to be verified. Zopa has explained that the account hadnt been verified as Mr 
Ms P2P account had been opened over five years ago, so it considered it appropriate to get 
an up to date verification. It also explained since Mr M opened his P2P account, it had 
introduced bank account verification (to adhere to updated anti-money laundering guidance). 
So, I accept Zopa has provided a reasonable explanation for why it took the decision to 
verify an account that had been used for number of years. Im satisfied this was a legitimate 
use of its commercial judgement.Mr M says that he suffered a loss of opportunity to utilise the money during the time he was 
unable to get his funds out. From my understanding of the situation, the key reason Mr M 
didnt have access to his funds was because his account hadnt been verified. I acknowledge 
Mr M doesnt believe he should have needed to verify his account, but Ive already found 
that Zopa didnt do anything wrong in making this request. So it follows that I dont think it did 
anything wrong by not allowing withdrawals until this was complete. I understand Mr M 
provided his bank statement in December 2021, and while further copies were requested to 
satisfy Zopas procedure, his account was verified on 10 December 2021. Following this he 
was able to withdraw his funds. I dont find the evidence provided supports that Zopa is 
responsible for Mr M not having access to funds that he was seeking to withdraw  so it 
follows that Zopa also isnt responsible for creating an opportunity loss. 
Finally, I note Mr M has made allegations of negligence and fraud against Zopa. But Ive not 
seen evidence that on balance would support that Zopa had negligently lost data or that its 
actions have caused Mr M an actual (or potential) loss. Mr M says that he has taken actions 
to mitigate the risk of such events. While I can appreciate why he is concerned about 
protecting his personal information, I dont agree that there is evidence that supports Zopas 
actions have put him at risk. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman