DRN-4109743
The complaint
Mr B complains that Valour Finance Limited, trading as Savvy.co.uk (Valour), lent to him 
when he could not afford it. 
What happened
In March 2022 Mr B was approved for one loan of £700 repayable over eight months at just 
over £168 each month commencing April 2022. The loan has been settled. 
In late September 2022 Mr B registered his complaint with Valour. I have seen a copy and it 
was comprehensive in its submissions. Mr B did say that he may not have mentioned all his 
debts when he applied for the loan. Mr B sent evidence to Valour of his gambling habit which 
was apparent from the bank statement entries he sent to Valour. He said that reasonable 
checks would have shown six live credit agreements at the time the loan was issued to him 
which included loans and credit cards. Mr B said to Valour:
They should have asked for a verification of the expenditure due to the adverse
information on my credit file (asked for a bank statement for example). Had they 
carried out these checks, they would have likely seen the extent of my gambling.
Valour issued Mr B with its final response letter (FRL) in November 2022 and listed his 
income of around £2,100 a month plus his expenditure details which were set out in a table 
and I do not duplicate that here. Valour was aware he had credit commitment costs of £719 
each month. Still, it considered the loan affordable for him and it did not uphold his 
complaint.
Mr B referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service in December 2022 and one 
of our adjudicators considered the details. He did not think that Valour had lent to him 
irresponsibly. Mr B asked for an ombudsman to review it.
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website.
Valour had to assess the lending to check if Mr B could afford to pay back the amount hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. Valours checks couldve taken into account a number of different things, 
such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr B s income and 
expenditure. 
I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been 
proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Valour should have done more to establish 
that any lending was sustainable for Mr B. These factors include:
Mr B having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr B having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time 
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr B coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
My view is that none of these bullet points applied to Mr Bs situation as he had declared an 
income of around £2,100 a month after tax which Valour had verified and I do not consider 
that to have been a low income. Plus, this was a first loan for a relatively modest sum over a 
relatively modest term. 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr B. But a pattern would not have 
developed here as Mr B took one loan only. 
Valour was required to establish whether Mr B could sustainably repay the loan  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr B was able to repay his loan 
sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without 
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, 
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it 
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr B s complaint. Ive decided not to uphold his 
complaint and I explain here. 
Valour carried out proportionate checks as it verified Mr Bs income and checked his credit 
file which did not show any elements to prompt it to be unduly concerned. There was nothing 
there to indicate that Mr B was in financial difficulties or had been falling behind in his 
payments. No defaults had registered against his accounts. It showed no adverse entries 
such as late payments, any insolvency issues or matters such that Valour ought to have 
been alerted to any concerns. 
The telephone call Mr B had with Valour in March 2022 was recorded and we have received 
a copy of that call which I have listened to. 
Mr B confirmed several elements of the application and explained his income and 
expenditure. Valour had verified his income as £2,100 each month. Mr B has confirmed that 
and so theres no dispute about his income when he applied for the loan.
During the call with the Valour representative Mr B confirmed that he was single, working full 
time, had no dependents or child-care or child maintenance costs. He rented his home and the rent included his Council Tax and utility bill costs. He paid money for travel and a modest 
amount for a telephone. He spent about £54 each month on train travel for work. Mr B was 
asked if he spent anything on gambling or the lottery and he replied no. 
The Valour representative had carried out checks while Mr B was on the telephone and 
Valour was aware he spent around £719 a month on credit commitment costs. Mr B had 
taken a payday loan in January 2022 so the representative wanted to know a little more 
about that debt. Mr B explained hed just paid that off recently and it was for a cost related to 
his brothers wedding. The presence of a payday loan on Mr Bs credit history would not 
have been a likely reason for Valour to refuse the loan.
The income and expenditure assessment Valour carried out indicated that Mr B had enough 
disposable income to repay the £168 a month. It said in its FRL: The assessment 
demonstrated a total monthly income of £2100.00 and a total monthly expenditure of 
£1599.00, including your existing debt repayments. This means that your available monthly 
surplus was £501.
Mr B has explained to Valour and to us that he had a gambling issue and his summary that 
he spent over a £1,000 each month certainly indicates a lot was spent. But it would not be 
expected that Valour would know of this, or ought to have known of this. 
The checks Valour carried out for a new customer applying for a £700 loan were 
proportionate and therefore within the regulations which applied. And it would have been 
disproportionate for Valour to have asked for and reviewed Mr Bs bank statements or for me 
to expect it to have done that. Without seeing the bank transactions then I do not see how 
Valour would have known of the gambling costs unless Mr B had told it. And the evidence 
points to the fact he told them he spent no money on gambling or the lottery. 
In all the circumstances I have decided that I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman