DRN-2652587
The complaint
Mr B and Miss H say The Chorley and District Building Society (Chorley) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr B and Miss H took out a mortgage with Chorley in 1999. At the same time, they took out 
a PPI policy to protect their monthly mortgage payments if either of them couldnt work, due 
to accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. In brief, he explained 
that Mr B was self-employed when Mr B and Miss H took out the mortgage and PPI. And the 
adjudicator thought the circumstances in which a self-employed person could claim for 
unemployment under the PPI policy were quite limited. He didnt think Mr B and Miss H 
would have taken the policy out if Chorley had pointed this out to them. And he didnt think 
Chorley should have recommended the PPI to Mr B and Miss H.
Chorley disagreed with the adjudicators view, so the complaint was passed to me.
My provisional findings
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr B 
and Miss H and to Chorley on 3 February 2021. I summarise my findings:
Due to the time thats passed, Chorley no longer has copies of the paperwork Mr B and 
Miss H signed when they applied for the mortgage and PPI. I didnt think that was 
surprising or unreasonable, given that this happened so long ago. But Mr B and Miss H 
have provided copies of some of the documentation from the time.
Mr B and Miss H say Chorley led them to believe that their mortgage application would 
be rejected if they didnt take the PPI. The documents Id seen showed that the interest 
rate on the mortgage Mr B and Miss H chose was discounted significantly in the first 
year, then by a lower percentage in years 2 to 5. Chorley says that while taking PPI 
wasnt generally a condition of taking out a mortgage with it, PPI for unemployment was a 
condition of that particular mortgage, unless the borrower was ineligible.
But the fact that PPI for unemployment was a condition of the particular mortgage deal 
that Mr B and Miss H chose didnt mean the policy was mis-sold. Chorley was entitled to 
decide the terms on which to offer mortgages. And from the documents Id seen, I was 
satisfied that it was up-front and open about the need to take out PPI for unemployment 
as part of the deal. If Mr B and Miss H hadnt wanted PPI, they could have chosen a 
different mortgage product, or gone to a different lender. I noted that a letter to Mr B and 
Miss H from their independent financial advisers mentions that theyd discussed all 
available fixed, capped and discounted rates.
Taking everything into account, while I accepted that PPI cover for unemployment was 
compulsory for the particular mortgage deal that Mr B and Miss H chose, I thought they 
would have been aware of this at the time. And I thought they decided to take out the 
mortgage deal, including the PPI, because they wanted the benefits that the deal offered.
Chorley recommended the PPI to Mr B and Miss H. This meant it had a responsibility to 
check that it was suitable for them. But it didnt look as if it was unsuitable, based on 
what Id seen of Mr B and Miss Hs circumstances at the time.
I acknowledged that Mr B and Miss H have told us that Miss H would have been entitled 
to reasonable payment for sickness absence from her employer. But if shed made a 
successful claim for accident or sickness under the policy, it would have paid out for up to 
24 months. I thought it was likely that was longer than Miss H would have received full 
sick pay for. And the PPI would have paid out for up to 12 months if shed made a 
successful claim for unemployment. Whats more, the policy would have paid out in 
addition to any payments Miss H received from her employer. So she could have used 
those to meet other day-to-day expenses.
Mr B was self-employed. Id explained that our adjudicator thought this made the policy 
unsuitable for him. But I didnt agree. Id looked at the terms and conditions of this 
particular policy carefully. It said that a self-employed policyholder making an 
unemployment claim would need to provide proof that theyd involuntarily ceased trading, 
and declare that to the Inland Revenue. Theyd also need to be registered as 
unemployed with the appropriate body (the Employment Service, in the case of Great 
Britain) and be available and actively looking for employment.
This sort of provision wasnt unusual. Similar terms were standard in other, similar 
policies. And I didnt think it would have made it difficult for policyholders like Mr B to 
make a successful unemployment claim. It didnt, as some policies did, require the 
policyholders business to be wound up or insolvent or to totally and permanently cease 
trading before an unemployment claim could be made. That sort of term can cause 
financial difficulty.
In my view, the requirements for Mr B to make an unemployment claim were comparable 
to what an employed person would have had to do. And I didnt think Mr B would have 
been required to do anything that he wouldnt reasonably have expected in order to 
make a successful unemployment claim.
Given that Mr B was self-employed, he wouldnt have been entitled to any sick pay or 
redundancy pay. So if hed been unable to work due to accident, sickness or 
unemployment, I thought the policy would have been useful to him at what its likely 
would have been a difficult time.
Mr B and Miss H have told us they had some savings when they took out the mortgage. 
But Id borne in mind that theyd chosen to protect their savings, rather than taking out a 
smaller mortgage. Having the PPI would have allowed them to keep hold of their savings 
if either of them had made a successful claim. And the policy would potentially have paid 
out for longer than theyd have been able to live on their savings for.
Based on what Mr B and Miss H have told us about their circumstances when they took 
out the policy, it didnt look as if they were affected by any of the main things it didnt 
cover. The policy was competitively priced, and apparently affordable. Id borne in mind 
that the mortgage was a significant, long-term financial commitment, secured on Mr B 
and Miss Hs property. And the consequences of falling behind with their mortgage 
payments could have been serious.Taking everything into account, I thought Mr B and Miss H could have found the policy 
useful. I didnt think it was unsuitable for them. And I wasnt convinced that better 
information about the policy would have made them change their minds about taking out 
the deal they took. I was confident that they knew that if they wanted to take advantage 
of this particular discount rate deal, they had to take out PPI. It was up to them to decide 
if they wanted to go ahead with the mortgage after being made aware of this condition. 
And I thought they decided to do so.
So based on what Id seen so far, I didnt think Mr B and Miss Hs complaint should be 
upheld.
Further submissions
Chorley hasnt commented on my provisional decision. But Mr B and Miss H arent happy 
with it. They say, in summary:
They were never sent paperwork regarding any insurance policies.
They had to choose between different additional policies to ensure they were granted 
the mortgage. They werent told they were optional, and its inappropriate to suggest 
they could have chosen a different mortgage. They were first-time buyers who felt 
under pressure to accept the offer or they risked losing the purchase.
They relied on companies like Chorley to offer them a fair deal. They feel (and felt at 
the time) that Chorley took advantage of them by forcing them to take out irrelevant 
policies in addition to the mortgage.
They dont agree with my view on self-employed people claiming unemployment 
benefit. Ceasing trading as a business is not simple or practical, and would only be 
done in very extreme or long-term circumstances. The PPI didnt cover Mr B, and if 
he had cover, it would have been very difficult to claim.
They had a small amount in savings when they applied for the mortgage. This was 
because Chorley made it a condition of the mortgage that they carried out some work 
to the property. But they dont agree that being sensible with finance has anything to 
do with being mis-sold a policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive thought carefully about the further points that Mr B and Miss H have made, but they 
havent changed my view that the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill comment briefly on the further 
points that Mr B and Miss H have raised.Chorley says that a certificate of insurance, setting out all the conditions of the policy, 
would have been given to Mr B and Miss H when the policy started. Im satisfied that 
Mr B and Miss H knew that theyd taken out the PPI with the mortgage theyd chosen. 
I think its unlikely, on balance, that no policy certificate was sent to them at the time 
(although I can understand how Mr B and Miss H may have forgotten receiving policy 
documentation, so many years later). The certificate of insurance was referred to in 
annual renewal letters sent to Mr B and Miss H. If they didnt have a copy of it, Im 
satisfied that they could have asked Chorley for one at any time. 
Mr B and Miss H have commented that the time since they had the mortgage is 
irrelevant. But businesses cant reasonably be expected to keep paperwork indefinitely. 
Mr B and Miss H redeemed their mortgage in 2005 and as I said in my provisional 
decision, I dont think its surprising or unreasonable that Chorley hasnt been able to 
provide us with copies of documents it sent to Mr B and Miss H.
As I commented in my provisional decision, it was a condition of the mortgage that Mr B 
and Miss H chose that they took out PPI for unemployment. That cover wasnt optional 
for this particular mortgage. But theres nothing wrong with that. Chorley had a right to 
decide on what terms it was willing to offer mortgages. And it was clear from the 
paperwork that PPI for unemployment was compulsory unless the borrower was 
ineligible. Both Mr B and Miss H were eligible for the cover. They werent obliged to take 
out that particular mortgage if they werent happy with the requirement to take out PPI. 
I can understand that Mr B and Miss H may have felt under some pressure to get the 
mortgage finalised so that their purchase could go ahead, but I dont find that Chorley 
can fairly be held responsible for this.
Mr B and Miss H have commented that the PPI didnt cover Mr B. But as I said in my 
provisional decision, the policy covered both Miss H and Mr B. Ive noted that Mr B and 
Miss H disagree with my view about the suitability of the cover for Mr B, who was self-
employed. But as I explained in my provisional decision, unlike some policies weve 
seen, the policy didnt require Mr B to stop trading permanently in order to be able to 
claim, or to become insolvent. He could have returned to his self-employed work at a 
later date. Ive noted that Mr B says hed only have ceased trading in extreme or long-
term circumstances. That may be the case. But I remain of the view that the policys 
terms made it materially more difficult for him to claim successfully for unemployment 
than it would have been for an employed person who lost their job. 
I mentioned the savings Mr B and Miss H had told us about in my provisional decision 
because I needed to consider what means, other than the PPI, theyd have had of 
meeting their monthly mortgage repayments if they were unable to work. I commented 
that theyd kept some savings aside, rather than putting them towards their purchase and 
taking out smaller mortgage. This suggested to me that they wanted to hold on to those 
savings, or to use them to pay for something else. Mr B and Miss H have explained that 
they only had a small amount in savings, and from what theyve now said, it sounds as if 
they were ear marked to pay for some specific work. So the savings wouldnt have been 
available to meet their monthly mortgage payments if they were unable to work.
Having thought carefully about the further comments that Mr B and Miss H have made, Im 
not persuaded that theres any good reason to depart from the findings I set out in my 
provisional decision.
Finally, Mr B and Miss H have referred to comments that they included in their complaint 
about their dissatisfaction with an early repayment charge. I have only considered the PPI 
sale here. The early repayment charge will be considered separately.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss H 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman