DRN-3930113
The complaint
Ms A complains about the service she has received from TSB Bank plc, trading as 
Whistletree. She says it has failed to make reasonable adjustments for her to enable her to 
access mortgage documents and manage her mortgage.
What happened
Ms A took out a Together mortgage with Northern Rock in early 2007. This consisted of a 
secured loan and a smaller, linked, unsecured loan, payable over a 35-year term. 
Both the secured and unsecured loans were on an initial fixed interest rate of 5.99% for the 
first five years. After that, the interest rate was a variable rate below Northern Rocks 
standard variable rate.
In 2008, Northern Rock collapsed and was later nationalised. Ms As Together mortgage 
was transferred to NRAM then, in 2016, to Whistletree. 
Ms A is vulnerable and disabled. She has multiple lifelong health conditions and is severely 
sight impaired and mentally impaired. She relies on limited carer support, for which she has 
explained that she has to pay. Her communication with Whistletree and the Financial 
Ombudsman Service has been through carers.
Ms A asked Whistletree to provide audio transcriptions of correspondence on CD, as a 
reasonable adjustment in light of her disabilities. She says NRAM, Whistletrees predecessor 
lender, had done so  but Whistletree wouldnt. 
In April 2018, Ms A told Whistletree she was in financial difficulty. She asked for support and 
for a paying-in book, as well as for Whistletree to reply by way of an audio CD. It didnt reply 
to her request for correspondence in audio format.
In April 2020, Ms A complained that Whistletree had failed to make reasonable adjustments 
for her. She also asked for copies of mortgage documents with an audio transcription on CD, 
details of support available to vulnerable borrowers in financial difficulty, and made a subject 
access request.
Whistletree said it couldnt provide all correspondence and documents in an alternative 
format, and Ms A should arrange for her carers to read its letters to her. It also said it would 
try to provide specific letters in an alternative format on Ms As request. It provided details of 
free debt advice agencies and said the support it offers borrowers who are in financial 
difficulty depends on their circumstances.
Ms A got in touch with us. Our Investigator looked into her complaint and concluded that:
- Whistletree should have done more when Ms A told it about her financial difficulty  
although it was reasonable to ask for information about Ms As financial situation, and it 
had sent her a paying-in book when she asked for one. 
- Ms A hadnt asked for a new interest rate product, and Whistetree wasnt required to 
offer her one proactively. So the mortgage was operating on a variable rate as agreed 
when Ms A took it out.
- Whistletree had noted on its records that Ms A is vulnerable, but despite knowing about 
her needs it hadnt provided documents to her in an accessible format and hadnt 
explained why not. It should arrange for outstanding documents to be sent in audio 
format.
- Whistletree had caused Ms A trouble and upset, so as well as sending her the mortgage 
offer and past statements in an accessible format, it should pay her £350 compensation.
Whistletree initially didnt accept the Investigators recommendation, but later sent Ms A a 
CD with an audio version of her mortgage offer and past statements, and said it would pay 
her £350.
Ms A didnt accept the Investigators recommendation. She said the CD Whistletree had sent 
her was the first audio transcription she had received from it and she had, since then, 
received further unadapted correspondence. It had taken more than two years for 
Whistletree to comply with her subject access request, which it has only provided in paper 
format. She now has hundreds of documents she cant access. She will have to pay carers 
in order to access the material, as she has had to do to date in communicating and 
complaining. 
Ms A also said she cant remortgage elsewhere in order to access closer branch services 
and to get a better interest rate, because she would fail a new lenders affordability checks. 
She still needs a paying-in book since Whistletree changed her mortgage account number, 
and its unfair that Whistletree charges for branch transactions. Ms A cant complete an 
income and expenditure form over the phone, and would need to receive and return it by 
post. She also cant apply for a lower interest rate over the phone.
Ms A has received higher awards of compensation in similar complaints in the past, and any 
award in this complaint should take account of the need for her to pay care costs to access 
documents from Whistletree since 2016, and to complain after it failed to offer her any 
support. She said she would be prepared to accept £1,000 compensation in recognition of 
her care expenses, plus a commitment from Whistletree to make reasonable adjustments in 
future. 
This complaint was therefore passed to me to make a final decision. I asked some further 
questions of Whistletree, to which Whistletree didnt reply, despite reminders. I went on to 
say I intended to require Whistletree to send Ms A a fresh-paying-in book for her mortgage, 
send future correspondence on audio CD, and pay Ms A £1,000 by way of compensation. 
Whistletree said it would pay Ms A £1,000, send her a paying-in book, and send historic 
documents on audio CD. It made no mention of adapting correspondence for Ms A in future.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Reasonable adjustments
At the heart of this complaint is what Ms A says is Whistletrees failure to make reasonable 
adjustments in order for her to access its services. Disability (a physical or mental impairment that has a substantial and long-term adverse 
effect on a persons ability to carry out normal day-to-day activities) is a protected 
characteristic under the Equality Act 2010. Ms A has such a disability and so, under the 
Equality Act, Whistletree is required to make reasonable adjustments to enable her to use its 
services  including in the way it communicates with her.
In making my decision, I must take account of relevant law  and that includes the Equality 
Act. Its not, however, for the Financial Ombudsman Service to make a decision on whether 
there has been a breach of the Equality Act. Thats a matter for the courts. While Im 
required to take into account relevant law, amongst other things, ultimately I must decide 
what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
Whistletree knew in 2016, when it took over Ms As mortgage, that she is vulnerable and 
disabled, and requires correspondence to be sent on audio CD. Until recently, and following 
our involvement, it had failed to correspond in that way  despite saying as standard on its 
paper correspondence and paper statements to Ms A that it can provide correspondence in 
audio format. It hasnt explained why it was unable to provide this for Ms A, and suggested 
instead that Ms A look into software that could read documents aloud, or she could call it 
and ask staff to read documents to her and it would send her recordings of the calls. 
I dont consider that Whistletrees suggestions were appropriate or reasonable, given its 
obligations under the Equality Act and given Ms As particular circumstances. Whistletree 
has since sent Ms A her mortgage offer and past statements on audio CD as she requested. 
Ms A, however, says she has now received further paper correspondence with no 
accompanying audio CD. I also note that Whistletree hasnt confirmed whether or not it will 
be sending correspondence in audio format in future.
Whistletree had previously told us that it didnt have the necessary software to record 
someone reading Ms As statements aloud. However, I cant see that it would be difficult or 
particularly costly to obtain such software; indeed, Whistletree now appears to have acquired 
the necessary software as it has now sent Ms A some information on audio CD.
In the circumstances, I see no obvious reason why Whistletree shouldnt be able to 
correspond with Ms A by post and audio CD on an ongoing basis, as she has requested. It 
hasnt provided details of any cost analysis it has carried out, for example, which might make 
corresponding and/or transcribing these documents in this way unreasonable. I therefore 
find that Whistletree should send Ms A correspondence by post and also on audio CD in 
future.
Whistletree sent Ms A information following her subject access request in paper format. It 
has said it cant provide this in audio format because of the volume of documents. I dont 
think that alone is a reasonable explanation. However, I understand that Ms A has now 
received her mortgage offer and statements in an accessible format, and Ms A hasnt 
indicated that theres a particular reason for wanting all the information Whistletree holds 
about her. I can see that transcribing all of this into audio format is likely to present some 
challenges so, in all the circumstances, Im not going to make any order or direction in 
respect of Ms As subject access request. 
In reaching that conclusion, I bear in mind that its not for me to decide breaches of data 
protection law  thats for the Information Commissioners Office. My role is to decide a fair 
and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of the complaint at hand. If Ms A finds that 
Whistletree fails to provide her with documents and information in an accessible format in 
future, she may be able to make a fresh complaint about that at the relevant time.Financial difficulty
I was sorry to read about the financial difficulty Ms A has found herself in and her 
experiences of trying to get the carer support she believes she should receive. She told 
Whistletree she was struggling financially, and I share our Investigators view that 
Whistletree could and should have done more to help. 
Ms A had overpaid her mortgage and as a result was in a position where she could have 
underpaid for a time without falling into arrears on the mortgage  as provided for in the 
mortgage terms. I consider Whistletree should have given Ms A this option.
However, in the longer term, if Ms A continues to experience financial difficulty, I think 
Whistletree will need to understand her financial situation in order to identify what support it 
can provide to her with her mortgage. This is because there isnt a fixed solution Whistletree 
is required to offer in every case: what is appropriate will depend on the borrowers particular 
circumstances.
I can see that Ms A will need support in order to communicate with Whistletree. Whistletree 
has, however, offered a range of channels through which the necessary information can be 
provided to it (online, by post and by phone), and I think this is reasonable. Ms A has some 
support and at times will need to arrange to communicate with her lender.
Interest rate
Theres no duty on mortgage lenders to proactively offer their customers new interest rate 
products, so I dont consider that Whistletree has done anything wrong in not offering Ms A  
a new rate. 
On its website, Whistletree invites its borrowers to apply by phone if they want a new interest 
rate product. I would, however, expect it to make the application process available by other 
means to those borrowers who cant phone. I find nothing to indicate that Ms A has asked 
Whistletree for a new rate; if she now wishes to do so I would expect Whistletree to make 
adjustments for her in order that she can make an application. 
Branch services
TSB has closed the branch closest to Ms As home, and I can see that this has 
inconvenienced Ms A. As the Investigator explained, the decision to close the branch was a 
commercial one which TSB was entitled to make. Its not for me, as Ombudsman, to 
interfere with that decision-making process; rather, its a regulatory matter. The same applies 
to TSBs and Whistletrees decisions to charge a fee for each branch transaction.
Whistletree gave Ms A details of how to make payments to her mortgage other than at a 
branch, and its records show that it sent Ms A a paying-in book when she asked for one in 
2018. I understand that Ms As mortgage account number has since changed and as a result 
she needs a new book. I do understand Ms As point that ideally Whistletree would have 
sent her a new book when it changed her account number, but I also recognise that there 
was no requirement for this to happen automatically and borrowers needs change over time. 
However, Whistletree has now agreed to send Ms A a fresh paying-in book, and I will include 
that in my direction below.
Compensation
Ms A is a vulnerable, disabled customer. She has tried to engage with Whistletree in order 
that she can receive information about her mortgage in an accessible format, and to ask for help during a period of financial difficulty. Ms A has explained how she feels substantially 
disadvantaged as a result of Whistletrees failure to communicate with her in an accessible 
way, and I agree that she has been caused avoidable and substantial distress, 
inconvenience and upset. Im also mindful that this situation has gone on for some time, and 
that Whistletree clearly is able to provide correspondence in the format Ms A needs but has 
failed to do so consistently.
Ive noted what Ms A has said about having had to pay carers to read and reply to 
correspondence. She would, however, have been paying for care in any event and, while 
carers would have been carrying out different duties had they not been assisting Ms A with 
correspondence, I dont consider I can fairly make an award for costs in the circumstances. I 
have nevertheless taken into account what Ms A has said about the impact on her care of 
Whistletrees failings in reaching my conclusion about what represents a fair and reasonable 
award. 
In all the circumstances, I consider that Ms A should fairly receive a substantial award of 
compensation as set out below.
Putting things right
TSB Bank plc, trading as Whisletree, must:
- send correspondence to Ms A by post together with an audio CD in future, unless Ms A 
notifies it that her needs have changed;
- send Ms A a fresh paying-in book for her mortgage; and
- pay Ms A (directly, not by way of credit to the mortgage, unless Ms A requests it be paid 
to the mortgage) £1,000.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct TSB Bank plc, trading as 
Whistletree, to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2023. 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman