DRN-1545533
 
The complaint
Mr P complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) turned down a claim he 
made on his contents insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Ps home was burgled and some items were stolen. So he made a claim on his contents 
insurance policy.
Admiral turned down Mr Ps claim. It said hed called up three days before the claim to say 
hed moved home and wanted to update his address details on the policy. So Admiral had 
changed the address covered by the policy to the new house. It said any property left at Mr 
Ps old house wasnt covered by the policy anymore.
Mr P complained to us about Admirals decision. One of our investigators looked into Mr Ps 
complaint. He didnt think Admiral needed to pay Mr Ps claim. He listened to the call 
between Mr P and Admirals call handler, when Mr P had called up to change his address 
details. He thought Mr P had made it clear he wanted the insurance at the new house to 
start at once. So he didnt think any property at Mr Ps old address was covered by the 
policy.
Mr P disagreed with the investigator. He said hed been in the process of moving at the time. 
And he said he hadnt received the updated policy documents at the time of the claim, so he 
didnt know what was covered and when. He said he was suffering some financial difficulty 
because of the loss. So the complaints been passed to me to make a decision.
I know Mr P has made another complaint to our service about a claim he made on his car 
insurance policy. That complaints been dealt with separately by an investigator. So Im only 
deciding Mr Ps complaint about his contents insurance claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided it was fair 
for Admiral to turn down Mr Ps claim. Ill explain why.
Admiral sent us a recording of the call between Mr P and its call handler, which happened in 
late June 2019. Ive listened carefully to that call to see what was said. Mr P told the call 
handler that hed just moved out of his old address and had moved to a new address. The 
call handler asked Mr P if he wanted to change his address details. Mr P agreed he did. The 
call handler then asked Mr P would that be from today?  Mr P said yes.
Shortly afterwards, the call handler asked Mr P Would it be from today that you wanted to 
change your address you said, is that right? Mr P answered yes. The call handler took Mr 
Ps new address details and ran through questions about the new house and contents to 
check if the policy price would change. She asked Mr P Are you happy for me to accept this quote effective from straight away? Mr P said yes. After making the changes to the policy, 
the call handler told Mr P that the updates would be effective from today.
Having listened to the call, its clear Mr P told Admiral hed already moved house and that he 
wanted to change his insurance to cover the new address. So I dont think Admiral couldve 
reasonably known that Mr P was still in the process of moving and still needed cover at his 
old house.  
I think the call handler clearly checked when Mr P wanted the changes to happen. She 
checked more than once that Mr P wanted his address changed immediately. Mr P agreed. 
And she made it clear that the policy would be updated at once. Based on that, I dont think 
Admiral did anything wrong by changing Mr Ps cover when it did. And I think Mr P shouldve 
reasonably known that the changes to the policy had taken place straight away.
At the point Mr Ps address was changed, his old address wasnt covered by the contents 
policy any longer. The theft happened only a day or two after Mr P updated his policy 
information. I can understand why he was so frustrated to find he wasnt covered for his 
stolen items. But at the time of the theft, Mr Ps old address wasnt insured by Admiral 
anymore. 
Mr P says he hadnt been sent the updated policy information when the theft happened, so 
he didnt know what was covered and when. Ive thought about this. 
The call handler told Mr P the documents would be sent out within 3-5 days. In my 
experience, this is a fairly standard timeframe. The theft happened only a day or so after Mr 
Ps call to Admiral, so I dont think its unreasonable that he hadnt got the new documents 
by that point. It also isnt clear that Mr P wouldve done anything differently even if he had 
got the updated information. This means I dont think Admiral did anything wrong or failed to 
send Mr P the information in a fair timeframe.
Based on everything Ive seen, I think it was fair for Admiral to turn down Mr Ps claim. So 
Im not telling Admiral to pay his claim.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman