DRN-3734747
The complaint
Miss J complains that PayrNet Limited (acting through its agent Pockit) has refused to refund 
unauthorised transactions made on her prepaid card.
Miss J has been assisted in bringing her complaint by her employer. Some of the 
interactions with Pockit were also conducted by her employer. However, for ease of reading, 
Ill refer to Miss J throughout. 
What happened
Miss J has a prepaid card from Pockit on which her employer deposits funds for her 
business use.
On 29 April 2021, Miss J contacted Pockit to say that a number of unauthorised transactions 
had been debited to her prepaid card and asked for the card to be blocked. Pockit requested 
details of the transactions. In May, Miss J provided this information, explaining that over a 
four-day period in April, her card had been used for 17 fraudulent transactions, totalling 
£1,909.13. She asked how the money could be refunded. 
Miss J then heard nothing back despite chasing Pockit several times by email, online chat, 
letter and phone.
In late May, Pockit asked Miss J for evidence to verify her identity. In July 2021, having 
received no further response from Pockit, she brought the matter to our service.
We contacted Pockit on Miss Js behalf. In November 2021, Pockit responded to apologise 
for the delay, advised that the matter had been escalated and offered Miss J £75 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. Miss J didnt accept this offer.
Our Investigator looked into things and found that Pockit had provided no evidence to show 
that Miss J had authorised the transactions. He said that, therefore, under the Payment 
Service Regulations 2017, Pockit should refund the value of the transactions to Miss J, with 
interest. He also said Pockit should pay Miss J £200 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by their failure to address matters. 
Pockit didnt respond to accept this view, so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked into Miss Js account, it appears that five of the unauthorised transactions, 
totalling £123.13, were subsequently refunded to her account. Therefore, the amount in 
dispute is £1,786.
Under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Miss J isnt liable for payments she 
didnt authorise unless she failed with gross negligence, or intent, to comply with the terms of 
the account, or keep her personalised security details safe.
Under sections 77(4)(d) of the PSRs, except where a payer has acted fraudulently, the payer 
isnt liable for any losses incurred in respect of an unauthorised payment transaction where 
the payment instrument has been used in connection with a distance contract. A distance 
contract is a contract concluded between a trader and a consumer under an organised 
distance sales or service-provision scheme without the simultaneous physical presence of 
the trader and the consumer, subject to some exclusions (as per regulation 5 of the 
Consumer Contracts (Information, Cancellation and Additional Charges) Regulations 2013). 
From the account statements, it appears that the disputed transactions were all conducted in 
connection with a distance contract. For this reason, gross negligence (or a failure with 
intent) isnt a factor for my consideration. 
Therefore, under the PSRs, Pockit can only hold Miss J liable for the disputed transactions if 
she either authorised the transactions or acted fraudulently. There is no evidence, nor has 
Pockit sought to argue, that she acted fraudulently. Therefore, my key consideration is 
whether Miss J authorised the transactions. 
Our investigator requested evidence from Pockit about this. However, Pockit hasnt 
responded with any evidence to demonstrate that Miss J authorised the transactions. 
The only response Pockit has provided is that, in November 2021, it asked Miss J to 
complete a chargeback form. However, as Miss J wasnt looking to raise a chargeback, she 
didnt complete this form. Having reviewed the form, it does include the opportunity to 
specify transactions which are unauthorised. However, I can understand why Miss J didnt 
think the form was appropriate to her circumstances and, despite her many communications 
to Pockit, at no point did Pockit explain why the form applied to her situation. Moreover, 
Pockit had already requested a list of the unauthorised transactions, which Miss J had 
provided.
In the absence of any evidence to demonstrate that Miss J authorised the disputed 
transactions, I dont believe Pockit can hold Miss J liable for them.
Under section 76(1) and (2) of the PSRs, a payment service provider must refund the 
amount of an unauthorised transaction, and do so as soon as practicable. The terms and 
conditions of Pockits prepaid card also state that, if the customer is due a refund for an 
unauthorised transaction, Pockit will pay this by no later than the end of the next business 
day.
For the reasons set out above, I believe Pockit should refund Miss J for the loss resulting 
from the unauthorised use of her card. Given Miss J has been without these funds, I believe 
Pockit should also pay Miss J 8% simple interest on the amount refunded from the day after 
it was first notified of the unauthorised transactions to the date of payment.
By not refunding the transactions as it ought to have done, Pockit has also caused Miss J 
some distress and inconvenience. I can see Miss J tried on numerous occasions to contact 
Pockit to address matters, but with little response. I think £200 is reasonable compensation 
for this.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require PayrNet Limited to pay Miss J:£1,786, plus 8% simple interest per annum on this amount from 30 April 2021 to the 
date of payment; and
£200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Andy Wright
Ombudsman