DRN-4341611
The complaint
Ms P is unhappy that Santander UK Plc wont refund the money she lost after she fell victim 
to a scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in detail 
here. But in summary I understand it to be as follows.
Ms P was contacted by email by someone who she believed was a senior colleague in the 
company she worked for. The email asked Ms P to contact the colleague via a well-known 
social media application regarding an urgent task. Ms P was then asked to purchase gift 
cards for clients.
Believing she was communicating with her colleague, Ms P made four transactions using her 
debit card, totalling £1,000 on 27 March 2023, at a high street retailer to purchase the gift 
cards. She was asked to send details of the serial numbers via the chat message. But 
unfortunately and unknown to her at the time, the email and messages had come from a 
fraudster. Ms P realised shed been scammed when she went into work and was told that it 
wasnt a colleague that shed been communicating with.
While Ms P was making the transactions, they flagged on Santanders systems and it sent a 
message to Ms P requesting that she contact it. Ms P called Santander, who ran through 
security with Ms P and asked her to confirm that the transactions were genuine, which she 
confirmed they were  so Santander allowed the payments to progress.
Ms P complained to Santander and it issued its final response in April 2023, not upholding 
the complaint. In summary it didnt think it was responsible for Ms Ps loss.
Unhappy with Santanders response, Ms P then brought her complaint to this service. One of 
our Investigators looked into things but didnt uphold the complaint. In summary this was 
because he didnt think Santander could have been expected to have done more than it did.  
Our Investigator also considered there was no basis upon which Santander could have 
raised a Chargeback claim.
Ms P didnt accept our Investigators view and so the complaint has now been passed over 
to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Ms P, and I can understand entirely why she feels  
so strongly that her money should be returned to her. But having thought very carefully  
about Santanders actions, I think it did act fairly and reasonably in allowing the transactions 
to be made from Ms Ps account. Ill explain why.
In broad terms, Santander can only hold Ms P liable for the payments if the evidence 
suggests its more likely than not that she made or authorised them herself. Here, it is not in 
dispute Ms P authorised the payments, indeed she says herself she did. So even though   
Ms P was tricked, I cant fairly say she didnt authorise the transactions.
But firms, such as Santander, have obligations to be alert to instances of fraud. This means 
that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, there 
are circumstances where a firm should fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make 
additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make a 
payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.
Here, I can see that Santander did contact Ms P and ask her to confirm whether the 
payments on her account were genuine, it spoke to Ms P who confirmed the transactions 
were genuine and that she was purchasing gift cards. I need to consider whether that 
intervention went far enough or whether Santander should have done more than it did.
Santander has a difficult balance to strike in how it configures its systems to detect unusual 
activity or activity that might otherwise indicate a higher than usual risk of fraud. Having 
reviewed the activity on Ms Ps account in the months leading up to the scam, I think, while 
its finely balanced, that Santanders intervention was proportionate in the individual 
circumstances of this case and I cant fairly or reasonably have expected them to do more 
than they did.
I say that as when comparing the payments Ms P made to the fraudsters, against her typical 
account activity in the months leading up to the scam. Im not persuaded that the activity was 
so unusual or out of character that I would have expected Santander to do more than it did.  
There are other payments in the months leading up to the scam for similar amounts or more 
and it is not uncommon for Ms P to make card payments. Im also conscious that the 
payments Ms P made to the fraudsters didnt clear or go close to clearing the balance on her 
account, which can sometimes, but not always, be an indication that somebody may be at 
risk of financial harm.
In summary, I dont think the transactions made were so unusual or out of character, that I 
would have expected Santander to have intervened further than it did.
I understand Ms P mentioned to Santander that she thought there was an insurance policy in 
place to protect her. I think what Ms P is referring to is The Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (CRM code). The CRM code is a voluntary code introduced in May 2019, which 
Santander are signatories of. However the CRM code doesnt cover card payments  so it is 
not something I can consider when looking at this complaint.
Finally, Ive considered whether Santander could have recovered any of Ms Ps payments. 
As she made payments using her debit card, the only potential recovery option would have 
been through the chargeback scheme.
The chargeback process is voluntary and run by the card scheme  in this case Mastercard - 
whereby it will ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it  
cannot be resolved between them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the  
rules of the scheme  so there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed or  
be deemed a valid claim.Our role in such cases is not to second-guess the card scheme rules, but to determine 
whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. Santander) acted fairly and reasonably when 
presenting (or choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of Ms P.
I dont see that Santander attempted chargeback claims. Here Ms P didnt pay the fraudsters 
directly and instead paid a legitimate retailer for gift cards, and then shared the serial 
numbers of those gift cards with the fraudsters. I therefore think the retailer would have likely 
defended the chargeback claims on the basis that Ms P received the service/goods she paid 
for.
But before a chargeback claim can be defended, Santander would need to have valid 
grounds to  process any claim and it doesnt appear it would have had any because there is 
no dispute here that Ms P had received the gift cards in exchange for her payments. So I 
dont think Santander acted unfairly by choosing not to raise chargeback claims on Ms Ps 
behalf.
I am sorry to disappoint Ms P, she was the victim of a cruel scam and she has my sympathy 
that she has lost money in this way. However, I cant fairly say Santander should have 
prevented the loss and therefore it isnt liable to reimburse Ms P.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman