DRN-1963707
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) declined his request for a 
balance transfer to his credit card.
What happened
Mr M has said he was sent details of a balance transfer offer by Halifax. Mr M then applied 
to transfer a balance to his Halifax credit card from a card held with a different business, to 
benefit from this offer.
The application for the balance transfer was rejected by Halifax. Unhappy with this Mr M 
complained. He said Halifax hadnt made it clear that this request would require approval. He 
thought that it would automatically proceed, as it was Halifax that had sent him details of the 
offer in the first place.
Halifax said it hadnt done anything wrong as balance transfer requests were subject to 
review. And this application did not meet its lending criteria. It acknowledged however that it 
couldve provided Mr M better service, so it offered him £60 for the upset caused and to 
cover call costs.
Mr M asked our service to look into the complaint. He said hed been offered a balance 
transfer, but this had been taken away  so he felt the offer had been mis-sold. To put 
matters right he either wanted Halifax to allow the balance transfer or for it to pay the interest 
hed be incurring on the balance, while it remained outstanding on the card he held with 
another business. 
An investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Halifax had done anything wrong. 
He said that Halifax was entitled to review the balance transfer request and that its website 
explains it may do this. He also said that the information available indicated the checks 
Halifax carried out hadnt negatively impacted Mr Ms credit file.
Mr M did not agree with the investigators opinion. He said that the offer made to him by 
Halifax didnt include information about checks being required and the part of Halifaxs 
website that mentioned this was entirely separate. 
As Mr M did not agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax, like all financial businesses, sets internal criteria around lending and the 
circumstances under which it allows customers to use its products or take up offers. This is a 
matter for its own commercial judgement and not something our service can interfere with.
Halifax has explained that all requests for balance transfers are subject to approval. And in 
this case, Mr M did not meet the criteria for the balance transfer he asked for. 
I think it is reasonable for Halifax to check that requests for borrowing are acceptable to it  
which is what the balance transfer was  and decide if it is willing to accept that request. 
Here Halifax decided it was not, based on its criteria. Again, these criteria are a matter of its 
commercial judgement. And I havent seen anything to suggest it applied its criteria 
incorrectly or inconsistently. So, I dont think it has acted unfairly in taking the decision to 
decline Mr Ms request.
Mr M pointed out as part of his complaint that Halifax already provided him with access to 
borrowing via his credit limit. And that this exceeded the amount he asked for through the 
balance transfer  so he wasnt asking for new borrowing. I can understand why this was 
upsetting for Mr M and I understand the points he has made. But as Ive said, Halifax is 
entitled to set its own lending and eligibility criteria. And the information it has provided 
indicates it has applied these correctly. So, I dont think it has done anything wrong by 
declining his request.
Mr M has said that he was offered a balance transfer by Halifax and that the information he 
was presented was mis-leading and didnt make it clear the balance transfer request would 
be subject to eligibility. And based on what Ive seen and been provided by Halifax, 
particularly around the online application process which Mr M used, I think it couldve been 
made clearer during that process that any request would be subject to approval. I say that 
because the example screenshots Ive seen dont seem to show this information 
prominently.
But just because Halifax couldve been clearer about this doesnt mean that I think it has to 
grant the balance transfer by waiving its lending and eligibility criteria. It was still entitled to 
apply these. And Mr M was not eligible, at the time of applying, for the balance transfer. I 
also dont think I can fairly ask it to pay interest due to Mr Ms other card provider  as it was 
entitled to decline his request for a balance transfer.
As Ive said, I think the information made available by Halifax couldve been clearer. And if it 
had been, this mightve meant Mr M wouldnt have needed to complain and the frustration 
and upset caused mightve been avoided. But while I know Mr M feels strongly about this, I 
think the offer of £60 already made by Halifax in its final response is a fair way to address 
this and resolve the complaint, as ultimately it was entitled to decline his application. So, I 
wont be requiring it to do any more.
My final decision
Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) has already made an offer to pay £60 to settle the 
complaint which I think is a fair way to resolve matters.
So, my decision is that, if it hasnt already done so, Bank of Scotland plc should pay Mr M 
the £60 it previously offered.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2020.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman