DRN-4170442
The complaint
Miss C complains that Bank of Scotland plc failed to update her credit file as agreed.
What happened
Miss C says Bank of Scotland (BoS) failed to remove late payment markers from her credit 
file as agreed. She says she tried to pay a small balance on her account but was unable to 
do so and that BoS agreed to remove the late payment markers in December 2021. Miss C 
says in December 2022 she applied for a mortgage which was refused and found out the 
late payment markers hadnt been removed. She would like over £5,000 compensation.
BoS has apologised for the mistake and paid £75 compensation. It says it correctly recorded 
late payment markers earlier on in 2021 but accepts it should have removed the later 
markers from Miss Cs credit file sooner than it did. 
Miss C brought her complaint to us, and our investigator thought BoS should increase its 
compensation award to a total of £300. The investigator thought it possible the late payment 
markers correctly recorded on Miss Cs credit file may have affected the mortgage 
application in any event and that the incorrect markers may have been removed before the 
application.
Miss C and BoS accepted that view.
Miss C says she has now made a new mortgage application which was approved which 
must provide evidence that it was BoSs mistake that was the issue. She would like the 
compensation amount increased.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that BoS should pay £300 compensation in 
total which I think its fairly agreed to pay or has already paid.
There is no dispute here that BoS ought to have removed late payment markers from Miss 
Cs credit file as it agreed to do. I have no doubt Miss C was caused distress and 
inconvenience when she realised in late 2022 that the markers hadnt been removed at the 
correct time as agreed. I accept that Miss C would have spent some time trying to resolve 
matters.
The only real issue for me to decide is the compensation amount as there is no dispute that 
the late payment markers have now been removed. I cant be sure that the late payment 
markers that ought to have been removed were the reason Miss Cs mortgage application 
was refused. I am sure Miss C appreciates that lenders look at a variety of factors when 
assessing such applications and I think it likely that the late payment markers that were 
correctly applied may have impacted on the application in any event. I appreciate Miss C has 
provided evidence of a mortgage approval but cant fairly conclude that was approved due to 
some late payment markers being removed when others are likely to be still recorded on 
Miss Cs credit file.
It follows that I cant fairly conclude that BoSs mistake led to the mortgage refusal. And in 
any event, I dont think the amount Miss Cs seeks in compensation of over £5,000 is fair or 
reasonable. I also agree with the investigator that whilst there was a delay in BoS removing 
the late payment markers that they may in any event have been removed in the early part of 
2022 sometime before the mortgage application.
Im satisfied that BoS should pay £300 compensation and think that amount fairly reflects 
what took place and what I consider the fairly limited impact on Miss C. I dont think the 
mistake justifies further compensation or that BoS should pay for Miss Cs council tax 
payments as she suggests. Im also satisfied that award is in line with type and amount of 
awards we would normally make for this type of mistake and impact.
Putting things right
BoS should pay Miss C a further £225 compensation if it has not done so already.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order Bank of Scotland plc to pay 
Miss C a total of £300 compensation. Miss Cs acceptance of this decision would be in full 
and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 September 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman