DRN-2677046
The complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard recorded two late
payments on his credit file.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 12 February 2021. I said: 
What happened
Mr C has a Barclaycard and his account statements are available to view online and via the
app. Barclaycard has told us it sends Mr C notifications to let him know his statements are
ready to review.
On 20 February 2020 Barclaycard issued a statement that said he had to make a minimum
payment of £28.31 by 18 March 2020. Mr C paid £28.31 on 19 March 2020.
Barclaycard sent Mr C a statement on 19 March 2020 that said he needed to make a
minimum payment of £91.40 by 21 April 2020. No payment was received.
On 22 April 2020 Barclaycard issued a statement that said Mr C needed to make a total
payment of £190.10 by 20 May 2020. Barclaycards statement also said no payment to cover
the previous statement period had been received and Mr C should make a payment of
£91.40 immediately, followed by another payment of £98.70 by 20 May 2020.
On 27 April 2020 Barclaycard sent Mr C a reminder letter. It said the 21 April 2020 minimum
payment hadnt been made.
On 1 May 2020 Mr C made a payment of £91.40 but didnt pay the remaining £98.70 by
20 May 2020.
On 21 May 2020 Barclaycard issued a statement that said Mr C needed to make a payment
of £196.27 by 17 June 2020. The statement further explained that Mr C should clear arrears
of £98.70 immediately and make a follow up payment of £97.57 by 17 June 2020.
On 26 May 2020 Barclaycard sent Mr C a reminder to say he had missed the 20 May 2020
payment date.
Mr C made a payment of £196.27 on 27 May 2020. The payment covered the contractual
minimum and cleared the arrears.
Mr C later found that Barclaycard had registered two late payments on his credit file and
complained. Barclaycard issued its final response on 2 July 2020 but didnt agree an error
had been made. Mr C referred his complaint to our service and told us that problems with
the app meant his payments werent made on time. He also pointed out that the reminder
letters indicated he had 14 days to clear arrears to avoid them being recorded on his credit
file.
The investigator didnt find anything to show Barclaycards app had led to problems with
payments being made. But they thought Mr C had made payments in line with Barclaycards
reminder letters as the arrears were cleared within 14 days of the date they were due on
each occasion. Barclaycard didnt agree and asked to appeal so the complaint has been
passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has told us there were problems with Barclaycards online app which delayed the
payments he made. But, Barclaycard has told us that there were no reported problems with
its online app and nothing to show Mr Cs payments were delayed as a result. Mr C has sent
us a screen shot of Barclaycards app that shows he is offered three options. To make the
minimum payment, clear the balance in full or pay a specific amount. But we havent been
sent anything to show there was a problem with the app that delayed Mr Cs payments. Im
sorry to disappoint Mr C, but I havent found that problems with Barclaycards app caused
his payments to be made late.
Barclaycard made Mr Cs statements available to him online, via its app. So, each month, Mr
C had access to information needed to make the full monthly payment. Barclaycard also
says it sends notifications for Mr C to check his statements when theyre issued. Im satisfied
that Barclaycard issued clear guidance in its statements concerning what Mr C needed to
pay and when payments were due.
Our investigator upheld Mr Cs complaint as they felt the reminder letters Barclaycard sent
told him he had 14 days from the due date of his minimum payment to catch up before it was
reported to the credit reference agency. But I also think the account terms and conditions are
important in this case, as they form the basis of Mr Cs relationship with Barclaycard.
The terms say payments have to be made on time, in line with the statement information.
The terms and conditions also say Barclaycard can report missed payments to the credit
reference agencies. In this case, Barclaycard has acted in line with the terms and conditions
of the credit card when reporting the missed payments for April and May 2020.
Ive considered whether its fair for Barclaycard to apply the terms in this case in light of the
information set out in its reminder letters. The reminders Mr C received said:
We know how important it is to our customers to maintain their credit rating. And we also
know that all kinds of things can lead to delays in making payments. So, if youve previously
been up to date with your payments and youre able to make a payment within 14 days of
your payment due date (which youll find on your statement) then your credit file wont be
affected by the late payment fee we apply.
Whist I understand Mr C feels the reminder says a payment can be made within 14 days of
the due date to avoid a late payment being reported, it also says the card holder must
previously have been up to date with their payments. In this case, the payment due on 18
March 2020 was paid late, on 19 March 2020. The payment was made up within the 14-day
period Barclaycard allows for the first missed payment  so it wasnt reported to the credit
reference agencies. Barclaycard says, from this point, the 14-day period no longer applied
because Mr Cs payments werent previously up to date. Im sorry to disappoint Mr C, but I
agree with Barclaycard in this case.
After his March 2020 payment was received late, I think its reasonable to say his accountwasnt previously up to date. I think the decision to report late payments for April and May
2020 was fair, in line with the account terms and information contained within the reminders
in this case.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr C but I havent been persuaded that Barclaycard acted unfairly
when it reported late payments on his credit file for April and May 2020. Unless I see any
new information or evidence that changes my mind, I dont intend to tell Barclaycard to
amend Mr Cs credit file. I think Barclaycard has dealt with Mr Cs complaint fairly so I dont
intend to tell it to take any further action.
I asked Mr C and Barclaycard to respond with any additional points or information they 
wanted me to consider before I made my final decision. Mr C didnt respond and Barclaycard 
told us it didnt have anything further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has sent new information or evidence for me to consider, I see no reason to 
change the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I still think Barclaycard dealt 
with Mr Cs complaint fairly, for the same reasons. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman