DRN-3569182
The complaint
Ms D is unhappy Santander UK Plc wont refund the money she lost as the result of a scam.
What happened
Im not going to cover all the points raised in detail. The view of 2 December 2021 covered 
the details of Ms Ds testimony. But briefly Ms Ds mother told her about an investment 
opportunity shed made via a work colleague  I will refer to as M. M originally discussed the 
possibility of contributing funds to an investment scheme via a trader - I will refer to as A - 
with Ms Ds mother in September 2018. Around September 2019 Ms D had an investment 
maturing and her mother told her about the scheme.
Ms D passed on her details and received a call from M. M told Ms D she could expect 
returns of 30%-40% in three to four months. Ms D decided to think about the investment 
opportunity and messaged M the next day to invest £10,000. On 12 September 2019, Ms D 
made a faster payment of £10,150 (which included a fee of £150) to Ms account.
Ms D messaged M to find out how the investment was going but after a couple of months M 
stopped responding to Ms Ds messages and it was at this point she realised shed been 
scammed. On 27 November 2020, Ms D contacted Santander to raise a scam claim. 
Santander felt Ms D did not take reasonable steps to protect herself before making the 
payment.
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part as - whilst he agreed Ms D didnt take 
reasonable steps to protect herself - he didnt think Santander had issued an effective 
warning. So, he recommended Santander refund 50% of the transaction.
Both parties originally accepted the conclusions, but later Ms D said she didnt agree and 
asked for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
Ms D has referred to her mothers case which was upheld. I dont know the finer details of 
that particular case - but each case is judged on its own merits and what may appear (on the 
face of it) to be a similar set of circumstances, may often transpire not to be the case. It is 
worth noting that the case was resolved at a very early stage and mediated with the 
business. It also was not considered under the Lending Standards Board Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) which came into force in May 2019.
I accept Ms D did fall victim to a scam but, there is no automatic right to a refund for victims 
of fraud. In fact, the relevant regulations (and the terms of her account) make Ms D 
responsible for payments shes made herself in the first instance. In broad terms, the starting 
position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a 
customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services Regulations and the terms 
and conditions of the customers account. Theres no dispute here that Ms D authorised the 
payment. 
However, where a customer makes a payment as a consequence of the actions of a 
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer 
even though they authorised the payment. When thinking about what is fair and reasonable 
in this case, Ive considered whether Santander should have reimbursed Ms D in line with 
the provisions of the CRM Code it has signed up to and whether it ought to have done more 
to protect Ms D from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Theres no dispute here that Ms D was tricked into making the payment. She thought she 
was making an investment, and this wasnt the case. But this isnt enough, in itself, for Ms D 
to receive a refund of the money under the CRM Code. The Code places a level of care on 
Ms D too. 
The CRM Code
Santander has signed up to the CRM Code. The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse 
customers who have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in 
all but a limited number of circumstances. 
One such circumstance might be when a customer has ignored an effective warning. 
Santander agreed to refund 50% of Ms Ds loss as it feels it didnt provide an effective 
warning when Ms D made the transaction; accepting that it ought to have done more and 
recognising that means it bears some responsibility for Ms Ds loss. As it has already 
accepted it didnt provide an effective warning and ought to have done more before allowing 
the transfer of £10,150, Ive not considered this point further.
A second circumstance in which a bank might decline a refund is, if it can be demonstrated 
that the customer made the payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that:
 the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; 
 the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or 
 the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics of the 
customer and the complexity of the scam, I am persuaded the concerns Santander has 
raised about the legitimacy of the transaction Ms D was making are enough to support its 
position that she failed to meet her requisite level of care under the CRM Code for the 
payments she made. It follows that I think Santander has been able to establish that it may 
choose not to reimburse Ms D in full under the terms of the CRM Code. 
Did Ms D have a reasonable basis for belief? 
Having thought about what both sides have said and provided, I dont consider Ms D had a 
reasonable basis for believing the payments she was making was for a genuine investment. 
I say this because: 
Ms D invested a large sum of money based on advice from her mother and mothers 
colleague. I appreciate Ms Ds mother had known her colleague for some time  but 
the original third party involved A  was not someone she knew and so warranted 
further checking.The investment returns the scammer mentioned were too good to be true. Ms D was 
told she could expect a rate of return of 30-40% in three to four months. I consider 
that the promised returns and timescale were so unrealistic that Ms D ought 
reasonably to have had significant concern about the legitimacy of the opportunity. 
That, in turn, ought to have led to a greater degree of checking on her part. 
Ms D confirmed she didnt carry out any checks to enable her to establish the 
legitimacy of the investment she was dealing with before investing large sums. I think 
she ought reasonably to have done more.
Ms D went ahead and made the payment despite all of these red flags. Under the CRM 
Code where a business has failed to provide an effective warning, but the customer hasnt 
met the requisite level of care, each party must accept equal responsibility. In these 
situations, the CRM Code requires the payment service provider to reimburse 50% of the 
losses  which is what Santander has already offered to do. 
Finally, Ive considered whether Santander took reasonable steps to recover Ms Ds 
funds, and I think it did. The scam payment was made on 12 September 2019 and the 
scam was reported on 27 November 2020  over a year after the transaction. Its 
evidenced that Santander contacted the receiving bank within an hour. Although it seems 
not to have received a response from the beneficiary bank; its subsequently been 
established that no funds remained and were moved immediately. Its not surprising as 
fraudsters usually remove funds immediately to avoid the possibility of funds being 
claimed. Im not persuaded that Santander couldve taken any further action that wouldve 
led to the recovery of Ms Ds remaining funds.
I realise my decision will be a significant disappointment to Ms D. I do accept she has fallen 
victim to what can only be described as a cruel and callous scam. But Im only considering 
whether the bank, which had no involvement in the scam itself, should be held responsible 
for what happened. Im sorry she has lost money and I can understand why she would like to 
be compensated for more of her losses. However, despite my natural sympathy for the 
situation she finds himself in ultimately, I dont think she had a reasonable basis for belief. It 
therefore follows that I dont think that Santanders refusal to reimburse Ms D the other 50% 
of her losses was unfair or unreasonable.
Putting things right
I understand that Santander has already settled the matter in line with the view, but in the 
event it hasnt, it should now put things right for Ms D as follows:
refund 50% of the money she lost as a result of the scam
add 8% simple interest from the date the payment was made up to the date of 
settlement
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint in part and require Santander UK Plc to put things 
right as set out above  if it has not already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Kathryn MilneOmbudsman