DRN-1946762
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D say that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them a regular payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
During a meeting in early 2001 Mr and Mrs D took out a mortgage with Lloyds. At the same 
time they took out a PPI policy. The policy was in Mr Ds name only and covered their 
mortgage payments if Mr D was unable to work due to accident or sickness or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt think their complaint should be upheld. He thought Mr and Mrs D 
wouldve understood they had a choice in taking the policy and it wouldve suited their needs 
at the time. 
Mr and Mrs D disagree, they say nothing was highlighted or mentioned about PPI and they 
had no idea they had taken it out.
So their complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
The policy was sold during a meeting with a sales adviser. Lloyds had to make it clear the 
PPI was optional and not a condition of the lending. Mr and Mrs D say this wasnt done but 
havent given us much detail about what was said during the meeting to make them think 
this. But I think thats understandable as the PPI was sold a while ago. So Ive relied more 
on what the documents from the sale show.
Lloyds have given us a copy of Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage and PPI application forms signed 
by them both. I can see on the mortgage application form that theres a separate section that 
deals with PPI. It gives the option to either select to take PPI or decline it with a tick box next 
to both options. I can see that a tick has been placed in the box to select PPI.
Given the importance of the financial commitment Mr and Mrs D were making I think its 
likely they read the application form before signing it. And because Mr and Mrs D signed the 
mortgage application form after the section on PPI I think its likely they wouldve seen the 
different options available in relation to PPI and understood they had a choice in taking it.
And I think Mr and Mrs D chose to take the policy because I can see that Mr and Mrs D went 
on to complete and sign a separate application form and direct debit mandate for PPI. If they 
didnt want the cover I dont think they wouldve completed an application for it.
Lloyds advised Mr and Mrs D to take the policy. What this means is that Lloyds not only had 
to provide information about PPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mr and Mrs D 
could make an informed choice about buying PPI. It also had to make sure that if it was to 
recommend PPI that the policy was suitable for their needs and circumstances.
I dont know if Lloyds did take all the steps it shouldve. But I think PPI was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs D for the following reasons:
Mr D was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like he wouldve been caught by any 
of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made it 
difficult to make a successful claim. 
At the time of the sale Mr D says he was entitled to a good level of sick pay but they had 
no other means of making their mortgage repayments if they couldnt work. But the 
policy wouldve paid out on top of any work benefits and covered him for up to 12 
months if he was unable to work due to accident or sickness or if he lost his job. 
So I think the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mr and Mrs D in their 
circumstances especially considering they were taking on a significant and long term 
financial commitment. Given the implications if they were unable to meet their 
repayments I think they wouldve been interested in protecting them.  
There was nothing to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to Mr and Mrs D at the 
time. And if they decided they no longer wanted the policy they couldve cancelled it.
I also need to consider whether Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs D information in a way which was 
clear, fair and not misleading so that they could make a proper choice about whether or not 
they wanted to take the policy out. I dont know if Lloyds did give all the information as it 
shouldve. But for the same reasons that the policy was suitable and based on what Mr and 
Mrs D have told us about their circumstances at the time, I think they wouldve still taken out 
the policy if theyd been given all the proper information.  
This means Mr and Mrs D arent worse off as a result of any wrong doing by Lloyds.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D because: 
When the policy was sold, Lloyds expected to get a high level of commission and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs D about 
that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr and Mrs D, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs D any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 September 2020.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman