DRN-2578988
The complaint
Mrs B says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy for a store card. 
AXA France IARD, as the insurer, have taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things 
simple, Ill only refer to AXA in this decision rather than any other business.
What happened
Mrs B bought the policy in 1995, at the same time as taking out a store card in the store. It 
covered her in case she was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Bs case.
I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mrs Bs store card application had a section for PPI. It gave an overview of what the policy 
was for, and then had two options to choose from: one to buy the policy and one to turn it 
down. The option to buy PPI was ticked, the option to turn it down was left blank, and Mrs B 
signed the form to confirm her choices. So I think its most likely that AXA made Mrs B aware 
she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time  though 
I can understand if she no longer remembers doing so after so long.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs B, so they didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
They did have to give Mrs B enough information to decide for herself whether the PPI was 
right for her.
Its possible that the information AXA gave Mrs B about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed 
her mind.
Here, it looks like Mrs B chose to take out the policy, which indicates she wanted this type of 
cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the policys main exclusions or limitations. And the PPI wouldve paid out 
on top of her work benefits and offered her more comprehensive cover. I understand Mrs Bs 
family may have been happy to help, but there was always the chance theyd be unable to 
help when needed. And this policy meant she wouldnt have to ask her family to pay for her 
card if things went wrong. I also understand she had life insurance, but that covered different 
things to the PPI and Im afraid it wasnt relevant here. Lastly, Mrs B said she had good work 
benefits in a later job from 2000 onwards, as well as savings from a payout in 1999. But this 
sale was in 1995, so those things werent relevant here either. So this policy could have 
been useful for Mrs B in case something went wrong. And the PPI was paid on a rolling 
monthly basis, so Mrs B could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think 
better information about the PPI was likely to have put her off taking it out.
Lastly, Mrs Bs representative mentioned that weve found other PPI policies to have been 
mis-sold, and I understand why they raised this. But different policies worked in different 
ways, were suitable in different circumstances, were sold using different methods at different 
times, and so on. So while some policies were mis-sold, others were not. Thats why we look 
at each case on its individual merits. Ive explained above why I have not found this 
particular policy to have been mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman