DRN-3932591
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC sold him an unsuitable Life and Critical Illness 
policy, that didnt offer him the same level of cover as the one he had at the time. 
What happened
In December 2020 Mr B arranged an appointment with Barclays to discuss protecting a 
mortgage he had with a different bank. Barclays recommended an L&G Decreasing Term 
Assurance (DTA) Policy with critical illness cover. The critical illness policy included cover for 
total and permanent disability. However, L&Gs underwriting criteria defined Mr Bs 
occupation as class three  this meant that in order for a claim under the total and 
permanent disability element of his cover to be successful, he would have needed to 
evidence a permanent inability to complete certain Specified Work Tasks as decided by 
L&G. Other conditions were treated the same irrespective of occupation classes. 
In April 2022 Mr B unfortunately suffered an accident at work, and he enquired about his 
cover. Mr B believed that the information he received showed that his policy didnt provide 
him with the same level of cover as a policy he previously had, so he complained to Barclays 
about the sale of the policy. 
Barclays looked into his concerns, but didnt agree it had done anything wrong. It said
The recommended policy was suitable to meet his mortgage protection needs at the 
time. 
It wasnt the adviser that elected to provide a reduced level of cover, but it was 
L&Gs criteria that determined this. It said that specified work tasks were standard in 
the industry when relating to Total and Permanent Disability for occupations in 
classes three and above. This was comprehensively explained in the Policy 
Summary and Policy Booklet, which had been uploaded to his L&G online portal at 
the time of the sale. 
It explained that Barclays advisers were tied agents of L&G and were therefore not 
authorised to make recommendations relating to the products provided by other 
providers. However, it explained that Mr Bs belief that his cover with L&G was less 
than his previous policies was not correct. 
It said that at the present time Mr Bs injury was not yet considered permanent, and 
therefore he was not able to claim under L&Gs policy anyway. It said that this 
wouldve been the case with his previous policies as well. 
Finally it said that Mr B was issued with the relevant documentation at the time of the 
sale. It said the evidence showed that Mr B logged into his portal on 21 December 
2020 and ticked the box to confirm the details were correct, and also instructed L&G 
to commence the policy on 30 December 2020. 
Mr B remained unhappy and referred his complaint this service. One of our investigators 
looked into his complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. In short, she agreed that the 
policy was suitable and Mr B had the appropriate level of cover. She said that it was L&Gs 
criteria which classified Mr Bs occupation in a particular way, and that is why the Specified 
Work tasks condition applied. She also agreed that Mr B had accessed the relevant policy 
documents and agreed to proceed. 
Mr B didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He felt that 
the points he had made had been overlooked. He thought it wasnt fair that he was required 
to have checked the policy to ensure it was correct. He affirmed that Barclays hadnt 
provided him with the appropriate service. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to express my sympathy for the difficult circumstances Mr B finds himself in, and I 
understand why has raised his concerns. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment, but 
Im not persuaded Mr B has reduced level of cover. Im persuaded by Barclays points that 
Mr Bs previous policies had similar restrictions on this particular element of the cover. 
Zurich, the provider of one of his previous policies, wouldve classed Mr Bs occupation the 
same as L&G, and therefore also required that he fail Specified Work Tasks before paying 
out. And his policy with Royal London covered him for suited occupation and work tasks, 
which Barclays explained provided a lower level of cover than he has with L&G. This is 
because suited occupation may require a return to work in any occupation for which the 
claimant is suited. 
Furthermore, the evidence on file that Ive seen shows that at the time of his complaint, 
Mr Bs injury was not yet deemed to be permanent  so whatever policy he held, he would 
not be able to claim under that element of his cover. 
Finally, I understand Mr B may not recall being provided with the policy booklet and 
summary at the time of the sale. But the evidence Ive seen shows that he accessed this 
information and instructed L&G to commence the policy. Furthermore the letter from 
Barclays specifically directed him to specified work tasks as a possibility following 
underwriting. In their letter dated 21 December 2020, Barclays said:
Life with Critical Illness cover pays out a lump sum for the loss of the physical or mental 
ability to do your own occupation. Please note this may change to the completion of at least 
3 of the 6 Specified Work Tasks (Walking, Climbing, Lifting, Bending, Getting in and out of a 
car or Writing) on underwriting. If this happens you will be informed before the policy begins.
Whilst I understand why Mr B may not have read everything in detail, I think the information 
in the policy summary, combined with the policy booklet, is sufficiently clear. 
It says:
Well cover you for the loss of physical or mental ability, due to an illness or injury, to do 
either your own occupation or at least three of the six Specified Work Tasks (see section 
headed Specified Work Tasks). The decision that applies to you will be shown in your Policy 
Booklet and will depend on your occupation, employment status and whether you are paid for your work. The Policy Booklet is clear, on page 8, that for Total and Permanent disability 
L&G would pay out in the event that the Specified Work Tasks criteria was met. 
For all these reasons, Im satisfied that Mr B was sold a suitable policy, with the appropriate 
level of cover and that this information was given to him in a clear and transparent way 
before he chose to proceed. Im also persuaded by Barclays submissions about Mr Bs 
previous policies to the effect that his current policy has not reduced his cover. I note, in any 
event, that Mr B would be unable to claim until his injury was deemed permanent. 
Whilst I hope that this outcome might provide Mr B some reassurance that he has cover in 
place should his situation deteriorate, I understand he may still be disappointed with my final 
decision. However, for the reasons Ive given, Im satisfied Barclays has done nothing 
wrong. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman