DRN-2016729
 
The complaint
L is a management company for a group of houses situated in the same road. 
It's represented by Mr P. L complains that National House Building Council (NHBC) 
has unfairly declined to cover repairs to the drainage system servicing the houses on a 
building warranty.
What happened
The houses managed by L were built in 2013 and have an NHBC Buildmark warranty which 
covers damage caused by defects in the first 10 years after construction.
This complaint is linked to a long running dispute between L and NHBC going back to 
2015 when issues with the drainage at the houses was noted. Eventually those issues were 
traced to an electrical fault in the pumping station which served the houses. That fault has 
been repaired and there's been no repeat of the drainage issues.
In May 2018, NHBC produced a Resolution Report outlining work which it considered 
was necessary under the warranty in order to repair defects which had been discovered 
during its investigations into the drainage issues. This made reference to works being 
required to pipework and manholes.
This work was due to start in March 2019. But the works as planned would have entailed 
an access road being closed for a significant length of time. NHBC reviewed its position 
when it became apparent that alternative plans were needed to allow emergency vehicle 
access to the houses. It said it no longer considered that the works were required under the 
terms of the Buildmark warranty. The drainage issues had been resolved by the completion 
of the electrical work.
L complained to NHBC, who rejected the complaint. It said that the issues with the 
pipework and manholes weren't the cause of the drainage issues. So it said a claim for 
repairs to these parts would be considered a new claim on the warranty. It said no damage 
had been caused by the defects, and so any claim wouldn't be covered.
Mr P, on behalf of L, brought the complaint to our service. He argued that if NHBC 
didn't repair the pipework and manholes, the residents of the houses would find it impossible 
to get insurance at the end of the warranty period. And the cost of the repairs was likely to 
be more than the residents could afford. He argued that the issues identified were defects 
related to the original construction and not the fault of the residents.
Our investigator said he didn't think NHBC had done anything wrong. He observed that 
the terms and conditions of the policy required that repairs would only be covered where 
there was damage caused by a defect. He didn't consider that the issues with the pipework 
and manholes had caused damage. L disagreed with this, saying that the work was 
necessary because the houses could potentially become uninhabitable if the sewage system 
failed. It's asked for an ombudsman's decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional decision.
In my provisional decision, I said:
I've started by looking at the terms and conditions of the warranty. These say that NHBC 
will pay the full cost "of putting right any physical damage to your home which is caused by 
a defect in respect of ... below-ground drainage for which you are responsible." The terms 
and conditions give definitions of some of these terms.
A "defect" is defined as "The breach of any mandatory NHBC Requirement by the builder 
or anyone employed by or acting for the builder. Failure to follow the guidance supporting 
an NHBC Requirement does not amount to a defect if the performance required by the 
NHBC Requirement is achieved by other means."
A "Home" is defined in the warranty as "the house, bungalow or flat referred to in 
a Buildmark Offer," including "the drainage system serving the house, bungalow, flat 
or maisonette for which the owner is responsible."
"Damage" is defined as "Physical damage to a home caused by a defect."
It doesn't appear to be in dispute that the issues with the pipework and manholes do 
amount to a defect. The report produced by NHBC in December 2016 during its assessment 
of the claims indicate that they didn't conform to the relevant Building Regulations. It's also 
not disputed that these items form part of the drainage system, and are considered part of 
the residents' homes as defined by the policy.
But NHBC disputes that the defects which have been identified have caused any 
damage, and so argues that there's no cover for a claim to repair the defects. It's accepted 
that the original drainage issues which led to these defects being discovered were caused by 
other, unrelated defects which have been repaired. There's no dispute that repairs to the 
pipework and manhole defects would be a new claim on the warranty.
In his submissions to our service, Mr P doesn't address whether the defects have 
caused damage. He told our investigator that the defects didn't appear to be the cause of 
the drainage issues which had previously been the subject of a claim with NHBC. He's made 
no reference to any other damage having been caused by the defects.
Mr P's argument on behalf of L is that the defects may potentially cause significant 
damage in the future, and that this may be after the expiry of the warranty in 2024. But the 
terms and conditions of the warranty don't provide cover for works to repair any defect 
which could cause damage in the future. In order for a claim to be successful, the defect 
needs to have actually caused damage during the period of cover.
But even so, I think the current condition of the pipework and manholes indicates 
that damage has occurred already as a result of the defects. This is because the 
NHBC Resolution Reports refer to mis-shapen, or "bellied" pipework and benching needing 
to be replaced, and weep holes needing to be filled.
The May 2018 Resolution Report identified that water had "infiltrated" the drainage 
system and resulted in this work being required. This suggests to me that the drainage system has been damaged, as the water should not be there normally. And it seems to be 
accepted that a defect has allowed the water to infiltrate the system.
The shape of the pipework has been affected, and the walls of the manholes have holes 
in them. This is, I'm satisfied, "physical damage" I particularly note that one of the manholes 
is described as needing "reconstruction of the benching and investigation into the source 
to ensure it is not mains water and no further damage from cavitation of the sub-soil around 
the chamber has taken place."
The reference to "further damage" is important here. It suggests to me that there's 
an acknowledgement that the manhole is already damaged. And if that's the case, and 
it's accepted that the damage is caused by a defect, then it would seem to be covered by 
the warranty's terms and conditions.
So I'm satisfied that the issues identified with the pipework and manholes should have 
been considered under the warranty. And to put things right, NHBC should carry out the 
works identified as being required in the Resolution Report dated 29 May 2018. I'm satisfied 
that the work identified in that report is to repair damage caused by defects, as defined by 
the policy.
The response to my provisional decision
Both NHBC and Mr P, on behalf of L, responded to my provisional decision.
NHBC disagreed that the pipes had been damaged. It said that the functionality of the pipes 
hadnt been affected by the issues identified. But it said that as it had previously said it would 
resolve the issue, it would now cover this. But it wanted to make a cash settlement in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Mr P said he accepted the findings of the provisional decision. After being told about NHBCs 
suggested way of settling the claim, he said hed prefer if NHBC carried out the works itself. 
But if it was entitled to make a settlement, he wanted L to be provided with a detailed 
breakdown of the costs NHBC would incur in carrying out the repairs.
My findings
NHBC argues that, as the pipes are functioning, the issues identified dont amount to 
damage. It says it would consider damage to be blockages or the system backing up, or 
where defects were causing a physical inconvenience. 
I dont agree with this. NHBCs own reports confirm that the pipework is bellied, benching 
needs replacing and weep holes need to be filled. In the absence of any further definition of 
physical damage in the policy, I have to take the ordinary meaning of the words. And I think 
that pipes that are the wrong shape, and holes which require filling do fall within the ordinary 
meaning of damage. 
NHBC argues that, as there was no damage, theres no cover for a claim for these works 
under the relevant section of the warranty. But as I think there was damage, it seems to me 
that, notwithstanding any other exclusions and that the claim would need to meet the 
warrantys remaining terms and conditions, a claim for this damage under that section 
should be successful. NHBC hasnt suggested that theres any other reason why a claim 
under this section would be unsuccessful.
NHBC has said it accepts the part of the decision which said the works should be completed, 
on the grounds that it had indicated it would carry out the works as part of a previous resolution. But it wants to pay a cash settlement to L, equivalent to the costs of the works in 
line with the policy terms and for the amount the works would cost NHBC. 
I understand Mr Ps position, on behalf of L, that hed prefer for NHBC to make 
arrangements for the works to be carried out. It seems that was NHBCs original intention, 
and finding suitable contractors and making arrangements for the works to be carried out will 
be inconvenient.
The warrantys terms and conditions say that NHBC will pay you the full cost of putting right 
damage caused by a defect, and that alternatively, we may at our option arrange to get the 
necessary work done at our expense. So Im satisfied that the terms and conditions dont 
require NHBC to make arrangements to carry out works. It only needs to cover the costs of 
those works. Im not satisfied I can, or should, require NHBC to make arrangements to carry 
out these works.
But I dont think its fair for NHBC to limit the amount it pays to what it would have cost if it 
had arranged to carry out the repairs. Its likely that NHBC will have suppliers for works who 
will be paid a certain rate, and that these rates wont be available to L who will have to locate 
and contract suppliers through normal channels. If NHBC wants to limit its liability, it can 
arrange for its contractors to carry out the works. NHBC should pay the reasonable costs 
incurred by L to carry out the necessary works. As the settlement will be based on the 
amount L pays for the works to be carried out, I dont see that theres any need for L to be 
provided with a breakdown of the costs which NHBC would incur. Those costs arent 
relevant to the settlement which will be required.
So Im satisfied that, based on the evidence available to me, NHBC should cover the repair 
works which were identified as being required in the Resolution Report of 29 May 2018. Its 
fair for NHBC to be allowed to decide whether it wishes to make the arrangements to carry 
out these works, or make a settlement to L for the reasonable costs L incurs in having the 
works carried out.
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint. To put things right, National House-Building 
Council must cover the repair works which were identified as being required in the 
Resolution Report of 29 May 2018 by either:
Making arrangements for the works to be carried out at its expense; or
Making a settlement to L for the reasonable costs incurred by L in having the 
necessary works carried out.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2020.
Ben Williams
Ombudsman