DRN-3298130
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax mis-sold a Junior Cash 
Individual Savings Account (JISA) to her.
What happened
Mrs D opened a JISA in 2016. The account was for her child and she was the registered 
contact. She says Halifax refused to allow her to withdraw money from the account. She 
wanted to use the money for the benefit of her child. 
Mrs D says that when she opened the account she was given a pile of paper and didnt 
have time to read it or understand it. She says she didnt know about any restriction on 
withdrawals from the account. If she had known about that she says she wouldnt have 
opened the account. She complained to Halifax.
Halifax investigated her complaint. It said shed signed and agreed to the terms and 
conditions which made clear that no withdrawals were allowed except where the child was 
terminally ill or dying. Mrs D didnt agree. She referred her complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into her complaint. He said the terms and conditions for the JISA, the 
Cash ISA brochure, a summary of her needs and the products available had been given to 
Mrs D. He said the terms and conditions, and several other documents, made clear that 
withdrawals were not permitted until the child was aged 18 years. He didnt think Halifax had 
mis-sold the JISA.
Mrs D didnt agree. She said our investigator had failed to look at the sales methodology. 
She said she didnt have time to assess or evaluate the product that was stuck on her. She 
says she believed the product was a regular savings account with no strings.
Because Mrs D didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax has provided details of its sales process at the time when Mrs D opened the JISA. 
Its provided a number of documents. Ill comment on each document:
The Interview Summary
This is a four page document. The first page sets out details of the documentation that was 
provided to Mrs D and includes a brief summary of what each document was about. The 
second page had a short list of Important information about the JISA. There were five bullet 
points and one of those bullet points stated
Withdrawals are not allowed until the child reaches 18.
Page 3 of the document set out a summary of the interview that had taken place. It records 
that Mrs D told Halifax she didnt need an account that permitted immediate access to the 
account because access to the funds was not required until her child reached 18 years of 
age. 
Halifax noted that two products had been highlighted to Mrs D  a Kids Regular Saver and 
the JISA. The product selected was the JISA because access to funds is not required until 
18. There is a bullet point under Important Information which stated, No withdrawals can 
be made from this account before the age of 18.
The Terms and Conditions Booklet
Ive noted that this was a booklet of over 70 pages. It included details of terms and 
conditions for all of the ISA products which Halifax offered. About half of the booklet detailed 
changes that were about to made to these account terms and conditions.
At the start of the booklet there was an index. It detailed the pages that related to the JISA 
product. There was a single page about the Special terms and conditions for the JISA. It 
included a section about Access and this stated that no withdrawals were allowed until the 
child reaches 18 unless the child becomes terminally ill or dies. Further on in the booklet 
there is a Summary Box for the JISA which repeats this information.
Various other leaflets
The Interview Summary sets out various other documents given to Mrs D. These included 
information about interest rates, brochures about Cash ISAs and details about the Financial 
Services Compensation Scheme.
Having considered all of the documentation given to Mrs D I can understand why shes 
referred to it as a pile of paper. And it is the case that some of the information she was 
given didnt relate to the specific account shed opened. For example there were terms and 
conditions for other Cash ISA accounts and details about interest rates for other savings 
accounts. But, despite that, Im persuaded, on balance, Halifax did do enough to bring to her 
attention the fact that she couldnt make withdrawals from the account until her child reached 
18 years of age. I say this for mainly the following reasons:
The Interview Summary document, which was only four pages long, provided 
a very helpful guide to the documents shed been given. It set out the documents 
given to Mrs D and summarised the information contained in each document.
Page 2 of the Interview Summary document set out important information 
about the JISA  there were only five bullet points and one of those stated very 
clearly that withdrawals were not allowed until the child reached age 18.
The Interview Summary also provided further details about the conversation 
with Mrs D on the date she opened the account. Halifax recorded that she didnt 
need access to the funds until her child reached 18. Halifax also recorded that a Kids 
Regular Saver was discussed. That product wouldnt have permitted withdrawals  
but it wouldve permitted Mrs D to close the account. So, Im satisfied that access to 
the account was discussed with Mrs D before she selected the JISA. 
In her complaint Mrs D says that the system needs to change and people 
should be given a short video, for example, because the volume of paper is too great. 
But, having read the Interview Summary it records that Halifax did play a video to 
Mrs D during her interview. It says:
I played you a video today to highlight some important information about 
your product.  I asked Halifax to provide a copy of the video. Its provided screenshots. These show 
that the video had seven important messages about the JISA. The messages were 
short  just one sentence each. The fifth message is:
Withdrawals arent allowed and the account cannot be closed until the 
child turns 18
The words arent allowed are in bold text. 
Although Mrs D doesnt appear to recall seeing this video, theres no indication that 
she challenged the accuracy of the Interview Summary document at the time. And, 
on balance, Im persuaded that, in line with its sales process for this type of account, 
Halifax did show her the video.
The terms and conditions booklet, despite being a lengthy document, did 
include an index which referred to the page that set out the special terms for the 
JISA. That page reiterated the information about withdrawals not being permitted.
Mrs D signed the Application Form which included a statement, directly above 
her signature, which said she agreed to the JISA terms and conditions.
Having considered everything here, Im persuaded, on balance, that Mrs D was given 
enough information to alert her to the restriction on withdrawals from the account before she 
accepted the terms and conditions. Ive also noted that she was given a period of fourteen 
days, after the date she received all the documentation, to cancel the agreement. This 
wouldve given her further time to consider all of the documentation shed been given and to 
end the agreement if she didnt think it met her needs. She didnt exercise her right to 
cancel.
Mrs D has raised a further point. She says that the money in the account was not paid 
directly as child benefit but was from her and her partners salary. So, she says it is her 
own money that Halifax is refusing to repay to her. But, once Mrs D paid the money into the 
JISA, her child became beneficially entitled to it and it became subject to the terms and 
conditions of the JISA. So, the fact that it wasnt child benefit does not change my view that 
the JISA terms and conditions applied to it.
In these circumstances, whilst I know it will disappoint Mrs D, I dont require Halifax to have 
to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint about Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman