DRN-1563319
 
The complaint
Ms W complains that she was mis-sold a Mortgage Protection Plan by Scottish Widows 
Limited.
What happened
Ms W took out the 25-year decreasing term plan in December 1994, to provide cover of 
£47,500. When she received a letter in August 2019 explaining that the policy was coming to 
an end, she complained to Scottish Widows. She said that she'd been under the impression 
the policy was a whole of life policy, so the cover should continue.
Scottish Widows told Ms W that the policy had been sold to her by an independent financial 
adviser (IFA), and it was that business that had responsibility for ensuring the policy was 
suitable. Scottish Widows' role as policy provider was solely to administer the policy 
correctly, in line with its terms, which it had done. It forwarded to her a copy of the original 
application form. 
Ms W remained unhappy. She noted there were some errors with her name and date of birth 
on the application form, which she said was completed by someone else. 
She referred the complaint to this service, but our investigator reached the same view as 
Scottish Widows. He explained that the IFA was no longer trading but that Ms W might be 
able to follow this up with the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS), as had 
been suggested by Scottish Widows. 
Ms B didn't accept the investigator's view. She was particularly unhappy because the 
FSCS had told her that the IFA wouldn't have been regulated at the time of the sale, so she 
wouldn't have been able to make a claim against it. She was also unhappy that Scottish 
Widows had processed her application in the circumstances, and felt that any claim wouldn't 
have been paid because of the mistakes on the application form.   
As no agreement could be reached, the matter's been referred to me to decide
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It's important to firstly note that the complaint that I'm considering here is against Scottish 
Widows only. And, as has been noted, Scottish Widows had a limited involvement with
Ms W's policy. Its role, as the policy provider, was essentially to process her application, 
offer her terms and, if accepted, provide ongoing administration of the policy in line with 
those terms. It had no responsibility to ensure that the policy was suitable for Ms W's needs. 
That specific responsibility sat with the IFA that sold the policy to Ms W. In respect of Scottish Widow's limited responsibilities, I've not seen any evidence that it has 
done anything wrong. I appreciate that Ms W feels it shouldn't have dealt with the IFA if it 
wasn't regulated and should've verified the information in the application form to ensure 
there were no mistakes. But regulation of the sale of life insurance by IFAs hadn't been 
introduced in 1994. It didn't come until many years later. So there was nothing unusual about 
the interaction between the IFA and Scottish Widows. And in respect of the application form, 
it was reasonable for Scottish Widows to accept the form at face value. Again, it was the 
IFA's responsibility to ensure the information was correct and for
Ms W to confirm the information was right before signing.
So, while I recognise that Ms W will be very disappointed, I'm unable to conclude that 
Scottish Widows acted incorrectly. I'm satisfied that it carried out its responsibilities in 
respect of her policy as it should've done. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2020.
James Harris
Ombudsman