DRN-3649957
The complaint
Ms J complains Barclays Bank UK PLC, as the receiving bank, did not do enough to prevent 
her loss or assist her in the recovery of those funds.  
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in full 
here. In January 2019, Ms J fell victim to an investment scam. She made three payments 
totalling £10,000 from her account with her own bank  N to an account held with Barclays. 
At the time she believed she was investing in a fixed-rate bond with a genuine regulated 
firm, who Ill refer to as S. Unbeknownst to her she was in fact corresponding with 
scammers who were impersonating S. In April 2019 when her emails went unanswered, 
Ms J became concerned. She checked the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) website 
where an announcement had been posted warning customers about a clone firm. This 
confirmed her suspicions and she notified N, who informed Barclays. A small sum was 
recovered and returned to Ms J. 
Ms J argues Barclays opened an account that was used for criminal activities and wants to 
know what due diligence it had conducted prior to opening the account. She says, if Barclays 
have failed to adhere to its regulatory obligations when opening the account or around the 
ongoing monitoring of the account it should refund her losses. She is also unhappy that 
Barclays have not shared, with her (or N) the beneficiary accountholders details.
Ultimately Barclays have not agreed to providing a refund. It says it complies with all its 
Know Your Customer (KYC) requirements when opening accounts. It also didnt agree to 
sharing the beneficiary accountholders details (its reasoning being privacy laws). But it 
explained the account into which the funds were received was a corporate business account 
 not a personal account. And the nature of its customers business was to provide their own 
customers with financial services. 
Ms J remained unhappy with Barclays response. She asked our service to look into things. 
Our Investigator thought there were limits as to how much of Ms Js complaint we could 
consider. And for the aspects we can, he didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Ms J 
remained unhappy and asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. 
I issued a jurisdiction decision in which I explained the limits on which parts of Ms Js 
complaint I can consider and why. In summary I said the relationship under which Ms J is 
considered an eligible complainant only permits our service to investigate and make a 
determination in relation to acts or omissions that took place on or after 31 January 2019. 
Specifically, this meant I couldnt consider Ms Js complaint about Barclays actions when 
opening the beneficiary account that received her funds, as the opening of the account took 
place prior to that date. Nor could I comment on any activity on that account that might 
potentially have warranted intervention by Barclays, but that took place before 
31 January 2019. I explained my considerations are limited to how Barclays responded 
when it was notified by N that its customer was in receipt of fraudulently obtained funds; and 
Barclays refusal to share the beneficiary accountholder details. 
Now that the jurisdiction matter has been decided, Ill share below what I think about the 
aspects of Ms Js complaint I do have the power to investigate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate Ms J will be disappointed with 
this outcome, but Ill explain why. 
Firstly, Im sorry to hear about what Ms J has been through. I dont doubt the significant 
impact being a victim in this way has had on her. But an account later found to have been 
utilised to misappropriate funds doesnt automatically entitle an unwitting victim to a refund. 
Nor does it definitively mean that the recipient bank reasonably failed to prevent the victims 
loss or did something wrong where it would be fair to ask it to provide a refund. I could only 
fairly direct Barclays to refund Ms Js remaining loss if Im satisfied (in relation to matters 
within my jurisdiction) it reasonably failed to prevent this loss or did something wrong where 
it would be fair to ask it to provide a refund.
Ive considered Barclays actions upon receipt of notification from N that Ms Js funds had 
been sent to its customers account because of a scam. The first payment of £500 was 
made to a firm called W. This sum was recovered and returned to N. But the remaining 
£9,500 could not be recovered. The account into which those funds were paid is held by 
another financial business Ill refer to as C who provides payment services to its own 
customers and have chosen to use Barclays for their banking. Barclays would not have 
oversight of Cs customers accounts and upon notification wouldnt have known whether 
any funds remained. In such circumstances Barclays wouldnt just block Cs account. It 
would forward the notification onto C so that it can investigate and take the necessary action 
on its customers account. C informed Barclays who then notified N that the two payments 
totalling £9,500 could not be returned, as no funds remained. So Im satisfied Barclays 
responded appropriately and took the steps Id expect it to take in such circumstances. 
When a bank is notified of fraud its expected to act straight away to prevent further losses  
this includes forwarding any fraud notifications on to the correct party. From what Ive seen 
its not clear if Barclays acted promptly. But even if there were delays, the nature of the 
services C provides means the money would have likely been paid away quickly. Similarly, 
quite often scammers deplete the accounts into which fraudulently obtained funds are 
received as quickly as possible to avoid the risk of the scam being identified, reported and 
the account blocked. Taking these factors into account, given there was some time between 
the payments being made and the matter being reported, on balance, I think its most likely 
these funds wouldve been spent even before Ms J identified shed been scammed and 
reported this to N.
I understand Ms J is also unhappy that Barclays wont share with her (or N) the beneficiary 
accountholder details. But Barclays customers details were already known to Ms J as Ive 
seen them appear on the statement for her account with N. In any event since coming to our 
service Barclays have confirmed these to be correct. And if what Ms J intended was that she 
wanted Cs customers details. Im afraid this information would not be known to Barclays nor 
is there any obligation on them to obtain this and share it with her (or N). Therefore, I cant 
say Barclays have acted unfairly or unreasonably in relation to this matter.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman