DRN-3543553
The complaint
Mrs B has complained that Covea Insurance plc (Covea) has unfairly turned down a claim 
made under a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs B, alongside her husband, took out a PPI policy in 2005 to protect their mortgage 
repayments should either of them be out of work due to accident, sickness or 
unemployment. In 2019 Covea became the policy insurer, so it was responsible for paying 
any successful claim. 
In 2020, Mrs B made a claim under her policy as she was out of work due to the COVID-19 
pandemic. At this time she was self-employed and claimed as she was temporarily 
unemployed.
Covea declined Mrs Bs claim as it said she did not meet the definition of unemployed as 
set out in the policy. It said that Mrs B needed to demonstrate that she was not in work, 
registered as unemployed with the appropriate government agency and prove that she 
involuntarily and permanently ceased trading. But it said Mrs B was only temporarily out of 
work as she had said she had a job to return to when allowed to work by governmental rules.
Unhappy with Coveas response, Mrs B referred a complaint about Coveas decision to our 
service. She said the claim should have been paid or, in the alternative, that the PPI policy 
had been mis-sold so she should receive a refund of the premiums paid.
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint and thought that Covea had not acted 
fairly. They thought that Coveas terms concerning self-employed people were onerous and 
that they should not have been applied in the way they were. The adjudicator pointed to both 
the Association of British Insurers (ABI) guidance in Consistent Policy Interpretations 
Payment Protection Insurance  Statement of Principles for the Payment Protection Industry 
and the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) statement Insurance and coronavirus (Covid-
19): our expectation of firms. They thought Covea needed to reassess the claim, taking into 
account that industry specific guidance.
After the adjudicator issued their view, Mrs B provided more evidence about her 
circumstances. She explained that she had been in and out of work over 2020 and 2021, 
following government rules about when she was able to work during the pandemic. She 
returned to work fully in May 2021 and has continued to trade since then. Mrs B was able to 
receive government support in the form of grant through the self-employed income support 
scheme (SEISS). This covered the periods between May and July 2021 when she was in 
and out of work (or trading) depending on the governments guidance. During those periods 
she was unable to work she claimed the SEISS, which covered around 40% of Mrs Bs 
normal turnover. 
After considering the new information, a different adjudicator sent a second view. They now 
felt that Covea did not need to do anything further on Mrs Bs claim. The adjudicator 
explained that they agreed it was not fair for Covea to require a policy holder to permanently 
cease trading to make a successfully claim. However, in Mrs Bs case, she received a 
SEISS grant, which was set up to support self-employed people who were unable to work 
during the pandemic. So even if Covea did not apply the term around the need for Mrs B to 
permanently cease trading, the adjudicator felt Mrs Bs claim would not have been 
successful as she was deriving an income due to her self-employment from the SEISS grant, 
which effectively meant she had not ceased to trade.
Mrs B disagreed with the view, so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I do not think this complaint should be upheld. I will set out 
why I think that, looking at first the policy terms, then how I think they should be interpreted 
and finally how this affects Mrs Bs claim.
The policy terms
Mrs Bs policy was called Mortgage Protector and was set up to pay a set monthly benefit 
for up to twelve months if Mrs B was unable to work due to accident, sickness or 
unemployment. 
Unemployment was a defined term under the policy, which meant:
Having no paid work or temporary work and having a Jobseekers Agreement with 
the Department for Work and Pensions in the UK. If you are ineligible for a 
Jobseekers Agreement you must be able to provide alternative proof acceptable to 
us that you are actively seeking work.
Work was also a defined term and it included self-employed work. If a policy holder wished 
to make a claim for unemployment, the claims process differed depending on whether they 
were employed or self-employed. For someone who was self-employed, like Mrs B, they 
could make a claim:
If you are self-employed and you have involuntarily and permanently ceased trading 
because you could not find enough work to meet all your reasonable business and 
living expenses and have declared this to HM Revenue & Customs, you will be 
entitled to claim for unemployment benefit.
In addition, Mrs B had to provide certain information to show she was able to make a claim. 
That information included:
evidence that your business has ceased or suspended trading because you could 
not find enough work to meet all your reasonable business and living expenses. We 
may require evidence such as that you have declared this to HM Revenue and 
Customs, bank statements, accounts, or a letter from your accountant with evidence 
that your business was no longer viable, that your business has ceased or 
suspended trading and that you are not receiving an income from the business
What the policy terms mean
I have read the guidance from the ABI and the FCA to which our first adjudicator referred. The latest version of the ABI guidance was published in August 2013 and I think it is helpful 
to show what good industry practice was at the time of Mrs Bs claim. It was designed to set 
out the minimum principles insurers will follow in a range of common claim situations. The 
guidance reflected that different insurers policy wording may differ across policies, but the 
overriding principles contained in  [the ABI guidance]  reflect  insurers'  intent  that  the  
customer  can  be  confident  that their claim  will  be  dealt  with  consistently regardless  of  
insurer.
For self-employed policy holders, the following guidance was given (at 1.8):
Where insurers provide cover for the self-employed, insurers will include a statement 
in the policy wording directing those who are self-employed to the part of the policy 
detailing what cover is available to them and what evidence will be required to 
substantiate any claim.
The self-employed are customers who own their own business as sole traders or are 
able to control the affairs of their company. Claims will be accepted if they have 
involuntarily ceased trading because they could not find enough work to meet all their 
reasonable business and living expenses and have declared this to HM Revenue and 
Customs.
If a company or business has not ceased to trade then the policyholder will be asked 
to provide alternative evidence of unemployment, which may include:
written notice from an accountant that they are not generating revenue 
through their business,
evidence that a main contractor has ceased to trade where the policyholder 
entirely relied on being a sub-contractor to that firm.
It appears to me that there is an uncertainty in the policy wording  in the section that 
explained when a self-employed person could claim it says they had to have involuntarily 
and permanently ceased trading, whereas in the section that explained the evidence 
needed to make a claim, it said evidence that your business has ceased or suspended 
trading. In one section it states that a policy holder needed to have permanently ceased 
trading, however the use of the word suspended in the other section implies people are also 
covered where a business had stopped trading for an indefinite period of time.
I have also considered the other parts of the PPI policy, including the other pieces of 
evidence that could be asked for to validate a claim. It mentions evidence that your 
business has ceased or suspended trading because you could not find enough work to meet 
all your reasonable business and living expenses and a letter from your accountant with 
evidence that your business was no longer viable, that your business has ceased or 
suspended trading and that you are not receiving an income from the business. Again, I 
think the use of the word suspended implies that any stopping in trading could be for an 
indefinite period of time, rather than a permanent end of trading. This also fits with the 
evidence suggested by the ABI to substantiate a claim where a policy holder has not ceased 
to trade. Taken as a whole, I think the policy is set up to cover situations where a policy 
holder may be able to make a claim without permanently ceasing to trade and declaring the 
same to HM Revenue & Customs. 
To make a claim, I think a policy holder would have to show that they had involuntarily 
ceased or suspended trading and had declared this to HM Revenue & Customs or were able 
to show that they were not receiving an income from the business.Mrs B s claim
Covea initially turned down Mrs Bs claim as, amongst other things, she had not permanently 
ceased trading. I agree that this interpretation of the policy terms was onerous and unfair to 
Mrs B. 
However, Mrs B was able to get a SEISS grant. One of the requirements to make a claim 
under the SEISS was to be able to make a declaration that the recipient of the grant 
intended to keep trading in 2021 to 2022. Further, for tax purposes, the grant was treated as 
trading income. So although Mrs B was not working, during the period of time she wishes to 
claim for, she was receiving an income through her self-employment.
Applying Mrs Bs circumstances to the policy terms, I do not think she had ceased or 
suspended trading as the SEISS grant was effectively an income from her self-employment 
for periods she was unable to work. But even if it was arguable Mrs B had suspended 
trading, she was still receiving an income from her business, so she would not be able to 
satisfy the terms needed to be able to make a successful claim. If follows, I do not think 
Covea acted unfairly in turning down her claim.
Was the policy mis-sold?
Mrs B has said that, if her claim was not accepted, she thought it likely the policy was mis-
sold. In this case Covea did not sell her the PPI policy, that was done by her mortgage 
broker. So I am unable to consider the sale in this complaint. If Mrs B wishes to complain 
about the sale of the policy, she would need to speak to the original mortgage broker.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mrs Bs complaint against Covea Insurance 
plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman