DRN-1617587
 
The complaint
Mrs O is unhappy Shop Direct Finance Company Limited are charging interest on her 
account. 
What happened
Mrs O has a catalogue shopping account with Shop Direct. She uses this to purchase goods 
on two different types of transaction:
Take 3  the purchase price of the goods is split into three equal payments. No 
interest is charged if the Take 3 payments are made on time every month.
Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL)  the purchase price of the goods can be repaid at any 
point over a specified BNPL period. No interest is charged if the balance is paid off 
within the BNPL period.
Mrs O has complained Shop Direct are charging her interest when they shouldnt be, and 
they cant explain to her why this is the case. Our investigator found Mrs Os account fell into 
arrears in 2017 because she didnt pay the minimum amount required. Which meant interest 
was charged. So he said Shop Direct couldnt be held accountable for this.
But he also found that Shop Direct had asked Mrs O for the incorrect payment in April 2019, 
and this resulted in Mrs Os account going into arrears and interest being charged. Shop 
Direct had agreed to reverse this interest, but they didnt do this. As a result Mrs O was 
charged more interest.
He recommended that Shop Direct put Mrs Os account back into the position it shouldve 
been by reversing the £12.83 interest charged in April 2019, and by recalculating the interest 
charged from this point onwards. He also said Shop Direct should pay Mrs O £100 for the 
trouble and upset this has caused her.
Both parties agreed with the investigator and Shop Direct followed the investigators 
recommendations. But Mrs O is still unhappy that shes still paying interest. She says Shop 
Direct wouldnt have agreed to refund the £12.83 if they hadnt made a mistake and she 
wouldnt be paying interest of 34.9% on over £600 worth of goods.
Mrs O has said it was my mistake by short paying my take 3 payment in 2017, but shes 
asked for an ombudsman to look into why Shop Direct agreed to refund interest in April 
2019. She feels this mistake has put her further in debt.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having reviewed the evidence I agree 
with the investigators findings on this complaint for broadly the same reasons. If I havent 
commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the 
right outcome.Mrs O is unhappy shes paying interest to Shop Direct. With the exception of the shortfall in 
payments in 2017, she believes shes paid all her Take 3 and BNPL payments on time, and 
all of these balances have been cleared before any interest shouldve been charged. She 
also thinks that, because Shop Direct made a mistake in April 2019, shes now paying 
interest she shouldnt be.
Ive seen copies of Mrs Os statements from June 2011 until September 2019. These show 
that Mrs O was charged interest between January 2014 and January 2015; between August 
2015 and September 2016; and between August 2017 and September 2019. 
This interest was charged because Mrs O hadnt paid off a Take 3 or BNPL purchase within 
the interest free period. In their letter of 11 June 2019, Shop Direct confirmed the details of 
the items that had fallen outside of Take 3 and were still outstanding. Because the terms of 
Mrs Os account allow Shop Direct to charge interest in these circumstances, I cant say 
theyve done anything wrong in doing so. So I wont be asking them to refund this interest.
Ive also listened to the calls that took place in April 2019. In a call on 25 April Mrs O made a 
payment of £299.25 towards her BNPL balance and was told her Take 3 payment would be 
£198.26. She phoned the following day to query the Take 3 payment because the £198.26 
was more than the outstanding Take 3 balance. Shop Direct explained that, because of 
when the BNPL was due, her account needed to be sent to the accounts department so the 
Take 3 payment could be calculated correctly  this would take 24 to 48 hours. 
Because Mrs Os payment was due that day, Shop Direct recommended she pay the 
£198.26 and they would sort out a refund when the payment had been calculated. Mrs O 
wasnt in a position to make the payment so Shop Direct said they would calculate the 
payment for her, and call her back the same day, around 1pm.
Shop Direct didnt call and, around 2:30pm, Mrs O contacted them by webchat to ask what 
payment she needed to make. When Shop Direct couldnt give her the answer, she asked 
for a call back the same day. This didnt happen and, because Mrs O didnt know what she 
needed to pay, no payment was made.
I agree with the investigator that Shop Direct couldve done better. They knew theyd asked 
Mrs O to make the wrong payment, and they knew she needed to pay this the same day. 
But, despite saying theyd call her back to let her know what she needed to pay, they didnt 
do this. So Mrs O missed the payment and interest was charged. 
To put this right Shop Direct should refund this interest to Mrs Os account and recalculate 
the interest shes been charged as a result. I agree they should also pay her £100 to 
compensate her for the worry and upset Mrs O was caused as a result of this mistake.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Mrs Os complaint. Shop Direct Finance Company 
Limited should refund the £12.83 interest from April 2019, recalculated the interest charged 
as a result of this, and pay Mrs O £100 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2020.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman