DRN-4111410
The complaint
L, a limited company, complains that Arch Insurance (UK) Limited (Arch) has unfairly 
declined a claim made under its business protection insurance policy.
Any reference to L or Arch includes respective agents or representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ill summarise events.
L stored its business goods in a self-storage facility (Company A) within a locked unit.
In late March 2022, L says it discovered its goods had been stolen.
L approached Company A which concluded the theft took place between 4 and 5 
March 2022. It said Ls door and code to enter were not used on the day in question, 
and it believed the only plausible explanation of how the unit was broken into was an 
11-step process undertaken by the thieves. This included the following steps:
The thieves waiting for a unit user to exit the premises enabling them to cover 
the gate sensor to keep the gate open. The thieves then gained access to the 
compound using another users entry code.
Then, upon reaching the unit, forcing a ceiling tile out above it, climbing 
through the 640mm gap above the ceiling unit, dismantling a top alarm sensor 
and attaching it to a receiver so it remained in contact. The thieves would 
then dismantle bolts from the back plate of the lock, then take out the whole 
lock unit from the door and frame, allowing the door to open without an 
alarm.
The thieves would then remove the items from the unit, then reverse each of 
the steps above to make good and leave.
Company A also said another unit had been broken into using the same entry 
code around this time.
L made a claim under its Arch policy. Arch considered the claim and a loss adjuster 
(LA) on its behalf reviewed the evidence and produced several reports on the loss. 
It detailed the evidence provided by Company A and agreed the CCTV evidence 
supported the alleged thieves attending the site and leaving with Ls goods. It 
provided several options as to how the theft may have taken place but concluded 
there was no visible evidence of any forcible or violent entry or exit.
Arch declined the claim, saying:
There were no signs of any forced entry to the insured's unit and the alarm 
did not activate.
It said the alleged sequence of events was not backed up by any evidence of 
forcible or violent entry to or when exiting the unit  which was required by the 
policy terms. And it said Company As storage unit manager had confirmed 
this. So, it said cover didnt apply on this basis.
It said the padlock used to secure the unit did not comply with the schedules 
minimum standards of security endorsement. And that the door showed no 
markings, scratching, or dents consistent with a forcible or violent entry.
L disagreed, providing videos of several of Company As staff (including its director) 
carrying out demonstrations of how they believed the thieves exited the unit  using 
tools to dismantle the door and disable the alarm. And L argued that the minimum- 
security endorsement wasnt relevant as the thieves hadnt gained entry through the 
door and instead had gained access over the top of it  which should be considered 
violent and or forcible entry. It also said it had provided photographic evidence of 
the thieves entering and leaving the site with Ls stock.
L brought the complaint to this Service. One of our Investigators looked into what 
happened and reached out to both parties.
Arch said Company As version of events was not feasible and felt this was an 
attempt to circumvent the policy condition. And it said the most likely way the events 
took place was through the front door of the unit and therefore the minimum-security 
requirements werent met. Arch questioned why or how the thieves broke into the unit 
without causing any damage, then broke out again without causing any damage.
Arch highlighted the thieves wouldve needed to re-fit the locking mechanism and re-
bolt it from the inside as there were no signs of removal after the event  which it 
says wouldve been impossible from the outside - meaning one thief wouldve 
remained in the unit then left it untouched by retracing their own entry steps. Arch 
also highlighted there was no evidence of ceiling tiles being forced and questioned 
why the thieves wouldve chosen to re-fit them on their exit.
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said:
There wasnt sufficient evidence to support Ls version of events.
In light of the uncertainty on how entry was made, he was satisfied the 
minimum standard of security endorsement could be relied upon by Arch, and 
that there was insufficient evidence to support any forcible or violent entry 
took place.
L disagreed, saying it had provided indisputable evidence to show no entry had been 
made through the door of the unit  based on data logs. It said even if L had a 
sufficient lock in place (in line with the endorsement), this wouldve set off the alarm 
so wouldnt be relevant to the loss. L said even if Company As 11 step process 
wasnt accurate in every step, the thieves ultimately had to enter the property through 
forced entry. It also said the other unit that allegedly had a theft via the same method 
did have damage to its ceiling panel.
This didnt change the Investigators mind. So, the matter was passed to me for an 
Ombudsmans decision. I issued my provisional thoughts on 19 April 2023. Ive included an 
extract of this below.
The crux of this complaint is Ls disagreement with Archs decision to decline its 
claim. So, Ill start with the policy terms, which say it will cover:
Theft or attempted theft involving 
entry to or exit from the Buildings at the Premises by forcible and violent 
means excluding any loss from any structure which is incapable of being 
locked
Theres no dispute over these terms and Im satisfied they are clearly set out. The 
starting point is there must be a theft and it must involve some forcible and violent 
means in relation to the entry or exit of the crime.So, Ive thought carefully about the evidence and alleged events that have taken 
place. I make my determinations based on what I consider is more likely than not 
after considering the evidence.
Archs LA outlines in their preliminary report that it had reviewed the CCTV evidence 
and agreed thieves had accessed the site and left with Ls goods. So, it seems 
theres no dispute a theft has taken place. This leads me to then consider if this theft 
took place by forcible and violent means.
Arch has provided images of the door to Ls unit from after the incident took place. It 
says theres no markings, scratching, defamation or dents consistent with a forcible 
and violent entry. L hasnt disputed the door in question is undamaged. 
When considering policy requirements for force and violence, this Service generally 
approaches the matter in line with the approach of the courts. And this is to say the 
use of force and violence does not necessarily lead to damage.
This Service will typically interpret force as some form of action or energy being 
applied to something. So, something as simple as turning a handle or opening a door 
could constitute force. And where said force is over and above what is normally 
necessary (for instance, use of a lockpick to unlock a door), we consider this to be 
violent, even if no physical damage is caused.
L has put forward an 11-step process that it says is the only plausible version of 
events that must have taken place  that Ive detailed above.
Archs LA stated:
Whilst the modus operandi adopted by the thieves may be sophisticated, the 
video recording of the incident involving the Insureds reported theft is compelling 
and it is difficult to challenge the validity of a theft from the Insureds unit as 
reported by [Mr L].
Within the LAs commentary, he acknowledges the relevant alarm never went off and 
hasnt challenged any of the record keeping put forward by Company A that it says 
shows Ls access key was never used around the time of the theft.
The LA details several different methods of how the thieves accessed the unit itself. I 
will label these between A  D for ease, and these include:
A) The 11-step process outlined above.
B) The thieves using magnets to overcome the alarm contacts  which the LA says 
wouldve still required the padlocks to be picked.
C) The thieves unscrewing the four bolt fittings from the door then replacing them.
D) Given the nature of the entry and knowledge of security procedures, some sort of 
internal involvement of Company A itself.
Arch has challenged the method of entering the unit, saying Ls proposed version of 
events does not explain a lack of damage to the door, the ceiling, and any of the 
property involved. As well as the thieves alleged ability to re-bolt the door from the 
inside after completing the theft  then escaping without any evidence of their 
presence as well as putting the ceiling tiles back without any damage.
I would agree the circumstances are unusual. But its own LA, having reviewed the 
site and relevant CCTV has said this was a sophisticated theft. So, Archs comments 
havent persuaded me any of the options outlined are implausible.
As Ive outlined, there is no damage to the door, or the ceiling tiles. But this doesnt 
mean automatically no forcible and violent means have been used.So, Ive thought about the four options the LA described. Each of these possibilities 
outlined by Archs own LA requires force to be applied to the ceiling and/or door in a 
manner that is above and beyond what is normally necessary. This includes option 
D, of which Arch has provided no further evidence to support such an allegation (and 
of which its notes reflect there is no evidence to support this), but even if true the LA 
has made no suggestion L would have had any involvement in such an act so it 
wouldnt change anything.
So, on that basis, I would be satisfied any of these possibilities would amount to a 
forcible and violent entry and exit in line with the policy terms.
Arch has also sought to rely on its minimum standards of security endorsement 
within the policy. It says the lock in question for the unit door did not meet this 
requirement.
L has not challenged this but has argued that for Arch to fairly rely on such a term, it 
would need to demonstrate the breach was material to the loss or damage in 
question. And it said here the lock wasnt, as the unit wasnt accessed through use of 
the door.
L is correct in saying that this Service would expect Arch to demonstrate the breach 
in question was material to the claim for it to be able to reasonably rely on it. So I 
have to consider whether or not the lock was relevant to the loss.
From what I can see, options A and C would not require use of the lock. So, if either 
of these were the most plausible version of events, I wouldnt be persuaded Arch 
could rely on its endorsement as it has attempted to. I would also add L has provided 
evidence of a similar loss in another unit at the facility where damage did occur to the 
ceiling. So, I think this supports option A that L has put forward.
The LA has said option B wouldve required lockpicking. So, Ive thought about the 
wider evidence we have and whether it supports this option. Arch hasnt provided any 
evidence to support why the alarm in question didnt go off if the door was accessed 
in this way following the lock being picked, nor have I been provided with any 
physical evidence of the lock having been picked.
The potential for Option D hasnt been fleshed out by the LA or Arch. But suffice to 
say Archs own comments say theres no evidence to support inside involvement so I 
dont think this is the most likely explanation either.
Ultimately, I have to consider what is more likely than not. And it strikes me options A 
and C are the most plausible here in light of the supporting evidence and expert 
opinions given. And each of these employ forcible and violent entry.
For these reasons I said I wasnt satisfied Arch had fairly declined this claim, and that I 
intended to direct it to reconsider the claim - without relying on the endorsement in question, 
and to do so on the basis the requirement of force and violence has been met  in line with 
its remaining policy terms. This would mean the onus would shift to L to demonstrate and 
substantiate its actual loss to Arch.
I gave both parties until 3 May 2023 to respond. L did not respond. Arch disagreed, providing 
commentary from one of its claims validation specialists. Theyve reiterated concerns about 
Ls suggested method of theft. In summary, theyve said:
The scenario put forward by L was implausible without some evidence (such as 
marking or twisting) of forcible entry/exit. And he didnt believe it would be possible to 
remove the tiles and gain entry over the false ceiling frame given its narrow gap.It was plausible the alarm couldve been disabled previously by persons unknown to 
facilitate the theft  which would allow access via the non-compliant padlock. And this 
would be the only way which would allow this loss to happen without evidence of 
force and violence.
They again challenged the logic of why the thieves wouldve taken the time to replace 
the mechanism and exit via their entry route  when they couldve simply left with the 
stolen goods.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im still upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive taken on board the commentary from Archs validation specialist. And I 
acknowledge their concerns about the lack of markings and damage and the unusual 
nature of the theft. 
But I have considered these points previously, and within my provisional decision. 
And as I have pointed to, Archs own LA has acknowledged the relevant alarm never 
went off and hasnt challenged any of the record keeping put forward by Company A, 
describing the theft as sophisticated in nature following their review of the evidence 
and the site. 
I take on board Archs specialists theory on the alarm being disabled prior to the loss 
taking place. I accept this may be possible, but Archs previous comments said there 
was no evidence to support inside involvement. Nor have I been provided with any 
evidence of record keeping being tampered with or the alarm being disabled prior to 
the loss. So, this hasnt persuaded me to change my mind.
Finally, I agree the circumstances described are unusual. But for the reasons Ive 
given previously, Im satisfied options A and C are the most plausible here in light of 
the supporting evidence and expert opinions given by both parties in this specific 
case. And that both of these methods would require forcible and violent entry.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im upholding this complaint.
Arch Insurance (UK) Limited must reconsider the claim in line with its remaining policy terms 
 but without relying on the security endorsement it has sought to rely on  and on the basis 
that the requirement of force and violence has been met.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman