DRN-3173882
The complaint
Mr W complains about the fee One Call Insurance Services Limited (One Call) charged him 
when he cancelled his home insurance policy before it started and within the statutory
cooling-off period.
What happened
In April 2020, Mr W took out a home insurance policy through One Call. He bought the policy
online.
Over the next few days, Mr W had difficulties accessing his insurance documents. Because
he thought One Call was inefficient, he decided to cancel the policy. At the time he did this,
the policy hadnt started and was within the 14-day statutory cooling-off period.
One Call charged Mr W a fee of £49.99 when he cancelled the policy. It said Mr W was
made aware of this fee, which was part of his policys terms and conditions. Mr W says the
fee isnt fair, especially since he cancelled the policy because of One Calls inefficiency.
In his first view, the investigator who looked at Mr Ws complaint didnt uphold it. He didnt
think One Call could be blamed for the difficulties Mr W had in accessing his policy
documents. And he thought Mr W One Call had given Mr W enough information about its
charges before he agreed to its terms.
Mr W then sent in some further information about what had happened. In his second view,
our investigator said he didnt think Mr W could be blamed for not being able to access his
documents. He said, as thered been an error by One Call in administering Mr W's details, it
would be fair and reasonable for it to refund these charges.
One Call disagreed with our investigators findings. It said Mr Ws policy outlines the set-up
fee applicable and it felt it was fair for the fee to be retained following the cancellation of the
policy.
So Mr Ws complaint came to me to decide. In my provisional decision of 28 October 2021, I 
explained why I intended to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Mr W accepted my provisional 
decision. One Call disagreed with it and has given me some more comments. So Mr Ws 
complaint has now come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ws complaint for the reasons I gave in my 
provisional decision. In it, I said as follows:
In a document called Our charges, One Call sets out various fees it can charge Mr W
under his policy. One of these is a charge of £49.99 to cover the cost of setting up the policy
should Mr W cancel it within the cooling-off period.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys rules on the conduct of business by insurers say an
insurer can charge a consumer a fee for cancelling a policy in the cooling-off period. But they
also say a consumer can only be charged this fee if they were told that this would happen
before they bought the policy.
So thats what Ive looked at here. One Call has told us that, prior to Mr W paying for the
policy, the full policy terms and charges were made available for him to view in the Our
Charges document Ive already referred to.
Weve recently asked One Call for more information about Mr Ws online journey. Its sent us
a full example which it says is the same online journey Mr W wouldve had before buying the
policy.
Looking at this journey, which runs to seven pages, the only reference I can find to charges
or fees is towards the end under a heading Policy Details & Documentation. There is what
looks to be a hyper-link to six different documents, one of which is the Our charges
document.
I wouldnt have expected Mr W to click through to this document as part of his online journey
to buy his policy. Its one document among many and comes towards the end of an
application process that asks Mr W to make a lot of choices about the different types of
insurance cover he might want. And Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr W did click through to
the document.
So, based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think One Call did enough to make Mr W aware of
the set-up fee that would apply if he cancelled the policy within the cooling off period. And
that means I think its fair and reasonable Mr W should have the fee refunded.
As Ive already mentioned, Mr W has accepted the findings I made in my provisional 
decision. One Call hasnt. It says although the example journey it sent us is seven pages of 
screen shots, the online journey itself was only three pages including the payment page. It 
says Mr W was presented with the Our charges document on the second page. It says it 
feels this is clear and not hidden from Mr W. It also says the set-up fee of £49.99 is on the 
first page of the Our charges document, so Mr W didnt have to scroll through endless 
pages to find it.
One Call also says Mr W was emailed his full policy documents and could access them via 
its online portal. So it says Mr W had ample time to see the cancellation costs before the 
policy went live.
One Calls comments dont change my findings on this complaint as set out in my provisional 
decision, which are now part of this final decision. One Call needed to make its cancellation 
charges clear to Mr W before he bought the policy. And, for the reasons I gave in my 
provisional decision (and regardless of whether Mr Ws online journey involved three pages 
or seven), I dont think it did make them clear. 
That Mr W may have been able to look at his insurance documents after the sale but before 
the policy started doesnt cure One Calls failure to make the cancellation charges clear 
before Mr W was sold the policy. And I should also add that the main reason Mr W cancelled 
the policy was because he says he couldnt access the online portal  so quite possibly he 
couldnt have seen this document anyway.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Ws complaint and direct One Call Insurance 
Services Limited to refund Mr W its fee of £49.99, plus 8% per annum simple
interest on this amount from the date it reimbursed Mr W his remaining premium (after he
cancelled the policy) to the date of payment.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman