DRN-4365196
The complaint
Miss S complains that Astrenska Insurance Limited (Astrenska) declined a claim she made 
on her travel insurance policy after she had to amend her travel plans.
What happened
Miss S has travel insurance with Astrenska. The policy provided cover for various pre-
departure and post-departure risks. 
In January 2021 Miss S booked a trip for her and her sister to travel to the USA in October 
2022. As part of the arrangements for the trip she arranged for them to both have Electronic 
System for Travel Authorisation (ESTA) in order to travel. Miss S says there was nothing in 
the ESTA application regarding travel to Cuba.
In early October Miss S received an email from her travel provider explaining that anyone 
who had visited Cuba since January 2021 would no longer be permitted to enter the USA 
with an ESTA and instead needed a full visa. Since Miss S had previously travelled to Cuba 
she would now be required to obtain a full visa in order to travel as planned.
Miss S made an application for the visa but the interview couldnt be arranged until after her 
trip. As a result of this Miss S rearranged the trip to May 2023. She says the costs of keeping 
the original itinerary were significant. So, she changed the day they were due to fly and the 
hotel they were due to say in as a way to mitigate the increased costs.
Miss S says shes out of pocket by £360 as a result of the changes and wants Astrenska to 
reimburse this amount. She says the claim would have been thousands had she not 
amended the booking in the way that she did. So she made a claim for the extra costs. 
Astrenska declined the claim. Miss S isnt happy because the trip has cost her more for 
something that isnt her fault, and she thinks thats something Astrenska should cover her 
for. So Miss S complained. 
Astrenska said under the terms of the policy it specifically excludes situations where there is 
a failure to have the required visa to travel, or for claim arising due to the government 
legislating to prevent or limit travel by revoking visas. Miss S didnt agree so she referred her 
complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into things for her. She said she thought Astrenska had 
declined the claim fairly and in line with the policy terms and conditions. Miss S didnt agree 
she said she had no choice but to rearrange the trip given the issues with the visa. She says 
she had no control over the situation. Because she didnt agree the complaint has come to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. So I dont require Astrenska to do 
anything more. 
I appreciate this will be a disappointment to Miss S. Its clear she feels strongly about the 
matter. Id like to reassure her that Ive considered all the information from both parties when 
coming to my decision. 
When considering complaints such as this, I need to look at the relevant law, rules, and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say an 
insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly, and not unreasonably decline it. So, Ive 
thought about whether Astrenska acted in line with these requirements when it declined to 
settle Miss S claim. 
Miss S says she has sent Astrenska proof that she couldnt have avoided what happened. 
She says she had three weeks notice of the change in regulations for entry into the USA. 
Miss S has mitigated the costs as much as possible by amending the hotel and day of flying. 
And that isnt in dispute. Miss S has been open and forthcoming and acted in good faith 
when bringing her claim. 
Unfortunately insurance policies dont cover every eventuality. For a claim to be successful 
the loss needs to have happened because of an insured event listed within the policy 
booklet. And there needs to be no exclusions that apply in the circumstances. If the loss isnt 
due to one of those listed events, or an exclusion applies, then the loss isnt covered. 
Ive reviewed Miss Ss policy documents to see what cover it provides. The policy covers 
cancellation, abandonment, missed departure, delayed departure, delayed baggage, lost, 
stolen or damaged baggage, medical emergencies, personal accident, enforced stay, loss of 
passport, legal expenses, and personal money, amongst other things. The policy doesnt 
provide cover for any costs associated with rearranging a trip  regardless of the reason for 
the trip being rearranged. 
Since the trip wasnt cancelled or abandoned, those sections of the policy arent relevant to 
Miss Ss claim. But even if Miss S had cancelled or abandoned her trip there is a specific 
policy exclusion which would have meant she wouldnt have been covered. That section 
says, claims arising due to a government legislating to prevent or limit travel, such as, but 
not limited to, prohibiting all travel or restricting travel for specified reasons, closing borders, 
revoking visas, or imposing lockdowns of a geographical location. 
Given this Im satisfied Astrenska acted fairly in declining the claim. 
Miss S says its unfair that Astrenska wont reimburse her for the additional cost of changing 
her travel plans and I understand why she feels this way. But I am not able to compel 
Astrenska to accept a claim that isnt covered under the terms of the policy. And in declining 
the claim I cant say Astrenska acted unfairly or outside the terms of the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So I 
dont require Astrenska Insurance Limited to do anything more. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman