DRN-3135452
The complaint
Mr Q complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund a payment he says he didnt make 
from his account.
What happened
Mr Q disputes a payment for £2,000 made using mobile banking on 19 February 2021. He 
says he didnt authorise this  or an attempted payment the day before to a different payee 
also for £2,000. That other payment was cancelled by Barclays and he thinks it should have 
checked the second payment with him. 
Barclays said it wouldnt be refunding the money. It said that the payment was made using a 
device linked to Mr Qs mobile phone number. This had been used for previous genuine 
payments and logins since February 2019. The payment required a successful log in to his 
account using his security code. And his card information including the 16-digit card number, 
the expiry date and CV2 code  the three-digit security number on the card. It said it hadnt 
identified any point of compromise from Mr Q for his security information or his phone. It said 
that it was almost certain that a text message would have been sent to Mr Q about the new 
payee, but it couldnt evidence this now. The earlier attempted payment had been picked up 
by security checks and then cancelled as it wasnt able to speak to Mr Q about it. But all the 
details on the successful payment including the account details and payee name matched 
and so that one was allowed to go through.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that she had 
received systems information from Barclays about the log ins to Mr Qs account. And about 
both payments. She set out the IP address used. And that the first attempted payment was 
made at 18:36 on 18 February 2021. Barclays had called Mr Q about this but not been able 
to speak to him and cancelled it. The payment that did go through was made after a new 
payee was created at 09:00 and payment sent at 09:09 on 19 February 2021. Further log ins 
using the same IP address and device had continued to 08:08 on 22 February 2021. And   
Mr Q had raised a fraud claim at 08:38 on that day.
Mr Q had told her that he was at home at the time. He says he received a notification on his 
mobile app about the attempted payment. He tried to call Barclays on 20 February 2021 but 
couldnt get through after waiting for 40 minutes and he has sent a screen shot of the call. 
He says he didnt receive a text or email notification about the second payment. Mr Q said 
he has a lock on his mobile phone, and this needed a code to use it that couldnt easily be 
guessed. He hadnt written this down or his mobile banking passcode or told anyone his 
security information. His phone was with him at the time and he says when the payment took 
place he was asleep in his room. He didnt lose his bank card which was in his wallet with 
him. And he had no plans to pay for any goods or services around this time.
Mr Q said his phone must have been hacked but our investigator couldnt see there was any 
evidence for that. Mr Q said that the IP address wasnt consistent with that he used at the 
location of his home. She agreed that was the case but didnt think that this was the most 
important information about the payment. The information was that the payment had been 
made with all Mr Qs security information and his phone. And there was no explanation how 
anyone else other than Mr Q could have made this payment. Barclays wasnt required to 
check every payment as Mr Q wanted it to do.
Mr Q didnt agree. He said that he hadnt authorised payments to these two different payees 
who were complete strangers to him. He remained unhappy that as the first payment was 
declined when he didnt respond the second was allowed to go through. He wanted this 
reviewed by an ombudsman. He thought it convenient that Barclays didnt keep information 
about texts it had sent beyond the period when it had responded about his complaint. Mr Q 
said he was going to try and get information from his phone provider about the history of his 
calls and texts.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with security information. And if it wasnt 
authorised Mr Q wouldnt generally be responsible for them. Mr Q has not provided any 
further information and I think he has had a reasonable opportunity to do so and I can fairly 
make a decision about his complaint.
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of what happened with the attempted and actual 
payments here?
- Did Mr Q authorise the payment on the account, as Barclays says?
- Did Barclays act reasonably?
Ive reviewed copies of the payment and log in information and Im satisfied that these were 
authenticated with Mr Qs security information. The issue is whether he consented to them.
Mr Q says his mobile phone must have been hacked. He hasnt provided any evidence of 
this or say of a swap in his SIM and a loss of service on his own number. He has provided 
evidence for example that he used his phone to call Barclays on 20 February 2021. And Ive 
noted that log ins using mobile banking and his device details continued until just before he 
was able to speak to Barclays. The IP address used wasnt one consistent with the phone 
being at Mr Qs address at the relevant times.
Mr Q says his phone was with him. And even if an unknown third party had been able to take 
it without his knowledge and then somehow return it, I dont have an explanation of how that 
person would have known the passcode for his phone. Mr Q also says that no-one else 
would have his mobile banking passcode. And he had his bank card with him. Its not 
impossible that some of these details might have been obtained by a fraudster. But there is 
no credible explanation in my view for how a fraudster got hold of all of the information and 
his phone without him knowing. And as there was significantly more money in Mr Qs 
account then paid out and his online details werent cancelled until 22 February 2021 Id 
have also expected a fraudster to attempt to take out as much money as quickly as possible; 
especially when the second payee had been set up.
The first payment of £2,000 was attempted on 18 February 2021. Barclays says it tried to 
contact Mr Q on his home number and mobile to confirm this and left a message. Mr Q didnt 
attempt to call Barclays back until after the second and successful payment had left his 
account. He thinks it should have cancelled this one too. That would be particularly relevant 
if I came to the view that Mr Q hadnt authorised it. But as Im persuaded that he most likely did I dont consider Barclays acted unreasonably in allowing this payment through as all the 
details matched. Mr Q is unhappy as he says it didnt send a text. In any event Barclays 
position is that the text it says it likely did send wasnt one asking for Mr Qs confirmation but 
informing him of the payment. And so, I dont think I need to rely on that having been sent 
and received by Mr Q in thinking about whether he authorised the payment.
I appreciate the amount at stake here for Mr Q who explains that his financial position was 
difficult when he was furloughed and then lost his employment. I know he has strong feelings 
about what happened. But Im afraid that I find for the reasons Ive given that on balance he 
authorised the payment that was debited to his account. And so, I dont have a basis to find 
that Barclays should take any further action and refund this money to him.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman