DRN-3327830
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the information that American Express Services Europe Limited 
(AMEX) gave him about the protection he would get when using his credit card. 
What happened
Mr H says he used his AMEX card to make a large payment specifically to benefit from 
protection via Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75). He says that he 
then got in touch with AMEX via its live chat for reassurance that Section 75 would apply to 
the purchase he made.
Mr H says the live chat assistant wrongly told him that Section 75 would not apply to his 
transaction, while AMEX still will not tell him if he is definitely covered by Section 75. 
Mr H is unhappy with the service he has received from AMEX and says the situation has 
caused him significant stress and worry. He wants to know if his money would be protected 
should the supplier he paid go out of business and says that not doing so creates financial 
insecurity. He would like compensation for how AMEX dealt with his enquiry.
AMEX says that it cant give Mr H a definite answer as to whether his money would be 
protected because it would have to look at each specific Section 75 claim in more detail 
before it was in a position to do so. In summary, our investigator thought this was 
reasonable, although she acknowledged AMEX had not explained things properly to Mr H in 
the live chat it had with him initially.
Although our investigator thought AMEX could have done things better she didnt think 
compensation was warranted so she didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H is unhappy with this 
and thinks AMEX should pay him compensation. So the matter has been referred to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 can provide protection for consumers like Mr H where things go wrong with a 
purchase. It could allow him to hold AMEX responsible for a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation in respect of goods or services purchased using the credit afforded. 
However, there are specific technical criteria that have to be met for a Section 75 claim to be 
valid. These criteria include the cash price of the goods or services, the relationship of the 
parties to the transaction and the way the payment was made.
 
I have reviewed the transcript of the initial live chat Mr H had with AMEX. Overall I consider 
the agent isnt very clear about the way AMEX approach Section 75 claims and I agree the 
information the agent communicated to Mr H indicated that Section 75 did not protect his 
purchase because of the way the payment was made. 
AMEX has since clarified that it looks at each case individually and it wasnt possible to say 
for sure if Mr H would get his money back or not via Section 75 until an individual claim was 
raised. This was confirmed by AMEX to Mr H in a letter about ten days after his interaction 
with the live chat. The letter could have been clearer in my view  although it ultimately did 
appear to get the message across. 
So I think AMEX could have been more accurate with Mr H about its process for considering 
Section 75 claims. Based on what it has now clarified about how it approaches Section 75 it 
wasnt right for the live chat agent to come across so definitively at the time. I can see how 
that would be frustrating for Mr H. However, I dont think this in itself warrants a payment of 
compensation here. I will explain why.
Firstly, in that initial chat and based on the hypothetical situation he proposed AMEX 
provided some degree of reassurance and did not rule out recovering Mr Hs money (even if 
this was by other means) - which does reduce the potential concern somewhat. Secondly, I 
dont think that AMEX could reasonably have been expected to give Mr H what he ultimately 
wanted on that chat in any event. Which is confirmation that Section 75 will definitely protect 
his money should there be issues with the supplier. Mr H appeared to be looking for this kind 
of assurance and not getting it was the key cause of concern. 
I am of course sorry to hear about how Mr H has said this situation has impacted him and 
any anxiety it has caused. I can understand that not knowing if you will get your money back 
should a certain situation arise will be a source of worry  especially when it concerns a 
large transaction. However, because of the individual criteria that apply to a Section 75 claim 
I dont think it was reasonable to expect AMEX to confirm via that initial enquiry that Mr H 
was guaranteed to benefit from Section 75 protection should the worst happen. I think AMEX 
would reasonably need to consider things in more detail before giving a fuller response.
So although I think AMEX could have initially done better to explain the way it approaches 
Section 75, Mr Hs key concern is linked to something it reasonably couldnt be expected to 
have provided to him in that moment. Furthermore, even if AMEX had given Mr H the correct 
information about its approach from the start he still wouldnt have had his concerns 
resolved. It follows that while I acknowledge Mr Hs genuine worry about the supplier 
potentially leaving him out of pocket I dont think it fair and reasonable for AMEX to pay any 
compensation here. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman