DRN-4038362
The complaint
Mr E complains that Credit Resource Solutions Ltd (CRS) and solicitors acting on its behalf 
harassed him in relation to a debt in his name. 
What happened
Towards the end of 2021, CRS was instructed by a lender to attempt to collect a debt from 
Mr E. CRS says the lender authorised it to begin legal action to recover the outstanding 
balance so it appointed a firm of solicitors Ill call A. 
At the beginning of 2022 A contacted Mr E to notify him of its intention to start legal action to 
recover the debt. In February 2022 Mr E contacted A and notified it hed recently had to 
move and was in discussions with a debt advice service with the intention of arranging a 
debt management plan. Mr E said the DMP would be finalised within around a week. 
A continued to contact Mr E about the intention to take legal action. Mr E went on to raise a 
complaint about As action. 
At the end of March 2022 A advised it hadnt heard from the debt advice service with an offer 
of repayment and requested contact from Mr E. A says the debt advice service contacted it 
with confirmation of Mr Es DMP in May 2022 and it returned the account to CRS. A also 
issued Mr E with a final response and said it had failed to update its records and stop 
contacting him. A upheld Mr Es complaint and said he had the right to refer his case to the 
Solicitors Regulatory Authority. 
Despite being advised the account had been returned to CRS by A, Mr E continued to 
receive contact about the debt from both CRS and A. 
Mr E complained to CRS and it sent him a final response. CRS explained that its a separate 
entity to A. CRS said its not responsible for As actions or communications it had with Mr E. 
CRS confirmed Mr Es case had been closed. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Es complaint. They said the Financial 
Ombudsman Service couldnt consider complaints about As actions as its not regulated by 
the Financial Conduct Authority. Initially, the investigator said they thought CRS had dealt 
with Mr Es case fairly. But after further submissions from Mr E, the investigator requested 
information from CRS that showed the level and nature of its contact with Mr E after the 
account had been returned by A. 
The investigator didnt receive the information requested from CRS. They reviewed the 
available information on file and said that whilst they werent able to consider As actions, 
correspondence appeared to have been sent to Mr E after the account was returned to CRS. 
In particular, the investigator noted Mr E continued to receive contact and requests for 
payment after the DMP offer had been received in May 2022. The investigator 
recommended CRS pay Mr E £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused. As we didnt 
hear back from CRS, Mr Es complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator has said, whilst A was appointed with the intention of taking legal action 
against Mr E, its a separate business to CRS. Mr E has sent us a copy of his complaint 
letter to A and its response. I note the response confirms Mr E can refer his complaint to the 
Solicitors Regulatory Authority. As the Financial Ombudsman Service cant investigate the 
actions of a solicitor Im not going to comment on As actions or the nature of its contact with 
Mr E here. 
Ive looked at how CRS handled Mr Es case. I understand Mr E feels the move to instruct 
solicitors was premature. But CRS has confirmed it was instructed on the basis of arrears on 
Mr Es loan with the original lender and that it had been ask to start proceedings with a view 
to taking legal action. I understand Mr E found the situation very distressing, but I havent 
been persuaded that CRS acted unfairly when it appointed solicitors, in line with its 
instructions from the lender. 
Mr Es explained he notified A about a DMP in February 2022. But A didnt pass the account 
back to CRS until around May 2022. So my focus is on the contact and treatment Mr E 
received after A returned the account to CRS. 
Mr E sent evidence of the contact he received after the account was returned to CRS in May 
2022. There are multiple text messages and requests for payment despite the fact Mr Es 
DMP arrangements had already been confirmed and accepted. Our investigator has asked 
CRS to supply evidence of the dates the account was being managed by CRS, evidence of 
what was discussed with A about Mr Es account, copies of all correspondence CRS sent 
and notes showing the contact CRS made and received. CRS didnt provide the information 
the investigator requested. 
The investigator ultimately reviewed the case file based on the evidence held on file after 
CRS didnt respond with all the requested information. They issued their view of how they 
thought CRS should resolve Mr Es complaint and asked it to pay him £200. Ive looked at 
the available evidence and I agree with the investigator that there appears to be unexplained 
contact and requests for payment throughout May and June 2022. The investigator asked for 
information from CRS to show the contact attempts it made as they wanted to get a better 
understanding of why Mr E was being asked to make payments despite his DMP 
arrangements being confirmed. But the information wasnt provided. 
In the absence of other supporting information, it appears Mr E was sent further requests for 
payment from May 2022 despite his DMP arrangements being confirmed. And Im satisfied 
that has caused Mr E a reasonable level of distress and inconvenience. I note Mr E has 
recently explained he feels a higher level of compensation is reasonable in his case. But Im 
satisfied that £200 fairly reflects the level of distress and inconvenience caused to Mr E from 
May 2022 when A says it returned his account to CRS. 
Mr E has also explained that he feels CRS failed to make reasonable adjustments after he 
confirmed he had hearing problems. I agree with Mr E that the Equality Act 2010 required 
CRS to make reasonable adjustments that suited his circumstances. And I can see some of 
its text messages asked Mr E to call back. But other messages CRS issued contained a link 
that Mr E could use to access information about his account and communicate with it. So Im 
satisfied there were arrangements in place that meant Mr E could follow a link to access his 
account and contact CRS. Whilst we take the relevant regulations and legislation into 
account, we assess complaints on a fair and reasonable basis. I agree that CRS couldve done more to help, but Im satisfied it did provide links to Mr E that meant he had alternatives 
to calling it to discuss his account. 
Ive considered how to fairly resolve Mr Es complaint. In the absence of the supporting 
information the investigator requested from CRS or a response to their findings, Im satisfied 
a payment of £200 to reflect the level of distress and inconvenience caused to Mr E is a fair 
and reasonable way to resolve his case. So Im upholding Mr Es complaint and directing 
CRS to pay him £200. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Es complaint and direct Credit Resource Solutions Ltd to pay 
him £200. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman