DRN-3825697
The complaint
Mr M complains that Paratus AMC Limited trading as Foundation Home Loans recorded 
incorrect information on his credit file.
What happened
Mr M has a buy-to-let mortgage with Foundation.
In April 2020, Foundation agreed a three-month payment deferral for Mr M from April to June 
2020, due to the impact of Covid 19. That was extended for a further three months from July 
to September 2020.  
In October 2020, when the payment deferral ended, Foundation agreed another 
arrangement as a concession with Mr M. It deferred a further three months payments. But 
this led to Foundation recording that Mr Ms mortgage was in arrears.
When Mr M complained, Foundation accepted that when it set up the October deferral, it did 
not tell Mr M that it would impact his credit file. It agreed to amend Mr Ms credit file. Mr M 
doesnt think that offer went far enough. He said he has lost out on switching to a better 
interest rate on his mortgage.
The investigator thought that Foundations offer to amend Mr Ms credit file was fair and 
reasonable. Mr M did not accept what the investigator said.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The initial six months of payment deferrals were agreed because of the impact of Covid 19. 
Under the guidance in place, Foundation should not have recorded any adverse information 
on Mr Ms credit file relating to the first six months of payment deferrals  and it has not done 
so.
Once the six months of payment deferrals ended, Mr M wasnt able to resume payments 
immediately. Foundation acted fairly and reasonably by agreeing another payment deferral. 
This is in line with the guidance from the FCA regarding tailored support. But Foundation did 
not tell Mr M that this concession would be recorded on his credit file as it was obliged to do.
Where a business has not acted fairly or reasonably, the starting point for me is to put the 
affected party back in the position they would have been in had the business acted fairy and 
reasonably. Foundation did not act fairly, because it did not give Mr M enough information 
about the impact on his credit file to make an informed choice about what to do. 
The difficulty here is, even if Foundation had explained that that the October 2020 deferral 
would be reflected on Mr Ms credit file, I consider it likely that he would still have chosen to 
defer his payments. I say this because in the phone call that Mr M had with Foundation, he 
said that he had no way of making the payments  he had no job and no tenant in the 
property. It follows, that if Foundation had explained things properly, it seems unlikely that Mr 
M could have done anything differently other than agree to the payment deferral, with that 
recorded on his credit file. There is no evidence that he could have made the payments that 
were due to avoid the adverse information being recorded. So Foundations offer to remove 
the adverse information, is a fair offer  and is probably more than I would have awarded. 
Mr M has provided a copy of a mortgage illustration from March 2022. He said he missed out 
on the interest rate because of the adverse information recorded by Foundation. But that 
was only an illustration. I do not have sufficient evidence to say that he would have qualified 
for the mortgage even if Foundation had not recorded the adverse information. 
I also note that Mr M was tied into the Foundation mortgage until January 2023. If he repaid 
the mortgage before then he would have to pay an early repayment charge of over £3,000. 
In any event, the adverse information was a true and accurate reflection of how Mr M had 
managed his mortgage  although I accept that Foundation had not given him accurate 
information about what would be recorded. 
Overall, as Ive found that Mr M would have had no choice other than agree to the October 
2020 payment deferral, which would always have impacted his credit file, I dont consider 
that I could fairly require Foundation to do anything else. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Paratus AMC Limited trading as 
Foundation Home Loans has already removed the adverse information it recorded on Mr Ms 
credit file. I consider that was a fair way to resolve this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2023.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman