DRN-4023894
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy with the way Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited (SF) treated 
her, after she tried to claim benefits due to her from her husbands (Mr W) policy after his 
death. 
What happened
Mrs Ws husband purchased a retirement annuity contract (the pension policy) with a 
predecessor business of SF in 1982. He paid £25 every month until he very sadly passed 
away in October 2021. He was 65 at the time. 
Mrs W contacted SF in November 2021 to begin the process of claiming benefits under the 
policy. SF told her shed need to provide them with Letters of Administration, or a will naming 
her as beneficiary so they could start processing her request, which she did in April 2022. 
However, due to a processing error, SF didnt undertake any work on Mrs Ws claim until she 
contacted them in June 2022 seeking an update. Mrs W was unhappy with the way SF had 
treated her and the delays shed experienced. She complained to SF at the beginning of July 
2022. Very shortly after this, SF calculated how much Mrs W was due under the policy - 
£6,800.93  and paid this to her on 5 July 2022, together with late payment interest of 
£91.82, plus a further £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience (D&I) their 
mistakes had caused. 
Mrs W questioned the amount paid to her, believing she was due the total fund value at the 
time of Mr Ws death - £73,219.74. SF explained this was the current value of the fund, 
which would have been used to pay Mr Ws pension when he reached his 70th birthday. 
Unhappy with this, Mrs W brought her complaint to this service. SF then realised they hadnt 
properly calculated the amount they should have paid her - theyd paid an amount based on 
the sum assured, whereas they should have based it on a return of premiums paid which 
totalled £11,725. They offered to pay Mrs W the difference between £6,800.93 already paid 
and £11,725 and offered an additional £250 as compensation. Mrs W didnt accept this. She 
felt this was an insult, and they should pay her an amount much closer to the fund value of 
Mr Ws policy at the time of his death. She referred to the yearly statements Mr W received, 
and the following text: 
Yourpension policy includes a guaranteed minimum pension plus death benefits 
which will pay a lump sum if you die before your chosen retirement date
Mrs W questioned whether SF had properly considered this when only offering to pay her 
£11,725. SF confirmed to our Investigator the reference to lump sum was to the lump sum 
return of premiums that would be due. They confirmed Mr Ws policy was a Self-Employed 
Retirement Plan, and the terms of that plan were such that a return of premiums was the 
only outcome following Mr Ws death. 
Our Investigator issued his view in January 2023. He felt SF had (eventually) done what they 
were required to do under the terms of Mr Ws policy. He was satisfied theyd offered Mrs W 
the correct payment due. And he felt the amount of compensation theyd offered in respect 
of the distress theyd caused  £450 in total  was fair in the circumstances. 
Mrs W was unhappy with this. She reiterated her distress at the way shed been treated by 
SF. She was unhappy theyd only realised they hadnt paid her enough after wed contacted 
them. She also pointed out Mr W could have chosen to take benefits at an earlier age, and 
been paid the full policy benefits due, but chose to stick with the plan out of loyalty, and 
that its diabolical this is all he (or she) now gets. 
Mrs W also referred again to the text within the yearly statements (as above), repeating her 
belief she should be entitled to a return of premiums plus a further lump sum in respect of 
death benefits. Finally, Mrs W thought the total D&I offered of £450 was unreasonable and 
doesnt reflect the disruption and frustration shed experienced. She asked that her 
complaint is reconsidered by an Ombudsman, so its been passed to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, I want to extend my condolences to Mrs W for the very sad loss of her husband.
I also want to take this opportunity to explain how this Service generally approaches 
complaints that are brought to us. We will consider the evidence of whats happened, and if 
we think a business hasnt acted fairly, or complied with its relevant terms and conditions, 
well ask that business to take steps to correct their omission or mistake  and put the  
consumer back in the position they would have been in, had the mistake not occurred. 
With that in mind, I need to consider two fundamental issues here. Firstly, did SF do what 
they should have done, under the terms of Mr Ws policy. And, secondly, have they treated 
Mrs W fairly in how theyve dealt with her. Ill consider issues relating to Mr Ws policy first. 
Ive looked at the application form, completed and signed by Mr W on 29 July 1982. It asks 
him to choose from two options regarding what his plan would pay upon his death. It asks:
Return on death: The value of the fund [or] The full amount of the contributions paid
Mr W deletes the first option. The form then asks, at question 3:
If you should die before your pension commences do you want the policy to provide 
for the death benefit to be applied to secure a pension for your spouse or other 
dependant? 
Mr W answered No to this question. He also clearly stated that he wanted the policy to run 
until he reached his 70th birthday  the vesting date. So, I think its reasonably clear what 
his intentions were at the time he took out the policy. 
Ive looked too at the personal illustration created for Mr W at inception which explains how 
his benefits at retirement would be calculated. It says that should he die before reaching 
retirement, the benefit payable would be The total contributions paid to date. 
Turning to the policy documents, the Second Schedule, Special Provisions section, says:
(2) If the annuitant (Mr W) shall die prior to the Vesting date (his 70th birthday) or 
earlier Selected Vesting Date (as defined in Special Provision (4) hereof) all 
premiums paid to the Society in respect of this Policy will be returned.(3)The annuitant may give notice in writingthat in the event of [his death] prior to 
the Vesting Datethe Society shall pay to the surviving spouse [or other 
beneficiary]in lieu of the sum specified in (2) above, an annuity during the 
remainder of [the spouses life]
So, in simple terms, I think the above shows that when Mr W applied for his policy, he 
wanted it to provide a pension when he reached 70. And, if he died before this, his 
beneficiary would only be entitled to a return of the premiums hed paid. It was possible for 
Mr W to amend these choices, by notifying SF in writing, but theres no evidence that he did 
this. So, according to the terms of Mr Ws policy, all SF had to do when becoming aware of 
Mr Ws death was to refund the premiums that had been paid up until that date. 
I appreciate the points Mrs W has made about the language used within the various annual 
statements that were sent to Mr W. However, I think its reasonable to say these statements 
were designed to advise Mr W (and other similar policyholders) what the pension was worth 
at that point in time, and its likely eventual worth when Mr W started drawing it (when he 
reached his vesting age of 70 years old). They contained details of his policy, of bonuses 
that were to be added each year (if any), the fund value, and the guaranteed annual pension 
the policy would pay once taken at age 70. 
So, when these annual statements said Yourpension policy includesetc (as above), it 
meant Mr Ws policy provided a guaranteed basic pension  assuming he reached his 
vesting age  of the amount specified. And the fund value figure included in each statement 
(in December 2020, the last statement Mr W received, this was £73,219.74) represented 
what Mr Ws fund was worth at the date of the statement  made up of premium 
contributions, investment growth and annual bonuses added, which would help fund that 
lifetime guaranteed pension - it wasnt the total amount that Mr W had paid into the policy. It 
was also the approximate amount that Mr W could transfer to another pension provider if he 
wished. The death benefits referenced are separate to that  they refer to the fact SF will 
pay a death benefit lump sum, which the policy terms say will be the total amount of 
premiums paid to date. 
I appreciate the statements dont clearly state how those death benefits will be calculated, 
and the confusion this caused Mrs W. However, this doesnt mean I can fairly ask SF to pay 
Mrs W more than the policy terms require them to pay here. The terms of Mr Ws policy, and 
his choices made at application, are clear that the only thing SF needed to do upon his 
passing (before his chosen vesting age) was to refund his premiums to Mrs W. This is what 
SF have offered. So I wont be asking them to increase this offer.
Ill now comment on the way SF dealt with Mrs W. SF admit they made mistakes in the way 
they dealt with Mrs Ws claim. They failed to allocate the claim to a workstream after shed 
sent them the letters of administration, meaning she waited longer to receive the death 
benefit than she should have. And even then, SF made a further mistake despite Mrs W 
challenging their initial claim payment. It wasnt until four months later they realised they 
hadnt calculated the death benefit properly and offered what Ive concluded was the correct 
sum. All of this was happening after Mrs W had suffered the loss of her husband of many 
decades - a time of considerable loss and upset. 
However, putting a value on distress is not an exact science, and our awards for D&I are not 
designed to punish a business where we think theyve caused a customer distress. There 
are guidelines on our awards limits on our website. And having considered the facts here, I 
think SFs total D&I offer of £450, of which only £200 has been paid so far, is broadly in line 
with what Id expect it to pay in these circumstances, so I wont be asking it to increase this. Putting things right
SF has already paid Mrs W some of the £11,725 death benefit properly due under Mr Ws 
policy. It paid £6,800.93, plus interest for late payment, on 5 July 2022. SF has confirmed 
the interest was calculated from 20 April 2022  the date they received a copy of the Letter 
of Administration  until the date the first payment was made. Given SF needed to see this 
before processing the claim, I think this is a fair start date to use for interest calculation 
purposes. 
This means £4,924.07 remains to be paid, which SF have agreed to do. SF have also 
agreed to pay further late payment interest on this sum  which I think should be calculated 
from 20 April 2022 until such time that payment is made, at a rate of 8% simple per year. 
And SF must also pay Mrs W the further £250 D&I it previously offered. 
My final decision
My decision is that Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited should do the following:
- Pay Mrs W £4,924.07, plus interest as set out above, within 28 days of her 
acceptance of this decision
- Pay Mrs W a further £250 compensation for D&I. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Mark Evans
Ombudsman