DRN-2238747
The complaint
Mr D complains that Nationwide Building Society changed his address on its systems, 
without his consent, and sent correspondence to an incorrect address. He also complains 
about poor service.
What happened
Mr D had a current account with Nationwide. He had a debit card with this account. He tried 
to use the card to pay a bill online, but it was declined. He contacted Nationwide about this 
and spoke to its fraud department. 
Mr D says he had to use the App to verify his address. 
When he spoke to the fraud team, he says it told him his card had been restricted as a 
security measure because there was a risk it had been compromised. But, during the call he 
was also told Nationwide had recorded his address incorrectly on its systems. And, he says 
it told him post had been sent to an incorrect address.
Mr D complained about this. He said hed been given conflicting information. He was told 
that the problem with his address arose because Nationwide had changed its IT systems. 
And he complained that Nationwide hadnt responded to his complaint within its own 
timescales.
Nationwide investigated his complaint. It said his address on its card replacement system 
was formatted differently to the address on the rest of its systems. But it confirmed that no 
post had been sent to an incorrect address. And, it said that if a replacement card had been 
sent to him it wouldve been sent to the correct address despite the address format issue. 
Nationwide accepted that hed experienced inconvenience because of what had happened, 
and it offered to pay him £75 by way of compensation for the inconvenience hed 
experienced.
Mr D didnt agree. He said that £75 was an insult. Hed been given conflicting information by 
Nationwide. It had told him post was sent to an incorrect address and then said this hadnt 
happened. It told him its IT systems were changed, but this wasnt true either. He said it had 
taken longer to get his replacement card and Nationwide had shown a lack of concern for his 
personal data. He also complained about how long Nationwide had taken to deal with his 
complaint. He referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into his complaint. He thought Nationwide had acted fairly and 
reasonably. He said it had confirmed no data was sent to an incorrect address and he was 
satisfied it held the correct address on its systems. He thought that £75 was fair and 
reasonable compensation for the poor service. So, he didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr D didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the screenshots Nationwide has provided which show that it now holds the 
correct address for Mr D on its systems. Nationwide has confirmed it only sent post to Mr Ds 
correct address. Its provided us with copies of his statements for the last three months of 
2019. All of these statements were sent to Mr Ds correct address. Its also provided a copy 
of the statement Mr D was sent when he first opened the account in 2011. Mr Ds address 
on that statement is the same as the address used in the 2019 statements. So, I dont think 
his correspondence address had been changed on Nationwides systems.
It is the case that the address format on the replacement card system was different. The 
postcode on that system was correct but the first line of the address was different to the 
address on Nationwides other systems. Its not clear why that was the case. But Nationwide 
has now provided evidence to us showing this has been amended. And, its confirmed that 
no correspondence was sent to the address using the format on its card replacement 
system.
Ive listened to the call when Mr D spoke to Nationwide in November. He was told that 
Nationwide had restricted his card on 19 May 2019, and hed been sent a letter about this in 
May 2019. At this point in the call, Nationwides representative did check the address. She 
said it was correct. It was only later during the call that she mentioned the address to which 
the new card would be sent. She then indicated that a different first line of the address was 
held on another part of Nationwides systems. She corrected this during the call. And, she 
suggested this may explain why the letter shed referred to earlier hadnt been received.
Mr D says he didnt receive any correspondence from Nationwide about this. And, he 
believes that the letter mentioned during the call may have been sent to an incorrect 
address. He also thinks this is why he had to use his App to verify his identity during this call.
But Nationwide has told us the information he was given during this call was incorrect. It 
says the card wasnt restricted until 19 November 2019. And, it says post wasnt sent to the 
address held on its replacement card system. It says it sent Mr D a letter about the 
automatic replacement of his card after he attempted to make an online payment on 19 
November using his debit card. It says all post was sent to Mr Ds correct address.
Ive also considered what Mr D has told us about having to use the App to verify his identity. 
It is the case he was asked to use the App to verify his identity at the start of the call. But 
that was because hed forgotten the password which was required for mobile banking. It 
wasnt because of any issue with the address held on Nationwides systems.
Having looked at all of the information provided to us, Im satisfied, on balance, Nationwide 
didnt send correspondence to an incorrect address. 
When a business makes a mistake or provides incorrect information its not our role to fine it 
or punish it. We consider what has happened and look at whether the action taken by the 
business to resolve the matter has been fair and reasonable.
In this case Nationwide has accepted it provided incorrect information. It apologised for that 
and confirmed that no post was sent to an incorrect address. It says the only 
correspondence Mr D was sent about this matter was dated after hed contacted it. And, I 
can see it has corrected the format of the address held on its card replacement system. In 
addition, its offered to pay £75 by way of compensation for any inconvenience Mr D 
experienced.Mr D says that because of the issue with his address there was a delay getting his 
replacement card. Nationwide told us the card was restricted on 19 November and the 
replacement card was issued on 29 November 2019. The replacement card wasnt ordered 
until Mr D phoned Nationwide on 19 November. During the call Nationwide told Mr D it would 
take two extra days to get his card because it had updated the address on its card 
replacement system. It told him the new card would be issued on 29 November. So, the 
updating of the address on the replacement card system did cause a two day delay in 
getting the replacement card issued.
Ive considered how this delay in issuing the new card might have impacted Mr D. Although 
the card was restricted, he was still able to use it for contactless payments and for Chip and 
PIN transactions. It was only online and telephone payments which he couldnt make using 
the card. During the call on 19 November he was asked if he had any urgent payments of 
this type to make. And, Nationwide agreed to temporarily unblock the card so that an urgent 
bill payment could be processed. I think this was fair and reasonable and meant that any 
impact on Mr Ds ability to use his debit card, whilst waiting for the new card, was minimal. 
Mr D also complained about how long it took Nationwide to respond to his complaint and he 
says it didnt respond within its own timescales. But its not for this service to tell Nationwide 
what procedures or processes it should put in place as a business. Nor can this service look 
into his concerns around this here, where those concerns specifically relate to a complaints 
process, which is not a regulated financial activity. So, Ive made no findings about this 
issue.
Having considered everything here, Im satisfied Nationwide didnt send correspondence to 
an incorrect address. It did provide Mr D with incorrect information, which it has 
acknowledged. There was a delay in issuing his replacement card. But, as mentioned above, 
I think Nationwide has done enough to try to put things right. And, its offered to pay Mr D 
£75 by way of compensation. I think thats fair and reasonable compensation for what 
happened. I dont require it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint about Nationwide Building 
Society.
Nationwide Building Society has already made an offer to pay £75 to settle the complaint 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Nationwide Building Society should pay £75.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman