DRN-2105547
The complaint
Mrs H has complained that Avon Insurance Plc mis-sold her an accidental death insurance 
policy.
What happened
In 1997, Mrs H took out an accidental death insurance policy through Avon. The policy would 
pay a lump sum benefit if Mrs H were to die as a result of an accident.
In 2019, Mrs H cancelled the policy and complained it had been mis-sold. She said shed 
only just become aware that she was being charged for the policy. She wanted a complete 
refund of her premiums.
Avon didnt uphold her complaint. It said that Mrs H had agreed to take out the policy 
following a mailing in 1997. She had furthermore agreed to increase her level of cover in 
1998 and again in 1999.
Mrs H was unhappy at Avons response. She referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. She did not 
consider the policy had been mis-sold.
Mrs H didnt accept the investigators findings. She said Avon had led her to believe the 
policy was free and it hadnt written to let her know that it was taking payments for the policy 
each month.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Avon has explained that the policy was sold on a non-advised basis through a mailing in 
1997 addressed to Mrs Hs husband (who sadly has passed away since Mrs H made the 
complaint). It has provided a copy of the mailing and Im satisfied this makes clear the nature 
of the cover and its cost. Although the offer was addressed to Mr H, Mrs H was also able to 
apply for cover in her own name. Avon has provided an application form which is signed by 
both Mr and Mrs H. Im satisfied from this that Mrs H made an informed decision to take out 
the cover, knowing what it cost.
Avon has also provided mailings from 1998 and 1999 addressed to Mr H inviting him and 
Mrs H to increase their level of cover for an increased premium. It has provided forms 
returned and signed by Mr and Mrs H agreeing to take out the higher levels of cover.
The policy schedules, which were sent to Mr H, indicate that Mrs Hs policy was due to run 
until she reached the age of 80. Given that Mrs H had full details of her policy, there was no 
need for Avon to continue writing to her or Mr H about it unless there was any change in the 
cover.
In 2015, Avon wrote to Mr H (it was his account from which the joint premiums were paid by 
direct debit) to inform him the premiums would rise as a result of an increase in insurance 
premium tax. Mrs H disputes that this letter was received but Avon has provided a copy and 
Im satisfied it was sent.
In 2019, Avon wrote again to Mr H to inform him of another increase in the premiums due to 
a further increase in insurance premium tax. It appears it was this letter which caused Mrs H 
to realise that her policy was still in existence and which led to her complaint.
However, while Mrs H may have forgotten that she still had the policy, Im satisfied from the 
evidence that she agreed to take it out in 1997 in full knowledge of the nature of the cover 
and its cost. She furthermore agreed to increase her level of cover in 1998 and again in 
1999. It wasnt until 2019 that Mrs H asked to cancel the policy. Given that until the time of 
cancellation, she was covered by the policy and it would have paid benefit in the event of an 
eligible claim, I see no reasonable grounds for concluding that Avon should refund her 
premiums.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman