DRN-3116201
The complaint
Mrs A has complained that S.D. Taylor Limited trading as Loans at Home (LAH) didnt carry
out proper checks to determine whether Mrs A could afford the repayments she was
committed to making.
What happened
Our adjudicator partly upheld Mrs As complaint. LAH didnt agree with the adjudicators 
opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was partially upholding Mrs As 
complaint but for different reasons. A copy of the background to the complaint and my 
provisional findings follow this and form part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Mrs A took three loans from LAH between May 2018 and July 2019. A summary of her
borrowing, based on the information provided to us from LAH can be found below:
Loan 
numberDate taken Date repaid Term 
(weeks)Loan amount
1 09/05/2018 02/01/2019 45 £200.00
2 02/01/2019 03/07/2019 45 £350.00
3 03/07/2019 25/12/2019 46 £600.00
The adjudicator didnt think Mrs As complaint about loans 1 and 2 should be upheld. But the
adjudicator did uphold the complaint about loan 3. She said a proportionate check wouldve
shown LAH Mrs A couldnt sustainably repay her final loan due to the amount of outstanding
short-term loans.
It appears that Mrs A agreed with our adjudicators opinion.
LAH didnt agree, and in its response, it said it did carry out proportionate checks which
didnt show any signs that she was having problems managing her money. LAH knew at
loan 3, that Mrs A had 2 loans outstanding with another home credit provider. It was also
aware that Mrs A had arrears with other loans / lenders, but these had reduced during the
lending relationship with LAH.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the time these loans were provided.
LAH needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs A could
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and the
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that LAH should fairly and reasonably have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs A. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become or was becoming
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to say that LAH was required to establish whether Mrs A
could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a
strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre
unlikely to be able to do so without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mrs As complaint.
Loans 1-2
The adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs As complaint about these loans, and Mrs A doesnt
appear to disagree with the outcome. So, I wont comment further on these loans, or the
level of individual checks LAH completed before approving these loans, as I dont think there
is any ongoing disagreement about them.
Loan 3
Our adjudicator upheld Mrs As complaint about this loan because in her view, had LAH
carried out proportionate checks it wouldve seen she had a number of outstanding pay day
loans at the time. But I dont agree, and Ive explained why below.
Firstly, I agree with the adjudicator that LAH needed to carry out further checks when it
approved this loan. Mrs A had been indebted to LAH for around 14 months, and she wascoming back for her largest loan, to be repaid over the longest period of time. Mrs A was
also, extending her indebtedness out for a further 46 weeks.
Looking at the application form LAH had a fairly good idea of her actual income, as it
appears to have seen evidence in the form of payslips of what her income was likely to be
moving forward. It was reasonable for LAH to have relied on this information. And her bank
statements show she earned roughly what she had declared to LAH.
So, by loan 3, I think LAH needed to have a complete and accurate understanding of Mrs As
financial position. It couldve done this a number of ways. It couldve asked for evidence of
her of what bills she had. Alternately, LAH couldve requested copies of Mrs As bank
statements which wouldve given it an accurate picture of her financial position and wouldve
highlighted any financial difficulties she may have been having.
LAH didnt do this, so I dont think the checks were proportionate for loan 3. But that isnt the
end of the matter. For me to be able to conclude that LAH shouldnt have given this loan, I
have to be satisfied that not only did LAH not carry out a proportionate check, but by not
carrying out a proportionate check has this caused Mrs A a loss  that being the loan ought
not to have been approved because it wouldve found out that it was unaffordable.
But, I dont think the evidence suggests Mrs A was having problems with other payday
lenders. Looking at Mrs As bank statements from around the time the loan was approved,
there is only evidence of other short-term loan being active at the time, and from what Ive
seen, this loan was for £80 which was a small amount.
Ive looked at Mrs As credit file as well to see if that sheds any further light. Having done so,
I can see in addition to the short-term loan she had 2 outstanding loans with another home
credit provider (something LAH has already acknowledged that is was aware of). The
payments for these loans came to £78 per week.
There is also evidence of two historic short-term loans, but these had defaulted in 2017, so I
dont think it was reasonable to say that these two short term loans would be expected to be
repaid during the term of LAHs third loan. Its more likely that Mrs A was making repayments
towards these loans either via repayment plans or via one of the collection agents.
I dont think, based on what LAH may have discovered about the other loans outstanding on
its own, wouldve been enough for it conclude that Mrs A was having problems managing
her money.
But, taking into account Mrs As situation as a whole, I dont think she could sustainably take
on more debt  and service it. So, Im still intending to upholding her complaint but for
slightly different reasons. Ive explained why below.
The credit file Mrs A has provided also shows at least 7 defaults. But these, were all 
recorded between 2 and 4 years before the third and final loan were approved. To me, this 
indicates, that Mrs A had some historic financial difficulties.
This is further supported by the fact in her bank statements, I can see at least four payments
to four different third-party collection agents. These are likely to relate the repayment
problems that Mrs A had currently had.
But, looking at Mrs As bank statements, I dont think there is quite enough to conclude that
Mrs A could afford to make her weekly repayments of £24. I acknowledge that for some of
the month Mrs A would be overdrawn but that isnt enough on its own to be able to uphold
the complaint.Mrs A was expected to make payments of around £450 per month to other high cost credit
providers, so even before Mrs As payments of £24 per week to LAH Mrs A was committing
to spending around 1/3 of her income on servicing existing loans.
In addition to this, I can see around £300 worth of direct debits and standing order payments
to cover other things such as credit card repayments, TV licence and car insurance. But this
total excludes payments for food and petrol. Equally, the bank statements dont, as far as I
can see show repayments towards rent, council tax and utilities. These costs were likely to
have been needed to have been made, because LAH recorded that Mrs A was a tenant.
Its unlikely, given what LAH knew about Mrs As circumstances that she didnt have to pay
these, its more likely, these payments were made from another account, that I dont have
access to and or were shared between Mrs A and her partner at the time.
So, taking into account, what I can see in the bank statements, which includes;
significant repayments relative to her income to other high cost credit providers
historic debt that Mrs A was repaying through a number of collection agents
Mrs A spent significant periods of the month overdrawn
All of this wouldve likely been apparent to LAH if it had carried out proportionate checks,
which is what it was required to do. So, Im intending to partly uphold the complaint and Ive
explained below what it needs to do in order to put things right.
Both LAH and Mrs A were asked to provide any further comments or evidence in response 
to the provisional decision by 13 October 2021.
LAH accepted the provisional decision and it explained the refund due to Mrs A would be 
around £448.
Mrs A also told us that she accepted the findings in the provisional decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both LAH and Mrs A accepted the findings I made in the provisional decision I see no 
reason to depart from my earlier conclusions. And I still think, that based on LAH carrying 
out a proportionate check on Mrs As final loan it wouldve likely discovered that she wasnt 
in a position to take on any further lending.  
If LAH hasnt already paid the compensation, it should do so, in line with what has been 
recommended below.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress LAH should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what
might have happened had it not provided Mrs A with her third loan, as Im satisfied it ought to
have.
 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.For example, having been declined this lending Mrs A may have simply left matters there,
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Mrs A in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Mrs A would more likely than not have taken up any one of
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce LAHs liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
LAH should (if it hasnt already done so):
refund all interest and charges Mrs A paid on loan 3;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
remove any negative information about loan 3 from Mrs As credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires LAH to take off tax from this interest. LAH must give Mrs 
A a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, Im upholding Mrs As 
complaint in part.
S.D. Taylor Limited trading as Loans at Home should put things right as Ive directed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman