DRN-3333620
The complaint
Ms L and Mr R are unhappy with how Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) settled their claim 
on their property insurance policy following a leak. Theyve said it unfairly declined to cover 
their claim in full.
Another Ombudsman has already decided Ms L and Mr R brought the complaint to our 
service in time. So this decision is about the merits only.
What happened
Ms L and Mr Rs insurance policy covering their buildings and contents started in July 2019. 
In August 2019, Ms L discovered the ceiling in her kitchen had collapsed due to water 
coming through from the bathroom above. So she and Mr R made a claim on their insurance 
policy to cover the damage. They also arranged for a plumber to attend the property to stop 
the leak and assess the damage.
The plumber provided an email explaining there were two leaks  the first was from the 
shower tray moving and the second was due to an issue with pipework coming from the 
toilet. The plumber quoted around £4650 to repair the bathroom and kitchen ceiling.
After some back and forth, Ms L and Mr R sent Ageas the plumbers report. Ageas says as it 
considered the quote from the plumber to be too high, it arranged for an independent 
building claim validation company (Ill call it V) to visit the property and assess the damage.
V issued its report around September 2019. This said the policyholders had previously 
noticed water leaking into the kitchen when using the shower and highlighted the grout was 
mouldy and in need of repair. So it didnt think any damage caused by that should be 
covered. It couldnt inspect any damage caused by the toilet as it had already been 
removed. So it relied on the plumbers report. Based on this and its own inspection, V 
thought the movement to the shower tray was caused by the grout being in a poor condition. 
So it suggested only damage caused by the toilet should be covered. V also pointed out that 
the plumber had damaged the wall tiles when removing the toilet and had included items to 
be repaired that shouldnt form part of the claim.
 As a result, Ageas agreed to only cover damage caused by the toilet. It offered to cash 
settle the claim for around £186 after deducting the £350 excess. Ms L and Mr R didnt think 
this was fair. So they appointed a loss assessor (P) to handle things on their behalf.
Around November 2019 P responded to Ageas decision. in particular, he said the stains on 
the ceiling would be older if water had got through the grout. And he said the leak from the 
toilet may have caused damage under the shower and behind the wall tiles which led to the 
condition of the grout. So he thought the whole claim should be covered.
As things werent resolved, Ms L and Mr R referred their complaint to our service. They 
provided three reports outlining the damage to their property. Two of these reports included 
quotes for the repair work  ranging from £4,650 to around £13,000. And Ageas has given 
us the policy documentation, correspondence, Vs report and pictures. Our investigator didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld but as Ms L and Mr R didnt agree with our 
investigators opinion, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in February 2022. I thought the complaint should be upheld in 
part  but not in the way Ms L and Mr R wanted. In summary I thought:
From the plumbers evidence, there were two leaks. 
There wasnt much evidence to support the reasons either party had given as to why the 
shower tray was moving and causing the leak. But on balance, I thought Ageas view 
that the tray was moving due to the poor condition of the grout was more persuasive. 
Either way, there hadnt been a one-off insured event which caused the movement of the 
shower tray and ultimately the leak. 
Damage resulting from a gradual cause isnt covered under the policy terms. And I 
thought Ms L and Mr R shouldve been aware there was damage happening gradually to 
their property due to the water stains and bubbling and peeling paint on the kitchen 
ceiling and walls. So they couldve acted on it and prevented the damage caused. 
The deterioration of the grout would be excluded as wear and tear under the policy. 
Ageas had acted in line with the terms and conditions when declining the parts of the 
claim caused by the shower.
The quotes Ms L and Mr R had provided covered damage which wasnt caused by the 
insured event. So Ages had reasonably declined to cover the full cost. And its fair for the 
scope of works to only include repairs to the areas damaged by the toilet. 
Ageas offer to cover the cost of applying stain block and two coats of white emulsion to 
the living room ceiling which was damaged by the leak was fair. 
Ageas had acted fairly when declining to cover the replacement of all of Ms L and Mr Rs 
wall tiles in the bathroom as the policy only covered the damaged ones. And considering 
the type of wall tiles used and that those damaged were in a small area behind the toilet, 
I thought they could find a close enough match which wouldnt be easily visible anyway.
The parts of the kitchen ceiling Ageas hadnt agreed to repair didnt look damaged in the 
photos Id been given. So I didnt think it had acted unfairly. 
Under the terms of the policy, Ageas was entitled to offer a cash settlement instead of 
repairing the damage itself. But it seemed its offer was based on it being able to secure 
works for a cheaper price than perhaps Ms L and Mr R could. And I didnt think that 
would indemnify them. So I thought it would be fairer for Ageas to settle the claim based 
on the actual reasonable cost of works to Ms L and Mr R. 
I asked both parties to make any further comments before I reached a final decision. Ageas 
said it had nothing more to add and its decision remained unchanged. It did say however if 
Ms L and Mr R had further comments it hadnt already addressed, it would look at these 
further. Ms L and Mr R said they had nothing further to add and asked me to proceed to my 
final decision.    What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at the responses Ive received, I see no reason to change my conclusions set 
out in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
To put things right in this case, Ageas should:
Add applying stain block to the areas of the living room ceiling damaged by the leak 
and applying two coats of white emulsion to the living room ceiling to the scope of 
works.
Pay the reasonable cost of the repairs listed in the scope of works (including the above) 
upon receipt of an itemised invoice from Ms L and Mr R showing the work has been 
carried out and what they paid for it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Ms L and Mr Rs complaint in part and direct Ageas 
Insurance Limited to put things right by doing what Ive said above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman