DRN-4195168
The complaint
Miss M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard lent to her 
irresponsibly.
What happened
In December 2012 Miss M applied for a credit card account with Barclaycard. Barclaycard 
approved the application and gave Miss M a card with an initial credit limit of £1000. The 
credit limit was never increased.
Miss M complained that Barclaycard had lent to her irresponsibly.
Barclaycard didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had carried out proportionate checks 
before lending to Miss M.
Miss M remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that there wasnt enough evidence to 
say that the lending was unaffordable.
Miss M didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about unaffordable lending on our website. Ive 
had this approach in mind when considering Miss Ms complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, Barclaycard needed to complete reasonable and proportionate 
checks to ensure that Miss M could sustainably repay what was being lent to her. Theres no 
set list of checks that a lender has to complete. But lenders are required to have regard to 
things like the amount being lent, the total amount repayable, the monthly repayments and 
the consumers individual circumstances when deciding whats reasonable and 
proportionate.
Miss M declared an annual income of £10,000 when she applied for the card. This equates 
to a monthly income of £830. Barclaycard carried out a credit check, which showed that Miss 
M had unsecured debt of around £2873.
Although Barclaycard completed these checks, I think it wouldve been proportionate if it had 
carried out further checks to verify Miss Ms income and expenditure. I say this because the 
credit limit was relatively high in comparison to Miss Ms declared salary, and little 
information had been obtained about Miss Ms outgoings.
Ive gone on to consider what reasonable and proportionate checks would have shown. IN 
order to gain an understanding of Miss Ms financial circumstances at the time of the 
application for the credit card. This service asked Miss M to provide copies of her bank 
statements for the 3 months leading up to the date of the application. Miss M hasnt provided 
these, so Ive been unable to determine what reasonable and proportionate checks of Miss 
Ms bank statements wouldve shown. 
Ive therefore had to reach a decision based on the available evidence. The credit check 
carried out by Barclaycard showed that Miss M had missed a payment on a mail order 
account. But apart from this, all of her accounts were up to date and there was no adverse 
information on her credit file which wouldve given Barclaycard cause for concern. 
Based on what Ive seen, theres nothing to suggest that Miss M was struggling to repay her 
debts at the time she applied for the credit card.
I appreciate that Miss M has said that her bank statements will show that she was using her 
overdraft facility and that she had a gambling problem. However, without having sight of the 
statements, Im not in a position to say what they show.
I also appreciate that Miss M had another complaint about irresponsible lending upheld. 
However, this service looks at every complaint on its own merits.
For the reasons Ive explained Im unable to uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im unable to uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman