DRN-3284016
The complaint
Mr B says Starling Bank Limited unfairly blocked faster payments (FP) he wished to make 
from his current account to cryptocurrency exchanges.
What happened
Mr B complained to Starling in late May 2021, shortly after discovering payments hed 
intended to make to cryptocurrency exchanges had been blocked. He said he hadnt been 
told in advance that his account would be restricted in such a way. 
Starling replied that it had decided to block payments to cryptocurrency merchants using FP 
for all customers for a time as it had seen a rise in fraudulent transactions involving such 
merchants. It said it took this action, in accordance with its account terms and conditions, to 
maintain the security of its customers accounts and that it would continue to review its policy 
in relation to cryptocurrency.
Starling changed its policy regarding cryptocurrency merchants and removed the restrictions 
to Mr Bs account in early June 2021. 
Unhappy with Starlings response, Mr B complained to this service. He said hed been 
impacted financially as hed been unable to buy a particular crypto asset and that Starlings 
actions had caused him distress and inconvenience. An investigator looked into the 
complaint and recommended that it shouldnt be upheld. They believed Starling had acted 
fairly given the perceived threat posed to Mr Bs account and the terms and conditions of the 
account which allowed Starling to take such action in the circumstances. They didnt think 
any compensation was due.
As Mr B was unhappy with the investigators findings, the complaint was passed to me to 
review afresh and reach a decision. Among other things, Mr B said the restrictions added by 
Starling appeared to be random and only affected some transactions. He said he expected 
greater clarity about why his account had been restricted and that hed been inconvenienced 
by not being able to spend his money at what he considered to be reputable regulated 
exchanges.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
I recognise how frustrating it must have been for Mr B to discover that he couldnt use the 
money in his account as he wanted to. And I can see from copy account statements that 
Starling had allowed cryptocurrency-related payments to be made from the account prior to 
the restrictions being added. 
That said, Im mindful that banks owe certain duties to their customers. For example, at a 
high level the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) requires financial businesses to conduct 
their business with due skill, care and diligence. They must also take reasonable care to 
organise and control affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management 
systems.
 
Starling contacted Mr B (and I gather its other customers) in March 2021  so well before the 
introduction of the restrictions in May 2021 hes complained about  to explain that it was 
changing some of the terms and conditions of the account. Among the terms and conditions 
was a warning that Starling may hold a payment instruction if it reasonably considered it 
necessary to do so to protect Mr B or his account.  
Starlings message to Mr B said that if he wasnt happy with the changes, he could close his 
account at any time without charge. I gather Mr B didnt contact Starling about the new terms 
and conditions at that time.
I think it was fair for Starling to stop Mr Bs payments given the account terms and 
conditions. I gather the fraud Starling sought to protect Mr B from was sophisticated and 
wide-ranging. I think its fair to expect that Starling would look to take extra precautions in 
response, to safeguard Mr Bs account and his money.
Although I also believe Starling could have done more to bring to Mr Bs attention that the 
account restrictions would be added before they came into force. No doubt having payments 
blocked would have come as a surprise to Mr B in the circumstances, which explains why he 
complained to Starling virtually immediately. 
While understandably inconvenient for Mr B, I dont think Starling acted unfairly in imposing 
the restrictions when it did. In addition, the restrictions were lifted relatively quickly after 
Starling, it says, had introduced a new payment flow that was designed to reduce instances 
of fraud using FP. I can see from copy statements provided by Starling that Mr B re-
commenced payments to cryptocurrency exchanges from his account ten days after he first 
raised the issue with Starling. So, I dont think he was inconvenienced for a prolonged period 
or that any compensation for that is warranted. 
In complaining to us, Mr B suggests he was financially impacted by the restrictions Starling 
added to his account. As Ive said, I think Starling was entitled to restrict the account as it did 
in the circumstances. So, I dont think Starlings responsible for any such loss suffered. But, 
even if I didnt think Starling acted fairly, I havent seen any evidence to show Mr B lost out 
as he says or that Starling was responsible for the loss. Nor have I seen anything to suggest 
the restrictions Starling added were applied inconsistently as Mr B claims.
In summary, the potential consequences of Starling not increasing security around the 
account were very serious for Mr B. Taking all of this into account, and while recognising the 
inconvenience Mr B was put to, I dont believe Starling acted unfairly in adding and, later 
removing, the FP restrictions when it did. So, I dont require Starling to pay him any 
compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 Nimish Patel
Ombudsman