DRN-2455664
The complaint
Mrs W complains that ReAssure Limited mis-sold her a whole-of-life assurance policy.
What happened
Mrs W, along with her husband, were consolidating their borrowing. In 1993 they took out a 
consolidation loan of £60,000. It was a condition of this lending that life cover was in place 
and assigned to their lender.
Mrs W was sold a reviewable whole-of-life policy which would pay out £60,000 if she passed 
away. The premium was around £18 per month. The first review would be due 10 years after 
the policy started. Mrs W surrendered the policy in 2002, prior to its first review and received 
over £300 as a surrender value.
In 2019, Mrs W complained that her policy was mis-sold. She explained she had existing 
cover already so didnt need the policy but was told she had to have it. She also felt that it 
was unsuitable because the policy had an investment element and risk attached to it which 
she didnt want. She said she wasnt told it was reviewable.
ReAssure upheld Mrs Ws complaint as it felt a decreasing term assurance wouldve been 
suitable under the circumstances. However, it explained that Mrs W hadnt lost out financially 
as the term assurance cost was more expensive than the policy she had. And as Mrs Ws 
policy premiums didnt increase, and she received a surrender value it said there wasnt any 
redress due.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She explained the differences in cost meant 
that Mrs W hadnt suffered a financial loss, and she went on to explain why life cover was 
required. She explained Mrs Ws existing cover wasnt high enough to cover the borrowing 
condition.
Mrs W disagreed and felt the policy was unsuitable so asked for an ombudsman to reach a 
decision. She also felt that the advisor wasnt qualified to sell her this policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mrs W took out the new loan it was a condition that there was a life assurance policy 
in place. I can see Mrs W had a policy for £29,000 but I cant see that this matched the term 
or amount of the lending. So, in order to receive the borrowing, she had to have some life 
cover in place. I do understand that Mrs W, along with her husband, believe they couldve 
met repayments using other methods. But as it was a condition of the lending to have a life 
policy in place, Mrs W had to be sold a life policy to cover this loan.
I can see she was sold a reviewable whole-of-life plan. And that ReAssure has 
acknowledged that she shouldve been sold a decreasing term policy. However, I can see 
the policy she was sold satisfied the condition of the lending as it was assigned to the lender 
when she took it out and covered the full amount of the loan. So, Ive considered whether 
Mrs W has lost out financially by being given this policy instead of the decreasing term 
policy. But I cant see that she has.
A decreasing term policy covering the term and amount of the loan wouldve cost Mrs W 
around £23 per month, or £40 per month if she and her husband took out a joint policy. But 
the whole-of-life policy she was sold cost around £18 per month. Whilst this amount couldve 
increased, it didnt do so. This is because it was surrendered prior to its first review. So, 
Mrs W paid less for this policy than she would have if she was sold the decreasing term 
policy. This means she hasnt lost out financially  as she had to have a policy in place for 
the lending.
I can also see Mrs W has benefitted from a surrender value when she surrendered this 
policy. So, I cant see that shes been financially disadvantaged by being sold a policy that 
had the investment risk element rather than the decreasing term policy.
Mrs W has said she doesnt feel the advisor was qualified to sell this policy. Ive not seen 
anything to suggest this was the case. ReAssure now has responsibility over the life policies 
that this lender sold. Ive not seen anything to suggest the advisor lacked the skills to sell this 
policy to Mrs W.
As Mrs W had to have a life insurance policy in place to cover the full amount of the lending, 
and this policy achieved this and was cheaper than a decreasing term policy, I cant see that 
Mrs W has lost out. So, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2021.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman