DRN-2746827
The complaint
Mr M complains about how American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) dealt with 
his promotional offer application.
What happened
Mr M says he tried to register in December 2020 for an AESEL promotional offer. He says 
he was unable to do so and wasnt told he may need to wait until the offer started. Mr M says 
he repeated the process and was still unable to complete the registration. He says he was 
then registered when he used the online chat facility. Mr M would like compensation for his 
wasted time and for the poor service he received.
AESEL says there could have been a problem if registration was attempted before the start 
date and says some customers did have problems registering. It says Mr M was registered 
within a short time period of using the online chat facility and doesnt think compensation is 
justified.
Mr M brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought AESEL had explained what took place and that the problem was sorted out within 
about five minutes of Mr M using the online chat facility. The investigator thought the 
remainder of the chat facility time was taken up with Mr M raising his complaint and overall 
compensation wasnt justified.
Mr M doesnt accept that view and in summary maintains AESEL should pay him 
compensation and says a significant amount of his time was wasted.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr M will be disappointed by my decision and I also appreciate how strongly he 
feels about what took place.
There is no real dispute that Mr M was unable to register initially for AESELs promotional 
offer. I accept that Mr M was caused some inconvenience and then spent about five minutes 
registering for the offer via the online chat facility. I dont think that was a significant amount 
of time and Im satisfied that AESEL has fairly explained that there were some registration 
problems.
I dont think Mr M has suffered any financial loss as a result of what took place and that the 
main part of the chat facility time was taken up with the complaint rather than the 
registration. I dont think compensation is justified here and dont think this was a particularly 
significant problem that, for example, prevented Mr M from being able to take advantage of 
the promotional scheme.
Overall whilst I accept Mr M was caused some inconvenience, I dont find that or what took 
place justifies any compensation in the circumstances of this complaint. I also find that this 
brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this dispute can do, and of course Mr M is free 
to peruse his complaint via other means.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 June 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman