DRN-2252270
The complaint
Mr D and Miss D complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc acted unfairly and unreasonably in how it 
dealt with their application for a new mortgage product and additional borrowing, including 
asking a third adult living in the property to complete a form, which Mr D and Miss D felt 
contained too much information. They want more compensation and matters put right.
What happened
Mr D and Miss D had a mortgage with HSBC, with products due to end in March 2019. They 
applied for a new product and to borrow more money to use to purchase a buy to let 
property. HSBC sent a mortgage offer on 1 April 2019 and received Mr D and Miss Ds 
acceptance of the loan and the new products by 8 April. The rate switch did go ahead with 
effect from 1 April 2019, but the extra borrowing was left outstanding  HSBC didnt release 
the extra money to Mr D and Miss D.
Mr D and Miss D said that it appeared HSBC had made a mistake and needed their live-in 
member of staff to sign a letter of consent (LOC) to complete the extra borrowing, but didnt 
ask until after the mortgage offer was issued. HSBC wrote to the member of staff  Mr D and 
Miss D said that while they understood the need for the LOC, HSBC didnt have their 
permission to disclose the information within it. After it received the signed LOC on 18 April, 
HSBC reworked the application. Mr D and Miss D asked HSBC not to send the extra loan 
money on 14 May as it was too late to buy the investment property. On 23 September 2019, 
Mr D and Miss D wanted to accept the offer, but HSBC explained it had been cancelled and 
a new application would be needed.
Mr D and Miss D complained to HSBC. It said that it shouldve progressed the application to 
borrow more money sooner, but it was Mr D and Miss Ds choice to ask for the money not to 
be paid over. It explained that the LOC was necessary to protect HSBCs security and it was 
a standard requirement. HSBC agreed that Mr D and Miss D had been given incorrect 
information about the expiry date of the offer and the application had been cancelled in error 
too early as the offer expired on 25 September 2019. It refused to waive the ERCs if Mr D 
and Miss D remortgaged elsewhere as theyd had the benefit of the products and accepted 
them with the ERC set out in the offer. HSBC paid £1,000 compensation for the trouble and 
upset its failings had caused, but said it wouldnt pay compensation for the lost income from 
the investment property or Mr D and Miss Ds use of their savings.
Mr D and Miss D complained to us and said that they wanted to leave HSBC without paying 
the early repayment charge (ERC) attached to the new mortgage products. The 
investigator didnt uphold the complaint after discovering that the mortgage had been fully 
paid off in February 2020 as it meant the additional borrowing couldnt be put in place as 
there was no first charge in HSBCs favour as required under the offer and its lending 
policies, though the application shouldnt have been cancelled when it was in his view. The 
investigator said that £1000 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the delays 
with the mortgage application and the cancellation of the application was more than 
reasonable in the circumstances.
The investigator didnt accept that the LOC disclosed any confidential information, other than 
Mr D and Miss D had a mortgage with HSBC (which had to be part of the LOC) or that it 
contained incorrect information; he said that it was a normal part of the process to protect 
the lenders security. The investigator added that compensation wouldnt be paid for the loss 
of the investment property (particularly as there was no way the extra borrowing couldve 
been provided in time and this service doesnt award compensation in respect of something 
that didnt happen). He also said no compensation should be paid for financial losses caused 
by Mr D and Miss Ds decisions concerning their savings and finances as it was their 
decision to do this. The investigator said that the ERCs didnt need to be refunded as it was 
Mr D and Miss Ds decision to move elsewhere knowing of their existence, though he later 
was informed that no ERC had been paid.
Mr D and Miss D disagreed. They said that the investigator hadnt properly considered the 
fact that theyd had to chase HSBC to progress matters and the complaint hadnt been dealt 
with correctly. Mr D said that the investigator had overlooked the number of offers received 
in March/April 2019 and the whole chaotic approach HSBC had shown at that time. Mr D 
wanted to send this service his own notes but couldnt access them. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I appreciate that Mr D wanted to send his own notes, Ive used all the evidence to set 
out the factual background as set out above and believe that I can make a fair and 
reasonable decision without his notes. HSBC has sent the records it holds, and while Mr D 
says the investigator didnt fully understand the situation, I have reviewed the case afresh 
and find the dates I consider relevant match with dates quoted by Mr D to this service (for 
example, the date of the offer accepted on 1 April 2019). I dont think Mr Ds notes will add 
anything substantial or new. Im also aware that we have no idea when Mr D can access his 
notes and this complaint has been with this service for a long time; fairness requires us to 
resolve complaints informally and in a timely manner.
As it seems no ERC was paid, I wont deal with this issue. And while its clear that the 
mortgage application was incorrectly cancelled as HSBC accepts, as Mr D and Miss D have 
remortgaged elsewhere, it isnt possible for the extra loan to be offered now as HSBC 
doesnt have a first charge over the property (required under the terms of the offer). I also 
wouldnt be inclined to require a lender to offer a loan without reviewing the current position 
as the situation mightve changed significantly for a number of reasons, including the 
pandemic and the passing of time, which might affect affordability (a key factor a lender must 
consider).
The core of the complaint that remains is about compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused and financial loss. Dealing with trouble and upset first, theres no dispute that HSBC 
caused unnecessary delays when dealing with the application to borrow more money and 
wrongly cancelled the application. This includes the issue raised by Mr D and Miss D that 
they were chasing to progress matters to no avail. HSBC is at fault here and acted unfairly 
and unreasonably. 
But I dont accept that the LOC was incorrect or breached the confidentiality of Mr D and 
Miss D. By applying for the loan, Mr D and Miss D impliedly agreed to HSBC taking all 
necessary steps to protect its security, and expressly consented by accepting the offer due 
to the terms and conditions. A LOC is a wholly standard step when an adult not subject to 
the mortgage lives in the property, and all that is disclosed is the fact that a mortgage with 
HSBC would be in place and the Land Registry title. The fact that its a remortgage is also public information if a person tracked any changes to the entry for the property in the Land 
Registry, as is the existence of the mortgage with HSBC itself. I dont think HSBC acted 
unfairly or unreasonably.
Money never truly compensates for trouble and upset suffered. While I understand the 
frustration Mr D and Miss D felt, £1000 is more than fair and reasonable in my view for the 
failings of HSBC, and is more that Id have recommended in the circumstances. And much of 
Mr D and Miss Ds upset is about the loss of the chosen investment property, but I dont 
think its likely that theyve have bought it anyway due to lack of time as it sold very quickly.
In relation to financial loss, it was Mr D and Miss Ds choice to make financial decisions 
without receipt of the extra money theyd sought from HSBC. Its fair and reasonable to 
expect consumers to wait until they have the mortgage monies as even after the offer stage, 
a lender can withdraw in specific circumstances. Im not persuaded that Mr D and Miss D 
wouldve been able to buy the property they wanted to buy in April 2019. But if Im wrong 
about that, this service doesnt award compensation for loss of opportunity or for something 
that didnt happen.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Miss D to accept or reject my decision 
before 9 March 2021.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman