DRN-3589679
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with the interest that has been applied to his account. 
What happened
Mr R made purchases totalling £98.97 in early 2021, using his Shop Direct Finance 
Company Limited trading as Littlewoods (Shop Direct) account. These purchases were 
made using 12 month Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) terms. 
Mr R believed he needed to repay the £98.97 by 7 February 2022, for no interest to be 
applied. However, the balance needed to be paid before 4 February 2022. Therefore, 
interest of £106 was applied to Mr Rs account. 
Mr R complained to Shop Direct regarding this. He said full repayment of the £98.97 was 
made only one working day after the BNPL ended. Therefore, he believed the full £106 
interest that Shop Direct applied was not fair or proportionate. Shop Direct replied and said it 
didnt receive payment before the BNPL delayed payment period ended. Therefore, in line 
with the terms and conditions of the BNPL offer, the interest that it applied was correct. 
Mr R remained unhappy and brought his complaint to our service. One of our investigators 
considered the complaint and concluded that Shop Direct hasnt acted incorrectly in applying 
the interest it had. The investigator said Mr R did miss the BNPL payment date and the 
interest had been applied in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Rs account. Mr R didnt 
agree and added that the charges werent fair and balanced. 
As Mr R didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R used a BNPL option to make purchases on his Shop Direct account. BNPL works by 
allowing the account holder to delay repayment to their account. In this case, the delay 
period for Mr Rs purchases was 12 months/52 weeks. 
Shop Direct have explained that interest is charged for the full duration of a BNPL plan. This 
includes both the delayed period and the subsequent repayment period that follows. For Mr 
Rs purchases the full BNPL duration is given as 104 weeks. 
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of Mr Rs account. These do detail that interest will be 
charged for the full period of a BNPL plan unless repayment is made before the delayed 
period. The terms and conditions also explain that interest will be compounded, meaning 
interest on interest will be charged. Mr Rs statement explained what the full BNPL period 
was for his purchases. 
So, Im satisfied Shop Direct has acted in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Rs 
account and Mr R was also aware 104 weeks of compounded interest would apply should he 
fail to make repayment before the delayed payment period. 
Ive therefore gone on to consider whether Mr R made repayment before the delayed 
payment period ended and if Shop Direct gave sufficient and correct notice of when this was.  
Looking at the statements for Mr Rs account, I can see that both the December 2021 and 
January 2022 statements gave clear notice that the BNPL delayed payment period ends 
soon. Mr R was informed on both statements that if he paid the balance of £98.97 by 4 
February 2022, he would not pay any of the £106 interest. 
Mr R has confirmed that he believed the expiry date was 7 February 2022 and that is when 
he went to make the payment. I appreciate Mr Rs frustration that he has been charged the 
full interest for what amounted to a delay in repayment of one working day. 
However, Mr R didnt make repayment before the delayed payment period finished and Im 
satisfied he was given clear and sufficient notice of what the correct deadline was. 
Mr R has explained that the charges arent fair or balanced. In this case it is interest that has 
been applied and interest that was clearly detailed as part of the BNPL agreement Mr R 
agreed to take out. Shop Direct made Mr R aware from the start what amount of interest 
would apply and in what circumstances it would be added.  
Mr R was given clear notice of when he needed to make repayment of the £98.97, to ensure 
interest wasnt applied. Mr R didnt make repayment until after the deadline, so Shop Direct 
applied interest in line with its terms and conditions. Shop Direct hasnt therefore acted 
unfairly in applying the interest it has.  
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint against Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as 
Littlewoods. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Paul Blower
Ombudsman