DRN-3824846
The complaint
This complaint is about a capital repayment mortgage Mr W took out in 2009 on the advice 
and recommendation of a mortgage broker that was part of the Sesame Limited network. 
Mr W complains that Sesame should not have advised him to borrow the money. Mr W has 
third party representation in bringing the complaint.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr W and Sesame. Im also aware 
that the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, a copy of which has been 
sent to all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all the details here. Our decisions are 
published, and its important that I dont include any information that might result in Mr W 
being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary and then focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I 
didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
In 2009, Mr W had decided to buy an overseas property; he needed money for the deposit. 
The amount borrowed was £65,000, which repaid his existing mortgage and provided 
£29,000 to put down on the purchase. There was a subsequent further advance of £5,000, 
as movements in exchange rates left Mr W short of what he needed. Sadly, the overseas 
purchase never materialised, and Mr W has found himself involved in a lengthy legal dispute 
abroad and with abortive costs.
The gist of Mr Ws complaint is that the re-mortgage shouldnt have happened, for various 
reasons; these are, in summary, that Sesame:
knew he was using the money for an overseas property purchase and should have 
advised him not to do it; 
failed to assess his attitude to risk;
failed to carry out an affordability assessment, and ignored that his declared income 
showed a reduction for each of the preceding three years;
didnt discuss other options for repaying the mortgage, such as interest-only;
didnt give him examples of the cost of a capital repayment mortgage to compare with an 
interest-only mortgage; and
didnt advise him that increasing his existing mortgage might be cheaper than 
re-mortgaging.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr Ws representative has 
asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what 
we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly 
the same test that the courts use in civil cases.
When youre as close to a difficult situation as Mr W has been for so long here, its a natural 
subjective reaction to want to pursue the issue with vigour. But I have a different remit. I 
have to be objective, and impartial, and sometimes that means stepping back from the fine 
detail and taking an overview. 
The starting point here is the point-of-sale documentation from 2009. The value of such 
documents is that theyre contemporaneous; so they should reflect what was said and 
agreed at the relevant time. Theyre not fool-proof, of course; its always possible information 
might have been recorded incorrectly, a point Ill return to in due course. But its typically 
more reliable than peoples individual recollections at a distance of time which, although 
given in good faith, can sometimes be inaccurate or contradictory. So unless theres a 
compelling reason to believe the information is inaccurate, well generally attach some 
weight to it.
Sesame advised Mr W on how to borrow the money he wanted to fund his overseas 
purchase. But that doesnt mean Sesame was in any way responsible for the overseas 
purchase itself, or advising Mr W on the suitability of it. By his own evidence, Mr Ws 
decision to invest overseas had already been made before he asked Sesame about how to 
fund it.  So Sesame had nothing to do with that decision, and it seems to me that this 
distinguishes Mr Ws case from the court case his representative has cited, where its 
reported that the broker advised the customer to invest.
As for whether Sesame should have expressly warned Mr W that buying a property 
overseas was a bad idea, its arguable that this was outside Sesames remit. Its also 
pertinent that the point-of-sale documentation records that Mr W only wanted advice on the 
mortgage itself. In that context, I wouldnt expect a broker to give unsolicited advice on a 
subject matter that didnt really fall within its remit in the first place.
The complaint against Sesame is that the re-mortgage should not have been provided, for 
the reasons I summarised earlier. Thats what I have to decide and in reaching my 
conclusions, I can have no regard for the hindsight that subsequent events have brought. 
Ive already dealt with the point on whether Sesame should have counselled Mr W not to buy 
the property. Ill address the rest in turn, starting with the questions of risk and affordability.
Contrary to what Mr Ws representative has argued, the point-of-sale documentation 
indicates that Sesame did make an assessment of both Mr Ws attitude to risk (mortgage 
risk, that is) and his ability to pay the mortgage under consideration. The mortgage Sesame 
recommended came with a monthly commitment below the maximum budget Mr W had set 
for himself. 
Looking at the figures from the time, including the income trend, theres no reason for 
Sesame to have taken the view that the mortgage might be unaffordable, such that it should 
not have been recommended to Mr W. It seems to me that any financial difficulties Mr W might have experienced since the re-mortgage began are more likely to have resulted from 
the problems overseas that happened later, rather than from the cost of the re-mortgage 
itself. 
The next two points that Mr Ws representative has mentioned appear to contradict each 
other. On the one hand, it says Sesame didnt discuss interest-only as an alternative to 
capital repayment. It then says Sesame didnt give Mr W an example for how much a capital 
repayment mortgage would cost in comparison with interest-only. The mortgage Sesame 
recommended was capital repayment, and the cost of it was documented in the standard 
format recommended by the FCA. 
Its not clear to me why Mr Ws representative would argue Sesame should have drawn his 
attention to the option of an interest-only loan instead. I say that not least because the 
point-of-sale documentation records, as part of the risk assessment the representative 
claims didnt happen, that Mr W wanted 100% certainty that the mortgage would be repaid 
by the term end.
Lastly, the point-of-sale documentation records that Sesame did consider whether a further 
advance from Mr Ws existing lender might be cheaper. It rejected that idea as the existing 
lenders interest rate was almost three times higher than the rate on offer from the new 
lender.
Ill make one other observation. Mr Ws representative argues that the purpose of the 
additional borrowing was misrepresented on the application form as being for home 
improvements, and that if the real reason had been declared, the lender would not have 
granted the mortgage. Im not sure how Mr Ws representative thinks this argument helps his 
case. Mr W signed the application form and in doing so, declared that everything it contained 
was accurate. What his representative now appears to be saying is that Mr W colluded with 
Sesame in making a false declaration with the intention of borrowing money by deception.
Mr W clearly had high hopes for his overseas purchase, but I cant find that Sesame was 
wrong to recommend the mortgage Mr W wanted because of what happened later. 
I understand how devastated Mr W must be that the purchase was taken away from him in 
the way it was. But however much sympathy I might have for his situation, overall I cant find 
that this has happened because of acts or omissions on the part of Sesame.
Mr W doesnt have to accept my conclusions, and if he doesnt, then neither he nor Sesame 
will be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions a court 
might impose, Mr Ws right to take legal action against Sesame over the subject matter of 
this complaint wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of it.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman