DRN-2398199
The complaint
 Mrs T (represented by her son) has complained that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending 
Stream) did not freeze interest and charges after a repayment plan was agreed due to her 
experiencing financial difficulties.
 
What happened
Mrs T took two instalment loans from Lending Stream between October 2014 and December 
2014. A summary of her borrowing, based on the information provided to us from the lender 
can be found below:
Loan Date Taken Date RepaidNo of Monthly 
InstalmentsAmount Borrowed
1 06/10/2014 outstanding 6 £390.00
2 30/12/2014 sold 6 £340.00
It appears that Mrs T ran into difficulty repaying her loans around the beginning of February 
2015.  On 5 February 2015, Mrs Ts son contacted Lending Stream to inform it that Mrs T 
had not been well and was unable to make her repayments. Lending Stream acknowledged 
the email the following day, explaining that it was unable to able to discuss Mrs Ts account 
with her son as it didnt have the correct authorisation to do so.
On 13 February 2015, Mrs T contacted Lending Stream to let it know that she was still ill and 
experiencing financial difficulties. And she enquired about putting a repayment plan in place. 
Lending Stream responded on the same day explaining that it required an income and 
expenditure assessment. Lending Stream also explained that extra interest and late fees 
had been added to her loan accounts as a result of no payments being received. 
On 24 February 2015, Mrs T emailed again asking for a repayment plan. Lending Stream 
acknowledged this email and sent a response on 26 February 2015, further re-iterating the 
information it needed (income and expenditure form) in order to set up a repayment plan.
On 26 March 2015, Mrs T emailed explaining that she was unable to provide details of her 
income and expenditure at that point as she was still ill and didnt need the stress that would 
entail of having to provide the information. 
On 31 March 2015, Mrs T emailed giving her son authorisation to discuss her account. 
Mrs Ts son called in and spoke to an agent to inform them that Mrs T and her family were 
facing financial difficulties and that they would be able to close the loan accounts in five 
weeks. The agent Mrs Ts son spoke to informed him that Mrs Ts loan would not be 
transferred to a debt collection agency, and to ignore payment reminders. It seems that 
Lending Stream tried to agree an arrangement at this point, but Mrs Ts son was unable to 
confirm the repayment amount.
On 1 April 2015, Lending Stream emailed both Mrs T and her son explaining that it was 
ready to set up a payment arrangement without taking details of Mrs Ts income and 
expenditure. The email further explained that it would need the amount Mrs T could afford to 
repay along with the dates of when she would be making the repayments. Lending Stream 
had arranged to speak with Mrs Ts son on 7 April 2015 in order to put a payment 
arrangement in place.
On 8 April 2015, Mrs Ts son spoke with Lending Stream and a payment arrangement was 
put in place as he had explained that Mrs T was not able to pay off the loan balances.
Lending Stream confirmed the arrangement on 10 April 2015. An arrangement was put in 
place for Mrs T to repay £5 per loan account each month, starting at the end of April 2015. It 
looks like, from the statement of account Ive been provided, that Mrs T stuck to this 
arrangement for loan 1 until at least December 2019 and the arrangement for loan 2 appears 
to have been paid without any problems until August 2019.  
On 13 September 2019, Mrs T received a letter stating loan 2 had been sold to a third party 
with a balance of £357.63. This appears to have been the catalyst for Mrs Ts complaint as 
she complained around a month later. Mrs Ts main complaint points are that Lending 
Stream didnt tell her that a payday loan should not be used for long-term borrowing. And 
that Lending Stream failed to deal with Mrs T in a sympathetic and positive way once it was 
aware she was experiencing financial difficulties.
In our latest assessment our adjudicators didnt think Lending Stream did anything wrong in 
agreeing Mrs Ts loans. And he didnt think Lending Stream were wrong for not explaining 
that they are not for long-term borrowing as this wasnt the type of loan it granted, the terms 
of both loans being only six months.
However, our adjudicator didnt think Lending Stream acted fairly by continuing to add 
interest and charges following an agreed payment arrangement. So, the adjudicator upheld 
Mrs Ts complaint about Lending Streams actions following the arrangement, and asked it to 
repay any interest and charges added from 8 April 2015, which is when a payment 
arrangement was put in place.
It appears that Mrs T agreed with our adjudicators opinion. Lending Stream didnt respond 
so I dont know what it thinks about our adjudicators recommendations.
 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
whilst Mrs T has held her loans. 
Firstly, Mrs T has raised concerns that Lending Stream did not inform her that these loans 
were not meant for long-term borrowing. Mrs T initially took out two instalment loans which 
were to be repaid in six monthly instalments. The loans were taken out in fairly quick 
succession which meant Mrs T was due to be indebted to Lending Stream for around nine 
months in total had the loans been repaid in line with the credit agreements. Having considered the number of loans Mrs T applied for and the amount of time she was 
due to be indebted to Lending Stream, I cant say Lending Stream were wrong not to inform 
her that these loans were not meant for long term borrowing. 
This is because Mrs T didnt apply for loans which were classed as long-term. It appears 
that Mrs T ran into financial difficulty shortly after the loans were approved which has meant 
the loans have been open for a significant amount of time longer than either party wouldve 
thought. But as this wasnt a fault of Lending Stream, I cant say the lender did anything 
wrong by not informing her during her loan applications.
With regards to what happened when Mrs T informed Lending Stream of her financial 
difficulty, I have set out a timeline and details of what subsequently happened in the 
background of this decision. So, both parties are aware of the contents, so Ill not repeat it 
in detail here.
I think whats clear is that Mrs T was keeping Lending Stream informed of her situation by 
emailing and asking her son to contact Lending Stream. I also think that once Lending 
Stream were aware of Mrs Ts financial difficulty, it tried to assist Mrs T by explaining what 
information it needed in order to agree to a payment arrangement. And once Mrs T was able 
to provide details of the amounts she could afford to repay and the dates, Lending Stream 
put a payment arrangement in place as soon as it had this information on 8 April 2015.
But I can see that it seems Lending Stream has continued to charge Mrs T interest whilst 
she was in her payment arrangement. In the circumstances of Mrs Ts case, I think the 
lender should have halted any interest and charges being applied to the account as Mrs T 
had informed it that she was experiencing financial difficulties and couldnt meet the 
contractual repayments. I think it was reasonable to have halted the interest and charges on 
both loans from the date the payment arrangement was agreed  which in this case was 8 
April 2015. 
Overall, I agree with what the adjudicator said. But I would point out that it isnt clear form the 
information Lending Stream has provided this service that interest was charged after the 
repayment plan was agreed. The statement of account seems to suggest that it was, given 
the balance at the time, and then taking into account the repayments we know Mrs T made. 
So, if Mrs T has been charged interest whilst on a payment arrangement. I think Lending 
Stream should re-work the account, removing any interest and charges applied to Mrs Ts 
loans since April 2015 until they are both repaid. Lending Stream should also take into 
account any repayments that have been made to the third party for loan 2 since the loan was 
sold.
It seems Lending Stream sold Mrs Ts second loan in September 2019. But its unclear why 
this happened. Lending Stream has provided a statement of account showing Mrs T adhered 
to her payment arrangement for both loans. It is also not clear why loan 1 wasnt sold to the 
third party at the same time as loan 2. Afterall, Mrs T was still making payments under her 
repayment plan that she had agreed in April 2015. 
But in saying that, Mrs T hadnt made her contractual repayments for a number of years 
(although had kept up to date with her payment arrangement). And Lending Stream is 
entitled to transfer the ownership of the loan(s) to a third party if it wished. And this is 
contained within the terms and condition of the credit agreement Mrs T agreed to at the 
inception of the loan; 
9.3 We may transfer or assign all or any of our rights under this Loan Agreement 
without your consent.So, while I appreciate Mrs T is unhappy that the second loan was sold, and I agree that it 
does seem peculiar that only one of the loans was sold, I cant say Lending Stream was 
wrong to do so because it was entitled to sell the debt on.   
Putting things right
As Lending Stream has sold the outstanding debt of loan 2 to a third party, it should buy this 
back if it is able to do so and then take the following steps. If it is not able to buy the debt 
back then it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
Lending Stream should remove all interest, fees and charges added to loans 1 and 2 
from 8 April 2015 onwards and treat any repayments made by Mrs T as though they 
had been repayments towards the outstanding loan balances. It should reconstruct 
Mrs Ts loan accounts to identify the date in which Mrs T would have repaid both 
loans 1 and 2.
If this results in Mrs T having made overpayments then it should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the 
date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled.
If there is still an outstanding balance, then it should try to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Mrs T. It shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of 
principal it has already written-off.
If it identifies the date on which Mrs T would have repaid the outstanding balance on  
loans 1 and 2, then it should remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Ts 
credit file from the date identified onwards. It should also mark these loans as settled 
from that date too.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to deduct tax from this interest. It should 
give Mrs T a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im partly upholding Mrs T complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman