DRN-3924278
The complaint
Mr F complains about how Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited has handled a claim made 
on his motor insurance policy. He wants it to settle his claim. 
What happened
Mr Fs car was stolen, and he made a claim on his policy. He had recently bought the car 
privately and didnt yet have the V5. There were then delays in the claim because 
Mulsannes agent gave Mr F incorrect information on what documents to provide. Mr F 
called and emailed Mulsanne for updates. But he was told his claim was still being 
processed. Mr F later borrowed money to buy a replacement car. 
After four months, Mr F was told by the police that his car had been recovered, but then that 
this wasnt his car and it was still stolen. Mulsanne told Mr F that it was likely his claim 
wouldnt be paid but this was with its underwriter to decide. After a further five months, Mr F 
passed his police contact details to Mulsanne, but it didnt contact him. Mulsanne saw that 
theft marker had been removed from the car and it closed the claim. But Mulsanne said the 
claim investigation wasnt yet completed. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She thought 
there was an issue with the ownership of the car. Mulsanne said the police had told it the car 
had been recovered and returned to its owner, who wasnt Mr F or the cars seller. So she 
thought it was reasonable for Mulsanne to further investigate the claim. 
But she thought Mulsanne should have kept Mr F better updated. And she thought it had 
caused delays in making a decision about the claim. She thought it should have spoken to 
the police. So she thought Mulsanne should reopen the claim and review it. And she thought 
Mulsanne should pay Mr F £550 compensation for the trouble and upset its claim handling 
had caused him. 
Mulsanne agreed to do this. But Mr F remained unhappy that his claim hadnt yet been 
settled. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed, so its come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that concerns have been raised that Mr F may have been the victim of fraud when 
he bought his car second-hand in a private sale. Mr F thought the car may have been 
registered incorrectly when it was first sold by a dealer and that this had led to the issues 
with ownership. Its also unclear whether or not Mr Fs car is still recorded as stolen or not. 
But I havent considered that here as Mulsannes investigation isnt yet completed and it 
hasnt yet made a decision about the claim. What I have considered is how Mulsanne 
handled Mr Fs claim and how it responded to his complaint. 
Mulsanne has a responsibility under the relevant regulations to handle claims promptly and 
fairly. And, by accepting the Investigators view about how it handled Mr Fs claim, I think it 
has agreed that it didnt do this on this occasion. I think these failing were:
It didnt keep Mr F updated about the progress of his claim, leaving him to repeatedly 
contact it for news.
It gave Mr F incorrect information about which DVLA documents he should provide in the 
absence of his V5, causing delay.
It caused long delays in the claim when it didnt follow-up the information provided, such 
as the telematics data, and didnt progress the claim proactively. 
It didnt speak to the policeman who told Mr F that his car remained stolen. This may 
have clarified the status of the claim. 
It closed the claim without providing Mr F with a decision.
When a business makes a mistake, as Mulsanne accepts it has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error had on the consumer. 
Mulsanne accepted the Investigators recommendation that it should reopen and review the 
claim as soon as possible. I think that would reasonably restore Mr Fs position as he has 
been waiting for an outcome for a long time. Mulsannes claim handling has had a significant 
impact on Mr F:
He has been caused avoidable trouble and upset by having to chase Mulsanne for 
updates.
He has been caused frustration by being given incorrect information and by Mulsanne 
telling him, incorrectly, that it was still waiting for telematics data. 
He was without transport for three weeks until he borrowed money to buy a replacement 
car that is more expensive to run. 
He has had no contact from Mulsanne since June 2022, leaving him frustrated that he 
doesnt know what is happening with his claim. 
Our Investigator recommended that Mulsanne should pay Mr F £550 compensation for the 
impact its errors had. I think thats in keeping with the level recommended in our published 
guidance. And so Im satisfied thats fair and reasonable. 
Putting things right
I require Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited to reopen and review Mr Fs claim as soon 
as possible and pay him £550 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
its level of service. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above, as its 
already agreed to do. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman