DRN-2980438
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy Great Lakes Insurance SE has declined to provide her with a full cash 
refund, after she cancelled her travel insurance policy. 
What happened
On 11 March 2020 Mrs H purchased a single trip travel insurance policy, which provided her 
with cancellation cover from this date. The policy also provided cover for Mrs Hs trip, 
including post-departure cover, with her due to go on holiday from 3 August 2020 to 8 
August 2020. The premium Mrs H paid for the policy was £53.22. And the policy also 
included cover for two medical conditions Mrs H declared.
On 1 July 2020, Mrs H contacted Great Lakes and let it know that her planned holiday 
unfortunately wasnt going ahead any longer, given the coronavirus pandemic. Because of 
this, Mrs H told Great Lakes the insurance policy she had purchased was no longer needed. 
And she asked for a full refund of the £53.22 she had paid.
Great Lakes told Mrs H it wasnt able to provide her with a full refund for the policy. It 
explained its position to Mrs H and discussed options going forward  including the offer of a 
pro-rata refund in the form of a credit voucher  with the value attached to it being £15.51.
Its my understanding that at this point Mrs H accepted the credit voucher offered to them. 
But Mrs H didnt feel the options given to her were fair. So, she raised her concerns with 
Great Lakes. 
Great Lakes responded to these concerns. It explained that the terms and conditions of Mrs 
Hs policy said that no refund would be provided if a policy was cancelled after the 14-day 
cooling-off period. So, under the policy no refund of premium was actually due to Mrs H. 
It also said that Mrs H had benefitted from cover under their policy from 11 March 2020. 
But Great Lakes went on to say it did understand these are uncertain times and that it had 
been working to go above and beyond the terms and conditions of this policy. With this in 
mind, it said it would be willing to offer Mrs H the following options;
The opportunity to move her single trip dates to within 18 months of the policys 
original purchase date, compared to the usual 13, which is free to its customers to 
provide reassurance of cover. It said this was providing the duration and destination 
for the holiday remained the dame, and the original policy dates hadnt already 
expired. It said that if a different duration or destination was chosen, an additional 
premium may be charged.
A pro-rata credit voucher, for the unused part of their travel insurance policy  which 
equated to £15.51. This voucher would need to be used to purchase a new policy 
and would be valid for 36 months. 
Mrs H remained of the opinion the above options were fair. She considered that she should 
be provided with a refund of the full premium she had paid for the policy. 
Because Mrs H remained unhappy with Great Lakes position on the matter, she referred her 
complaint to this service for an independent review.
Our investigators opinion
Our investigator considered this complaint and set out the details of the relevant cancellation 
rights  and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. They also explained that it is 
a fundamental principle of insurance law, that if the insurer has started to bear risk  for 
however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. The investigator said that this 
meant its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it 
covered during that time. 
The investigator also explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of 
insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started on 11 March 2020, and 
the policy covered various risks during from that point, until the date the holiday Mrs H was 
due to embark on was cancelled. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
They thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint 
was for Great Lakes to provide Mr H with a pro-rata credit voucher, calculated based on the 
remaining premium when Mrs Hs holiday was cancelled, until the end date of the policy on 8 
August 2020.
The investigator noted that Mrs H hadnt been able to provide information or evidence to 
show when their holiday was actually cancelled. And so, he felt it was fairest to take the date 
Great Lakes had used to calculate the pro-rata refund. Great Lakes had used the date of 26 
June 2020 to calculate the refund from, which was before Mrs H had called it to cancel the 
policy. Given this took into account Mrs Hs holiday was likely cancelled around 1 July 2020, 
when Mrs H called Great Lakes to say the holiday was no longer going ahead, our 
investigator considered this fair. 
It was also clarified that this voucher being offered was valid for 36 months, from the point of 
policy cancellation. It could be used for a new single trip, or annual multi-trip insurance 
policy. Mrs H could also transfer this voucher to a friend or a relative as a gift, if she would 
rather do this. And our investigator considered this fair.
Mrs Hs response
Mrs H didnt agree with our investigators opinion, and explained she still felt a full refund of 
the premium she had paid was due to her. Mrs H noted that;
She felt the 14-day cooling off period mentioned was irrelevant in this case, as she 
wasnt to know a worldwide coronavirus pandemic would occur;
She wasnt able to use the policy she had purchased at all;
The coronavirus pandemic was an unusual circumstance.
Because Mrs H didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case, so I wont 
repeat these again in detail here.
The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of 
your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, 
less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make, a 
claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling-off period no premium will 
be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as 
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions. 
Im not upholding this complaint because;
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling-off period and so there is no requirement under 
the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a refund to Mrs H. I 
appreciate Mrs H feels that the cooling-off period is irrelevant in the consideration of this 
case, given the pandemic was unforeseen. But I dont agree. Whilst the pandemic was 
unprecedented Mrs H had purchased a contract of insurance. And so, the industry rules, 
regulations and law apply  as do the terms and conditions of the policy. Including those that 
note there is no requirement for the insurer to offer a refund to Mrs H after the 14 days. 
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that it wont provide a refund after the 
cooling-off period, unless in exceptional circumstances. And, it gives examples of what 
would be considered exceptional circumstances. I can appreciate why Mrs H called to 
discuss and then cancel their policy. But I dont think her reasons for cancelling the policy 
reasonably fall into what would be considered exceptional circumstances. 
I say this because I dont think the global coronavirus pandemic, which affected many of 
Great Lakes policyholders, is one which the policy term relating to discretion is intended to 
cover. The examples of exceptional circumstances given in the policy terms relate to 
bereavement or changes in the policyholders health. 
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint, 
including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-19. And in the 
circumstances of this case, I think Great Lakes offer of a pro-rata credit voucher is fair.
Mrs H was covered from the date she purchased her policy, for any cancellation claim she 
needed to make. And the premium she paid included this cover. As Great Lakes were on 
risk for any potential claim during this time, Im satisfied its reasonable that Mrs H pay for 
Great Lakes acceptance of this risk. 
Mrs H called Great Lakes on 1 July 2020, to cancel the policy because it was no longer 
needed, as her holiday had been cancelled. As above, Mrs H hasnt provided this service 
with evidence of the actual date the holiday was cancelled. But as the call to Great Lakes was made on 1 July 2020, it seems likely the policy was cancelled at this time, if not shortly 
before. Great Lakes has noted a cancellation date of 26 June 2020  so a few days before 
Mrs H called. And it seems reasonable that Great Lakes have made this decision, given its 
likely this was the point at which there was no longer a holiday to insure.
Because there was nothing left for Great Lakes to insure from around 26 June 2020, and this 
was an unprecedented situation, I do think Great Lakes offer to provide a pro-rata refund, 
from the approximate date of the holiday cancellation is fair. It means Great Lakes isnt 
charging a premium when it knows there is nothing left to cover.  
Given this, I think a voucher for the remaining time left on the policy (from 26 June 2020 to 8 
August 2020) is a fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances of this case. 
I dont think the terms of the voucher Great Lakes has offered Mrs H are unreasonably 
restrictive. It does provide Mrs H with a number of options, including the ability to purchase a 
single or annual multi-trip policy, or gift the voucher to someone else. And it allows Mrs H 
cover to go on the same holiday at a later date than originally planned. Given that under the 
industry rules, and under the policy, Mrs H wouldnt be entitled to a refund of premium, I 
think this is a fair and reasonable offer given the situation. 
I understand Mrs H feels the value attached to the voucher should be for the full cost of the 
policy. But I do think the value attached to the voucher is fair. As above, Mrs H had the 
benefit of cover under the policy from 11 March 2020 to 26 June 2020, and so the value of 
the voucher reflects this. 
The voucher amount is calculated just before Mrs H first called about cancelling the policy, 
given their holiday had just been cancelled  26 June 2020, to the date the policy was due to 
end, 8 August 2020. This meant there would be 44 days of the policy unused, where Great 
Lakes werent on risk - which equates to £15.51 of the premium paid. As this offer reflects 
the fact Great Lakes was not on risk for the 44 days after the holiday was cancelled, I dont 
think Great Lakes has treated Mrs H differently, and therefore unfairly, in relation to how it 
has set and calculated the voucher amount in this case. And so, I dont require it to do 
anything more.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that Im satisfied the voucher Great Lakes has offered 
Mrs H is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So, I dont require it to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman