DRN-4047815
The complaint
Mr B complains about the way Santander UK Plc charged him interest on his credit card 
balance.
What happened
In December 2022 Mr B applied for a card with Santander. The application included a deal 
for a balance transfer of £1,800 for 18 months at 0% interest. Mr B said the transfer was 
made on 25 December 2022. Mr B said he paid the minimum amount until April and at the 
start of April his balance was £1,410. He then started to use the card to purchase items. Mr 
B said his April statement had an outstanding balance of £1,886.85 and payment was due 
by 7 May. He said as the difference between the interest free deal and the balance was 
£476.85 he paid £350 on 27 April and £126.85 on 6 May to cover the items he had 
purchased. 
Mr B later checked his account online and found he had been charged interest of £4.17. He 
said as far as he was aware he'd cleared everything, so on 11 May he contacted Santander 
through its online chat service. He didn't receive an answer to his queries but was told he'd 
get a return phone call. He said Santander did not call. 
On 23 May Mr B said he tried to purchase a gift card for £25. But when he checked online 
this purchase and two other purchases were not showing. On 24 May he said he received a 
text from Santander informing him his promotional balance transfer rate would end on 14 
June 2024. He said this seemed to confirm that the remaining promotional balance was 
interest free until 14 June. Mr B said he didn't understand
1. why he'd been charged interest when he'd repaid all his purchases, only leaving the 
0% transfer balance; 
2. whether the gift card and other items had been charged to his account or 
3. why his interest free balance transfer promotion was due to expire on 14 June and 
not 25 June, the latter being 18 months from the date of the transfer. 
Mr B was told that as part of the free transfer the payments to his account were taken 
against this balance before the purchase balance. He said he was told if the card is used for 
any purchase it cancels the agreement and interest is charged on the whole balance. And he 
was told the £25 gift card payment had not been charged to his account. Mr B said 
Santander told him the 18 months of 0% interest ran from the date his account was opened 
not the date the money was paid into the account. As a goodwill gesture Santander agreed 
to refund the interest charged on 9 May of £4.17 but would not refund the interest from the 
following month. 
Mr B complained to Santander. He said he found these actions underhand. In its final 
response Santander said no errors had been made and it didn't uphold his complaint. 
In July Mr B instructed Santander to close his credit card account. He said he'd overpaid by 
10p and asked Santander to repay this by cheque as per its website instructions. Mr B 
brought his complaint to this service. He said he is unsure if what he was told is correct as it 
is more likely that payments will only be taken against the higher rate portion of the credit 
card balance only after the 0% transfer is repaid. Mr B also wanted to know why
the gift card transaction he made on 23 May didn't go through; 
his balance was repayable on 14 June and not 25 June 2024; 
a week after closing his account the account was still open.
I issued a provisional decision on 10 March 2023 and was minded to uphold the complaint. I 
said:
Interest charged
Mr B said Santander has included in the agreement for its 0% interest transfers a 
section stating that any payments received will be taken against these transfers 
before any items purchased, which enables them to charge interest on the items 
purchased. He said by applying it against the portion with the lowest (0%) rate 
Santander are clearly trying to get around the intention of the law. Mr B went as far 
as saying he believes Santander is breaking the law. He said Santander is also 
hiding this in the small print of the agreement when, as a major part of the 
agreement, it should be highlighted to prospective customers.  
Mr B went on to say that normally, (by this I assume he means on other accounts 
with other finance providers), during the interest free period no interest is charged on 
the free interest portion of the balance. He said at the end of the free interest deal 
any part of the free interest balance outstanding is added to the purchased items 
balance outstanding and interest is charged on the whole balance outstanding on the 
card. 
Mr B said he was told by Santander when he spoke to it that if he was to use the card 
at any time it cancels the free interest portion so he would then pay interest on the 
whole balance. He said this meant that if he did use the card as soon as he received 
it he would be charged interest on the whole balance, including the free portion, from 
that time on unless he repaid the whole of the outstanding balance. Mr B said that if 
customers knew this beforehand then they wouldnt transfer a credit balance to 
Santander. 
We are an informal dispute resolution service and while we do take account of the 
law we base our decisions on what we find is fair and reasonable. It's not my place to 
say whether Santander has broken the law. That would be for a court to decide. And 
my decision must be based on the individual circumstances of this complaint against 
Santander. In making this decision I have had regard for the FCA rules and guidance 
around this issue here, as thats relevant for me to consider in deciding whats fair 
and reasonable. 
From the evidence I've seen and Mr B's detailed complaint, it does appear Mr B's 
intention was to manage his credit card account in such a way as to avoid paying 
interest. He transferred a balance into his account on a 0% interest promotional deal 
for 18 months and he sought to repay his purchase balance in April in order to 
specifically avoid incurring interest. 
I can see Santander has charged Mr B interest which he has disputed, and he has 
reasonably asked for an explanation as to how that interest has been calculated, 
particularly in relation to his 0% balance transfer versus his subsequent purchases and where this features on the cards terms and conditions. 
In its final response Santander said it had made Mr B aware that as he only had a 
balance transfer offer on the card his terms and conditions state that any and all 
monies go to the highest amount that garners interest, as such any payments made 
would go to the balance transfer not the purchases. And indeed in the call notes 
provided by Santander it says it confirmed with Mr B that even if he pays off the 
purchases on the card any and all monies go to the item that incurs the highest 
interest which is the balance transfer, which, it said, is explained in the terms and 
conditions of the account. 
In a response to our request for a further explanation Santander said 
If a customer pays more than what is owed on the last billed balance, the 
overpayment is allocated against the new transactions in the pending 
statement. Payments are then allocated against the highest interest-bearing 
balances. 
In this case, the interest charge of £4.17 will relate to the transactions made 
in the previous statement (between 10 March and 11 April) from the date of 
each transaction up to the statement date of 10 May 2022. 
Therefore, in order not to be charged interest, the customer would have 
needed to pay the full billed balance from the last statement which was 
£1,886.85 which includes the balance transfer amount. 
I'm persuaded Mr B sought to take advantage of the interest-free period which as 
stated on his statements is a maximum of 56 days for purchases if he pays the 
balance in full and on time. As far as he's concerned he did do this for the purchase 
balance. It also says in his statements there is no interest-free period on cash 
transactions and balance transfers (subject to any interest-free promotional offer). 
But I can't see that Santander has provided a reasonable explanation in response to 
Mr Bs request as to how this affected his own account and how the interest was 
calculated. And the explanation provided to this service is also unclear. 
Mr B was conducting his account in a particular way and was doing so to avoid 
paying interest. I think in doing this, the terms and conditions werent clear on how 
interest would be calculated based on what Mr B wanted to do here. But in saying 
this, I must be mindful that terms and conditions are often wide ranging to apply to 
many customers. 
I can see there are some terms related to the balance transfer element, but I can't 
see where Mr B would have a clear understanding that were he to use his card for 
new purchases this would directly affect his 0% balance transfer balance and any 
interest he would be charged. Its also not clear to me why the balance transfer is the 
item which incurs the highest interest when it is 0% until 2024. All of this leads me to 
understand why Mr B sought to query this with Santander to better understand why 
interest had been applied as it had been.
Santander clearly believes that it has calculated and applied the interest correctly 
here, but Im not persuaded that its clearly explained why that is to Mr B, or to this 
service. With that in mind, I'm persuaded Santander hasn't been fair or reasonable in 
the way it has explained how the interest has been charged on Mr B's account, how 
this has affected the balance transfer balance and interest, and where this is explained clearly in the terms and conditions.
Why the balance is repayable on 14 June and not 25 June 2024 
In its final response Santander said it made Mr B aware the entirety of the card would 
need to be paid off by 14 June when the offer ends. I've read the terms and 
conditions of Mr B's account. It says: 
If you ask us to make a Balance Transfer when you open your Account with 
us, we will treat the instruction as having been made on either: i) for 
applications made via branch or telephony  the date your application is 
accepted; or ii) for applications made online or mobile  the date your Card is 
activated. 
Although Mr B made the transfer on 25 December 2022 Santander treats the balance 
transfer as having been made on the day Mr B's card was activated or the date the 
application was accepted, which would appear to be on or around 14 December. 
Gift card transaction and closure of the account 
Mr B has queried why the gift card transaction didn't go through on his account and 
why there was an apparent delay in the closure of his account. It's not clear to me 
why the transaction didn't go through and Santander hasnt provided an explanation. 
With respect to the account closure, I can see a short delay occurred but I believe the 
closure did go ahead. 
As I wasnt persuaded Mr B received a reasonable explanation with respect to the interest 
charges on his account, subject to any further information I might receive I was minded to 
instruct Santander to refund the interest charged on Mr Bs account between 1 April 2022 
and when the account closed, if it hasnt already done so, and to pay Mr B £100 in 
compensation for the inconvenience this situation has caused him. 
Mr B accepted my provisional decision. Santander did not respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr B has accepted my provisional decision and no further evidence was received from 
Santander, I see no reason to depart from its conclusions.  
Putting things right
To put things right Santander UK Plc should:
1. refund the interest charged on Mr Bs account between 1 April 2022 and when the 
account closed, if it hasnt already done so, 
2. and to pay Mr B £100 in compensation for the inconvenience this situation has 
caused him.  My final decision
My final decision is to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman