DRN-2484293
The complaint
Mr B complains that Creation Financial Services Limited (Creation) acted unfairly by 
charging him the full interest when hed paid off a large proportion of his credit card 
balance.
What happened
Towards the end of January 2020 Mr B asked Creation how much interest hed be 
charged if he didnt pay his February 2020 account balance in full. The call handler wasnt 
able to confirm that figure. According to Creations call notes, Mr B thought hed probably 
have to pay about £50 interest based on his own calculations and when comparing 
interest previously paid on similar amounts (to the remaining balance).
When he got his March 2020 bill, Mr B noted Creation had charged him interest of around
£190, because he didnt pay the full balance in February. He wasnt happy about that, 
particularly because he says had he known, hed have cleared the account balance in full 
as he usually does. Or, he could have paid the minimum payment and been charged the 
same amount of interest.
Mr B complained to Creation in March 2020. He said that whilst he didnt dispute what 
the account terms might say, he wasnt aware hed have to pay interest on the full 
account balance because he hadnt been charged it before (because hed always paid 
his bills in full). Mr B said he hoped Creation might reach a compromise with him about 
how much interest hed have to pay, particularly as he was a long-standing and regular 
paying customer.
Creation replied the following month. It noted that when Mr B got in touch in January 2020 
to ask what the likely interest payment would be (if he didnt clear his account balance in 
full), the agent wasnt able to confirm that figure, as they hadnt been trained to do so. 
Creation thought the call handler should have confirmed that interest was payable on the 
full account balance and not just any remaining balance after a partial payment had been 
made. So, it credited Mr Bs account with £50 as compensation for any inconvenience 
caused.
Mr B wasnt happy with Creations response, so he complained to us. Our investigator 
looked into the complaint and was satisfied Mr B usually paid his credit card balance in 
full. He was also satisfied that Mr B could have borrowed the equivalent amount to his 
remaining credit card balance from another provider and been charged less interest. So, 
the investigator didnt think it was fair for Creation to charge Mr B the amount of interest it 
did, particularly as the call handler hadnt given Mr B all the information that would have 
been helpful to him. To put things right, the investigator recommended Creation refund Mr 
B £164.71 (the difference between the interest Creation charged and the amount of 
interest he would have paid if hed borrowed an equivalent amount to his remaining 
balance from another credit provider). The investigator also thought Creation should pay 
Mr B another £50 compensation to recognise the inconvenience it had caused.
Mr B accepted the investigators recommendation, but Creation didnt. Amongst its 
comments, Creation said information is provided on monthly statements about the interest 
free periods that apply if an account balance is paid in full every month. And if the balance 
isnt fully repaid, the information makes clear that interest is charged on a daily basis. It 
also said this is set out within the terms and conditions attached to the account. Creation 
did again acknowledge that its call handler could have said more about how interest is 
calculated. And it pointed out that it had already given Mr B £50 compensation to 
recognise the inconvenience caused. 
Our investigator responded to Creations comments and again explained why he felt it 
needed to do more. Whilst Creation didnt agree, it said it was willing to pay Mr B a further 
compensation payment of £50 as a goodwill gesture. As Creation hasnt accepted the 
investigators assessment, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I sent Mr B and Creation my provisional decision on 24 November 2020. Ive included 
relevant extracts below.
Mr B does appear to accept that the terms of his account explain how interest will be 
charged. But he doesnt think its fair for Creation to charge him interest on his full 
account balance when hed already paid a fair chunk of it off. As Mr B put it to our 
investigator, he didnt think hed have to pay 100% interest on a 20% balance.
Whilst I follow Mr Bs logic, I dont think hes making the right comparison. Although he 
only had around 20% of his balance outstanding after making a payment, he had 
borrowed the whole amount shown on his account statement. So, in line with his account 
terms, thats the amount in relation to which interest would be calculated - unless Mr B 
paid his balance off in full.
Creation accepts its staff could have given Mr B more detailed information about how 
interest is calculated. And so, its recognised the inconvenience caused to Mr B by 
crediting his account with £50 and by offering to give him a further £50 in compensation. 
But it doesnt agree that it shouldnt charge him interest. And I think thats a reasonable 
solution to Mr Bs complaint.
I appreciate Mr B asked Creation to give him an idea of how much interest hed have to 
pay so he could decide how much of his account balance to pay off. Particularly as he 
didnt have his February statement at that point - that was due about a week later. I think it 
would have been difficult for the call handler to say how much interest would be charged. 
Thats because interest changes regularly as new transactions are made on the account. 
So, I don't find it unfair that the call handler didn't answer that point.
And whilst I accept Mr B hadnt yet received the relevant statement, he had received other 
statements, including the one dated 7 January 2020. And that statement includes 
important information such as how interest is calculated and the interest free period that 
might apply if the statement balance is paid in full. It also included an estimated interest 
figure with an explanation about how thats calculated. And, before his next payment 
became due by 26 February (and after hed spoken to Creation), Mr B would have 
received his February statement. So, I think there would have been an opportunity for Mr 
B to realise, based on the information included in his statements, that interest would be 
payable on the whole balance it it wasnt paid off in full.
I appreciate that Mr B probably hadnt paid close attention to the information about 
interest on his statements, as hed always paid off his account balance in full. So, I can 
see why he might not have realised that even though hed paid off some of his balance, hed still borrowed the whole amount. And, in line with the account terms and other 
information hed had, that meant interest would be due on the whole amount unless 
repaid in full.
And I can also appreciate why he might now feel Creation shouldnt charge him the full 
interest as a goodwill gesture  particularly given his payment history and long-standing 
as a Creation customer. But goodwill gestures are entirely discretionary, theyre not 
something that the terms of Mr Bs agreement with Creation entitle him to. And, as such, I 
don't think it would be fair for me to say whether or not Creation should offer goodwill 
gestures. Thats a matter for Creation.
I agree that as Mr B had taken the time to contact Creation about the interest, it could 
have gone into a bit more detail about how it would be calculated. And that might have 
given Mr B more of an insight into how much interest would be due, which might have 
helped him decide how much of his balance to repay. So, I can see that, even though 
Mr Bs statements provide information about how interest is calculated, Creation could 
have gone further when it discussed the matter with him. But I don't think its entirely its 
fault that Mr B didn't realise how much interest he would need to pay. So, I don't think 
Creation needs to refund the higher interest figure its charged Mr B. And, in recognition 
that it could have gone further when explaining the position, Creation has offered Mr B 
goodwill gestures totalling £100. I think thats generous in the circumstances, so Im not 
going to instruct it to take any further action.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr B accepted my provisional decision and Creation said it had no further comments to 
make.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr B nor Creation have made further comments in response to my provisional 
decision, I see no reason to change what I said in that decision. 
My final decision
Creation has credited Mr Bs account with £50 and has offered to pay him a further £50 in 
compensation. Im satisfied thats a reasonable response in the circumstances. So, £50 is 
all Creation Financial Services Limited needs to pay Mr B now if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2021.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman