DRN-2279297
The complaint
Mr M complains that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited (Watford) cancelled his 
car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M took out a motor insurance policy with Watford, which was cancelled shortly after as a 
result of it discovering fraudulent activity connected to Mr M. Watford said the checks it 
carried out linked Mr M to other fraudulent applications, but also said it was unable to 
release any further information.
 
Mr M states that the accusations are false and would like the marker recorded on the central 
database to be removed and a refund of his premium.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that the policy 
premiums had already been refunded by the business and that, based on the information 
she had seen, she didnt think Watfords decision to cancel the policy and record it as 
fraudulent was unfair. Mr M didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as out investigator and for the same 
reasons.
The policy Mr M took out states:
We have the right to cancel Your Policy immediately, at any time during the Period of 
Insurance, where there is evidence of fraud or a valid reason for doing so Valid reasons 
allowing Us to immediately cancel may include but are not limited to:

c) Where We have evidence of fraud or dishonesty.
Watford has provided us with evidence to show that this policy application was linked to 
other fraudulent applications. And based on the evidence Ive seen of those links, I dont 
think Watford acted unreasonably in cancelling Mr Ms policy and recording a marker against 
his name on the database.
The policy terms set out that Watford is able to cancel the policy immediately in these 
circumstances, so it follows that I dont think it has acted unfairly in doing this.
I realise Mr M has said that he has never taken out an insurance policy before and hasnt 
been involved in any fraudulent activity. And he would like further details from Watford. 
However I have reviewed the information provided by Watford and am satisfied that it had 
sufficient evidence of the links to other fraudulent applications to take the steps it did in 
cancelling the policy.
I note that Watford has agreed to refund the fee which was retained from Mr Ms premium so 
this aspect of Mr Ms complaint is now resolved  and I cant ask Watford to do anything 
further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 January 2021.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman