DRN-4062370
The complaint
Mrs S and Mr W complain about AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limiteds handling of 
a third party claim following a road traffic accident involving Mr W.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ill provide only a brief 
summary here.
At the relevant times, Mrs S had a car insurance policy underwritten by AA, under which 
Mr W was a named driver.
Mr W was involved in an accident and AA took over the handling of the discussions with the 
third party insurer, as one would expect.
In short, Mr W received correspondence from the third party insurer and passed it to AA, as 
instructed. The correspondence gave notice that the third party insurer intended to take court 
action against Mr W.
AA erroneously took no action. And the net result was that Mr W had a County Court 
Judgement (CCJ) issued against him  in August 2021.
When Mr W brought this to AAs attention, they took action to deal properly with the third 
party claim. And they had the CCJ set aside by the court  in November 2021.
Mr W made a complaint to AA. They admitted their error and paid Mr W £400 in 
compensation for his trouble and upset.
Mr W wasnt happy with this outcome and brought his complaint to us. He said his credit 
rating and credit limit had been affected by the CCJ at a time when he was moving house 
and had expenses to cover.
He said hed had to borrow money from friends and suffered embarrassment, inconvenience 
and stress. And he thought £400 was insufficient compensation for his trouble and upset in 
all the circumstances.
Our investigator looked into it and thought AA should increase the compensation to £1,200 
for the trouble and upset experienced by Mrs S and Mr W as a result of AAs error.
AA disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
Because I disagreed with our investigators view, I issued a provisional decision. This 
allowed both AA and Mrs S and Mr W a chance to provide further information or evidence or 
to comment on my thinking before I make my final decision on this case.
My provisional decision 
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres absolutely no dispute here about AAs error in ignoring the third party 
correspondence. And theres no doubt at all that this error led to the CCJ being 
issued against Mr W.
So, the only thing for me to consider is the appropriate level of compensation to be 
awarded to Mr W and Mrs S.
Our investigator said £1,200 in compensation would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this case.
AA disagreed with that. They said our investigator hadnt recognised that theyd had 
the CCJ set aside as soon as practicable after they became aware of the situation. 
So, it had affected Mr Ws credit rating only for around three months or so (August to 
November 2021).
And they pointed out that our investigator said £1,200 was fair because of the trouble 
and upset experienced by both Mr W and Mrs S. They pointed out the CCJ was 
against Mr W, not Mrs S  and there was no evidence Mrs S had suffered any trouble 
and upset at all.
I should say first of all, that Im minded to agree with AA on that latter point. We 
contacted Mrs S to get her consent to us looking into the complaint made by Mr W 
simply because she was the policyholder.
Theres been no evidence provided to us at all so far to suggest Mrs S was affected 
in any way whatsoever by AAs error. And it seems unlikely to me that Mrs S was in 
fact in any way affected. If that assumption is incorrect, Mrs S and Mr W have the 
opportunity now to provide any such evidence, in response to this provisional 
decision.
AA are also correct to say that once they had the CCJ set aside, it no longer had any 
effect on Mr Ws credit rating. So, the impact of their error was felt for only the three 
months or so between August and November 2021.
I know Mr W has questioned this. Hes shown us that his credit score went down by 
72 points in September 2021, after the CCJ was issued. And it only came back up by 
33 points when the CCJ was set aside.
However, once a CCJ has been set aside, credit reference agencies cease to record 
it or take it into account in determining an individuals credit rating. Mr Ws rating may 
have been affected by other events in the relevant period. Not least, I note that he 
moved home. And changing your home address will impact your credit rating (for 
better or worse).
So, Im satisfied that the CCJ, once it had been set aside in November 2021, ceased 
to have any impact on Mr Ws credit rating.
It follows that Mr W suffered trouble and upset as a result of AAs error only for the 
three months between the CCJ being issued and it being set aside. It would not be 
appropriate to award compensation to Mr W on the basis that his credit rating had 
suffered lasting damage.Because there was seemingly no effect on Mrs S and because there was no longer 
term impact on Mr W after November 2021, Im minded to agree with AA that the 
£1,200 compensation suggested by our investigator isnt justified in all the 
circumstances.
However, Im also minded to conclude that the £400 compensation AA offered and 
paid to Mr W isnt sufficient. Ill explain why.
Mr W did exactly what AA asked of him in response to the third party claim. Through 
their error alone, he had a CCJ recorded against him and his credit rating affected. 
This meant his credit card limit was reduced fairly radically by his bank. At a time 
when Mr W, who was moving house, would have understandably wanted to use that 
credit facility.
Mr W tells us this meant he had to rely on friends for purchases and/or loans. And 
that would have been both necessary, in all the circumstances, and embarrassing 
and humiliating for Mr W.
Mr W was also inconvenienced in having to arrange to borrow money and in having 
to prompt AA about the CCJ and follow up with them to make sure theyd taken the 
appropriate action.
Mr W will also quite understandably have been worried and stressed by the CCJ 
being on his record  and that will have been significant concern until it became 
absolutely clear that the CCJ had been set aside.
Taking all of that into account, Im minded at present to uphold Mrs S and Mr Ws 
complaint and to require AA to pay £600 in compensation for the trouble and upset 
experienced by Mr W.
The responses to my provisional decision
AA accepted the outcome proposed in my provisional decision and agreed to pay Mr W 
£600 in total in compensation for his trouble and upset, rather than the £400 theyd 
previously offered.
Mrs S didnt respond, so Ill assume she had no further information, evidence or comment 
she wished to provide. Mr W responded only to confirm that he had nothing to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
None of the parties to this complaint has provided any further information or comments for 
me to consider since I issued my provisional decision. 
Whilst I have nonetheless gone through our case file again to check my earlier assumptions 
and thinking, I have no reason to change my mind about the outcome of this case. Im going 
to uphold Mrs S and Mr Ws complaint, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision.Putting things right
I also remain of the view that AA should pay Mr W £600 in total for the trouble and upset he 
experienced as a result of their errors in the handling of the third party claim. Again, for the 
reasons set out in my provisional decision.
AA have told us that theyd already paid Mr W the £400 they originally offered in response to 
his complaint to them. If that is the case, they now need to pay him a further £200 to make 
up the £600 payment in total.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mrs S and Mr Ws 
complaint.
AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited must pay Mr W £600 in total for his trouble and 
upset. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman