DRN-3900089
The complaint
Mr W says the amount Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc, trading as Novuna Personal Finance 
(who Ill call Novuna) have offered to settle his claim is unreasonable.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr W, but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a fixed sum loan, as is the 
case here, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer 
Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement 
has a like right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I 
dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
Section 49 (1) of the Consumer Rights Act (2015) says that:
Every contract to supply a service is to be treated as including a term that the trader must
perform the service with reasonable care and skill.
I think there has been a breach of contract here as I dont think the installation has been
performed with reasonable care and skill. That was confirmed by the independent inspector 
who reviewed the installation in November 2021.
The inspector said the Standard falls below what can be considered acceptable. He listed 
many issues that needed to be resolved and, in particular he explained that some lead trays, 
cavity closures, and trickle vents, were required before work should have commenced.
In a subsequent email to the business the inspector explained that he would advise a range 
of between £1900 and £2400 would be sufficient to complete the remedial works.
Whilst I understand that Mr W thinks that doesnt cover all of the issues in the report I think 
the inspectors comments suggests it does. Ive not been given details of any other issues 
that the inspector hasnt included in the report, and I therefore think the inspectors estimate 
is a reasonable one to bring the work back to an acceptable standard.
Novuna offered Mr W £2,500 to settle his claim and they explained that included an amount 
in respect of goodwill. 
Id expect Novuna to fund the cost of remedial work and to provide some compensation for 
any distress and inconvenience their actions may have caused. I think there has been some 
distress and inconvenience caused by Novuna as their initial resolution didnt resolve all the 
issues that were subsequently identified by the independent inspector. So, Mr W was kept 
waiting longer than he should have been for a resolution. But taking all of the issues into 
account I think the £2,500 settlement fee Novuna offered was reasonable to cover distress, 
inconvenience, and remedial work and Im not asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman