DRN-3707953
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that The Governor and Company of the Bank of Ireland (BoI) has
unfairly charged them higher interest rates on their mortgage since 2015.
What happened
2008 Mr and Mrs B took out a mortgage with Bristol & West Mortgages (a trading name of
the Governor and Company of the Bank of Ireland). They borrowed around £180,000 on
interest only terms. Mr and Mrs B self-certified their income. No proof of income was
required by BoI to approve the loan. Their mortgage was on an interest rate of 5.89% fixed
for five years until 31 January 2013.
In 2015 Mr and Mrs B enquired about making changes to their mortgage  including
switching to repayment, extending their term and switching to a fixed rate. BoI said in line
with its processes at the time, to access prime interest rates Mr and Mrs B needed to
reapply as new borrowers using proof of income to verify affordability. Mr and Mrs B didnt
meet affordability checks to switch to a prime rate but BoI did switch their mortgage to
repayment and extend the term.
BoI said Mr and Mrs Bs application to switch to a prime rate could be referred internally for
further consideration. BoI also told Mr and Mrs B that fixed rate self-certified products were
available too. They chose to switch to a new self-certified rate instead of going through BoIs
internal re-mortgage process to access prime rates. The relevant changes were applied.
In 2020, Mr and Mrs B switched their rate again. They complained to BoI about only being
offered self-certified rates. They thought theyd been on a prime rate since the changes that
took place in 2015. They were unhappy about the costs involved in switching to a prime rate
at this time and not having access to new customer rates.
BoI responded by saying that any application to switch from a self-certified to a prime rate
would be subject to affordability and underwriting checks. In 2015, Mr and Mrs B were
offered the option of rearranging their mortgage on prime terms, but they opted for a new
fixed rate on self-certified terms instead. Theyve remained self-certified customers to date.
The complaint wasnt upheld. In summary BoI said it offers interest rates to customers based
on their account types. BoI says its entitled to set rates and terms under which its prepared
to lend. It also said that fee free options are usually available to customers too.
BoI says that Mr and Mrs B could look at converting their mortgage type from self-certified to
prime, however there would be costs involved in rearranging the mortgage  such as a
valuation fee and solicitors costs. BoI says it offered to explore the option of converting the
mortgage to prime type on multiple occasions but Mr and Mrs B chose not to proceed.
Mr and Mrs B asked our service to consider their complaint. Our investigator looked into
things and upheld the complaint. He didnt think Mr and Mrs B had been treated fairly during
their most recent rate switch enquiry. He thought BoI should consider a backdated
application to switch to a prime interest rate, without putting unnecessary barriers in the way
 such as excessive costs. He also awarded £100 compensation.
Mr and Mrs B agreed with our investigators assessment, BoI didnt. It provided more
information from its legal team about why such legal costs would be incurred during a switch
to a prime product. After further consideration, our investigators opinion remained
unchanged. As an agreement wasnt reached, the case was passed to me to
decide.
I issued a provisional decision and an extract of my provisional findings is below.
Our investigator explained why he wasnt persuaded Mr and Mrs B were switched to a 
prime rate in 2015 or that they were led to believe that was the case. As Mr and Mrs B have
accepted our investigators opinion, I wont revisit this point in detail. Ill instead focus my 
attention on the matters being disputed by BoI.
Having said that, for completeness I have considered the events that occurred in 2015 and I
can reassure Mr and Mrs B that our investigator has presented an accurate account of the
facts. Im satisfied that Mr B, during his calls with BoI, was presented with information about
both the prime and self-certified interest rates and he chose to proceed with the latter.
Because Mr and Mrs B were unlikely to be accepted for a prime rate. They either had the
option to remain with BoI on a self-certified rate or shop around for a mortgage elsewhere
with a different lender. Mr and Mrs B havent said they tried moving their mortgage
elsewhere. Its possible other options were available to them. So, I cant safely say that they
were unfairly restricted to only remaining with Bol on a self-certified rate.
Ill now turn my attention to what happened in 2020.
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that the self-certified rates available to them in 2020 were higher
than the equivalent rates offered to prime and new customers. They say they didnt apply for
a prime rate because of the costs involved. They also say that they didnt explore applying
for a re-mortgage with a different lender because of the early repayment charge applicable.
So, they felt the most cost-effective option was to switch to a product from the self-certified
range.
Ive considered whether its fair for Mr and Mrs B to treated differently to other new and
existing customers, in terms of the costs theyd incur to access prime interest rates.
BoI has agreed that Mr and Mrs B could apply for a prime rate. Whats in dispute is, whether
they should be liable for paying the costs involved as part of BoIs internal re-mortgage
process. As well as being required to meet affordability and credit checks, BoI says a new
valuation of Mr and Mrs Bs property would be required and that legal costs would be
incurred, which would need to be covered by Mr and Mrs B. BoI says these costs arise
because switching from a self-certified to a prime product involves re-mortgaging on new
business terms.
It says a valuation is required because changing the type of account Mr and Mrs B hold to
prime would need to be considered in line with current lending requirements. Due to the
time thats now passed since Mr and Mrs B initially took their self-certified mortgage in 2008
(more than 10 years), BoI says it requires an up to date valuation, as its not unreasonable to
expect the value of their property to have changed since.
BoI also says that because the switch to a prime rate involves re-mortgaging to a new
business product, a legal transaction needs to take place for the existing mortgage to be
closed and a new one taken out. And that Mr and Mrs B need to cover the legal costsinvolved which specifically relate to the need for a new mortgage deed to be created and
registered at the land registry.
Our investigator thought it was reasonable to expect a new valuation to be carried out at Mr
at Mrs Bs expense, but they shouldnt reasonably be expected to pay the legal costs
described by BoI. I disagree and dont think its fair or reasonable to expect Mr and Mrs B to
incur either cost. Ill explain why.
According to BoIs website, it offers its new customers the option of prime products with free
standard valuations and legal fees. Existing prime customers can also switch their product
without incurring any of these costs. So, its unclear why Mr and Mrs B are being treated
differently to other BoI borrowers.
Whilst I accept there will be some internal legal administration involved in closing one
account and re-opening another one, its unclear why BoI would need to make changes with
the land registry to a legal charge it already holds over Mr and Mr Bs property and expect
them to incur the legal costs for this.
Mr and Mrs B have also been given different information about the costs involved if they
chose to switch to a prime rate. During both calls to discuss their rate switch options in 2015,
valuation costs werent mentioned. During the initial pre-advice call, Mr B was informed that
switching to prime rate does involve a rearrangement of the mortgage. But he was told that
all that meant for them was a new account number. There would be legal costs involved but
BoI would cover that. Mr B was told that there may be an arrangement fee depending on the
selected product. The only guaranteed fee mentioned was an exit fee of around £195.
When considering everything, Im not convinced Mr and Mrs B have been given clear, fair
and not misleading information over the years about the requirements for switching to a
prime rate. They say the information given to them about the costs involved in switching to a
prime rate impacted their decision to apply in 2020. For the reasons Ive explained, I dont
think its fair in the circumstances for BoI to impose the fees its described.
Mr and Mrs B have also questioned whether it is fair for BoI to offer new customers
better rates than existing customers. Lenders can use their commercial discretion when
pricing their interest rate products and there is nothing inherently wrong with offering
different rates to customers based on its own assessment of risk and/or to attract new
business. Mr and Mrs B, as existing customers of BoI, have access to the same product
range as other existing customers of BoI. I cant see theyve been treated any differently. So,
in the circumstances I dont think its unreasonable for Mr and Mrs B to be offered existing
borrower prime interest rates.
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained, BoI should have made its prime interest rates accessible to
Mr and Mrs B in 2020 without the expectation of them having to pay unreasonable fees.
To put things right BoI should arrange for a mortgage adviser to discuss the alternative
options that were available to Mr and Mrs B in 2020. If, after discussing their options, Mr and
Mrs B feel a prime interest rate would have been more suitable to them at that time, BoI
should let them apply and fairly consider their application. The lending decision is ultimately
for BoI to make, I cant influence or guarantee a successful outcome. But BoI should be
transparent during the process and give clear reasons for the decision its reached. There
should be no valuation or legal costs incurred.
Our investigator has already managed Mr and Mrs Bs expectations by setting out in detailwhy they may not be able to access all of the prime interest rates available at the time due to
different loan to value restrictions and variations amongst products that may or may not
come with a product fee.
If Mr and Mrs Bs application is successful, to account for any overpayments made since
2020, depending on their preference, BoI should either:
Apply the overpayments to their mortgage account to further reduce their balance
which will in turn reduce the amount of interest they pay on the new interest rate
applied until the end of the current fixed term period; or
Pay Mr and Mrs B the overpayment amount back in cash, as well as a payment of
8% simple interest* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the date of
settlement.
*Interest is at the rate of 8% a year simple. If BoI considers that its required by HM
Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs B how
much its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs B a certificate showing this if they ask for
one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
I also feel BOI should pay an increased compensation award of £350 to Mr and Mrs B to
recognise the avoidable inconvenience caused by them having to revisit their rate switch
application from 2020, due to not being treated fairly at that time
Both parties responded to my provisional decision. BoI accepted the provisional decision. Mr 
and Mrs B had some further questions. In summary they said:
1. They are in a much different financial situation than they were in 2020. Theyre 
concerned their application will be declined and they wont receive the overpayments 
as set out in my provisional decision.
2. In 2020 they would have applied to switch to a prime rate with a different lender had 
they not been subject to an early repayment charge (ERC) on their mortgage with 
BoI; and
3. Theyd like the option to apply for a prime rate with BoI at a later date or moving to a 
new lender without being charged an ERC.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also given careful consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my 
decision, including those in response to the provisional decision. Ill now address the 
specific points Mr and Mrs B have raised in response to the provisional decision.
1. When exploring the alternative options that were available to Mr and Mrs B in 2020 
its only fair BoI considers what it would have taken into account in 2020. Under the 
relevant rules, lenders are required to act fairly and reasonably when considering an 
application and making their lending decision. BoI must act within the rules in this 
respect. 
2. Mr and Mrs Bs previous five-year fixed rate deal ended in July 2020. Shortly after, 
they started making enquiries about switching to a new interest rate. I think if they wanted to explore options through different lenders, they could have reasonably done 
so around this time. In such circumstances, once their previous fixed rate deal had 
ended, they were not prevented from re-mortgaging with a different lender and would 
not have incurred an ERC. As such, in the circumstances, I dont hold BoI 
responsible for their decision not to explore options with different lenders at that time.
3. In response to my provisional decision BoI has agreed to consider the options 
available to Mr and Mrs B in 2020. If approved for a prime interest rate option, any 
future rate switch applications Mr and Mrs B make with BoI will also be agreed on 
prime terms. If Mr and Mrs B choose to remain on their current self-certified interest 
rate, they can apply to switch to a prime rate with BoI at a later date that suits them. 
Their circumstances will be considered at the time of application and BoI needs to act 
fairly and reasonably in its assessment of their application. 
At this moment Im unable to give direction to BoI in relation to any future loss that 
might be incurred as a result of a potential declined application to switch to a prime 
interest rate. If Mr and Mrs B dont meet BoIs criteria for a prime interest rate, they 
are entitled to raise any further concerns with BoI. 
Mr and Mrs Bs current five-year fixed rate deal ends in May 2025. They agreed to 
the rate offered in 2020 on the basis that they would be tied into it until 2025  and so 
contractually, BoI would be entitled to charge the ERC if the mortgage was redeemed 
before then. 
But if Mr and Mrs Bs application to switch to a prime interest rate is declined, BoI 
should consider whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances when deciding 
whether to let them exit their mortgage early, without applying an ERC. Including, but 
not limited to, things like  the reasons behind the lending decision made and 
whether Mr and Mrs B end up qualifying for a prime interest rate with a different 
lender. 
Having considered everything again, Ive reached the same conclusions as set out in my 
provisional decision and for the same reasons. But I hope the above provides further clarity 
to both parties on how the complaint resolution should be fairly applied in the circumstances.
Putting things right
To put things right BoI should arrange for a mortgage adviser to discuss the alternative
options that were available to Mr and Mrs B in 2020. If, after discussing their options, Mr and
Mrs B feel a prime interest rate would have been more suitable to them at that time, BoI
should let them apply and fairly consider their application. The lending decision is ultimately
for BoI to make, I cant influence or guarantee a successful outcome. But BoI should be
transparent during the process and give clear reasons for the decision its reached. There
should be no valuation or legal costs incurred.
If Mr and Mrs Bs application is successful, to account for any overpayments made since
2020, depending on their preference, BoI should either:
Apply the overpayments to their mortgage account to further reduce their balance
which will in turn reduce the amount of interest they pay on the new interest rate
applied until the end of the current fixed term period; or
Pay Mr and Mrs B the overpayment amount back in cash, as well as a payment of
8% simple interest* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the date of
settlement.*Interest is at the rate of 8% a year simple. If BoI considers that its required by HM
Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs B how
much its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs B a certificate showing this if they ask for
one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
BOI should pay an increased compensation award of £350 to Mr and Mrs B. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct The Governor and Company of the
Bank of Ireland to out things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman