DRN-3955980
The complaint
Mrs J complain that Lloyds Bank PLC closed her business accounts without giving a reason. 
She suffered financial hardship and a loss of reputation in the local community. The 
complaints relating to her husbands accounts and a charge against a property will be dealt 
with separately.
What happened
Mrs J had business accounts with Lloyds. She was asked to provide some documents 
regarding the business such as annual accounts. Mrs J provided documents to Lloyds. Mrs J 
believes that the manager at their local branch didnt process the paperwork correctly.
Following the review Lloyds wrote to Mrs J on 7 February 2020 giving her 60 days notice to 
close the accounts.
Mrs J had an arranged overdraft on her business accounts. The overdraft was around 
£5,000. The overdraft was guaranteed by her husband. These facilities were extended to 
April 2020 to coincide with the notice to close.
Mrs J decided to open an account with another bank I will call A. A provided accounts but 
would not provide overdraft facilities.
Mrs J received formal demand for the outstanding debt on 8 June 2020. Due to covid the 
recovery of the debt was put on hold until February 2021.
Mrs J complained to Lloyds. Lloyds said they were entitled to close the account and didnt 
have to give her a reason.
Mrs J was unhappy with the response, so she complained to our service. One of the 
investigators looked into the complaint. She thought Lloyds had done nothing wrong when 
they closed the accounts. And they werent obliged to give reasons. She didnt think Lloyds 
were responsible for Mrs J not being able to get an overdraft 
Mrs J disagreed. She said she had been a loyal customer for many years, and she felt her 
reputation had been damaged in the small local community because of the account closure. 
She didnt feel they had been treated with consideration and fairly by Lloyds. She hadnt 
been given a reason for the closure. And thought Lloyds should have thought more carefully 
about the impact that closing the accounts would have on Mrs J. 
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Closure of the account and reason
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mrs Js accounts. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied Lloyds were complying with these 
obligations when they reviewed Mrs Js accounts.
In this case Lloyds requested some information from Mrs J. Mrs Js husband has said that 
the branch manager of the local branch didnt process the information he provided correctly, 
and he thinks this is the reason why the accounts were closed.
I appreciate this is frustrating especially because Mrs J hasnt been told the reason for the 
closure. However, having looked at the information provided to me I can reassure Mrs J that 
the closure of the accounts was not decided on by the branch manager and his actions were 
not the reason for their accounts to close.
The investigator has said that its for banks to decide if they want to continue to have 
someone as a customer. And I agree. Banks should, however, give reasonable notice before 
closing an account. Usually that means 60 days notice, but it can be less depending on the 
circumstances. I can see that Lloyds wrote to Mrs J on 7 February 2020 and let her know it 
was closing her account giving 60 days notice.  I can also see that the bank extended this 
by a further 60 days due to the difficulty in getting an overdraft facility. So, Im satisfied 
Lloyds closed the accounts in line with the account terms. And gave consideration to Mrs Js 
personal circumstances and the covid situation. So, looking at the terms and all the evidence 
Im satisfied the bank didnt treat Mrs J unfairly when they closed her accounts. 
I know Mrs J would like to know the reason for the closure especially as she is a long-time 
customer of Lloyds. Whilst Mrs J may have expected to be given the reasons for the closure, 
Lloyds isnt required to give her a specific reason for closing the accounts. So, I cant say 
Lloyds has done anything wrong by not giving her this information  as much as she would 
like to know. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it to do so.
Loss of reputation in the community 
I know Mrs J thinks the closure of the account meant a loss of reputation to her in her local 
community. I cant say whether Mrs Js reputation was damaged as a result of the account 
closure but as Ive said Lloyds didnt act unfairly when they closed Mrs Js account, so I cant 
say that compensation should be payable to her. 
Mrs J has said she found it difficult to get a new overdraft facility. I can accept that this was 
difficult for her. Mrs J has said that if Lloyds hadnt closed her account she wouldnt be in 
that position. However, Ive already said that Lloyds didnt act unfairly when they decided to 
close her accounts, so I dont think they can be held liable for the difficulty that Mrs J had 
trying to get another overdraft facility.
Mrs J has said that she is sure Lloyds have followed their processes, but she is complaining 
that there must be guidelines how to treat customers with consideration and fairness. Mrs J 
feels she hasnt been so treated by Lloyds. There are rules and guidelines that require 
financial institutions to treat their customers fairly. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
sets out principles a bank must comply with, in particular Principle 6 states A firm must pay 
due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. 
I have considered whether Lloyds adhered to this principle when it closed Mrs Js accounts 
and I think they have.  I say this because they took into consideration that Mrs J would find it 
difficult to find an account with an overdraft equal to the one she enjoyed with Lloyds and they extended the time frame for the closure of the account to 120 days. Lloyds took into 
account Mrs Js circumstances as well as the prevailing Covid conditions at the time of the 
closure. I appreciate that having accounts closed after so many years as a customer was a 
shock and it was difficult to find equivalent banking but having considered everything, I dont 
think Lloyds have done anything wrong here, so I wont be asking them to pay 
compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that for the reasons mentioned I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman