DRN-1549026
complaint
Mr O says PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender, irresponsibly lent to him.
background
Mr Lender provided Mr O with six between November 2015 and March 2017. Mr Os lending 
history is detailed below:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Highest 
repayment
121/11/2015 29/01/2016 2 £150.00 £123.00
213/02/2016 29/04/2016 3 £300.00 £149.60
301/05/2016 29/07/2016 3 £600.00 £344.00
404/08/2016 31/10/2016 3 £500.00 £274.66
514/11/2016 28/02/2017 3 £600.00 £296.00
607/03/2017 31/05/2017 3 £600.00 £315.20
The most recent adjudicator to review Mr Os case thought that loans five and six shouldnt 
have been given to Mr O. He explained that loan 5 shouldnt have been given as 
proportionate checks wouldve shown Mr O was having issues managing his finances. He 
also said loan six shouldnt have been given to Mr O as his pattern of borrowing indicated he 
had become reliant on short-term lending.  
Mr Lender didnt agree with the adjudicators review. It says it carried out proportionate
checks on Mr O and that the information it had did not indicate Mr O was having
financial issues. Mr Lender did however make an offer on loan six. This offer was outlined to 
Mr O, but he chose not to accept it.
As no agreement could be reached the case was passed to me  an ombudsman  for a
final decision
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good
industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr O 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain
factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have done more to
establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish
whether Mr O could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow his
is the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on
time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to
meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Os complaint. The adjudicator didnt think Mr Lender 
was wrong to give Mr O loans one to four. Mr O didnt disagree with this, so I wont be 
making a finding on these loans. I will however be considering them when looking at Mr Os 
overall financial situation. 
I dont think Mr O shouldve been given loans five and six.  Ill explain why.
Mr Lender says it carried out checks on Mr O when he applied for loans five and six. This
included obtaining details of his income and expenditure. Mr Lender says based on this
information the loan was affordable and appropriate for Mr O. I can see Mr O had taken
out four previous loans with Mr Lender when he applied for loan five. It seems each new 
loan was taken very soon after the previous loan had been settled. The loans were also increasing in value and by loan five Mr O was borrowing four times the amount he did when 
he first borrowed from Mr Lender. 
Mr Os credit report also shows that he had two loans with other short-term lenders at the 
time he applied for loan five. I think this alongside the number of loans Mr O had taken out 
with Mr Lender indicated that he was having issues managing his finances and Mr Lender 
ought to have been building up a clearer picture of his situation.
Mr Lender says that the checks it carried out were based on the information Mr O provided
and the loans were affordable. Although loan five may have seemed appropriate
based on a strict pounds to pence calculation, Mr Os overall circumstances indicated that
he was relying on short term credit to cover ongoing shortfalls. So I dont think lending was
appropriate as he was not able to sustainably repay the loans. Which means Mr Lender
shouldnt have given Mr O loan five.
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Mr Lenders lending history with Mr O with a view
to seeing if there was a point at which Mr Lender should reasonably have seen that further
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Mr Lender should have realised
that it shouldnt have provided any further loans.
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Os case, I think that this point was reached by
loan six. I say this because:
At this point Mr Lender ought to have realised Mr O was not managing to repay his
loans sustainably. Mr O had issues repaying loan five as he had deferred a payment. 
And Mr Os loans were often taken out days or weeks within a previous loan being 
paid. So, Mr Lender ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr O was 
having to borrow further to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in 
his finances and that Mr Os indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr Os loan was for £150 and her subsequent loans were all greater than this. There 
didnt seem to be a downward trend in the amount Mr O was borrowing and loan six 
was for £600. At this point Mr Lender ought to have known that Mr O was not likely 
borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in his income but to meet an ongoing need.
I think that Mr O lost out because Mr Lender continued to provide borrowing for loan six 
because:
this loan had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Os indebtedness by allowing
him to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of
time.
the number of loans and the length of time over which Mr O borrowed was likely to
have had negative implications on Mr Os ability to access mainstream credit and
so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding the complaint about loans five and six and Mr Lender should put
things right.
putting things right  what PDL Finance Limited
PDL Finance Limited shouldnt have given Mr O loans five and six.
PDL Finance should refund all interest and charges that Mr O paid on loans 5 and 6;pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
remove any negative information about loan 5 from Mr O's credit file
the number of loans taken from loan 6 means any information recorded about them is
adverse. So, all entries about loan 6 should be removed from Mr Os credit file
*HMRC requires you to take off tax from this interest. If Mr O asks you for a certificate
showing how much tax PDL Finance Limited has taken off, it should provide this. If PDL 
Finance Limited intend to use the refund to reduce an amount Mr O owes, it must do this 
after tax.
my final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Os complaint. PDL Finance Limited should
put things right for Mr O as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman