DRN-4047204
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that Bradford & Bingley Limited (B&B) gave them unsuitable 
investment advice. They say they were advised to invest in a fund which was too risky for 
them and that they werent given clear information.
The complaint is brought on their behalf by a claims management company. For ease, Ill 
refer to everything as if its been said by Mr and Mrs A.
What happened
In October 1998, Mr and Mrs A sought investment advice from B&B. They had some money 
in notice savings accounts and investment bonds and £18,000 in an instant access savings 
account. They said they wanted to invest £9,000 with the potential for capital growth. B&B 
advised they invested in a fund which I will refer to as S. S was a distribution fund, 
managed by a third party, which invested in equities, fixed interest and property.
Mr and Mrs A didnt have any investment experience and they complain that they shouldnt 
have been advised to invest half of their available free assets in a fund exposed to equities. 
They say S was too risky for them and that they werent given clear information about the 
true risks involved.
B&B said it had provided clear information about S at the time of the sale and, as Mr and 
Mrs A didnt question it at the time, they must have been prepared to accept the risks 
involved.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He concluded that it 
was suitable for Mr and Mrs A to invest some of their money for the medium to long term and 
that the investment of £9,000 wasnt too much, based on their circumstances at the time. But 
the investigator didnt think S was a suitable investment for Mr and Mrs A. He thought it was 
unlikely Mr and Mrs A were willing, or could afford, to take the level of risk associated with S. 
He recommended B&B pay Mr and Mrs A compensation by comparing the performance of S 
with an appropriate benchmark for Mr and Mrs As investment profile. 
B&B didnt agree. It said, in summary, that:
The fund fact sheet that the investigator has relied on is dated December 2022 and 
doesnt represent the fund that Mr and Mrs A invested in in November 1998.
It drew our attention to its earlier submission in which it explained why it thought Mr and 
Mrs A had been made aware of, and understood, the risks of S.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, the investigator set things out in detail, so Im not going to repeat everything again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on what I think are the key issues. Our rules allow me to do this. This 
simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Secondly, the events Mr and Mrs A complain about took place around 25 years ago. Its not 
unreasonable that B&B doesnt have a full record of exactly what happened, and Mr and 
Mrs A cant be expected to clearly remember what was discussed. In circumstances like this, 
where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Having considered everything carefully, I find I have come to the same conclusion as the 
investigator for the following reasons:
Mr and Mrs A had around £52,000 in existing bonds and savings accounts, including 
£18,000 in an instant access account. They told B&B that they wanted to invest half of the 
amount held in that instant access account for the medium to longer term, with the aim of 
growing the capital sum. The investment represented around 17% of their total available 
assets and they had a monthly income surplus of £150 to £300. As such, I find that they 
could afford to invest £9,000 for the medium to longer term.
Mr and Mrs A were assessed as having a cautious attitude to risk. Ive not seen how that 
assessment was made but, thinking about their financial circumstances at the time and their 
very limited investment experience, I dont find cautious to be inappropriate. I say this 
because they didnt have much investment experience and they didnt have much capacity 
for loss. But I think they could afford to take a small risk with their money, to achieve a better 
capital return.
Neither party, nor the managers of S fund, have been able to provide the key features, or 
fact sheet, for S at the time of the sale. But its clear from B&Bs recommendation in 1998 
that the underlying investment in S was split between equities, fixed interest and property. 
Taking into account B&Bs assessment of Ss past performance as being excellent, I think 
its likely that, to achieve that performance, a not insignificant proportion of S would have 
been invested in equities. But I cant see that the risk of the equity exposure was clearly 
explained to Mr and Mrs A. I think, on balance, that S represented more risk than they were 
willing, or could afford, to take.
B&B say the factsheet provided by the manager of S shouldnt be relied upon because it 
doesnt reflect the fund that was recommended. The current manager of S fund provided the 
fact sheet which it says is for the correct fund. But it is dated December 2022. I agree with 
our investigator - whilst the fact sheet gives an idea of what the underlying investment was 
likely to look like in 1998, it isnt reasonable to place too much weight on it because of the 
time thats passed. Like the investigator, in arriving at my decision, Ive placed more weight 
on the paperwork which was completed at the time of the sale.
I dont think the reasons why B&B thought S fund was suitable for Mr and Mrs As 
investment objectives were clearly communicated. I say this because B&B highlighted that S 
was chosen because of the availability of partial or fixed regular withdrawals. But Mr and 
Mrs As investment objective was capital growth, and they didnt have a need for income. 
Overall, and on balance, I dont think B&Bs recommendation to invest in S was suitable for 
Mr and Mrs A.Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr 
and Mrs A as close to the position they would probably now be in if they had not been 
given unsuitable advice.
I take the view that Mr and Mrs A would have invested differently. It is not possible to say 
precisely what they would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out 
below is fair and reasonable given Mr and Mrs A's circumstances and objectives when 
they invested.
What must B&B do?
To compensate Mr and Mrs A fairly, B&B must:
Compare the performance of Mr and Mrs As investment with that of the benchmark 
shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
B&B should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
S No longer 
existsFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate ceased 
to be held8% simple 
per year on 
any loss from 
the end date 
to the date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, B&B should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investments should be 
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if B&B totals all those payments and 
deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically. 
If any distributions or income were automatically paid out into a portfolio and left 
uninvested, they must be deducted at the end to determine the fair value, and not 
periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr and Mrs A wanted Capital growth with a small risk to their capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to their capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified 
indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government 
bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk 
to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr and Mrs A's risk profile was in between, in the sense that they 
were prepared to take a small level of risk to attain their investment objectives. So, 
the 50/50 combination would reasonably put Mr and Mrs A into that position. It does 
not mean that Mr and Mrs A would have invested 50% of their money in a fixed rate 
bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a 
reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr and Mrs A could 
have obtained from investments suited to their objective and risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Bradford & Bingley Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Bradford & Bingley Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr and Mrs A in a 
clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman