DRN-2028323
The complaint
Mr C and Miss F complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out by Mr C and Miss F in 1995, in connection 
with a mortgage. The policy provided cover for Mr C and Miss F if they couldnt work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr C and Miss F disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr C and Miss Fs case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those 
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
- If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mr C and Miss Fs needs?
- Did Halifax give Mr C and Miss F the information they needed to decide whether to take 
out the policy?
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether 
Mr C and Miss F are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something different 
 such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold Mr C and Miss Fs case and Ive set out my reasons below.
Halifax hasnt been able to provide much information from the point of sale, which isnt 
surprising given the amount of time thats passed. But it seems Mr C and Miss F had to 
complete an application for the PPI that was separate to their mortgage application. So I 
think they wouldve realised that they had a choice about buying the cover. 
From what Ive seen, there is nothing to suggest that Halifax didnt make Mr C and Miss F 
aware that the PPI was optional.
Halifax has accepted that it advised Mr C and Miss F to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it 
was unsuitable for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. I say this 
because:
- Mr C and Miss F were eligible for the policy given their circumstances and the PPI terms 
and conditions.
- Mr C and Miss F say they were entitled to employer benefits if they couldnt work due to 
sickness or accident. But the policy wouldve paid out in addition to their employer benefits 
and wouldve meant they could use those benefits to pay for other expenses. So I think the 
policy wouldve been useful to them. 
- Mr C and Miss F werent affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main 
benefits, such as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical 
conditions. As they could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely 
they needed better advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
- It seems the PPI cost was set out on the application form that Mr C and Miss F completed. 
So I think they wouldve known how much the PPI would cost and found it acceptable. The 
policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr C and 
Miss F would have made a different decision if better information about the cost had been 
provided.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr C and Miss F about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But as Ive already said, Mr C and Miss F werent affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations and the policy had a reasonable benefit. So I think it unlikely Mr C and 
Miss F would have made a different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I 
think they would still have taken out the policy.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Miss F to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman