DRN-3984074
The complaint
Mr H complains about esure Insurance Limited (EIL) and their refusal to cover the costs he 
incurred repairing a fault he believes was accident related.
What happened
Mr H held a motor insurance policy underwritten by EIL. Unfortunately, in early September 
2022, Mr H hit a deer while driving which caused damage to his car. So, he contacted EIL to 
make a claim on his policy.
EIL accepted Mr Hs claim and arranged for the car to be repaired by one of their approved 
repairers, who Ill refer to as K. The repairs were completed, and the car returned to Mr H 
on 20 October.
But when Mr H went to drive the car on 31 October, the engine management light remained 
present despite him asking K to rectify this issue previously. And there was an issue with the 
power steering, with the warning light for this showing red on his dashboard. Mr H made EIL 
aware of this, and his belief the issues were accident related, as these warning lights hadnt 
been present before the accident. So, he wanted EIL to repair these issues at a different 
garage to K.
EIL agreed to cover the costs of a diagnostic investigation by an approved dealer. Mr H 
arranged this and provided EIL with the diagnostic report. EIL referred this report to their in-
house engineer, who spoke to the dealer directly. And following this, the engineer was 
satisfied the engine management light was showing due to an issue with the glow plugs, 
caused by gradual wear and tear. And as the diagnostic suggested the steering issue arose 
on 31 October, alongside the location of the damage in comparison to the accident 
circumstances, the engineer didnt think the damage was accident related. So, EIL didnt 
offer to cover the costs of the additional repairs. Mr H was unhappy about this, so he raised 
a complaint.
Mr H explained the first time hed drove the car was on 31 October, due to the nature of his 
work. So, he thought it was most likely the damage to the steering of his car was caused by 
the accident, or when the car was in the care of K. And because of this, he thought EIL were 
unfair not to cover the costs of the repairs. Due to the length of time taken by EIL to respond 
to the complaint, Mr H arranged for the repairs to be completed himself by his own repairer, 
who Ill refer to as R. And so, he wanted EIL to reimburse him for the costs hed had to pay.
EIL responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They relied upon the decision taken by 
their in-house engineer that the damage wasnt accident related. And because of this, they 
thought theyd acted fairly when deciding not to cover the additional repair costs and so, they 
didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr H remained unhappy with this response, so 
he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He considered all of the 
evidence available to him and having done so, he didnt think he was persuaded that the 
damage to the steering was linked to the initial accident involving the deer. And because of 
this, he didnt think EIL acted unfairly when refusing to cover the repair costs Mr H incurred. 
So, he didnt think EIL needed to do anything more.
Mr H didnt agree. Mr H felt he was being unfairly treated and that too much weight was 
being placed on his initial testimony stating the deer had bounced off his car, when due to 
the darkness at the time of the incident, and the speed he was travelling, he couldnt be sure 
the deer didnt go under his car. And Mr H also didnt think the investigator had placed 
enough weight on the letter provided by R stating the damage was likely caused by the 
accident. So, Mr H maintained his belief that the damage was sustained in the accident and 
because of this, the costs of the repairs should be covered by EIL. As Mr H didnt agree, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr H. I appreciate the 
accident circumstances were unfortunate and that he had an insurance policy in place to 
help assist him financially in this kind of unforeseen situation. And I can appreciate that the 
issues with Mr Hs engine light and steering arose in very close proximity to the accident and 
the initial accident related damage repairs. So, I can understand why Mr H would believe the 
repairs hes had to pay for were for damage that was caused during the accident. And so, I 
can appreciate why Mr H feels EIL should cover the costs of this and that theyve acted 
unfairly when refusing to do so.
But for me to say EIL should reimburse Mr H for the costs hes incurred; I first need to be 
satisfied EIL have done something wrong. So, I need to be satisfied that EIL have made a 
clear and obvious error when deciding the damage wasnt linked to the accident. Or, that 
they failed to consider the evidence available to them appropriately. And in this situation, I 
dont think thats the case.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful for me to explain 
how Ive considered the complaint. It is not my role to re-underwrite the claim, as I dont have 
the expertise to do so. So, it isnt my role to speculate on whether I think the damage was 
accident related or not. Instead, it is my role to consider the conclusions EIL reached, and 
the actions they took, and decide whether I think they were fair and reasonable.
Ive seen confirmation from the dealer who conducted the car diagnostics that the engine 
warning light was caused due to the glow plugs needing to be replaced. And its been 
confirmed that this issue was created due to wear and tear, rather than anything accident 
related. As this has been confirmed, I dont intend to comment on this any further as Im 
satisfied EIL had no obligation to cover the costs of any maintenance costs for Mr Hs car.
Ive then turned to the main point in dispute, which centres about the issue with the cars 
steering. 
As Ive explained above, I dont intend to speculate on when I think the car sustained the 
damage to the steering rack and its wiring as I dont have the expertise to do so. Instead, 
Ive considered the evidence available to EIL when they took the decision to refuse reimbursement of Mr Hs costs for the required repairs.
Ive seen the initial engineers report, where the steering was listed as in satisfactory 
condition. I think its reasonable for me to assume that, to grade the condition of the steering 
system, its most likely the engineer checked this as part of the inspection. And that, if there 
was existing damage, this wouldve been noted. I cant see any damage was noted at this 
point.
I also note that the dealers diagnostics suggested that the issue began on 31 October, 11 
days after Mr H received his car back and during or after Mr H had driven it along the 
motorway. So, while I appreciate Mr Hs view the damage was likely present before this time, 
I think the diagnostics contradicts this view.
And while Ive seen Rs letter stating the damage was accident related, Ive listened to the 
call between our investigator and R discussing this in further detail. And within this call, R 
state that, while they think the damage was caused due to an accident, they couldnt say for 
certain this was the accident involving the deer. R did state similar damage could be caused 
by hitting a curb. And during this conversation, they explained for this damage to have 
occurred during the collision with the deer, the deer wouldve needed to have passed under 
the car, which conflicts with Mr Hs initial testimony that the deer hit his bumper and bounced 
off the car. Finally, R also confirmed that the damage would likely have been visible to EILs 
engineer at inspection and that the damage was unlikely to have been caused during a 
repair to a bumper, like the one K had completed.
So, considering all of the above, I dont think I can be satisfied that EIL have made a clear 
and obvious error when deciding they were unable to attribute the damage to the initial 
accident involving the deer, or any other time while the car was in the care of K.
And Im satisfied they considered all of the evidence available to them before reaching this 
decision, as Ive seen internal notes and dialogue with their in-house engineer where the 
engineers initial findings are challenged considering Mr Hs testimony. And EIL agreed for 
Mr H to obtain a diagnostics report from a dealer in order to substantiate his belief the 
damage was accident related and in this situation, I dont think the diagnostics report 
provided evidence that means EIL were unfair to refuse covering any further repair costs. 
So, because of all of the above, I dont think I can say EIL have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably on this occasion and so, I dont think they need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr H was hoping for. And I want to reassure Mr H Ive 
considered all of the comments hes provided both in writing and in calls with our service, as 
well as the clear proximity in time between the initial repairs, and the new issues being 
present. And Ive thought thoroughly about the financial impact this decision will have, as Mr 
H has spent a significant amount to have the repairs completed so his car is driveable.
But for me to say EIL should reimburse Mr H for these, I must be satisfied EIL have made an 
error, or acted unfairly in a way I wouldnt expect them to. And in this situation, I cant say 
thats the case.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about esure Insurance 
Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman