DRN-3239720
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain about how U K Insurance Limited (UKI) dealt with their claim against
their travel insurance policy. Reference to UKI includes its agents.
UKI has asked us to deal separately with Mr and Mrs Ds two complaints. This complaint is 
about Mr and Mrs Ds concerns in relation to the amount UKI paid in settlement of their claim 
and how it handled their claim.
Mr and Mrs D also complained about the amount of information UKI asked them to provide 
in support of their claim and the difficulty they had in contacting UKI initially. Thats been 
dealt with separately.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr and Mrs D have travel insurance as a benefit of a current 
account. They purchase certain upgrades to cover them on a planned cruise. They departed 
on 1 March 2020 for a 43 night cruise starting on 6 March 2020.
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 a pandemic. On   
12 March 2020, the Foreign Commonwealth and Development Office advised certain    
at-risk groups against cruises. On 16 March 2020, Mr and Mrs Ds cruise was curtailed. 
During their return travel, they lost one of their two suitcases.
In April 2020, Mr and Mrs D made a claim against their policy for a total of £2,365. In 
November 2020, UKI paid Mr and Mrs D £1,425.01 in settlement of the claim. In doing 
so, it deducted the excesses due under the policy. UKI also deducted certain amounts 
where it said that Mr and Mrs D hadnt proved ownership.
Mr and Mrs D want UKI to pay their claim and to pay them compensation for the time 
theyve spent dealing with this matter and their inconvenience. UKI responded to this 
complaint in its final response letter of 7 December 2020. It maintained its position in 
relation to the settlement amount but paid Mr and Mrs D compensation of £200 in
relation to its handling of the claim.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that UKI had 
treated Mr and Mrs D unfairly in settling the claim in the way that it did. The investigator 
understood why Mr and Mrs D couldnt provide evidence for all items, but she didnt think 
that meant that UKI should pay the full amount claimed. The investigator thought that UKIs 
payment in settlement of the claim and the compensation of £200 in relation to delay in 
handling the claim was fair.
Mr and Mrs D didnt agree with the investigator. They said, in summary:
UKI said that it didnt require an estimate to replace any item valued at less than
£40. That relates to 110 of the 120 items that make up their claim. They understood 
that UKI wouldnt dispute their claim.
The items in their claim are consistent with their requirements for their cruise.
For the 10 items that they valued at £50 or more, they agreed with UKI what 
evidence theyd provide to substantiate their claim. The inference was that their 
claim would be paid.
Their claim was for £2,365, which took into account their suggested allowance for 
use. Their entitlement under the policy was £1,425 each (£1,500 less the excess 
of £75) and the payment for both their claims was £1,425.01.
UKI hasnt treated them fairly and hasnt put them in the position they would be in 
if their suitcase hadnt been lost.
Mr and Mrs D asked that an ombudsman consider their complaint, so it was passed to
me to decide.
My provisional decision
On 25 November 2021, I sent both parties my provisional decision in this case. I indicated 
that I intended to uphold the complaint and direct UKI to pay Mr and Mrs Ds claim based on 
the values they have submitted, subject to the remaining policy terms and conditions. I said:
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which say 
as follows:
Section H Baggage
What is covered
We will cover you if your baggage is lost, stolen or accidentally damaged during your trip. 
The most we will pay
The most we will pay for each insured person is £1,500. This is reduced to:
£300 for any one item (including items that form part of a pair or a set of items)
£500 in total for valuable items.
Special conditions
[]
You must provide us with proof of ownership and value for the items of 
baggage for which you are claiming to substantiate your claim. If you do not, 
it may affect your claim. []
We will at our option either:
 pay the cost of repairing or replacing the item; or
 make a cash payment to you.
No payment will be more than the original purchase price you paid for the item.
We will make a deduction for wear and tear for claims for clothing, including sports 
clothing.
What is not covered 
We will not cover:
 the excess amount. This is £75 for every claim for each insured 
person; []did UKI act unfairly in settling or handling the claim?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that UKI has a duty to handle claims promptly 
and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
I intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs D provided UKI with proof of travel and proof of loss. UKI doesnt 
appear to dispute that Mr and Mrs Ds suitcase was lost in the way that they have 
described.
Mr and Mrs Ds claim is for one of two suitcases they had on their cruise. The 
claim includes toiletries and personal items for both Mr and Mrs D, a large selection 
of clothing for Mr D and a smaller number of clothing items for Mrs D. I assume that 
the other suitcase that wasnt lost contained the bulk of Mrs Ds clothes and items. 
The lost items are consistent with the type and duration of Mr and Mrs Ds trip.
UKI asked Mr and Mrs D for certain information, including proof of ownership and 
estimated costs of replacement. It said that it would accept pictures as proof of 
ownership. Mr and Mrs D provided a schedule showing the items they claimed, the 
estimated costs, a deduction for use/wear and tear and such evidence of 
ownership as they had.
The reason UKI isnt paying all of Mr and Mrs Ds claim is because it says that 
they havent provided evidence for all the items in the claim. Ive thought about 
whether, in the absence of substantiation, its fair for UKI to reduce Mr and Mrs Ds 
estimate of cost in the way and to the extent that it has. I dont think it  is.
In the particular circumstances here, I think its unfair for UKI to expect                
Mr and Mrs D to provide evidence for each item. Thats because most of the items 
are everyday items of relatively low value which Mr and Mrs D may have had for 
some time. So, I think its unreasonable for UKI to expect Mr and Mrs D to have 
evidence of all these items or to have receipts or bank statements that itemise 
them.
In Mr and Mrs Ds claim, theyve estimated the value of the lost items and made a 
deduction for use/wear and tear. Looking at the items and the values they have 
claimed, I dont think that their claim is false or exaggerated. I think theyve made 
an entirely cogent claim, substantiated items where they can and made appropriate 
adjustments for wear and tear.
UKI has already paid Mr and Mrs D £1,425.01. Subject to the remaining terms of 
the policy  which include a limit of £1,500 per insured person and the excess - I 
think that UKI should pay Mr and Mrs Ds claim based on the values they have 
submitted and which they have already adjusted for wear and tear. As                   
Mr and Mrs D have been kept out of the use of that money, UKI should also pay 
interest on that amount from the date of Mr and Mrs Ds claim, to the date of 
payment.
UKI has accepted that the claim didnt proceed as smoothly as it could. Its paid  
Mr and Mrs D compensation of £200 in relation to that matter. I think thats fair and 
I dont propose to direct it to pay any more in relation to this part of the complaint.Responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs D accepted my provisional decision but UKI didnt. It responded to say, in 
summary:
The provisional decision undermines its right to ask policyholders to substantiate 
their claim, as set out in the terms and conditions. 
The requirement to substantiate a claim doesnt differentiate between the value 
of items or whether they are every-day items. 
Given the absence of substantiation here, settlement of 50% of the claim is fair 
and more than it would usually pay.
110 of 120 items claimed for have no proof of ownership and its not 
unreasonable to ask for evidence. 
Mr D has resisted its request for proof of ownership, and it doesnt think that it  
should pay the remainder of the claim when its acted fairly and reasonably 
despite Mr and Mrs Ds lack of compliance with the requirement to substantiate 
their claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Each case is determined on its own facts and merits. Nothing in this decision prevents UKI 
from asking a policyholder to substantiate a claim.
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy: I set out the term relating to the 
requirement to substantiate the claim in my provisional decision. But thats not all I 
considered in coming to a fair and reasonable resolution in this case.
I  remain of the view that  in the particular circumstances here, its unfair for UKI to expect  
Mr and Mrs D to substantiate every item. Thats because most of the items are everyday 
items of relatively low value, so not items where wed expect individuals to have receipts or 
bank statements that itemise them. 
Ive looked again at the list of lost items produced by Mr and Mrs D. Their lost items are 
consistent with the type and duration of their trip. I dont think that their claim is false or 
exaggerated.
In all the circumstances here, I dont think that UKIs reliance on the policy term requiring   
Mr and Mrs  D to substantiate their claim produces a fair and reasonable outcome. For the 
reasons Ive explained, I think UKI should pay Mr and Mrs Ds claim on the values they have 
submitted, subject to the remaining terms of the policy.  
Putting things right
In order to put things right, UKI should pay Mr and Mrs D:
their claim based on the values they have submitted, subject to the remaining policy
terms and conditions;interest on the outstanding amount of their claim at the simple rate of 8% per year,
from the date Mr and Mrs D made their claim, to the date it makes the payment.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. I now direct                                 
U K Insurance Limited to take the steps Ive set out above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman