DRN-1436988
The complaint
Mr R complains that Creation Financial Services Limited (Creation) sent him a credit card 
which was declined on a number of occasions and therefore didnt work properly. 
What happened
Mr R took out a credit card with Creation and when trying to use it, found that his 
transactions were being declined causing him inconvenience and embarrassment in his local 
community. 
Mr R contacted Creation to complain. They initially said his card should work, however it 
continued to be declined. Mr R ended up making four phone calls to Creation and raised a 
complaint. 
Creation wrote to Mr R and while they didnt feel they had made any errors, they apologised 
for the time it had taken them to give Mr R an answer and credited his account with £30.00 
as a gesture of goodwill due to the inconvenience caused. They also explained that if Mr R 
were to use the chip and pin facility rather than the contactless option, it would work. Mr R 
said he attempted to use the card again with chip and pin a further two times, but it was 
declined. So he brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and agreed Creation hadnt done anything wrong. 
He explained that Creation had provided a list of the declined transactions which showed 
that all of them were made using the contactless facility of the card. He couldnt see that 
there were any attempted using chip and pin. Because Creation had explained to Mr R that 
he needed to use chip and pin for the card to work, and as he couldnt see that this had been 
done, our investigator wasnt able to ask Creation to take any further action. 
Mr R replied and explained he was certain he had used the chip and pin option on the card 
on two occasions after speaking with Creation. He said that the transactions didnt go 
through as the machine gave a message along the lines of transaction not recognised.
Even so, our investigator didnt change his opinion as he had nothing to show that this was 
the case. As Mr R remained unhappy, his complaint was passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at everything, I agree with the investigator and will explain why. 
I dont dispute that Mr R had a lot of trouble trying to use his credit card. Its definitely not 
ideal and I can only imagine the frustration and embarrassment this would have caused 
each time the card was declined. 
Creation did explain to Mr R that in order to reset the card, he would need to use the chip 
and pin facility. This is because once someone uses the contactless facility a number of times, this option is blocked for security reasons meaning they need to revert to chip and pin 
instead. Mr R has said he did this on two occasions with two different retailers, however the 
card was still declined. 
Creation has provided a full list of every declined transaction and all of them show that the 
contactless facility was used. I cant see any entries to show chip and pin was attempted.      
Mr R also hasnt been able to provide anything to show that this did happen, for example any 
declined transaction receipts. So, while I dont disbelieve Mr R, I must base my decision on 
all of the information that has been provided. 
The transaction history shows that chip and pin wasnt attempted on the card. Whilst Ive 
thought carefully about what Mr R has told us about how he used the card, I simply dont 
have enough to be able to safely say that he did try to use the chip and pin function that 
didnt work. 
I understand Mr R has explained that its likely the chip and pin transactions wouldnt show 
up on the report sent by Creation, because nothing ever went through and the chip and pin 
machines showed an error message. But as the contactless transactions didnt go through, 
but still showed on the report, I think its most likely that any unsuccessful chip and pin 
transactions would show too. 
So while I do empathise with Mr Rs situation, I must base my decision on the information I 
have. Because of this I wont be asking Creation to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2020.
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman