DRN-2950031
The complaint
Mr T complains that Endsleigh Insurance Services Ltd wants him to pay £400 to cover 
additional mileage for his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr T took out a policy through Endsleigh. Six months later Endsleigh asked him to pay £400 
additional premium as he was about to exceed his maximum mileage. But Mr T said hed 
never agreed that the mileage estimate was the maximum hed be covered for. And so he 
thought the additional premium was unfair.
our investigators view
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Endsleigh 
had warned Mr T in the application process that if he exceeded the estimated mileage then 
hed have to pay an additional premium. But he thought the maximum mileage should be 
shown in the policy schedule, which it wasnt. So he thought Mr T should be allowed 
unlimited mileage at no extra cost and he thought Endsleigh should pay Mr T £200 
compensation for his trouble and upset.
Endsleigh replied that Mr T had been made fully aware during the application process not to 
exceed the declared mileage. It agreed that the mileage was set out in the Statement of Fact 
and not the policy schedule.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr T 
and to Endsleigh on 29 June 2021. I summarise my findings:
I could understand that Mr T felt frustrated by Endsleighs decision. And I could see that 
paying the additional premium, or reducing his mileage, would have a significant impact for 
him. But I was unable to uphold his complaint. Ill now explain why I thought this. 
I thought the dispute was about whether the mileage limit was clearly explained to Mr T 
when he took out his policy. Our approach is to see whether enough information was given 
so that the consumer could make an informed decision about the policy being suitable for 
them or not. 
So I looked at Endsleighs communication to Mr T when the policy was sold and within the 
policy documents. 
Mr T applied for his policy online. During this process he was asked to provide his annual 
mileage. And he was then given the following message:
Its really important that your mileage estimate is as accurate as possible. If you drive more 
than this, youll need to buy more miles to keep your insurance running and avoid 
cancellation.
Please make sure you include the mileage any additional drivers will be doing as well as 
your own.
Mr T agreed to abide by the policys terms and conditions. I think it was for Mr T to read 
these and decide whether the policy suited his needs. The policy booklet included the 
following on page 17 under Important Customer Information:
Your policy allows the car to be driven up to the maximum mileage which is shown in
 your schedule. You are required to select the number of miles you would like on your policy 
during the arrangement of your policy. 
If you need to increase your maximum mileage during the policy period, you can purchase 
top up miles by contacting [us]. [we] will notify you when you need to purchase top up miles.
If you exceed the maximum mileage amount, and you do not purchase top up miles, the 
insurer and or [we] reserve the right to cancel your policy under policy condition 8 on page 
39.
So I thought Mr T was made reasonably aware during the application process and in his 
policy documents that he would need to pay for additional mileage if he exceeded the 
estimate hed provided. 
Our investigator pointed out that the maximum mileage should have been shown in the 
policy schedule. Instead, the Statement of Fact sets out the estimated annual mileage. 
I agreed that it would have been clearer if Endsleigh had stated the maximum mileage in the 
policy schedule. But I thought Endsleigh had explained in the policy application process that 
the estimated mileage was the maximum that Mr T could drive without paying an additional 
premium. And I thought that the estimated mileage was clearly set out in the policy 
documents sent to Mr T. 
And so I thought that the requirement for payment for extra miles above the estimate was 
made clear to Mr T. As this was clearly highlighted before Mr T bought his policy, I couldnt 
say that the policy was mis-sold. And so I thought it was fair and reasonable for Endsleigh to 
request an additional premium if Mr T exceeded his estimated mileage. And as I thought 
Endsleigh hadnt done anything wrong, I didnt require it to pay Mr T any compensation. 
Subject to any further representations by Mr T or Endsleigh, my provisional decision was 
that I intended to not uphold this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Endsleigh didnt provide me with any further representations to consider. Mr T replied that he 
hadnt been warned when he took out the policy online that he would have to buy extra miles 
if he exceeded the estimate he provided. He said he wasnt provided with the policy booklet 
before he bought the policy. He said that an estimate was not the same as the maximum. 
I can understand that Mr T may not recall all the details of the application process. But, as 
Ive explained above, Im satisfied from the evidence provided by Endsleigh that he was 
made aware before he bought the policy that the estimated mileage he entered was the 
maximum covered by the policy, and that he would have to buy more if he exceeded this.
Im also satisfied that Mr T would have been provided with the policy terms and conditions 
when he bought the policy. I think it was then for him to read these and cancel the policy 
within the cooling off period if it didnt suit his needs. 
As Mr T hasnt provided me with any new evidence to consider, I can see no reason to 
change my provisional decision.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman