DRN-3698935
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the cash settlement AA Underwriting Insurance Company 
Limited (AAUICL) paid to settle a claim he made under a home and buildings insurance 
policy he held with it.
What happened
Mr M made a claim to AAUICL following an escape of water from a pipe which caused 
damage to a downstairs bathroom and adjoining utility room. AAUICL offered to have the 
works carried out by an approved contractor but Mr M declined. He said the wait time was 
too long. So AAUICL settled Mr Ms claim by paying a cash settlement. Mr M said the 
Surveyor appointed by AAUICL hadnt included all of the damage and estimates hed 
received from contractors was far more than the cash settlement offer. 
AAUICL increased the settlement amount to take into account additional works. But Mr M 
said this was still nowhere near enough to meet the costs of the repairs. 
Mr M complained to AAUICL. AAUICL didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. It said the policy set 
out that it could decide to settle by way of a cash settlement. And if it did, AAUICL would use 
its preferred contractors rates as this is what it would have cost AAUICL if it had carried out 
the works. 
Mr M asked us to look at his complaint. Our Investigator didnt recommend it should be 
upheld. He found that the updated schedule of works from the Surveyor coincided with the 
estimate Mr M provided apart from replacing the sanitary ware. AAUICL didnt agree this 
was required as part of the works. As AAUICL had given Mr M the option for it to carry out 
the repairs, the Investigator didnt think it had acted unreasonably by paying a cash 
settlement applying its preferred rates in line with the policy. 
Mr M didnt agree. He says there are more works required than hes received a cash 
settlement for. So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to the Investigators view, Mr M said he provided evidence to show damage to 
three rooms, but AAUICLs settlement only covers damage to part of one room. He says it 
didnt increase the cash settlement offer in light of the further damage.
It isnt for us to assess and decide a claim, but to decide if the insurer acted reasonably 
based on the information available.
AAUICLs policy says it will settle a claim by either arranging repairs or paying a cash 
settlement for the repairs. If it pays a cash settlement, the amount it will pay will be based on 
what it would cost AAUICL by using their preferred contractor and preferential rates. It isnt 
unusual for an insurer to have a network of contractors to carry out works at commercially 
favourable rates. I think AAUICL explained this process clearly under the policy. 
An insurer should otherwise carry out effective and long lasting repairs for any incident 
related damage under an accepted claim. I understand Mr M was unhappy with the time 
estimate AAUICL gave him for the works to be carried out by an approved contractor. But I 
think AAUICL did give Mr M the option to have the repairs carried out by AAUICLs  
approved contractor and so the cost Mr M would have had to pay was the excess. 
Ive looked at the estimate provided by Mr Ms contractor. It says the estimate of £10,380 
including VAT is to carry out repairs to the downstairs bathroom and adjoining utility room. It 
includes the replacement of the existing toilet suite. It doesnt include any repairs to a third 
room - the reception room - which Mr M told us is also damaged.
AAUICL obtained an updated schedule of works in light of Mr Ms findings that not all of the 
works -  floor joists and wall damage along with additional plastering - were taken into 
account by the appointed Surveyor. AAUICL increased the cash settlement to £3,380.05 - 
£500 excess - VAT of £676.01. If Mr M can provide a VAT invoice for payment of completed 
works, it would be reasonable to expect AAUICL to provide a refund of the VAT Mr M paid. 
Aside from the replacement of the toilet suite, the estimate provided by Mr Ms contractor 
seems to generally match the amended schedule of works (SOW) AAUICL provided from 
the Surveyor in March 2022. The SOW is detailed in relation to each aspect of the work and 
the approved contractor rates which AAUICL would pay including drying out costs. Both the 
contractors estimate and the SOW details repairs required to two rooms: the downstairs 
bathroom and utility room. The estimate provided by Mr Ms contractor gives only a total sum 
for the works described as follows:
Strip out toilet & utility room after leaking pipe flood. Take out toilet suite & replace 
remove damaged stud wall ,cut out & replace damaged plasterboard & plaster, lift  
toilet & utility floor ,replace rotten joist, floorboards and tile.
I appreciate that Mr M is unhappy with the cash settlement provided. Mr M was given the 
option for AAUICL as the insurer to arrange repairs on his behalf - but he was unhappy with 
the availability timeframe for works to begin. Unfortunately the availability of contractors does 
vary: there are peaks and issues outside of an insurers control which can have a bearing on 
this. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M. But overall I dont think AAUICL acted unreasonably. So Im not 
asking it to increase the cash settlement offer it made.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman