DRN-3180497
The complaint
Mr D has complained that FUND OURSELVES LIMITED provided a loan he couldnt afford 
to repay because his monthly outgoings were more than his income. 
What happened
Mr D took one loan from FUND OURSELVES. This loan was taken on 1 July 2021 for £500. 
In order to repay the loan, Mr D had to make 5 monthly payments of £200 each. Mr D has 
had problems repaying this loan and an outstanding balance remains. 
It looks like from FUND OURSELVES final response letter that Mr D has set up a repayment 
plan to pay £83.33 per month in order to repay the balance.  
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Ds complaint and she didnt uphold it. The adjudicator 
said, FUND OURSELVES had carried out proportionate checks and these checks showed it 
that Mr D was likely to be able to afford his loan repayments. 
FUND OURSELVES appear to have agreed with our adjudicators opinion. 
Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators findings. In response he said;
his credit score was too low in the month before to approve the loan; 
Mr D says he has to repay £1,000 on a £500 loan and
the loan was unaffordable because his monthly expenses exceeded his income. 
Mr D provided, in the form of screen shots, details of the creditors who he owes money to. 
He also sent in a copy of an adjudication he received on another one of his complaints 
against another lender. In this case, Mr D was also given one loan, but that case was 
upheld. 
The adjudicator went back to Mr D and explained why evidence of the other complaint being 
upheld and what he told us about his circumstances hadnt changed her mind about the 
outcome that had been reached. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the time the loan was provided.
FUND OURSELVES needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to 
make sure Mr D could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts, and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages 
of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that FUND OURSELVES should fairly and 
reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr D. These 
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become or was becoming
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that FUND OURSELVES was required to 
establish whether Mr D could sustainably repay his loan  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre
unlikely to be able to do so without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Ds complaint.
When this loan was approved, Mr D was committed to repaying FUND OURSELVES £200 
per month between July and November 2020. 
FUND OURSELVES, has told us Mr D declared his monthly income as being £1,400 and he 
had outgoings of £425 per month. Based on Mr Ds monthly repayment to FUND 
OURSELVES of £200 per month, it wouldve looked like that Mr D would be able to afford 
the repayments he was committed to making. 
When this loan was approved FUND OURSELVES also carried out a credit search. Its 
provided this Service with a copy of the results and Ive considered this. But it is worth noting 
that FUND OURSELVES wasnt required by the regulations to do a credit search before 
granting a loan or indeed carry one out to a specific standard. But what FUND OURSELVES 
had to do was carry out a proportionate check. 
Looking at the credit check results, FUND OURSELVES was aware that Mr D didnt have 
any county court judgements and hadnt defaulted or gone into arrears on any account within the last three years. Which wouldve indicated to FUND OURSELVES that he was likely not 
having current (or had historical) financial difficulties. 
The credit report results also told that Mr D had a total of five active accounts of which 1 had 
been opened within the last six months. This isnt a particularly high number, and doesnt 
suggest that Mr D was reliant on other forms of high cost credit. I also dont think that the 
total balances on Mr Ds debt that FUND OURSELVES was aware of, wouldve prompted it 
to have done more. 
The credit report also showed FUND OURSELVES some details of previous loan accounts 
that were closed. But having looked at everything in the round, there wasnt anything in my 
view to have given it cause for concern. I also dont think there was enough negative 
information to have suggested to FUND OURSELVES to either decline the application or to 
have prompted it to carry out further checks. 
So, while I accept that Mr Ds total outgoings exceeded his monthly income this wasnt 
apparent in the information that FUND OURSELVES gathered from him or from the 
information Mr D gave FUND OURSELVES as part of the application process. And it is of 
course possible that had FUND OURSELVES carried out further checks, such as asking for 
evidence of Mr Ds outgoings it wouldve likely discovered he couldnt afford this loan. 
But as it was early on in the lending relationship, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate 
for FUND OURSELVES to have gathered the level of information needed to show it that the 
loan was unaffordable. I also havent seen any further information that shows its likely FUND 
OURSELVES was made aware of any financial problems Mr D mightve been having. Or 
anything that wouldve prompted it to investigate his circumstances further. So, I think it was 
reasonable for FUND OURSELVES to rely on the information it obtained and approve this 
loan. 
Ive seen a copy of the adjudication for Mr Ds other complaint that he provided. But the 
circumstances of this loan application are different to the one had had upheld, for example 
the amount borrowed and the term of the loan. In this case, given the term of the loan and 
what was apparent about Mr Ds situation, I do think the checks went far enough. 
Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint. I appreciate Mr D will be disappointed by this outcome., 
but I hope my explanation has been useful in explaining why Ive reached the outcome that I 
have.  
Finally, Id remind FUND OURSELVES obligation to treat Mr D fairly and with forbearance 
when working with him to repay the balance. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman