DRN-1890497
The complaint
Mr R complains that Loans 2 Go Limited didnt do enough checks before lending to him and 
that the loan was unaffordable to him.
What happened
Mr R took out a fixed sum loan with Loans 2 Go on 24 August 2018. He borrowed £500 and 
was due to repay it with £26.14 weekly instalments for 18 months, finishing on 21 February 
2020.
Mr R says that Loans 2 Go did not sufficiently check his financial circumstances, other than 
to ask him about his expenditure. He says he had two credit cards, a catalogue account and 
multiple short-term loans at the time of his loan application and he could not afford the 
repayments.
Loans 2 Go says it asked Mr R for information about his circumstances, verified his income 
using external data sources and considered whether the declared expenditure was 
reasonable. It says it also reviewed Mr Rs credit file when assessing affordability. 
Loans 2 Go says it adjusted Mr Rs income downwards, and his expenditure upwards, based 
upon its own checks, but still found that Mr R had sufficient disposable income to afford the 
repayments.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld. She said that, based on its 
own analysis, Loans 2 Go calculated Mr R would have had £26 of disposable income 
remaining after making the repayments each month. She says that, given the likelihood of 
unexpected expenditure, she wasnt satisfied that the repayments were sustainable for 18 
months on that basis.
Our adjudicator said that interest and charges should be refunded on the loan, along with 
8% statutory interest, and that any associated negative information should be removed from 
Mr Rs credit file.
Loans 2 Go responded to say, in summary, that its disposable income figure already 
included a buffer of £174, so the total disposable income available each month was £200 
after paying the instalments.
Our adjudicator acknowledged Loans 2 Gos response, but further explained that she did not 
consider its checks had gone far enough in all the circumstances. She found that better 
checks were likely to have found Mr R was reliant on short-term lending and further 
borrowing was irresponsible.
Loans 2 Go said the credit check carried out at the time did not show numerous short-term 
loans and therefore it wanted the complaint reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think the 
overarching questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint are:
Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr R 
would be able to repay in a sustainable way?
oIf not, would those checks have shown that Mr R wouldve been able to do so?
Ive seen evidence to show Loans 2 Go asked about Mr Rs financial circumstances, 
checked his credit file and verified his income. But Im not satisfied that these checks went 
far enough. I say that because:
The loan was over a term of 18 months and Loans 2 Go needed to ensure the 
repayments were sustainable over that period;
Loan 2 Gos analysis showed potential discrepancies between its checks and Mr Rs 
declared income and credit expenditure;
The credit check showed Mr R was borrowing from at least seven lenders, including 
short-term high cost lenders. It also showed a history of borrowing from short-term loan 
providers, a payment arrangement and a recent missed payment.
For the above reasons, I consider Loans 2 Gos checks should have included a full review of 
Mr Rs financial circumstances, including further verification of his income and expenditure.
So, Ive had a look at Mr Rs bank statements to see what they showed as a reasonable 
proxy for what Loans 2 Go might have found out had it looked into Mr Rs finances in more 
depth:
Mr Rs monthly income was lower than the figure hed declared, but I acknowledge 
that was taken into account by Loans 2 Go;
Of the three active short-term loans showing on Loan 2 Gos credit check, two had 
been repaid before Mr R took out the loan;
But Mr Rs bank statements show a further five short-term loans were taken out prior 
to the Loans 2 Go loan. All five were taken out in July and August 2018, so, along 
with the active loan on his credit file, Mr R had borrowed over £2,200 in that period. 
Given the interest Mr R would also have owed on the outstanding short-term loans, 
he would have been in debt for much more than £2,200;
The £500 Loans 2 Go loan would still have left Mr R with significant other debts 
which made it unlikely hed have enough money each month to make all the 
repayments;
Mr R was reliant on his overdraft (going back months) and his weekly wages didnt 
take him out of this.
In summary, taking all the available evidence into account, I find that Mr R was unlikely to be 
able to sustainably repay the loan and that Loans 2 Go was irresponsible to lend to him. 
Indeed, I note that Mr Rs mother repaid the loan in September 2018.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited should:
Refund all interest and charges that Mr R paid on the loan;
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
Remove any negative information about the loan from Mr Rs credit file;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to take off tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
must give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2020. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman