DRN-2566132
The complaint
Mr E complains that he was not told the actual annual percentage rate (APR) of 
interest that MotoNovo Finance Limited was applying to a hire purchase agreement that 
it had provided to him for the purchase of a car.
What happened
In February 2016, Mr E entered into a four-year hire purchase agreement for a used car 
with MotoNovo. Mr E electronically signed the agreement at the dealership.
Mr E says that it was around two years later that he became concerned about the cost of 
the credit and the interest rate that had been applied. He said he thought the agreement 
had applied interest to the credit amount at the rate of 10% per year.
In the summer of 2019, Mr E complained to MotoNovo about the amount of interest he 
was paying for the car and said the dealer hadnt made him aware that he was paying 
nearly £4,000 in interest for a car that cost around £7,500. He also complained about 
some issues regarding MotoNovos handling of his account.
MotoNovo sent Mr E a final response letter in July 2019 accepting that, as the hire 
purchase agreement was sent to the dealership at 16.24hrs, and signed by Mr E at 
16.45hrs, it appeared that he wasnt given a reasonable opportunity to read and 
understand the contract. MotoNovo offered Mr E £300 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by both this and the customer service he had received during a 
call with the business.
Mr E didnt complain to this service about MotoNovos decision to award compensation.
Mr E then complained to MotoNovo about the amount of the APR that had been applied 
to the agreement and said if he had been told of the rate he wouldnt have entered into 
the agreement. However, MotoNovo didnt uphold this complaint. It said that the APR 
was clearly set out in the terms and conditions which Mr E had signed. It said Mr E, by 
signing the agreement, had shown he had read, understood and accepted the terms. 
Mr E was unhappy at MotoNovos response and complained to this service. Our 
investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. She acknowledged 
that this complaint was similar to his first complaint to MotoNovo for which he had 
received compensation. However, she said that, looking at the agreement, it clearly set 
out the amount of APR being applied. And that this was the rate that had been applied 
to the agreement.
Our investigator said she thought that if Mr E had been concerned about the rate of 
interest then he would have complained earlier than he had, as he would have taken the 
agreement home and would have had ample time to look at it. She also said that as Mr E 
knew the amount he was paying each month, and the duration of the agreement she 
wasnt persuaded he had an issue with the amount of the APR until much later into the 
agreement
The investigator added that, even if she had found in Mr Es favour, then the usual 
remedy would be to put him back in the position he would have been in had he not 
entered into the agreement. This would have entailed cancelling the agreement and the 
car being returned but, as the contract had now ended, this wasnt possible. She said 
reimbursement of the monthly payments made by Mr E would also be considered but, as 
he had made full use of the car during the life of the agreement, it would have been 
unreasonable to require MotoNovo to make any repayments to him.
Mr E disagreed with the view of our investigator. He said he was confused about what 
MotoNovo had accepted had gone wrong and whether his contract had been valid from 
day one. He said his concerns had arisen after MotoNovo had owned up and said 
sorry.
As the parties werent able to agree the complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisional 
decision along the following lines.
Mr E had first complained in the summer of 2019 about the amount of interest he was 
paying under the agreement for the car, and that the dealer hadnt told him the total 
amount that was being added. He had also raised some other matters about the way his 
account had been handled. Id seen a copy of the final response letter sent to him in July 
2019 by MotoNovo which had accepted that, due to the limited time between the hire 
purchase agreement being sent to the dealership and the recorded time it was signed by 
Mr E, he wouldnt have had a reasonable opportunity to read and ask questions about 
the agreement if he had wanted to.
MotoNovo offered Mr E £300 compensation for both the lack of a reasonable opportunity 
to study the agreement and to recognise that Mr E hadnt received the level of service 
reasonably expected during a phone call with MotoNovo.
The July 2019 final response letter had also informed Mr E that if he disagreed with the 
outcome of his complaint, he had six months to refer his complaint to this service. Mr E 
hadnt done this, instead he had made a further complaint to MotoNovo that he wasnt 
aware that the APR that had been applied was 19.9% and, had he been, he wouldnt have 
taken out the agreement.
So, his two complaints were, I thought, very similar. The first was about the cost of the 
interest that had been added to the cost of the car (around £4000), and the second 
was about the rate of interest that had been applied to the agreement.
Id seen that Mr E said that it was only due to MotoNovo accepting that something 
had gone wrong that he had become concerned about the interest rate. Looking at 
the hire purchase agreement entered into by Mr E in February 2016 I could see that 
on the first page the cost of the car, the flat rate of interest and the APR were all 
clearly set out, as was the total cost of the interest that was going to be applied. I 
couldnt reasonably say that this information wasnt easily accessible to Mr E. And, 
while I appreciated MotoNovo had accepted Mr E hadnt had a reasonable 
opportunity to read all the terms and conditions at the time, I thought there would 
have been time to check some of them, in particular the information set out on the 
first page. So, I thought it was reasonable to have expected Mr E to have checked 
the cost of the car, the monthly payments and the overall cost of the credit before 
signing.
Mr E said that, had he been told the figures, he wouldnt have entered into the contract. 
But I thought it was reasonable to say that on the day he had signed the agreement Mr E must have been content with the length of the agreement and the monthly cost of the car. 
Id seen that Mr E hadnt raised his complaint until after the agreement had been live for 
three years, and I thought if he had concerns about the overall amount he was paying for 
the car hed had ample opportunity to bring that up before he had.
I appreciated that MotoNovos decision about this second complaint appeared 
inconsistent with the upholding of Mr Es first one, but the first complaint wasnt within my 
remit to consider so I couldnt go behind it. I could only look at this complaint about the 
APR and so, for the reasons given above, I was not intending to uphold Mr Es complaint.
MotoNovo has agreed with my provisional view. Mr E hasnt asked me to look again at 
any parts of my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mr E nor MotoNovo have asked me to reconsider my provisional decision. Looking 
again at the evidence and what I had found Ive not changed my view. I am satisfied that Mr 
E was more likely than not happy with the length of the agreement and the overall cost of the 
car. I also think its reasonable to say he would have been aware of the interest rate that had 
been applied to the agreement.
So, for the reasons given above Im not upholding his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman