DRN-3312928
The complaint
Mr H complained that Loans 2 Go Limited didnt do affordability checks and so lent to him 
irresponsibly and provided a loan that was unaffordable. 
What happened
Mr H took out a loan with Loans 2 Go as follows:
Date taken Loan 
amountTerm - Monthly 
repaymentTotal payable
19/6/2020 £250 18 months £57.14 £1028.52
The loan purpose wasnt recorded on the application. 
When Mr H complained to Loans 2 Go it didnt uphold his complaint so he brought his 
complaint to us. One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Loans 2 
Go shouldnt have provided the loan. Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint 
should be upheld and set out directions indicating what Loans 2 Go should do to put things 
right. 
Loans 2 Go disagreed with our adjudicators view. It mainly said it carried out sufficient 
checks and its lending decision was fair. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved, it comes 
to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.  
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. 
Lenders must work out if a borrower can sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside 
other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include more than just 
checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a 
proportionate check might also require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. 
If proportionate checks were done and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think 
about whether theres any other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For 
example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant 
adverse consequences or more money problems for a borrower who is already struggling 
with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable way. 
Loans 2 Go asked Mr H about his income and expenses  including what he spent on his 
credit commitments. It also did its own credit check to understand Mr Hs credit history. 
Loans 2 Go verified that Mr Hs minimum monthly pay was around £2,892. After reviewing 
the information it had gathered, Loans 2 Go boosted the monthly expenditure figure that 
Mr H had declared and calculated that he would need to spend approximately £2,505 in total 
each month. It also took into account nationally available statistics when thinking about 
Mr Hs likely spending and allowed for a buffer of 10% of his verified expenditure to account 
for any fluctuations in his monthly income or expenditure. Based on this, Loans 2 Go said 
Mr H shouldve been able to afford the monthly repayment on this loan. 
Like our adjudicator I think those checks were broadly proportionate. But despite recording 
information that appeared to show that Mr H had enough spare cash each month to cover 
the loan monthly repayments, I think Loans 2 Go shouldve realised that it couldnt rely on 
this information. Thats because what Mr H had declared was significantly at odds with what 
Loans 2 Go saw on its credit checks showing Mr Hs credit history. 
I say this because Loans 2 Go could see from its credit checks that there was some adverse 
credit history. Whilst having an impaired credit history wouldnt be unusual for a borrower 
applying for this type of expensive borrowing, and it wouldnt necessarily be a bar to lending, 
I dont think Loans 2 Go thought carefully enough about what the information it had gathered 
showed about Mr Hs overall financial situation and the likelihood of him being able to pay its 
loan in a sustainable manner. 
Mr H had a credit card over its limit and he was 2 months in arrears with his payments on 
that account - for the second month running. He had only just brought up to date another 
maxed out credit card that had 2 months arrears on. It was evident that hed had some 
payment problems on a mail order account within the previous 6 months, and some difficulty 
keeping up with payments on the account dating back a year or so.
Ive taken carefully into account everything Loans 2 Go has said in response to our 
adjudicators assessment about the way it assessed affordability. And I've thought carefully 
about what I think a responsible lender should have made of all this information and in 
particular whether it was enough for Loans 2 Go to make a fair decision to lend, particularly 
as it doesnt seem to have known how Mr H intended to use the money.
I think our adjudicator was right to say that all the indications were that Mr H wasnt 
managing his money well and he was already struggling financially. 
To my mind, it shouldve been apparent that Mr H probably didnt have the amount of 
disposable income that Loans 2 Go calculated - or indeed any spare cash, given that Mr H 
was having difficulty maintaining payments he already owed to creditors. All the signs 
were that his finances were, in reality, under significant stress and his debt was already 
unmanageable. I dont think Loans 2 Go was reasonably able to be satisfied in these 
circumstances that Mr H would be able to make its loan repayments in a sustainable way. 
Also, bearing in mind the repayment of this loan on top of the credit commitments 
Loans 2 Go  saw in its credit checks, I think its fair to say that Mr H needed to pay a significant portion of his income towards credit. And in my opinion, as a responsible lender 
Loans 2 Go shouldve realised that Mr H would likely struggle to repay this loan  especially 
bearing in mind the 18 month loan term.
So thinking about all the information Loans 2 Go had gathered, I cant reasonably say that it 
made a fair lending decision based on the information in front of it. I dont think Loans 2 Go 
was able to safely conclude that its loan would be sustainably affordable for Mr H. And so it 
shouldnt have provided it and Loans 2 Go needs to put things right. 
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr H to repay the capital amount that he borrowed 
because he had the benefit of that lending - but he shouldnt repay more than this. 
If Loans 2 Go has sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then 
take the following steps.
Otherwise, Loans 2 Go should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined 
below and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr H received as a result of having been given this 
loan. The repayments Mr H made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Mr H having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Loans 2 Go should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr H bearing in mind the need to 
treat him positively and sympathetically if he still needs further time to pay what he 
owes.
Whilst its fair that Mr Hs credit file is an accurate reflection of his financial history, its 
unfair that he should be disadvantaged by the decision to lend this loan. So Loans 2 
Go should remove any negative information recorded on Mr Hs credit file regarding 
this loan 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
should give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Loans 2 Go Limited to take the steps I've set out above to 
put things right for Mr H. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman