DRN-4034077
The complaint
Mr U complains that TSB Bank plc gave him incorrect information about whether hed be 
able to apply for a further advance on his buy to let mortgage. He asks that it waives the 
early repayment charge (ERC), as it initially offered to do, so he can re-mortgage elsewhere.
What happened
Mr U took out a buy to let mortgage with TSB in 2017 with a five-year fixed interest rate 
product that expired in late 2022. 
Mr U asked TSB about a further advance in March 2022 and July 2022 and on both 
occasions was told this wasnt possible as hes a portfolio landlord. 
In August 2022 Mr U contacted TSB again. He says he asked about taking out a new 
interest rate product, extending the term and additional borrowing. He says he was told he 
couldnt do all of this at the same time and decided first to secure a new interest rate 
product. When Mr U called again in September 2022 TSB said he couldnt take out 
additional borrowing as hes a portfolio landlord. 
Initially TSB said it would waive the ERC if Mr U re-mortgaged. Mr U says he secured a 
mortgage offer from another lender. TSB then said it wouldnt waive the ERC as it had told 
Mr U it wouldnt offer additional borrowing.
Mr U says this is unfair. He says lenders criteria change and he assumed TSB had changed 
its criteria when he called in August 2022. He said TSB could simply have cancelled the new 
product in September 2022 before it took effect.  
Our investigator said TSB had told Mr U it didnt offer additional borrowing so he was aware 
of this when he took out the new fixed rate product. Our investigator said Mr U didnt ask 
about additional borrowing on the call in August 2022. She said the compensation paid by 
TSB was fair.
Mr U didnt agree, and so the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to re-
consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I know Mr U will be disappointed, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require TSB to 
waive the ERC. 
Ive listened to Mr Us calls with TSB in March and July 2022 when TSB told him it wouldnt 
offer additional borrowing due to the number of buy to let properties he has. In July 2022 
Mr U called to ask about taking out a new interest rate product and additional borrowing. 
Mr U was transferred to a mortgage adviser. When he told the adviser how many buy to let 
properties he had she told him he wouldnt be able to take out additional borrowing or a new 
mortgage with TSB. Mr U then asked about five-year interest rate products.
Mr U called TSB in August 2022 and Ive also listened to this call. Mr U asked about taking 
out a new five-year rate and whether hed be able to make 10% overpayments. He also 
asked about extending the loan term, which TSB agreed to do. He didnt ask about 
additional borrowing. Mr U said he wanted to take out a new product as he was concerned 
about rates increasing. He said hed call back to check the term extension had been applied. 
TSB sent Mr U a product offer, which Mr U accepted. The product offer sets out the ERC 
and when its payable clearly, in the form of a table. And given Mr Us questions about the 
ability to make 10% overpayments, he must have been aware of the ERC.
Mr U called TSB in early September to apply for additional borrowing. TSB said this wasnt 
possible. Initially TSB said it would waive the ERC if Mr U re-mortgaged elsewhere, on the 
basis this is what hed have done if hed been told it couldnt offer additional borrowing. 
When TSB investigated further, it found that it had told Mr U he couldnt take out additional 
borrowing because of the number of buy to let properties he owns. It said it wouldnt waive 
the ERC. I appreciate how disappointed Mr U was to be told this. But I dont think its fair to 
require TSB to waive the ERC, just because it initially offered to do so. Mr U had accepted 
the product offer  including the ERC  before TSB offered to waive the ERC. 
However, there was a consequence to TSB saying it would waive the ERC. Mr U says hed 
secured a mortgage offer elsewhere. TSB said it would compensate him if hed incurred 
costs in doing this, if he decided to stay with TSB. I think that was fair. 
Mr U says TSB could just cancel the product, which he says wouldnt take effect until 
October 2022. TSB says the product documents say the new product will take effect the 
month following acceptance (here, September 2022). TSB told Mr U on the call in August 
2022 that hed be in time for the new product to take effect for the September 2022 payment. 
So I think Mr U was made aware that the product would take effect before October 2022. 
Letting property is a business. Its reasonable for TSB to expect Mr U to take into account 
what hed been told about it not offering additional borrowing and the terms set out in the 
product offer before accepting it. TSB told Mr U he wouldnt be able to take out additional 
borrowing and he was aware of this when he accepted the new fixed rate product. I havent 
seen evidence that TSB gave him incorrect information about this. TSB paid £100 for poor 
service, including with the way it dealt with Mr Us complaint. It said it would compensate 
Mr U for costs incurred in applying elsewhere if he decided to stay with TSB. I think, in the 
circumstances, TSBs offer is fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Thats because TSB Bank plcs offer to put 
matters right is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman