DRN-3717631
The complaint
Mr G complains about the advice given by TenetConnect Limited (Tenet), to transfer the
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. 
He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
Mr G is represented by a third party but for ease of reading I will refer to Mr G throughout my
decision.
What happened
In 2016 Mr Gs former employer offered him an enhanced transfer value (ETV) if he agreed 
to transfer his pension benefits elsewhere. Mr Gs former employer put him in touch with an 
advisor called LEBC Group Limited who are an appointed representative of Tenet to discuss 
his pension options. Mr G then agreed to transfer his pension to a personal pension.
Tenet completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Gs circumstances at the time of
the advice. In summary it found:
He was married, aged 57 and had two dependent children
He was retired and drawing a pension of £25,000-£30,000 per annum from a Self-
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP), the current value of the SIPP was around
£460,000
His wife was working and earning a salary of around £25,000 and had a rental
income of around £6,000 per annum
His wife had a pension pot with a value of around £223,000
Mr G and his wife also owned their own home and a rental property with no
associated borrowing and £77,000 in savings
Both Mr and Mrs G were in good health
Mr G also answered some questions to assess his attitude to risk (ATR) which was
assessed to be high medium.
Mr Gs objectives were identified to be:
To retain full flexibility in respect of taking income from your pension without tying
into a fixed arrangement such as the Scheme pension or an annuity.
To have the potential to grow your pension fund with the aim of increasing your
future retirement income.
For your wife and children to be able to benefit from your pension fund in full on
your death.
Tenet recommended to Mr G that he should move his pension benefits from the DB scheme 
to a Flexi Access Drawdown. The benefits of the transfer were documented as:
Mr G being able to keep his options open, whilst investing his pension monies and
being able to access his funds
It would allow Mr G to leave the maximum death benefits for his beneficiaries should
he die prematurely. The recommendation would provide a tax-free return of the
value of Mr Gs fund (in the event of his death before age 75).
The annual charges for the new pension totalled 1.057% of the fund value. Mr G accepted 
Tenets advice and the transfer was completed.
Mr G complained in 2020 to Tenet about the suitability of the transfer advice. In summary he
said the advice to move his pension fund meant he had lost invaluable guaranteed benefits
and put too much of his overall pension provision at risk. Mr G also didnt think other viable
options were explored.
Tenet didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. It said that its advice had been based on Mr G having
considerable investment experience, and that his existing pension was providing a
considerable income that met his income needs. By transferring his pension Mr G was able
to take advantage of new tax rules meaning he could pass on his pension tax free to Mrs G
upon his death, who would then retain full flexibility over the payments.
Mr G referred his complaint to our service. An investigator upheld the complaint and required
Tenet to pay compensation. The investigator explained that Mr G did not appear to have a
real need to move his pension. She also said Mr G was 57 years old and in good health so
the recommendation to move Mr Gs pension so that his dependents could benefit financially
didnt appear reasonable at the time of the advice.
An ombudsman at this Service then issued a provisional decision. Like the investigator, he 
upheld the complaint. However, he also addressed the fact that Mr G now faces lifetime 
allowance (LTA) charges which could have been avoided if he remained in his DB scheme. 
So he thought Tenet should compensate Mr G for these charges too based on certain 
assumptions. He suggested that alternatively, if both parties preferred this, Tenet could give 
Mr G an undertaking to pay any actual LTA charges incurred in future. He asked both parties 
for further comments. 
Tenet did confirm they had no further comments. Mr G said he preferred the settlement of 
the LTA charge now and if possible paid into his pension.
The ombudsman who issued the provisional decision is unfortunately unable to issue a final 
decision, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In his provisional decision my colleague said the following:
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it
is unsuitable. So, Tenet should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Gs best interests (COBS 19.1.6). And having
looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best interests.
Financial viability
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where acomplaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers,
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr G was 57 years old at the time the advice was given and the documents from the time of
the advice show he was already retired and drawing income from a different pension.
The critical yield required to match Mr Gs benefits at age 60 was 16.4% if he took a full
pension and 8.5% if he tax free cash (TFC) and a reduced pension.
The critical yield required to match Mr Gs benefits at age 65 was 5.9% if he took a full
pension and 3.5% if he TFC and a reduced pension.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and
was 2.7% per year for 2 years to age 60, and 3.4% per year for 7 years to age 65. For
further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle
projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% per year.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Gs
high medium attitude to risk and also the term to possible claim dates. Mr G had very little
need to risk giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to
achieve at best, a similar level of benefit outside the scheme. Mr G was highly unlikely to be
able to match the benefits offered by his DB scheme at age 60, and although there was a
possibility of him increasing his overall benefit by the age of 65 I think this was unlikely to be
significant and there was still a risk involved.
However, he would have been able to claim a guaranteed income from the DB scheme of
around £30,000 per annum at age 60, or around £37,000 per annum if he chose to wait until
he reached 65 which would have further facilitated his retirement. Transferring the pension
came with risks meaning capital could have been lost, compared to the guarantees his DB
scheme offered. While Mr G could potentially have afforded to take the risk of transferring
his pension to increase its future value I havent seen anything to suggest he had a need to
increase the value of his pension and take the risks that accompanied that decision.
I considered whether there were any other objectives or considerations which justified a
Transfer.
Flexibility
Mr G was aged 57 and already retired. He didnt have any immediate need to transfer his
pension such as the requirement for TFC. So even though Tenet found that one of Mr Gs
objectives was to retain flexibility of the fund, I dont think this was necessary, and I dont
think Mr G really required any further flexibility than his current arrangements allowed at the
time of the advice.
The suitability report confirmed that Mr Gs initial thoughts when he had received the ETV
had been to retain his DB pension until age 65 so he could have a secure income stream to
rely on in future. Having the DB scheme enabled him to accept the risk of a flexible 
drawdown strategy in a SIPP. He said he reflected on his experience having a SIPP and felt
comfortable with the idea of moving his monies out of the DB scheme.
I think its clear Mr G wanted to have some flexibility with his pension. It was recorded he
ideally would like to a secure income to cover his essential expenditure and flexible income
to cover his desirable expenditure.However, he was already in a position to do exactly that by staying in the DB scheme. He
could have chosen at any point to take his DB benefits to cover his essential outgoings and
use his existing SIPP for flexible income when and if required. And having the guaranteed
benefits from the DB scheme would have enabled him to take more risks with his SIPP if he
wanted to and use this sum in any way he wanted.
By transferring out, he unnecessarily exposed all his pensions provisions to risk. Whilst his
existing SIPP had obviously performed in line with what he needed; this could have changed
at any point. And having all his funds in a personal pension arrangement might have meant
Mr G possibly wouldnt feel as comfortable in future to take the same risks he took whilst he
had the security of a DB pension available to him. So, this also could have decreased
returns in future.
I think Mr G could have achieved his ideal situation of having a mix of secure and flexible
income by keeping his DB scheme. I cant see that the option of using his DB income for
essential outgoings rather than his SIPP was even considered.
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr G. But whilst I appreciate
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr G might have thought it was a good idea
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to
advise Mr G about what was best for his retirement provisions. 
A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think Tenet 
explored to what extent Mr G was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange 
for higher death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr G
was married and had children and so the spouses/dependents pension provided by the DB
scheme wouldve been useful to his spouse and dependents if Mr G predeceased them. I
dont think Tenet made the value of this benefit clear enough to Mr G. This was guaranteed
and it escalated  it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum
remaining on death in a personal pension was. In any event, Tenet should not have
encouraged Mr G to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a personal
pension over the security offered by the DB scheme.
Furthermore, as described above, Mr G could have chosen to preserve his SIPP by using
DB for the majority of his income instead. This in turn would have left him the possibility to
leave any remaining funds from the SIPP to his family if he died.
By staying in the DB scheme, his family would have benefitted from a guaranteed spouses
pension and dependants pension if his children were still younger when he died as well as
possible flexible death benefits from his SIPP.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal
pension justified taking on more risk with his pension provisions.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for lump sum death benefits on offer
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr G. But Tenetwasnt there to just transact what Mr G might have thought he wanted. The advisers role
was to really understand what Mr G needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr G was suitable. He was giving up a
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income when he didnt need to. In my view there were
no particular reasons which would justify a transfer. Mr G shouldnt have been advised to
transfer out of the scheme for increased flexibility, and the potential for more flexible and
potentially higher death benefits wasnt worth giving up the guarantees associated with his
DB scheme.
So, I think Tenet shouldve advised Mr G to remain in his DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr G would've gone ahead anyway.
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr G wouldve insisted on
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Tenets advice. I say this because this pension
accounted for a large portion of Mr Gs future retirement provision and his total pension
provisions appeared to already cater for his needs. So, if Tenet had provided him with clear
advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best
interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice. Particularly because his initial thoughts
had been along the same lines.
Overall Mr G had other safer options available to him and no real need to transfer out of the
DB scheme. In light of the above, I think Tenet should compensate Mr G for the unsuitable 
advice, using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
Lifetime allowance (LTA)
Tenet acknowledged that if Mr G stayed in his DB scheme and took benefits at age 65 his
benefits would fall within the lifetime allowance. However, by transferring he would face
lifetime allowance charges. So, hell suffer additional charges due to Tenets unsuitable
advice. Its fair and reasonable that this additional loss is covered by Tenet as it wont be
included in the usual DB transfer redress guidance.
Its impossible to say how much additional LTA charges Mr G will have to pay by transferring
out of the DB scheme. It will depend on many factors like when Mr G will die, how he will use
his pensions and what returns he will achieve in his SIPP and is highly complex. So I
recognise that no award in this regard will be perfect and Mr Gs actual LTA charges might
be higher or lower in future.
However, I think its reasonable to make an award now and bring finality to this complaint
and certainty for the benefit of both parties. 
Im intending to ask Tenet to pay the following:
Im assuming that Mr G followed Tenets recommendation which was to crystalise the
majority of his DB transfer value of around £700,000 which used up his LTA. Tenet set out in
their report that the remaining amount (£14,000) would remain uncrystallised.
Uncrystallised benefits will be tested against the LTA at age 75. I think its reasonable to
assume that the uncrystallised amount of £14,000 (plus growth on it until age 75) will be
tested against Mr Gs lifetime allowance at age 75. The LTA might be higher than it is now or
lower. In the more recent past, it increased on a regular basis, but it is currently frozen until
2026. I think for the purpose of this calculation it should be assumed that the whole amount
will be subject to LTA.I considered the regulators medium projection rate of 5% and the recommended plans
charges of around 1%. So, I think applying an assumed net growth rate of 4% to the sum of
£14,000 from the time Mr G crystalised his benefits in 2016 until he turns 75 is reasonable.
This will give Tenet the amount that is likely subject to an LTA charge. The charges will be
25% of this sum and represent Mr Gs loss. So, this is the amount Mr G should be
compensated for. However, it needs to be considered that the amount being paid to Mr G
now can be reinvested and achieve growth until 75. So, the loss amount can be discounted
with the same 4% rate for the time between Mr Gs 75th birthday and the date of settlement.
LTA charges would also apply to any pension amount exceeding the crystalised funds at age
75. However, given that Mr G was recommended to take tax-free cash and take regular
income from his plan, I dont think that even with growth his plan value will likely exceed the
originally crystalised amount.
Alternatively, if both parties prefer, Tenet can give Mr G an undertaking to pay any LTA
charges he incurs in future (not taking into account further contributions or new pension
arrangements). I invite the parties comments on this.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Ive independently reviewed all the available evidence again. Having done so, I agree with 
my ombudsman colleague that the advice given was unsuitable for Mr G for the same 
reasons set out in the provisional decision. I dont consider there was a need for Mr G to give 
up valuable guaranteed benefits or that this was in his best interest.
I also consider Mr G should be compensated for expected LTA charges. Like set out in the 
provisional decision, the actual charge that Mr G will have to pay is uncertain and depends 
on several factors. The previous ombudsman asked for the parties opinion on this and 
invited their comments on the possibility of an undertaking and settlement when LTA 
charges actually fall due. Mr G says he prefers for the LTA charges to be settled now and 
Tenet hasnt commented on this. I consider the assumptions made in the provisional 
decision are reasonable and I agree its preferable to bring a close to this complaint by 
settling it now.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr G, as far as possible, into
the position he would now be in but for Tenets unsuitable advice. I consider Mr G would
have most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given. 
Since the provisional decision was issued, the FCA started a consultation on their guidance 
for DB transfer redress. Any changes to the methodology are expected to come into effect in 
early 2023. The basic objective of the proposed amendments still remains to put a 
consumer, as far as possible, into the position they would be in if the business had advised 
them to remain in the DB scheme. The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to 
calculate and offer compensation to their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 
whilst the consultation takes place, but that firms should give customers the option of waiting 
for their compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may 
come into force after the consultation has concluded.
 I thought it was fair to give Mr G the same choice. He has decided not to wait for any new 
guidance and for his redress to be calculated now in line with FG17/9. I am satisfied that a 
calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is identified, will provide fair 
redress.
1) Tenet must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, although Mr G was retired, he had not accessed the benefits under the DB
scheme and was only in conversations with Tenet at the time of the advice because he had
been offered an ETV. I dont know when Mr G would have accessed his DB pension if he
had remained in it. So, compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65,
as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly
following receipt of notification of Mr Gs acceptance of the decision.
2) Pay Mr G compensation for future LTA charges calculated as described in the provisional 
findings. For clarity this means:
Tenet must apply an assumed net growth rate of 4% to the sum of £14,000 from the time Mr 
G crystalised his benefits in 2016 until he turns 75. This will give Tenet the amount that is 
likely subject to an LTA charge. The charges will be 25% of this sum and represent Mr Gs 
loss. So, this is the amount Mr G should be compensated for. However, it needs to be 
considered that the amount being paid to Mr G now can be reinvested and achieve growth 
until 75. So, the loss amount can be discounted with the same 4% rate for the time between 
Mr Gs 75th birthday and the date of settlement.
Usually I would ask Tenet to pay compensation into the pension. However, as there will
already be LTA implications, further payment into a pension would add to this. 
I acknowledge Mr Gs preference to have compensation paid into his pension. But in the 
circumstances I consider all compensation should be paid directly to Mr G as a lump sum 
after making a notional deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have been 
paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, 
making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount
must where possible be paid to Mr G within 90 days of the date Tenet receives notification of
his acceptance of my decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation amount
at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my decision to the date of settlement for
any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Tenet to pay Mr G.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require TenetConnect Limited 
to pay Mr G the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I additionally require 
TenetConnect Limited to pay Mr G any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I only require TenetConnect 
Limited to pay Mr G any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
TenetConnect Limited pays Mr G the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr G.
If Mr G accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on TenetConnect Limited. 
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr G can accept my
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr G may want to consider getting
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman