DRN-3895271
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the settlement hes been given after Haven Insurance Company
Limited (Haven) sold his vehicle in error.
What happened
Mr W had an accident in his vehicle and made a claim to Haven, his commercial vehicle
insurer.
The vehicle was recovered by Haven and the claim was put on hold until Mr W had been to
court surrounding the circumstances of the accident. Haven said that if Mr W was convicted
and received a driving ban his claim wouldnt be covered, but if there was no further action,
they would deal with the claim.
Ultimately Mr W received a driving ban in court. As his claim wasnt covered, he asked for
his vehicle to be returned to him. However, Havens salvage agent had sold on the damaged
vehicle by this point.
Haven offered Mr W £1,650, which was the amount their salvage agent sold the vehicle for,
and an additional £200 compensation. Mr W was unhappy with this, as he intended to repair
the vehicle for between £500-£1,000, and he believes it was worth in excess of £5,000.
Mr W remained unhappy with Haven and approached this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said Mr Ws claim wasnt covered under his
policy, so it was fair for him to receive the amount Havens salvage agent sold the vehicle
for, with £200 compensation added.
Mr W didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision. I was minded to reach a different outcome to our investigator, 
so I wanted to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my findings before I reached 
my final decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im issuing a provisional decision. Ive provisionally reached a different outcome to 
our investigator, so I wanted to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my 
findings, before I reach my final decision.
It isnt in dispute that Mr Ws claim isnt covered under his policy due to the 
circumstances surrounding the accident. And it isnt in dispute that Haven failed to 
safeguard Mr Ws vehicle and it should have been returned to him, but instead was 
sold by Havens salvage agent. As these points arent in dispute, I dont need to 
make a decision on these. Instead, Ill be considering the settlement Mr W has been 
offered after this by Haven.
Haven offered Mr W £1,650, as this is what they say their salvage agent sold the 
damaged vehicle for. Our investigator said this amount was fair. But Im not minded 
to agree, Ill explain why.
Mr W made Haven aware that he intended to repair his vehicle, and he estimated this 
would cost between £500-£1,000 given the damage that it had. He also purchased 
the vehicle for around £5,000 a few months before the accident and carried out 
works in excess of £1,000 to it before the accident too. So, Mr W says his vehicle 
was worth considerably more than the amount the salvage agent sold it for.
Havens salvage agent sold the vehicle, which all parties accept shouldnt have 
happened. Mr W wouldnt be entitled to the pre-accident market value as his claim 
isnt covered under his policy. However, as Mr W intended to repair his vehicle, at the 
point the vehicle was sold, it would have been worth whatever was the current actual 
market value at the time taking into account the damage and the cost of repairs 
needed.
Therefore, I dont think its fair Haven is only offering what the vehicle was actually 
sold for, given it was likely sold at auction for what a buyer of scrapped vehicles was 
willing to pay on that day. Id only agree this was a fair amount if it was actually sold 
for the current actual market value taking into account the damage and cost of 
repairs, but I havent seen anything which demonstrates this is the case.
With this in mind, unless anything changes as a result of the responses to my 
provisional decision, Im minded to direct Haven to make a settlement offer in line 
with the actual value of the vehicle, taking into account the damage and cost of 
repairs. 8% simple interest should also be added to this amount from the date the 
original settlement was offered, to date of settlement.To be clear though, this will likely need some discussion between Mr W and Haven to
establish a settlement value, based on the appropriate market value and repair costs. 
So, Im not asking either party to provide a figure in response to my provisional 
decision, instead, if my final decision remains the same, Ill be directing Haven as 
outlined above. If Mr W is ultimately unhappy with the settlement amount offered by 
Haven, then we may be able to consider that as a new separate complaint.
Haven also gave Mr W £200 compensation for the service he received. And I think 
that amount is reasonable in the circumstances. So, whilst Im minded to direct 
Haven to recalculate the settlement for the vehicle, I dont intend to increase the 
compensation amount.
Therefore, I was minded to uphold the complaint in part and to direct Haven to make a 
settlement offer for Mr Ws vehicle based on the actual value taking into account the damage 
and cost of repairs, with 8% simple interest added. And to pay Mr W the £200 compensation 
offered if it hadnt already.
The responses to my provisional decision
Mr W responded accepting my provisional decision.
Haven responded also accepting my provisional decision. 
Haven also said that whilst they noted I said I wouldnt be considering the amount of 
settlement as part of this complaint, theyd asked their engineers to calculate what that 
would be.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive thought carefully about the conclusions I came to in my provisional decision. Having 
done so, and as neither party provided anything which would lead me to reach a different 
outcome, my final decision remains the same, and for the same reasons.
In my provisional decision I said I wasnt looking for Haven to provide the settlement value in 
response. This is because Haven and Mr W would need to discuss that directly, and Haven 
may need some information from Mr W to be able to do so. And I said that if Mr W was 
ultimately unhappy with the offer made by Haven for the settlement, that would be a 
separate complaint.
In response to my provisional decision, Haven said theyd consulted their engineer to 
calculate a settlement amount. 
However, that isnt something I can decide here, as it isnt part of this complaint. If Mr W 
accepts my final decision, then Haven should liaise directly with Mr W to make its offer, and 
if Mr W remains dissatisfied, then that would be a new, separate, complaint.My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part and direct Haven Insurance 
Company Limited to:
Make a settlement offer for Mr Ws vehicle based on the actual value taking into 
account the damage and cost of repairs
Add 8% simple interest from the date of the original settlement offer to date of 
settlement 
Pay Mr W the £200 compensation already offered (if it hasnt already done so)
*If Haven Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr W how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr W a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman