DRN-3813662
The complaint
Miss M complains HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt do enough to protect her from the financial 
harm caused by an investment scam company, or to help her recover the money once shed 
reported the scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Miss M was approached on social media by someone claiming to be a broker working for an 
investment company Ill refer to as S. Before going ahead with the investment, Miss M 
viewed the brokers social media profile, which contained photographs of other investors 
showing off sports cars and expensive jewellery which theyd bought with their profits. She 
also obtained a copy of the brokers driving licence and conducted a search on the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) website, which showed the broker wasnt currently working. When 
she queried this, the broker told her hed taken on a more senior role and the register had 
yet to be updated.
The broker instructed her to open an account with S and to purchase cryptocurrency before 
loading it onto an online wallet. She set up the account by following comprehensive step by 
step instructions which the broker sent via WhatsApp. 
Miss M made three payments on 29 December 2021, 31 December 2021, and 4 January 
2022 for £600, £1,900, and £1,433 via online transfer from her HSBC account. She realised 
shed been the victim of a scam when she didnt receive the returns promised to her by the 
broker. She contacted HSBC but it refused to refund the money shed lost because the funds 
were transferred to an account in her own name.
Miss M wasnt satisfied and so she complained to this service with the assistance of a 
representative. Her representative explained she had no prior investment experience and 
hadnt invested in cryptocurrency before. They said HSBC should have identified the 
transactions as potentially fraudulent as they were larger than previous transactions and 
were therefore out of character for the normal spending on the account. They said Miss M 
had full control of the trading account, no one else had access to her login details and she 
had done extensive checks before going ahead with the investment. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She accepted Miss M had been 
the victim of fraud, but she didnt think HSBC could reasonably have been expected to 
prevent her loss as there was no account history with which to compare the payments and 
the payments werent suspicious. She said the payments werent large and they werent 
made in quick succession, so she didnt think HSBC missed an opportunity to intervene. She 
also noted Miss M didnt interact with HSBC when she made the payments, so it didnt miss 
an opportunity to identify they were being made in relation to a scam. And there was no 
possibility of recovery of funds because they were paid into Miss Ms account and moved on.
Miss M has asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. Her representative 
has said our investigator failed to consider the liability of HSBC under the CRM code and 
theyve argued that payments made to a cryptocurrency account should have been identified 
as high risk.
They have also said that as the account was recently opened, HSBC ought to have taken 
more care to establish Miss Ms spending patterns and habits. They disagree the 
transactions werent suspicious, arguing they equated to almost the entire balance in the 
account, and the fact they were transferred to a cryptocurrency trading platform was enough 
to warrant an intervention as cryptocurrency is widely known as being high-risk due to its 
lack of regulation.
They have said HSBC should have contacted Miss M to find out whether she regularly used 
cryptocurrency exchange platforms and that she ought to have been treated as vulnerable 
as English isnt her first language. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Miss M has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know she 
feels strongly about this complaint, and this will come as a disappointment to her, so Ill 
explain why. 
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Miss M says shes fallen victim to, in 
all but a limited number of circumstances. HSBC said CRM code didnt apply in this case 
because the payments were made to an account in Miss Ms own name, and Im satisfied 
thats fair.
Im also satisfied Miss M authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although she didnt 
intend the money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and 
conditions of his bank account, Miss M is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk unregulated investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods 
that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, while customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006). 
Ive carefully considered the circumstances, and I am persuaded the broker was operating 
as part of a scam. But, although Miss M didnt intend her money to go to scammers, she did 
authorise the disputed payments. HSBC is expected to process payments and withdrawals 
that a customer authorises it to make, but where the customer has been the victim of a 
scam, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them even though 
they authorised the payment.
PreventionIve thought about whether HSBC could have done more to prevent the scam from occurring 
altogether. Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and from the evidence Ive seen, the 
payments were made to a genuine cryptocurrency exchange company. However, HSBC had 
an obligation to be alert to fraud and scams and these payments were part of a wider scam, 
so I need to consider whether it ought to have intervened to warn Miss M when she tried to 
make the payments. If there are unusual or suspicious payments on an account, Id expect 
HSBC to intervene with a view to protecting Miss M from financial harm due to fraud. 
The payments didnt flag as suspicious on HSBCs systems. Ive considered the nature of 
the payments in the context of whether they were unusual or uncharacteristic of how Miss M 
normally ran her account, and I dont think they were. The account was opened shortly 
before Miss M made the first payment, so there was no account history to compare them 
with. But the payments were to a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange company, they werent 
for large amounts, and they werent made in quick succession. So, I dont think they were 
suspicious, and I dont think HSBC missed an opportunity to intervene.
Overall, Im satisfied HSBC took the correct steps prior to the funds being released  as well 
as the steps they took after being notified of the potential fraud. Im sorry to hear Miss M has 
lost money and the effect this has had on her. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think 
HSBC is to blame for this and so I cant fairly tell it to do anything further to resolve this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman