DRN-3839252
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as C, is unhappy with the service it received from 
Metro Bank PLC, including that Metro took the decision to close its accounts.
Cs complaint is brought to this service by one of its directors, whom Ill refer to as Mr D.
What happened
C was selling a subsidiary company and needed to pay back the subsidiarys Bounce Bank 
Loan (BBL) so that the BBL account could be closed before the completion of the sale. Mr 
D had intended to repay the subsidiarys BBL online but found that the option to do so, which 
previously had been present, was no longer available. Mr D therefore contacted Metro and 
repaid the BBL manually. Mr D then visited a Metro branch in his capacity as Cs director to 
obtain letters confirming that the subsidiarys BBL was repaid and the account closed.
Mr D and Metro disagree on what happened during Mr Ds visit to Metros branch. But, 
following that visit, C was able to complete the sale of the subsidiary as intended. However, 
shortly afterwards, Metro sent notice to C that it would be closing Cs accounts. Mr D wasnt 
happy about this, and he also wasnt happy about the service hed received at Metros 
branch, so he raised a complaint on Cs behalf.
Metro looked at Cs complaint. They didnt feel that theyd acted unfairly in deciding to close 
Cs accounts and they also didnt feel that Mr D had been treated unfairly when in branch as 
he maintained., and so they didnt uphold Cs complaint. Mr D wasnt satisfied with Metros 
response to Cs complaint, so he referred the complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel Metro had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation, and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr D 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I feel its important to begin here by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means it isnt within my remit to declare that 
Metro have acted in a non-regulatory or unlaw manner. Such declarations would be for a 
regulatory body or a Court of Law to potentially make. Instead, this service is an informal, 
impartial dispute resolution service, with a remit focussed on fairness of outcome. 
Cs complaint centres around Metros decision to no longer provide banking services to C 
and to close Cs accounts. However, in much the same way as a consumer can choose 
which bank they apply to for an account, and then whether theyll maintain that account or 
move their custom elsewhere, so Metro are entitled to choose whether it will offer, or 
continue to offer, banking services to C.
In this instance, Metro made the decision to no longer offer banking services to C, which in 
turn necessitated the closure of Cs accounts. And ultimately, Im satisfied that this was a 
decision that Metro were entitled to make.
When a business takes the decision to cease offering services to an account holder, it would 
generally be expected, from a fairness perspective, that the business would implement that 
decision in a fair way. In practice, this means Metro should have provided C with a 
reasonable amount of notice that its accounts would be closed, so as to give C the time to 
make alternative banking arrangements before its Metro accounts were closed.
I think that Metro did that here. And I say this because Metro initially gave C two months 
advance notice that its accounts would be closed  which I feel is a fair and reasonable 
amount of notice for Metro to have given  and also because Metro extended the time it was 
willing to allow Cs accounts to remain open at Cs request, so that Cs accounts werent 
closed by Metro until over four months had passed since the original scheduled closure date. 
This meant that C had, in effect, six months to arrange alternative banking arrangements. 
Metro have also explained that their decision to close Cs accounts was influenced by the 
behaviour of Mr D when he visited Metros branch, and theyve described the recollections of 
their branch staff regarding Mr Ds visit. 
Mr D doesnt agree with Metros description of what happened on that day and denies that 
he displayed any form of adverse behaviour such that Metro have reasonable or fair cause 
to close Cs accounts on that basis. And hes provided video and audio recordings of parts of 
his visit to Metros branch as evidence in support of his position. But these recordings dont 
cover the entirety of Mr Ds branch visit, and so I dont feel that any definitive conclusions as 
to what did or didnt happen in branch on that day can reasonably be derived from them.
Where the testimonies of the complainant and the business being complained about differ, 
as they do here in this regard, I have decide  if I feel its reasonably possible to do so  
which of the two versions of events I feel is most likely to have happened, on balance, and in 
consideration of all the information available to me.
To that effect, I feel it must be recognised that businesses such as Metro dont generally 
choose to end a business relationship without reason, given that theres rarely any financial 
benefit to doing so. And I also feel that if Metros staff considered that they were subject to 
adverse behaviour  which in this instance they did to the degree that they reported Mr Ds 
behaviour to their head office, and where that report was sufficient for Metro to then act to 
end the business relationship with C  then I feel that the reported experience of Metros 
staff has to carry weight here. 
I also dont feel that I can reasonably censure Metro for acting to protect its staff in the light 
of such reported behaviour, especially given that I dont feel it can reasonably be confirmed 
that such adverse behaviour definitely didnt occur at any point during Mr Cs branch visit.
All of which means that I do feel Metros stated reason for choosing to end the business 
relationship with C is fair and reasonable, and that it was therefore fair for Metro to follow the 
process it did to close Cs accounts  which Im satisfied was itself a fair process and which 
gave C reasonable time to make any alternative banking arrangements it needed to make.
Mr D has explained that while Metro did allow Cs accounts to remain open longer than 
originally stated, that there were times when Metro restricted Cs accounts such that they 
couldnt be accessed. However, Im satisfied that these periods of restriction took place after 
dates when Metro had stated the accounts would be closed, and that the restrictions were 
lifted when Metro agreed to allow Cs accounts to remain open longer at Mr Ds request. I also dont feel that Metro allowing Cs account to remain open longer than originally stated 
should be considered indicative that Cs accounts should have remained open indefinitely, 
and Im satisfied that it was fair for Metro to close Cs accounts at the time that they did.
Finally, Mr D has claimed that C incurred substantial financial losses because of Metro 
closing Cs accounts. But, given that Im satisfied that Metro havent acted unfairly in how 
they closed Cs accounts  as detailed above dont feel that Metro should fairly or 
reasonably be held accountable for any losses that C might claim here. 
Ultimately, I feel it was incumbent on C  having been given notice that its accounts would 
be closed by Metro  to have made whatever alternative banking arrangements might have 
been necessary to mitigate against any potential future losses, in the extended period of 
time made available to C by Metro to do so.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr D in his capacity as Cs director was wanting, but it 
follows from all the above that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Metro to take 
any further action here. I trust that Mr D will understand, given everything that Ive explained, 
why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman