DRN-3212464
The complaint
Mr S complains that Fairstone Financial Management Limited (Fairstone) switched the 
investments he held in his pension to cash in December 2015 without his knowledge or 
permission. 
Mr S says that his pension fund has suffered a loss of growth because of this. And hed like 
Fairstone to compensate him for his investment losses. Hed also like them to refund any 
charges and provide compensation for unprofessional service.
What happened
Mr S said that nearly seven years ago his investments, held within his pension fund by 
another provider, were moved into cash by his financial adviser, Fairstone, without his 
permission. He said that hed received no information on how his fund was invested, apart 
from a summary from the investment provider, since then. He said that this had resulted in a 
severe shortfall in the value of his investments. 
Mr S contacted Fairstone in early December 2015 to stop the income payments from his 
pension. The final income payment was made on 23 November 2015. Mr Ss adviser also 
arranged for his investments to be switched to cash on 7 December 2015.
On 8 December 2015, the investment provider wrote to Mr S at his address at the time to let 
him know about the changes to his investments.
Mr S said that he spoke to his adviser many times between 2015 and February 2021. He 
said that when he asked him why the fund wasnt increasing he was always assured that it 
was holding its own. 
Mr S said he contacted the investment provider in February 2021 as he wasnt happy with 
his advisers answers. He said that it was at this point that he discovered that his 
investments had been switched into cash on Fairstones instructions. 
Mr S said that he called his adviser, who told him that the funds had been moved into cash. 
And that he would visit him the following working day to explain. He said that during that 
meeting, his adviser confessed that hed messed up. He said he offered to pay the shortfall 
of around £11,000 out of his own pocket. Mr S said he thought this was inappropriate, so he 
asked his adviser to discuss this matter with Fairstone. He said that his adviser did this, but 
that Fairstone had refused to refund the loss.
Fairstone said that their adviser hadnt confessed to having made a mistake. They said the 
meeting Mr S referenced had taken place on 8 March 2021. And that Mr S had brought a 
complaint to them two days later. They said hed made no reference to his adviser admitting 
liability in his complaint. Fairstone said the first time Mr S had raised this issue was in his 
complaint to this service. 
Fairstone issued their final response to the complaint on 12 April 2021. They didnt uphold it. 
They said that their records showed that when Mr S had called his adviser to ask him to 
arrange for his income payments to be stopped, hed also asked him to switch his 
investments into cash. They said his investment provider had sent him contract notes 
confirming the switch. So they didnt agree that theyd acted without Mr Ss permission.
Fairstone also said that Mr S was recorded on their systems as a transactional client. They 
said that this meant that they would provide a service to Mr S if he asked for one. But that 
they were under no obligation to conduct a review unless he requested it. They said this 
position was supported by the Client Agreement that Mr S wouldve been provided with. 
Mr S was unhappy with this response, so brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt consider that the complaint should be upheld. He said there was no 
evidence to support either partys claims with respect to why the fund was switched. But, on 
the balance of available evidence, he felt that Mr S had received the letter the investment 
provider had sent in December 2015, confirming the switch to cash. As Mr S hadnt 
complained after receiving that letter, he felt it more likely than not that Mr S had requested 
the switch. Our investigator also said that the Client Agreement had stated that a review 
would only be performed if Mr S had requested one. So he didnt feel that Fairstone had 
treated him unfairly.
Mr S disagreed with our investigator. He said he didnt know that he needed to request a 
review. And that he had never requested one. He felt that Fairstone had a legal obligation to 
ensure that he was treated fairly. And that they shouldve informed him about any changes 
or opportunities without being asked.
Our investigator didnt agree with Mr S that Fairstone were legally obliged to provide such 
information. He said that the details of Fairstones services had been outlined in the Client
Agreement. He felt this clearly explained that investments that Fairstone had arranged 
wouldnt be kept under review unless Mr S requested such a service. He said that Mr S had 
confirmed that hed never requested a review. 
Mr S maintained that hed given no authority for Fairstone to switch his investments into 
cash. He said hed signed nothing. He felt that his complaint should be upheld unless 
Fairstone could provide him with proof that hed made the request to switch. Mr S also said 
that he wasnt aware of the terms under the Client Agreement. And that he hadnt agreed to 
be a transactional client. He said he had obviously had advice from Fairstone and they had 
never charged him. He also asked why, if hed been a transactional client, Fairstone hadnt 
charged him for dealing with the purchase and sale of his investments.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I agree with our investigator that theres no 
evidence that Fairstone have acted inappropriately. I understand this will be disappointing to 
Mr S. Ill explain the reasons for my decision.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. Ive also carefully considered the submissions that have 
been made by Mr S and Fairstone. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, Ive 
made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words Ive looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what I think is 
more likely to, or should, have happened.
As our investigator noted, due to a lack of evidence, there are a number of points Mr S has 
made that Im unable to consider in this decision. These include all telephone conversations 
between Mr S and his adviser. And what was discussed during the March 2021 meeting, 
including Mr Ss statement that his adviser had admitted to messing up.  
I have considered the following aspects of the complaint:
- Mr S said hed given no authority for Fairstone to switch his investments into cash. 
He said hed signed nothing. He felt that his complaint should be upheld unless 
Fairstone could provide him with proof that hed made the request to switch. 
- Mr S also said that he wasnt aware of the terms under the Client Agreement. And 
that he hadnt agreed to be a transactional client. 
Ive thought carefully about whether I can address Mr Ss other point. He said he had 
obviously had advice from Fairstone and they had never charged him. This wasnt part of Mr 
Ss original complaint to Fairstone, so it isnt covered in their final response letter, or in the 
file they provided to this service. Therefore this cant form part of my formal decision. 
However, this service did ask Fairstone to confirm whether they wouldve charged Mr S if he 
had requested an annual review. And they confirmed that they would have charged him.
Did Mr S give his authority for the switch?
Mr S said he didnt give authority for the switch. He also said that he felt that as Fairstone 
couldnt provide him with proof that hed made the request to switch, his complaint should be 
upheld. 
Fairstone asked Mr Ss adviser for his recollections. He provided this service with a note 
from the back-office system. In this note, the administrator confirmed that Mr S had given the 
instruction to stop his income and switch to cash. The adviser said that he then asked an 
administrator to sort this out. He said he wouldnt have stopped Mr Ss income, or switched 
his investments to cash, without him asking him to do so. He said he remembered that Mr S 
had told him he was making the request to stop income and switch to cash as he was 
thinking of moving his pension to somewhere he felt he could make more money with it.
There is very little documentary or otherwise recorded evidence available in this case. There 
are no telephone recordings. So, although Mr S said that he spoke to his adviser several 
times between 2015 and 2021, Im unable to verify what was said during any of those calls. 
Although theres not much documentary evidence available to me, I have seen an internal 
email dated 7 December 2015 from Mr Ss adviser. This said:
Stop income payments and switch funds to cash.
Ive also seen a reply the same day which said:
Sorted both. Last income payment 23/11/15. Letter of confirmation will be sent to Mr S.
I consider that this, coupled with the note from the back-office system, confirms the advisers 
version of events. 
Mr S hasnt disputed that he asked Fairstone to stop his income payments. And, based on the evidence, Im persuaded that he also asked Fairstone to switch his investments to cash 
at the same time. I say this because of the evidence Fairstone provided. And because I cant 
think of any reason for Mr Ss adviser to have requested the switch to cash at this time 
unless Mr S had requested it.
Its impossible to know whether Mr S actually received the letter the investment provider sent 
him dated 8 December 2015, which confirmed the sale to cash of the investments held in his 
pension. Or the Client Agreement which Fairstone said Mr S was provided with in 2009. 
Mr S said he had no recollection of receiving the 8 December 2015 letter. But he told this 
service that he had received notices from the investment provider. Mr S has also confirmed 
to this service that the 8 December 2015 letter was correctly addressed. 
As Mr S had received other notices from his investment provider, and as the 8 December 
2015 letter was correctly addressed, I agree with our investigator that its more likely than not 
that it was received. I consider that, on receipt of such a letter, Mr S wouldve complained to 
his investment provider, who wouldve passed his complaint on to Fairstone, if he hadnt 
requested the switch to cash. As he didnt complain at this time, Im persuaded that he did 
request the switch to cash.
Overall, and based on my reasoning outlined above, Im satisfied that Mr S requested the 
switch to cash. 
Client Agreement
Mr S said he wasnt aware of the terms under the Client Agreement. 
Fairstone said they wouldve sent him this document in 2009.
As I mentioned earlier, I cant know what actually happened here. But I consider that its 
more likely than not that Fairstone wouldve provided details of their agreement with Mr S 
when he first became a client of theirs, or if the terms changed. And if Fairstone hadnt 
shared details of their agreement with Mr S with him, I wouldve expected him to ask for 
those details, rather than to assume what service he was getting. 
I acknowledge that Mr S said that he hadnt agreed to be a transactional client. But Ive no 
evidence that this isnt the case. 
Overall, I cant uphold this part of the complaint. 
Im sorry for the position Mr S finds himself in. I appreciate that it must be concerning to have 
a lower pension fund than he was expecting. But Ive found no evidence that Fairstone are 
responsible for that. And I dont uphold the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman