DRN-2946342
The complaint
Ms G complains that HSBC UK Bank plc mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out by Ms G in 2002. The policy 
provided Ms G with cover for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Ms G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Gs case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those 
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
- If HSBC gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Ms Gs needs?
- Did HSBC give Ms G the information she needed to decide whether to take out the 
policy?
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether Ms 
G is worse off as a result. That is, would she have done something different  such as not 
taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale? 
I have decided not to uphold Ms Gs complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Ms G says HSBC put her under pressure to take the PPI and that she wasnt given a proper 
choice about buying it. She says HSBC told her she wouldnt get the mortgage she wanted if 
she didnt buy the PPI. Ms G says the PPI was also presented alongside another insurance 
product, and that it wasnt made clear that the two products were separate.
Ive noted everything Ms G has said. The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was 
discussed between Ms G and HSBC when the mortgage was arranged.
 
HSBC hasnt provided much information from the point of sale, as these events occurred 
nearly 20 years ago. This isnt surprising and its similar to some other cases Ive seen. But 
HSBC has provided a copy of the mortgage application and personal financial planning 
review that took place when Ms G was applying for her mortgage.
I can see from the personal financial planning review that critical illness is headed Protecting 
lifestyle from Critical Illness. There was another section in the report headed Protecting 
your Income.
In connection with critical illness the review says:
You did not wish to discuss this area of protection over and above the proposed mortgage 
and declined shortfall needs analysis, as you feel your priority is mortgage planning and you 
wish to leave this area until you have settled in your new home and outgoings.
It seems PPI was mentioned as part of the income protection discussion. The review said:
Your employer provides 8 weeks sick pay but after this time you would have to rely on state 
benefits. This does concern you as you only have your income to support you financially. We 
have discussed various products to meet your needs including Income Protection, Income 
Protection for Mortgages, Essential Abilities Cover, Essential Abilities for Mortgages and 
Mortgage Repayment Protector and their costs to decide how best to protect you.
Having considered the content of HSBCs record of its discussion with Ms G, on balance I 
think it wouldve been clear to Ms G that the critical illness cover and PPI were separate 
products.  
Following the review and application meeting HSBC wrote to Ms G with its recommendations 
regarding her mortgage and financial protections. But there is nothing in the correspondence 
to suggest that HSBCs recommendations were a condition of getting the mortgage. Im also 
satisfied that HSBCs recommendation to take the PPI was listed separately to the critical 
illness cover in its letter. 
So without any additional evidence to support what Ms G has told me, on balance it seems 
likely to me that Ms G wouldve known the policy was optional and chose to take it out. 
HSBC accepts that it advised Ms G to take out the policy. But it doesnt look like the PPI was 
unsuitable for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. I say this 
because: 
- Ms G was eligible for the policy given her circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions. 
- Ms G says she would have received some work-related benefits if she couldnt work 
due to sickness or accident. But the policy would have paid out in addition to her 
occupational benefits and would do so, it seems, for longer. Having the policy in 
place would mean Ms G could use her work-related benefits to pay for other 
expenses. So I think Ms G would have had some use for the policy despite her 
existing arrangements.
- Ms G wasnt affected by any of the policys exclusions or limitations, such as those 
affecting people with pre-existing medical conditions or the self-employed. As she 
could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely she needed 
better advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.I cant be sure that the PPI cost was made clear to Ms G before she agreed to buy
it. It seems the policy was free for the first six months. But Ms G took out the cover 
knowing she would have to pay something for it after the free period had ended. The 
policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Ms G 
would have made a different decision if better information about the cost had been 
provided.
Its possible the information the bank gave Ms G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But as Ive already said, Ms G wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or
limitations and the policy had a reasonable benefit. So I think it unlikely Ms G would have
made a different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I think she would
still have taken out the policy.
Ms G says her circumstances changed during the lifetime of the policy, but that HSBC failed 
to assess whether the PPI remained suitable for her. Our approach to mis-sale complaints is 
to look at the circumstances at the time the policy was sold. So even if a customers 
circumstances subsequently change, this wont necessarily change our conclusions about 
whether the PPI was mis-sold at the point of sale.
As Ive already said, Im not persuaded that Ms Gs PPI policy was mis-sold.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman