DRN-2182903
The complaint
Mr F complains about the decision by Canada Life Limited to turn down his income 
protection claim.
 
What happened
Mr F is covered by his employers group income protection scheme. The aim of the scheme 
is to provide a monthly income in the event the insured cant work in their occupation 
because of illness or injury. The scheme has a deferred period of 26 weeks.
In April 2018 Mr F stopped work and submitted a claim to Canada Life. 
Canada Life turned down the claim as it didnt think Mr F met the policy definition of 
incapacity. Unhappy with this, Mr F brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought that, based on the 
medical evidence, Canada Lifes decision to turn down the claim had been reasonable. 
Mr F didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy definition of incapacity is:
We will treat a member as suffering incapacity, if, throughout the deferred period and 
beyond, the members illness or injury prevents them from, and makes them incapable of, 
performing the material and substantial duties of their normal occupation.
Material and substantial duties are defined as:
the duties that a member is normally required to do to perform their normal occupation and 
which cannot reasonably be omitted or modified by you or the member. The duties refer to 
the tasks the member is required to perform, and whether those tasks could be carried out 
for you or any other employer. In addition a journey to and from the members normal 
residence to their normal place of work is not regarded as part of the normal occupation.
Therefore, for me to require Canada Life to accept the claim, Mr F needs to show that he 
was unable to carry out the main duties of his role throughout the 26-week deferred period. 
Ive therefore considered the medical evidence.
Mr F has a history of depression and seasonal affective disorder (SAD). Before stopping 
work, he was taking antidepressant medication, and had undergone a course of 
counselling/cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT).
In April 2018, Mr F saw his GP after an incident at work regarding his performance. Mr F 
thought his depression was causing a lack of motivation and affecting his work. His GP 
signed him off with depression and increased his antidepressant medication. 
Later that month, Mr F again saw his GP and reported that his mood was better since 
changing the dose of medication. At another appointment in April 2018, Mr F told his GP that 
he wanted to refer himself to occupational health to consider changing his work hours.
In May 2018, Mr F explained to his GP that he had seen occupational health who had 
advised a change in shift pattern, but his employer hadnt yet complied with it. 
Then in June 2018, the GP noted that Mr Fs employer was trying to comply with the 
occupational therapists requirement and amend his duties, but they hadnt got there yet. 
The GP signed Mr F off for a further three weeks, but noted that it should perhaps be a fit 
note with amendments. Later that month, the GP recorded that Mr F wasnt ready to return 
to work as he was waiting for his employer to make changes to his work pattern. 
Also in June 2018, Mr F advised Canada Lifes nurse that at the end of 2017, he had 
submitted a flexible working request to his employer to change his shift pattern to help with 
his conditions. This had been agreed to take place during the winter months, though Mr F 
wanted the shift pattern to be fixed throughout the year. Mr F told the nurse that the main 
issue preventing him from returning to work was the shift times. 
In July 2018, Mr F then returned to work on a phased basis as his GP thought he could work 
with altered hours. He was also able to carry out voluntary work. However, in October 2018, 
Mr F stopped work again. Whilst off work, he changed his antidepressant medication and, at 
the end of October 2018, his GP again signed him off work with depression (in order to cope 
with the transition of medication). 
Mr F has since remained off work due to depression.
Canada Life has taken April 2018 to be the date that Mr F stopped work. I can understand 
why it did that - although Mr F returned to work in July 2018, I understand that he did so on a 
phased basis and didnt return to his normal full-time hours. 
Based on the deferred period being April  October 2018, I agree with Canada Life that Mr F 
didnt meet the policy definition of incapacity during that period. I say that because the main 
issue apparently preventing him from working during that time was his shift pattern. 
However, as Canada Life has pointed out, Mr Fs shift pattern isnt part of the material and 
substantial duties of his role. I think it was therefore reasonable for Canada Life to conclude 
that Mr F could carry out the material and substantial duties of his role, and in fact he did so 
(albeit on a reduced basis) between July and October 2018. Although he stopped work again 
in October 2018, this wasnt due to depression, but was apparently due to side effects he 
was experiencing from his medication. 
However, to be fair to Mr F, Ive also considered whether the claim would be payable if the 
date he stopped work for the purposes of the claim was in October 2018, and therefore the 
deferred period was October 2018  April 2019.
Mr Fs GP notes in this period report that his mood was slightly improved, but he was 
anxious about returning to work. He then experienced further side effects on his medication, 
and eventually came off this. He stopped the voluntary work he was doing, and his GP 
thought he wasnt fit to work at his current job.Canada Life didnt think it was clear from this evidence whether Mr F met the policy definition 
of incapacity. It therefore arranged for Mr F to attend an independent medical examination 
with Dr C (consultant clinical psychologist). I think that was reasonable. 
Mr F met with Dr C in July 2019. Dr C thought Mr F had a mixed anxiety and depressive 
disorder, and that his current episode was mild. Dr C said His [Mr Fs] history since going on 
sick leave does not fit with being off with a depressive illness or major anxiety, rather it 
appears that he has been off because he no longer likes his job enough.
Dr C concluded that the main factors leading to Mr F being off work werent clinical ones, 
and that he could have returned to full-time work in autumn of 2018.
Ive noted Mr Fs concerns with Dr Cs report. I see that Canada Life sent Dr C those 
comments to see if they altered Dr C view, and he confirmed that they didnt. 
Overall, I think it was reasonable for Canada Life to place greater weight on Dr Cs opinion 
than Mr Fs GP, and therefore conclude that Mr F didnt meet the policy definition of 
incapacity. This would have been the case whether the start date of his absence for the 
claim was in April 2018 or October 2018. 
Mr F has recently obtained a further medical report that hes asked this service to consider. 
In October 2020, Mr F met with Ms P, a clinical psychologist. Ms P thought Mr F had traits of 
the Autistic Spectrum Disorder (ASD), and that his anxiety and depression were associated 
with this. Ms P thought that Mr F wouldnt have been able to work in his company or another 
company from the date that he stopped work until the date she met him. She said that was 
because a clear understanding of his ASD traits would have been required to support his 
needs, and because he wasnt able to keep a voluntary position. 
We asked Canada Life for its comments on Ms Ps report. It said that the report was 
obtained a significant length of time after the deferred period ended in October 2018. Also, 
Dr C is more highly qualified than Ms P, so it thought it was reasonable to still rely on Dr Cs 
conclusions. Furthermore, it pointed out that, despite Mr Fs ASD traits, they hadnt 
prevented him from working previously. 
Overall, Im minded to agree with Canada Life here, even if I were to consider the deferred 
period as being the later time of October 2018  April 2019. Dr C met with Mr F shortly after 
the end of that period, and is also more highly qualified than Ms P. For those reasons, I think 
greater weight ought to be placed on Dr Cs conclusions, rather than Ms Ps. I also accept 
that Mr Fs ASD traits havent prevented him from working previously.
I recognise my decision will disappoint Mr F, but Im satisfied it was reasonable for Canada 
Life to turn down the claim.
I see that Canada Life offered Mr F £250 compensation for the time it took to consider his 
appeal. I think that was reasonable in the circumstances.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman