DRN-3676032
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained that they were given unsuitable advice by a predecessor 
scheme of Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited, to invest in a with-profits bond in 1998. 
Mr and Mrs M are being represented by a claims management company (CMC) with this 
complaint. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out the bond following advice in August 1998. They invested a lump sum 
of £70,000. They elected to take a monthly income from the bond of £400. This was 
increased to £437.50 in 2003 (7.5%). The bond was surrendered in 2006 for £49,607.03. 
In October 2021 Mr and Mrs M complained to Aviva through their CMC. They said amongst 
other complaint points, that their future needs and objectives werent adequately considered 
and that an inappropriate amount of their free assets were taken up. 
Aviva looked into it but didnt uphold the complaint. They said that bonus rates hadnt been 
guaranteed and that they were satisfied the advisor had acted with reasonable care and skill. 
Mr and Mrs M remained unhappy and brought their complaint to this service for an 
independent review. Aviva initially said the complaint hadnt been brought in time, but 
accepted our investigators conclusion that it had. However, he then looked into it but didnt 
think Aviva had done anything wrong. He said that nothing he had seen showed the 
investment to have been unsuitable for Mr and Mrs M at the time. He felt their attitude to risk, 
plans for the future and financial circumstances were all considered. 
The CMC responded to say they still felt the advice had been inappropriate and that Mr and 
Mrs Ms circumstances had not been considered sufficiently. In particular, that Mrs M was 
approaching retirement. They also stated that the elected income at inception was above the 
5% tax free amount, causing a potential liability. 
As Mr and Mrs M remained unhappy, the case has been passed to me to reach a decision 
on. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as the investigator. Ill explain why. 
When considering a complaint, I am deciding if the business clearly did something wrong or 
made a mistake, not whether they might have done things differently considering hindsight 
(such as a different recommendation). In this case, I am satisfied that the advice given at the 
time was suitable.
Ive looked at what I know about Mr and Mrs Ms overall financial situation when they took 
out this investment. In addition to what the parties have told me, I think its reasonable for me 
to rely on information in the fact find document, illustration, Key Features document and 
suitability letter.
At the time of the advice, Mr M was 56 years old and Mrs M was 58 years old. They both 
worked for the family run business. Taking into account their joint income and monthly 
outgoings, they had approximately £330 disposable each month. They had an outstanding 
mortgage of £90,000 and no dependants. Prior to this advice, they had recently taken out a 
tax-exempt special savings account (TESSA) and personal equity plan (PEP now called 
ISA), for over £10,000 each. They had some emergency funds in the bank and also over 
£90,000 in a managed unit trust. It was from this that this investment was to be made from. 
This means Mr and Mrs M had some experience of managed portfolios. They also both 
described themselves as having a balanced attitude to risk, ticking 5 on a scale of 1-10.  
This was described as you prefer a balanced approach to investment and are willing to 
accept average risk to achieve more attractive returns. Considering this and that the original 
investment amount of £70,000 was protected as long as it remained invested for a minimum 
of 5 years, I think the bond matched their attitude to risk. 
I have thought carefully about Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances and objectives from the time. 
Especially that they wanted a monthly income and some capital growth. I think this 
recommended bond was appropriate. Mr and Mrs M clearly wanted to increase the income 
they were earning, compared to their current managed unit trust investment and this bond 
offered that. I appreciate that the CMC has said that it was an inappropriate amount of their 
funds used. However, I dont agree. The investment came from a pre-existing investment. Mr 
and Mrs M were left with approximately £20,000 in that. As well as this they had a further 
£20,000 invested and approximately £15,000 as cash savings. I think this was sufficient with 
no planned future expenditure commitments stated. I note the comments that Mrs M planned 
to retire before the initial 5 years of this bond, but I havent seen anything to conclude that 
she was going to need this money and so a market value adjustment (MVA) might have then 
applied. 
The CMC has also raised the concern that the income elected for this bond was originally 
over 5% and after 5 years was changed to approximately 7.5% of the original investment 
amount, therefore becoming potentially taxable. However, they havent provided anything to 
show that this was the case or Mr and Mrs M were higher rate taxpayers and that an extra 
tax liability was incurred. Further, the income levels seem to be in line with what could have 
been taken without incurring any MVA or discontinuance deduction as outlined in the Key 
Features Document. Mr and Mrs M also elected for the increase in 2003, rather than being 
advised. Which suggests that they wanted that level of income. 
On balance, based on what Ive seen and been told, I am satisfied the recommendation was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs M. It matched their risk profile, circumstances and needs at the time. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman