The complaint
Mr T complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) offered insufficient 
compensation for a faulty car.
What happened
In June 2018 Mr T acquired a new car costing £41,000 funded by a deposit of £5,000, part 
exchange of £100, an allowance of £2,000 and the balance with a hire purchase agreement. 
He encountered a number of faults and the car was taken back to the dealer on numerous 
occasions. 
In due course it was accepted there were significant problems and several options were put 
to Mr T. These included a refund of six months worth of payments or the option to change to 
a different model which would have been partially subsidised. However, his request to reject 
the car was refused and so he brought the matter to this service.
It was considered by one of our investigators who recommended it be upheld. I have seen 
an internal email from BMWFS dated 14 June 2019 in which it accepted that rejection was 
an appropriate solution and I gather our investigator became aware of this in early October.
She recommended rejection and the return of the car, a refund of the deposit and 25% of the 
monthly payments made up to June 2019 and all payments made thereafter plus interest 
and compensation of £300.
Mr T queried the proposed redress and suggested he was entitled to more than 25% of the 
first years payment as over 2,000 of the miles the car was driven was due to it being taken 
to the dealer and tested. He also asked that his road tax be refunded in part and his GAP 
insurance. Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change her recommendations. 
Later Mr T said he had had an independent report carried out early October before he was 
aware that BMWFS had agreed to rejection. As part of the deal Mr T was given £2,000 
scrappage allowance and it has been agreed by all the parties that this was part of his 
deposit and should be refunded. 
BMWFS has accepted all the investigators recommendations save for the cost of the report.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
DRN-1680679It has been accepted by all that Mr T is entitled to reject the car and the only issue in dispute 
is the level of redress and compensation due to him. 
I must say at the outset I think the proposal put forward by our investigator is more than fair 
and I can see no basis for increasing it. Mr T clearly had problem with the car and he had to 
take it back to the dealer, which was some distance way from his home, on many occasions. 
However, he did have the use of the car and he was provided with a courtesy car for most of 
the time his car was in the garage. It is reasonable that he pay for the use of his car 
including the running costs and general overheads such as tax. I gather he hasnt made use 
of it since April 2019, although it was available to him from then. I have given consideration 
to reducing the proposed 25% reduction, but after due deliberation I have concluded this 
should remain untouched.
As for the allowance given against Mr Ts old car I can see an argument against treating it as 
part of the part exchange value of Mr Ts old car, but BMWFS has accepted that it is 
refundable. Therefore I dont propose to develop my thoughts further on what I consider to 
be a generous offer.
The remaining issue is the cost of the inspection which Mr T describes as having been 
initiated on 4 October 2019, with a longer inspection taking place from 18 November through 
to 12 January at a cost of some £400. I have not seen the report or the invoice and so I have 
no evidence as to what was paid by Mr T. Also I note that while he was unaware that 
rejection had been accepted on 4 October he would have been aware before the later work 
was carried out that it was unnecessary. Therefore, I consider BMWFS should only pay for 
the work done on 4 October and only on the production of an invoice for that work.
Putting things right
I consider Mr T should be allowed to reject the car and compensated appropriately.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited to:
end the agreement with nothing further to pay
collect the car at no further cost to Mr T
refund the deposit, part exchange value and scrappage allowance and pay 8% 
simple interest from the date of payment until repaid
refund 25% of the monthly payments from June 2018 to June 2019 plus 8% simple 
interest from the date of payment until repaid
refund all monthly payments from July 2019 plus 8% simple interest
pay for the cost of the Inspection work carried out on 4 October 2019 on provision of 
a receipt for that work alone
pay £300 for the trouble and upset caused 
remove any adverse information from Mr Ts credit file if applicable. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2020.Ivor Graham
Ombudsman