DRN-4323019
The complaint
Mr P complained about the service provided by Halifax Share Dealing Limited trading as 
IWeb Share Dealing (IWeb) when he requested it to transfer a stocks and shares ISA held 
with a third party provider (whom Ill call T) to his IWeb share dealing account. In particular, 
he was unhappy that IWeb initially told him over the phone that it would make the transfer to 
his existing IWeb account but then declined to do so. Mr P said IWeb caused him a great 
deal of stress, lost work, lost sleep and lost leisure time because it failed to provide him with 
any satisfactory explanation to tell him why it couldnt communicate with T.
What happened
26 July 2022 - after speaking to IWeb about making the transfer, IWeb sent Mr P an ISA 
manager transfer form for completion.
27 July 2022  Mr P completed and returned the form to IWeb instructing it to arrange the 
transfer of his T holding to IWeb.
15 August 2022 - Mr P sent a chaser email to IWeb.
16 August 2022 - IWeb emailed Mr P saying  we cannot proceed with your transfer request 
due to some issues preventing us from corresponding with this company. We apologise for 
any inconvenience caused by this. We will notify you if our position changes. 
1 September 2022 - Mr P emailed IWeb saying this was unacceptable and he asked for a 
further explanation:
When Mr P didnt receive a reply to his email and his efforts to find out more about why IWeb 
wasnt actioning his transfer by speaking to IWeb on the phone were unsuccessful, he 
complained to IWeb. 
IWeb upheld Mr Ps complaint in part and said, in brief summary:
it had cancelled all transfers with T and would continue to reject new ones.
IWeb had communicated this information to customers explaining that it couldnt 
facilitate transfers with T due to issues preventing it from corresponding with T so 
IWeb had decided not to accept transfer instructions involving T. IWeb appreciated 
this might make things more difficult for customers but said it couldnt forecast events 
happening which could result in IWeb no longer accepting transfer instructions.
IWebs failure to reply to Mr Ps email was the result of an internal administration 
error so it upheld this part of his complaint. IWeb apologised, confirmed feedback 
had been provided to the relevant department and, in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience this had caused Mr P, it offered him £50 compensation.  
IWeb didnt agree there had been any shortfall in the service provided by its call 
handlers. 
Mr P didn't feel this went far enough to resolve things and so he brought his complaint to us 
and one of our investigators looked into what happened.   
Our investigator said IWebs communication had been poor, it hadnt treated Mr P fairly and 
his view was that it should pay him £150 to reflect the distress and inconvenience IWebs 
actions caused Mr P. 
Mr P agreed with our investigators settlement proposals. IWeb didnt respond. The 
complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
I can tell IWeb to pay compensation or take other steps to put things right if I am satisfied 
that IWeb did something wrong or acted unfairly or unreasonably  and this led to Mr P 
suffering financial loss or some other detriment.
I've taken into account that Mr P had concerns about the way IWebs call handlers dealt with 
his enquiries about this matter. I can see that IWeb addressed that issue in correspondence 
and denied that Mr P was treated unfairly or unreasonably. From what Mr P has said about 
this, it seems to me that this is part and parcel of his wider complaint - he describes being 
ghosted by IWeb when he was trying to find out more about its reasons for not actioning his 
transfer request. So I will focus in my decision on Mr Ps complaint about IWebs failure to 
respond to his questions about why it wouldnt agree to carry out his transfer instructions and 
how it was able to justify taking this stand, which Mr P felt was in breach of his share dealing 
agreement with IWeb. 
Ive looked carefully through the terms and conditions that Mr P wouldve signed up to in 
order to be able to use IWebs share dealing service. These allow IWeb scope in some 
circumstances to decide not to act on a customers instructions and I havent seen enough to 
say that IWeb wasnt reasonably entitled to make that decision here. Ill explain my reasons. 
A financial business does have some discretion and flexibility over which other firms it does 
business with. IWeb exercised its commercial judgement when it decided to stop accepting 
business from T. It was entitled to do that and I am satisfied it exercised its judgement 
reasonably  IWeb was having issues corresponding with T and had concerns about 
aspects of Ts operation. There isnt any rule or guidance that says IWeb was required to 
accept transfers from T or anyone else. So the fact that it didnt agree to carry out Mr Ps 
transfer instructions isnt enough of a reason for me to find that it did something wrong. 
Further, Im mindful that it was open to Mr P to close down his T account and get the cash 
sent to his bank account from where he couldve then funded his ISA with IWeb, so he 
wasnt without other options. 
IWeb still needed to tell customers who were affected by this decision, like Mr P, about its 
decision not to communicate with T. 
I dont know if IWeb sent Mr P the standard letter it says went out to affected customers, but 
the same information was included in its email sent to Mr P on 16 August 2022. 
Mr P had put in his transfer request to IWeb around three weeks earlier and I think IWeb 
should have responded more promptly to tell him that it hadnt actioned this  and it didnt 
intend to. But I find this delay made no overall difference so far as Mr P was concerned. 
I say this because although Mr P knew by mid-August that IWeb had said it couldnt proceed with his transfer request, he didnt take any other action himself to effect the transfer until 
some months later, even though IWebs email also included information telling Mr P that he 
had an option to transfer to another provider, explained how to do this and confirmed that 
IWeb would make no charge for transferring the account. Im therefore not persuaded that 
even if IWeb had told Mr P earlier it wouldnt transfer, that hed have done anything 
differently. 
I appreciate that Mr P wanted more information from IWeb than it provided  but in these 
circumstances, that is not a good enough reason for me to uphold this part of his complaint. 
I think he had enough information to be able to take mitigating actions himself had he 
wanted to do so. 
IWeb has already upheld Mr Ps complaint about failing to reply to his 1 September email so 
I dont need to say more about that or make any findings about whats already been agreed. 
I've carefully considered what redress is fair and reasonable in these circumstances.
Like our investigator, I dont find Mr P has suffered any investment loss that IWeb should 
compensate him for  his money remained invested in his stocks and shares ISA 
throughout. 
I've taken into account that Mr P told us there were times when hed been in an unfit state 
of mind to continue at work, in particular on one occasion after an hour on the phone with 
IWeb. And I sympathise - I can completely understand why that would have been so 
distressing at the time. 
But for the reasons Ive explained more fully above, I dont find that IWeb did anything 
wrong when it told Mr P it couldnt action his transfer from T and I think its likely that if hed 
taken steps sooner to rearrange the transfer to another service provider, which IWebs 
16 August email prompted him to think about doing, then he could have avoided much of 
the frustration he experienced in his dealings with IWeb when he was pressing for 
information I cant fairly or reasonably say he was entitled to insist upon. Once IWeb had 
made its decision and communicated this to Mr P and flagged up his available options, this 
put the onus back on Mr P. 
Taking these things into account, I find that the £50 offered by IWeb is fair and reasonable. 
It broadly reflects the amount I would expect IWeb to pay in these circumstances. And 
I havent upheld any other part of his complaint, so it follows that I cannot award further 
compensation. Im sorry to disappoint Mr P. But as Im satisfied IWeb dealt with his 
complaint fairly Im not telling it to take any further action beyond doing what it has already 
offered to do.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr P hasnt responded to my provisional decision. IWeb has confirmed it has nothing further 
to add. The deadline for responses has now passed so I think its reasonable for me to 
proceed with my review of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no further comments have been received in response to my provisional decision that 
change what I think about this case, for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision, 
I still think its fair for IWeb to pay Mr P £50 (if it hasnt already done so) to put things right. Putting things right
IWeb should pay Mr P £50 (if it hasnt already done so) to reflect the impact on Mr P of its 
admitted service failing.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ps complaint in part and Halifax Share Dealing Limited trading as IWeb Share 
Dealing should take the steps set out above to put things right for Mr P. Under the rules of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision 
before 26 September 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman