DRN-3936879
The complaint
Mr H complains that St Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) undertook fund 
switches on his pension account without his authority and that he has suffered a financial 
loss as a result. 
What happened
In November 2021 SJP undertook its annual review of Mr Hs retirement account and the 
individual savings accounts (ISA) of both him and his wife. During the review, Mr H and SJP 
discussed the fund manager charges associated with his portfolio and SJP recommended 
that he re-balance his existing investments within his retirement account and his ISA. 
Certain funds were recommended by SJP in line with Mr Hs attitude to risk (ATR). Mr H 
accepted SJPs recommendation and it forwarded the switch (re-balance) for processing 
confirming everything in a letter dated 15 November 2021. After the accounts were re-
balanced, Mr H wrote to SJP on 24 November 2021 requesting confirmation of the charges 
associated with SJPs recent recommendation. In the same letter Mr H said that he hadnt 
agreed to re-balance his accounts. 
SJP obtained the information about the charges and sent it to Mr H on 6 December 2021. 
SJPs also confirmed to Mr H that the re-balance instruction had been reversed as if no 
switch had ever taken place and without any financial detriment to him. The next day Mr H 
contacted SJP to say he did agree to the re-balance so SJP requested it again. 
In January 2022 there was an annual review of Mr Hs drawdown arrangement at which no 
concerns were raised by Mr H about the switches. A couple of weeks later Mr H contacted 
SJP as he was concerned that the start date on his retirement account investment 
certificates were wrong. SJP looked into the matter for him providing him with an explanation 
on 31st March 2022. In mid-April Mr H requested that he be transferred to a new SJP partner 
as he was disappointed about the performance of the North America shares within his 
portfolio. 
Shortly after, Mr H raised a complaint through his new SJP partner. He complained that the 
re-balance towards the end of 2021 was completed without his authority and that it had led 
to a fall in the value of his pension. Mr H also said that he wanted SJP to provide an 
illustration of how his investments would have performed if the fund switches had never 
taken place.
SJP looked into Mr Hs complaint. It said that the confirmation it sent to Mr H regarding the 
first switch referred to a higher charging structure than Mr H had anticipated and that it had 
led to him subsequently deciding he wanted to reverse the switch. SJP said that it could see 
from its records that the reversal  although not usually possible to do  was arranged for 
him and that the switches were backdated to ensure he wasnt financially disadvantaged in 
any way. 
SJP said its records showed that that there were subsequent conversations about the 
charges associated with the switch. Following these, Mr H requested that his portfolio was 
re-balanced after all because he was now happy with the charges of the fund managers in 
question. SJP said that the switches were confirmed at a later date and that there was no 
further correspondence between it and Mr H until the drawdown meeting in January 2022 at 
which no concerns were raised by Mr H about the switches.
SJP said that it didnt think it was reasonable to illustrate how his investments might have 
performed if the switch had not taken place as doing so would be comparing the two 
positions with the benefit of hindsight. It said too that it found no evidence of any wrongdoing 
on the part of Mr Hs original partner (adviser). It said its strategy was one of time in the 
market rather than timing the market which, it said, was a medium to long term strategy 
with the aim of riding out short-term market volatility. It said a long-term investor is better 
served in meeting their goals by a well-diversified portfolio in line with their ATR. 
SJP also said that whilst Mr H may have suffered from a perceived underperformance of his 
portfolio as a result of the rebalancing/fund switch, it believed the switch to be in line with his 
ATR and one to which he agreed before it took place. SJP said that as a result it had no 
concerns about the switch itself. It said that time in the market should allow the funds to 
recover and that this was better than changing to alternatives by crystalising any perceived 
losses and missing out on potential growth when the funds he was invested in recovered. 
Finally, SJP said it appreciated that Mr H was disappointed with the performance of his 
plans, however it found no evidence that its adviser acted outside his instructions or wishes. 
Consequently it said it was unable to offer him any redress in respect of his perceived 
underperformance of his investments. It went on to say that for the length of time it had 
taken to respond to his concerns it was offering him (and his wife) £200 each by way of an 
apology for any distress and inconvenience caused. It said the offer was made as a gesture 
of goodwill. 
Unhappy with the outcome of his complaint to SJP, Mr H complained to this service. Our 
Investigator looked into the complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. He said that 
SJP had acted in line with Mr Hs instructions, wasnt responsible for any underperformance 
of Mr Hs portfolio and found no evidence of any wrongdoing on SJPs part. He noted that 
SJP was charging Mr H a discounted rate and that his portfolio was balanced in line with his 
ATR. Finally, our Investigator thought the compensation SJP had offered Mr H was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr H disagreed with our Investigators findings. He said hed made it clear to SJP in 
November 2021 that he didnt want to make any changes to his portfolio. He also said hed 
not seen any documentation associated with the reversal and the subsequent second 
rebalancing because they never happened. Mr H also said he was now being charged more 
by SJP than hed previously agreed.
Our Investigator asked SJP to provide the documentation Mr H said hed not seen and to 
clarify the situation regarding its charges. SJP provided a screenshot of its electronic client 
system showing a log of a call between it and Mr H on 8 December 2021 noting that Mr H 
had told his adviser that he now wished the re-balance to go ahead as he was happy with 
the new fund managers charges. It also provided a copy of the letter it sent Mr H on 
15 November 2021 containing the recommendation to rebalance. SJP also said that the fund 
switch on the retirement account wasnt actually reversed rather, after receiving clarification 
about the charges, Mr H agreed to leave the pension investments in place. On 8 December 
2021, after the phone call it had with Mr H, a further switch on the pension funds was 
implemented to rebalance them to ensure Mr Hs portfolio reflected the most up to date re-
balancing.   With regard to the charges, SJP said its annual management charge had remained the 
same but it referred to its terms and conditions and specifically the section relating to 
External Management Charges (EMCs) where it stated that these could change. 
Our Investigator responded to Mr H and shared with him the evidence hed recently received 
from SJP which he said, in the circumstances, hadnt caused him to change his mind about 
Mr Hs complaint.  
Mr H replied to say his charges had increased and that he thought SJP had fabricated the 
evidence it had provided. He also pointed out some discrepancies hed identified between 
the 2021 and 2022 retirement account review letters. Mr H said hed never given SJP 
permission to move his pension funds in the way it had and certainly not into anything more 
than a medium risk fund. He said only the adviser knew how his funds had got into the 
position they had. 
Our Investigator replied to Mr H to that in his view the evidence suggested that SJP acted in 
line with his instructions and that hed not seen anything to suggest otherwise. With respect 
to his recent complaint about the charges, our Investigator said this was a new complaint 
that would need to be raised first with SJP. And he said hed seen no evidence of an error as 
SJP only acted as per Mr Hs request. 
The complaint was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that the fall in the value of his pension is distressing for Mr H, but despite my 
natural sympathy for the position he now finds himself in and, with regret for the 
disappointment I know my decision will cause him, I dont think his complaint should be 
upheld. Ill explain why. 
I understand the annual review call that took place in November 2021 took place on Zoom. 
Consequently theres no available call recording for me to listen to so I cant be sure what 
exactly was discussed. SJP followed up the call with a letter dated 15 November 2021 where 
it confirmed its recommendation was that Mr H re-balance his investments. The funds being 
recommended were all listed in the letter. SJP also noted that Mr H had accepted its 
recommendation and that it had forwarded the agreed fund switch for processing. 
The next contact between Mr H and SJP that I have seen is Mr Hs email of 24 November 
2021 where he states that he hadnt fully appreciated that what was discussed at the review 
meeting would lead to significant changes in his pension portfolio. He also states that he was 
disappointed to find from SJPs letter of 15 November 2021 that he had agreed to the re-
balance. He goes on to state: I need to make sure you know that was not the case, and 
that before giving his total agreement to any changes he needs some information about the 
charges. 
Whilst I cant know with any reasonable certainty what was discussed and agreed between 
Mr H and SJP at the review meeting in early November, I dont think I need to know in order 
to reach a fair and reasonable decision about his complaint. I say this because even if I 
accept Mr Hs version of events over SJPs, I still dont think SJPs actions have been 
responsible for causing him any financial loss. If I assume that at the review meeting Mr H didnt give his consent for the re-balancing of his 
funds, meaning SJP did, indeed, proceed without his authority initially, I cant ignore that 
when it provided Mr H with clarification about the associated charges he did then consent to 
the re-balance. 
There are certainly two accounts from SJP about what happened after the initial pension re-
balance; in its final response letter it told Mr H that it arranged a reversal of the initial re-
balance and backdated it so he suffered no financial detriment. SJP subsequently told our 
Investigator however that there had been no need to reverse the re-balance, in fact, rather, 
after receiving clarification about the charges on 6 December 2021, Mr H agreed to leave the 
re-balanced pension investments in place. It went on to say that on 8 December 2021, after 
the phone call it had with Mr H, a further switch on the pension funds was implemented to 
rebalance them to ensure Mr Hs portfolio reflected the most up to date re-balancing.   
Whichever of the two accounts is correct, it is clear Mr H gave his consent for the switch. 
Either he agreed to the re-balance after the reversal of the initial switch, or there was no 
reversal of the initial switch and he agreed to leave the re-balanced investments in place. 
And Mr Hs consent to the re-balance is clear from the logged phone call on 8 December 
2021 on SJPs client system. There it states: [Mr H] confirmed to [his adviser] that he now 
wished the rebalance of his investments in the managed portfolio to go ahead as he was 
happy with the charges for the new fund managers.
So, for the reasons Ive given above, Im satisfied that Mr H agreed to SJPs 
recommendation to re-balance his investments and that SJP acted on his instructions. Ive 
seen no evidence that would allow me to reasonably conclude that the re-balance towards 
the end of 2021 was completed by SJP without Mr Hs authority. 
The evidence Ive seen also indicates that the re-balanced portfolio was invested in funds 
that were in line with Mr Hs ATR; Ive seen no evidence that SJP re-balanced Mr Hs 
investments into anything other than medium risk funds. So whilst Mr H may have suffered 
from a perceived underperformance of his portfolio as a result of the rebalancing/fund 
switch, the switch was made in line with his ATR and was one to which he agreed before it 
took place.
I appreciate that Mr H is disappointed with the performance of his portfolio, however, Ive 
seen no evidence that SJP is responsible for any underperformance nor have I seen any 
evidence of any wrongdoing on SJPs part. That being the case, I cant reasonably require 
SJP to pay Mr H any redress in respect of the perceived underperformance of his 
investments. 
SJP has offered to pay Mr H £200 (and also £200 to Mrs H) for the length of time it took to 
respond to his complaint. SJPs offer was by way of an apology for any distress and 
inconvenience caused and was made as a gesture of goodwill. 
This service cant look at every complaint it receives  only complaints about regulated 
activities fall within our jurisdiction. Complaint handling isnt a regulated activity so isnt 
something we are able to look at. My understanding is that Mr H hasnt yet accepted SJPs 
offer but that it remains on the table should he so wish to do so. If he does, he should 
contact SJP directly to arrange payment. 
Mr Hs more recent complaint to our Investigator about the increase in charges on his 
portfolio isnt something Im able to look at for him here. Thats because he has yet to make 
a complaint to SJP about it. SJP must first be given the opportunity to address any complaint 
before it can be referred to our service. Mr H has also recently complained about the content 
of SJPs letters not reflecting the nature of the discussions that took place between them. I cant see that SJP has had the opportunity to address this complaint either so, should he 
wish to do so, Mr H should direct it to SJP in the first instance.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman