DRN-3645521
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complaint is about what happened during the process of them re-mortgaging 
their home away from Barclays Bank PLC.  Theyve told us that Barclays debited over 
£170,00 from their mortgage current account (MCA) in October 2020 despite the mortgage 
and MCA balance having been paid off in February 2020. Barclays then went on to hound 
them with telephone calls, emails, letters and text messages, despite them having 
complained about the situation several times. They want Barclays to evidence how it has 
calculated the amount they owe and believe that it is trying to charge them a second 
mortgage exit fee, which they are not willing to pay. They are also concerned that the Land 
Registry records were showing that Barclays still has the first charge on the property after 
the re-mortgage completed, which they question as they believe the MCA wasnt secured. 
Mr and Mrs S are also unhappy that Barclays recorded missed payments on their credit files.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S had an offset mortgage with Barclays. Attached to the mortgage was a 
mortgage current account (MCA), which had an overdraft facility attached to it. Initially, the 
arrangement was set up so that the overall amount of borrowing Barclays had agreed to, 
would be maintained throughout the term of the mortgage/MCA arrangement. As the 
mortgage decreased over the term, the MCA borrowing facility increased to reflect that 
amount. Both the mortgage and the MCA overdraft were secured on Mr and Mrs S home.
In 2020 Mr and Mrs S decided to re-mortgage their home to a new lender. The solicitor 
appointed by the new lender to complete the legal requirements of the re-mortgage asked 
Barclays for a redemption statement. This was issued on 6 February 2020 assuming that the 
mortgage would be redeemed on 11 February 2020, so it took into account the interest that 
would be charged up to that date. It said that a new statement would need to be asked for if 
the redemption happened after that date. The statement was created on the basis of:
Mortgage outstanding: £159,167.74
Mortgage exit fee £275.00
Overdraft balance £168,522.83
Total £327,965.57
The following day Mrs S transferred £2,000 out of the MCA, thereby increasing the amount 
needed to clear that debt. It meant that the redemption statement created the day before 
was incorrect.  The only money Mr and Mrs S paid back into the MCA before the attempt to 
redeem the mortgage was £45 on 10 February 2020.
On 24 February 2020 the solicitors acting in the re-mortgage sent Barclays monies based on 
the 6 February 2020 redemption statement. It added a sum for interest for the additional 
13 days from the original proposed redemption date and paid £328,449.56. However, the 
figure paid didnt take account of the money Mr and Mrs S had withdrawn from the MCA on 
7 February 2020. The money paid was applied to clear the higher MCA balance in full and 
then the remainder to the mortgage balance. As the mortgage debt wasnt cleared in full, 
Barclays didnt remove its charge over the property.
On 12 March 2020 Mr S called to ask why there was a balance showing on the mortgage 
account. He was told that there was a shortfall in the amount that had been paid and the 
reason for that was because of the £2,000 withdrawal theyd made after the redemption 
statement had been produced. He was told the balance was higher on the MCA due to the 
withdrawal and interest charged. The shortfall was confirmed as £1,558.30 and he was 
asked to pay that amount to the account. Mr S questioned interest being applied due to the 
offset account and a query was raised to check that. Mr and Mrs S didnt make any 
payments to the mortgage account thereafter.
On 22 July 2020 Barclays wrote to the solicitors that had been dealing with the re-mortgage 
and told it that it hadnt sent enough money. The shortfall amount was £1,558.30, which was 
made up as follows:
MCA overdraft increase/spent £2,393.66 (£2,000 payment plus interest from the 
proposed redemption date)
Less £30.28 interest credited to the account (due to the offset facility)
Less total payments of £805.08.   
On 31 July 2020 and 11 August 2020 Barclays again wrote to the solicitors and chased the 
shortfall balance.  No response was received from the solicitors or Mr and Mrs S.
Barclays reversed the mortgage/MCA redemption in October 2020. It wrote to them 
confirming that there was an outstanding balance on their mortgage account. It was detailed 
as £1,293.91, although it said it was only an indication of the balance of the mortgage/MCA. 
A text was also sent to Mr S at that time telling him there was an outstanding payment on the 
mortgage and asking him to contact Barclays. 
Mr and Mrs S complained. The complaint was acknowledged, but it wasnt responded to at 
that time. 
On 5 November 2020 Barclays sent Mr and Mrs S a letter telling them that there was an 
outstanding amount on the mortgage and that the entire previous balance of the MCA 
overdraft was owing. Mr S was sent a text on the same day about the same issue. Another 
text was sent to Mr S on 2 December 2020. A further letter along the same lines was sent by 
Barclays on 12 December 2020, and it was followed up a few days later with a call (which 
wasnt answered) and a text.
Mr and Mrs S raised their complaint again on 9 December 2020, at which time they 
expressed the belief that the shortfall was due to a glitch in Barclays systems. They also 
asked that they not be called about the situation, as it wasnt their fault. A hold was placed 
on the account effective 17 December 2020, which stopped Mr and Mrs S being contacted 
about payment of the outstanding balance. The complaint was acknowledged and Barclays 
attempted to call Mr S to discuss the complaint, but it was unable to speak to him. Barclays 
also sent Mr S an email asking him to confirm when it would be convenient for it to call him 
to discuss the complaint. 
It doesnt appear that Mr S responded and due to the case handler being off, it wasnt until 
the middle of January 2021 that Barclays attempted to contact him again. Again Barclays 
was unable to speak to Mr S and left a voice message and sent an email asking him to 
confirm when it would be convenient for it to call. Mr S called Barclays later that day, 
although he said he hadnt received the earlier call or email. The Barclays complaint handler 
called him back later that day but recorded that theyd had again been unable to speak to 
him.Barclays sent its final response letter to the complaint on 4 February 2021. It partially upheld 
the complaint, due to how long it took to provide an outcome. It also explained that the 
problem with the mortgage redemption occurred because after they asked for a redemption 
statement on 6 February 2020, Mr and Mrs S had taken more money out of the MCA 
overdraft. This meant that the redemption statement was out of date and they didnt ask for a 
new one. Barclays went on to set out that it had spoken to Mr S about the shortfall and sent 
letters to the solicitors about the shortfall. It stated that the shortfall needed to be paid. An 
apology for the amount of time it has taken to investigate complaint was given and it said it 
would be paying £150 to Mr and Mrs S as compensation. 
Mr and Mrs S werent happy with the response. They explained their dissatisfaction with the 
complaint process and the individuals that had been involved. They disputed that there was 
any money outstanding as theyd already made two payments to clear the amount owed, 
and yet they were now being told they still owed money and a different amount from what 
theyd been told before. They said theyd never received an explanation as to where the 
shortfall came from and asked Barclays to write off what it considered they owed. 
On 24 March 2021 Barclays sent another final response letter. It again explained that 
Mr and Mrs S had spent money from the MCA after the redemption statement was issued, 
which means that the solicitors didnt pay it enough money. It highlighted that letters were 
sent to both the consumers and the solicitor at the time. As the shortfall wasnt paid, it 
reversed the redemption and reapplied the payment as a part-redemption. This also meant 
that the monies used to clear the MCA borrowing (overdraft) was returned to the account it 
came from. It said that there was then currently a MCA balance of £651.32, which it was 
unable to explain, but it was likely due to the interest incurred when the redemption reversal 
took place.  The shortfall wasnt chased between March and June 2020 because of the 
pandemic. Barclays said that it would clear the MCA balance and pay Mr and Mrs S a further 
£200 for the upset and inconvenience theyd suffered.
Mr and Mrs S accepted the offer made, but they werent entirely satisfied with the response. 
Subsequently they asked this service to look into their complaint. When they did, they told us 
they wanted:
an explanation as to why £170k was taken out of their account without notice or warning; 
interest on the shortfall to be waived;
the mortgage exit fee on the most recent redemption statement waived, as they paid one 
in February 2020;
a detailed explanation of how the amount owed was calculated;
to know why was the mortgage was allowed to be redeemed when insufficient funds 
were received; 
an explanation of how it turned an unsecured debt (the MCA overdraft) into a secured 
one without their consent;
Barclays to release its charge on their property;
Barclays to remove all record of late payments from their credit files that had been 
applied due to this situation; and
compensation for all the distress, time and anxiety this situation has caused their family. 
The charge over the property was removed in May 2021.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and recommended that it be partially 
upheld. She set out information about the shortfall and how it had been calculated. She was 
satisfied that there had been a shortfall in the amount paid to Barclays, due to the transfer 
out of the MCA following the redemption statement being created. She was also satisfied 
that the redemption reversal hadnt caused Mr and Mrs S any detriment. It was also noted by the investigator that Barclays has put a hold on communication on the account from 
17 December 2020 until the complaint was closed, following Mr S explaining the effect it was 
having on Mrs S. She considered this was appropriate action at the time and that it hadnt 
been unreasonable for Barclays to contact Mr and Mrs S prior to that, given the 
circumstances. The investigator was also satisfied that the compensation payment was 
appropriate. 
However, she didnt think that it was fair for Barclays to have recorded late payments on 
Mr and Mrs S credit files while it was looking into their complaint and establishing what had 
happened. As such, she recommended that it remove those records from the credit files. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt accept the investigators view and disputed the figures that Barclays had 
given regarding the amount needed to redeem the mortgage, as this didnt reflect the 
balances of either the mortgage or the MCA. They didnt accept that the behaviour of 
Barclays was unacceptable in light of the number of letters, texts, emails and calls that were 
made about the shortfall on the mortgage. This was especially so in relation to the three calls 
Mr S said they received after 9pm. The effect of this on Mrs S health was highlighted and 
the inadequacy of the compensation was stressed. Mr and Mrs S said that the effect of the 
late payment markers on their credit file had stopped them buying a second property during 
the Covid-19 stamp duty holiday. They asked that the complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman for consideration.
Barclays didnt accept the investigators view in relation to changing Mr and Mrs S credit file. 
It highlighted that it had sent three letters to the solicitors acting in relation to the 
re-mortgage and, when an initial response wasnt received, it confirmed that the shortfall 
might affect Mr and Mrs S credit files. 
Our investigator considered what Mr and Mrs S and Barclays said, but she wasnt persuaded 
to change her conclusions. As such, the complaint was passed to me to consider. I issued a 
provisional decision on 26 July 2022, in which I set out my conclusions and reasons for 
reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
I would firstly comment that complaint handling is not something that this service can 
consider a complaint about. Thats because its not one of the activities that our rules cover. 
As such, I wont be making specific comment on Mr and Mrs S concerns about how 
Barclays behaved in relation to their complaint. That said, I can look at the overall customer 
service Mr and Mrs S received and I will be considering whether the compensation payment 
made by Barclays was appropriate in that respect. 
While I know that Mr and Mrs S wont agree, I am satisfied that the amount paid to Barclays 
on 24 February 2020 wasnt enough to repay both their mortgage and MCA overdraft. I 
would initially explain to Mr and Mrs S that the figures in the redemption statement dont 
match the figures on any of their statements as they took account of the interest that would 
be payable on the MCA and mortgage balances up to the proposed redemption date  
11 February 2020. The solicitors who were dealing with the re-mortgage then calculated the 
additional interest due on the balances between 11 and 24 February 2020, and added it to 
the amount on the redemption statement.
However, as has been pointed out, after the redemption statement was created, 
Mr and Mrs S took more money out of the MCA account and increased their debt. They 
didnt pay that money back before the redemption date, nor did they pay the additional 
interest the higher balance created. Its clear that the solicitors dealing with the re-mortgage 
either werent aware that theyd taken further funds out of the MCA overdraft after the 
redemption statement was issued, or didnt act on that information. As such, the money the solicitors (on Mr and Mrs S behalf) sent to Barclays to repay the mortgage and MCA 
balance was never going to be enough to clear both of those accounts. 
It has not been helpful that there have been different figures detailed in different 
correspondence for the amount Mr and Mrs S needed to pay Barclays. That is partly to do 
with an issue the reversal of the redemption caused in relation to the MCA account, but I 
dont think this would have added significantly to the stress Mr and Mrs S have told us they 
felt because they were being told they still owed money to Barclays. As Barclays wasnt 
responsible for the shortfall, I cant hold it responsible for most of the stress Mr and Mrs S 
have said they felt. Having seen the information from Barclays about the balances, 
payments and interest, I am satisfied that the figure our investigator provided Mr and Mrs S 
with is likely correct. I say likely, as this service doesnt provide a forensic accounting 
service. If Mr and Mrs S want that type of assessment done, they would need to arrange for 
it to be done themselves by a suitable qualified professional.
Mr and Mrs S were told about the shortfall in a call with Mr S less than a month after the 
re-mortgage. They were also written to, via the solicitors that was acting on their behalf when 
making the payment to Barclays, three times in July and August 2020 asking them to pay the 
outstanding balance. While these letters were sent later than I would usually have expected 
them to be, given the lockdown from March 2020 and the difficulties this caused many 
consumers, I cant find Barclays at fault for giving Mr and Mrs S some leeway to pay the 
money they owed.
When nothing was done about repaying the shortfall after more than six months, Barclays 
reversed the transaction and reapplied the monies as a partial, rather than a full, redemption. 
This involved the MCA account balance being restored to what it had been on 24 February 
2020 and then the money paid off again. It appears something went wrong in this process 
and interest was applied to the balance for the short period the account had a balance on 
Barclays system. Barclays file confirmed this shouldnt have happened and as such offered 
to clear the outstanding balance on the MCA. This is appropriate, as it places Mr and Mrs S 
in the position they would have been in but for the error. 
The reversal and reapplication of the money from the solicitors paid off the entire MCA 
overdraft balance, which meant that there was a shortfall in the funds to repay the mortgage. 
The mortgage became active again from October 2020 and, therefore, interest was charged, 
and payments were due to be made. As no payments were received and no payment 
arrangement was entered into, Barclays system generated correspondence and instigated 
contact with Mr and Mrs S to try and resolve the situation. This wasnt unreasonable in the 
circumstances. 
In addition, during that period Barclays reported missed payments on Mr and Mrs S credit 
files. That was again not unreasonable, as they had an active mortgage debt with Barclays 
and werent making payments. While our investigator has said these records should be 
removed because the cause of the issue was being investigated, I dont agree. The money 
was owed, Mr and Mrs S had been informed of this within a month of the re-mortgage date, 
had been given an explanation of why there was a shortfall, and were given the opportunity 
to pay the shortfall. However, they chose not to do so and as such, it was not unreasonable 
for Barclays to report on their credit files the ongoing mortgage debt and that no payments 
were being made to maintain it. 
Mr and Mrs S have said that they were unable to buy a second property due to the negative 
effect the late payment markers on their credit file had. That may be the case, but as I dont 
consider Barclays acted inappropriately when it added the markers, I cant find Barclays 
responsible for this issue.Mr and Mrs S feel Barclays contacting it about the debt was inappropriate because they 
didnt have a mortgage with it, but thats not the case. They still owed it money and despite 
having known that since March 2020, theyd done nothing about paying it. I also note that 
some of the correspondence Mr and Mrs S have highlighted was actually the normal monthly 
statements for the MCA, which would have been issued whether there had been a shortfall 
or not, given they chose not to close the account down. As I have said above, it was not 
unreasonable for the bank to be contacting Mr and Mrs S on a regular basis about making 
arrangements to pay the mortgage debt. When Barclays was told it was upsetting Mrs S and 
having a detrimental effect on her health, it stopped while it investigated the complaint. This 
was reasonable.
Barclays has detailed that a mortgage exit fee is payable when the remaining mortgage debt 
is paid off. Mr and Mrs S have pointed out that theyve already paid this fee once. That is the 
case, however, that fee was paid to cover the costs associated with the administration of 
closing the mortgage down. Barclays did that administration, but because Mr and Mrs S 
chose not to pay the shortfall at the time, it has had to complete further administration and it 
will have to complete the closing administration again. As such, in the particular 
circumstances of this complaint, I dont consider Barclays asking Mr and Mrs S to pay a 
further mortgage exit fee is unreasonable.
As I have said above, I consider the majority of the stress and upset Mr and Mrs S 
experienced was down to the fact that there was a shortfall in the amount Barclays received 
to redeem the mortgage, which cant be attributed to Barclays. However, the service it 
provided was not what it should have been, and the information it provided at times was 
either not explained well or was contradictory. However, and I know that this will again 
disappoint Mr and Mrs S, I think the £350 offered by Barclays is sufficient to compensate 
them for its part in the upset and stress they suffered.
Mr and Mrs S didnt accept my provisional decision. They said that I had got it all so wrong 
and had missed much of the detail. Mr S provided an oral account of his recollections of the 
events and an explanation of the effect the situation had had on them, especially Mrs S. He 
highlighted that it had been them that brought the situation to Barclays attention. After 
speaking to Barclays he had contacted the solicitors, which had told him that the amount on 
the redemption statement had correctly been paid. It said the redemption statement said the 
figure was valid until the end of March 2020. Mr S said that redemption statement didnt say 
it needed to be updated or that a new redemption statement would be needed if the 
completion didnt happen when it was meant to. 
Mr S reiterated his comments about the number of ways and volume of Barclays attempts to 
contact him and Mrs S once the account reversal had been completed. He also again raised 
the issue of the debt being changed back and forth between the secured mortgage account 
and the unsecured MCA account. He didnt think Barclays should have been able to do this 
and Barclays not releasing the charge on the property was wrong. He said that theyd made 
payments to the account and didnt receive any correspondence from either Barclays or the 
solicitors, so as far as they were concerned, it was all dealt with until the reversal was done. 
Mr S also said that he considered the situation was all Barclays fault as it gave the solicitors 
a figure and should have taken action to ensure that figure remained right, by closing or 
freezing the MCA. He also said that as far as he and Mrs S are concerned, theyve settled 
their debt with Barclays. 
Barclays accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly like to confirm to Mr and Mrs S that, while I didnt set out the events that 
occurred in the detail they had provided, I was aware of everything that had been said and 
happened. If I didnt mention specifics, it wasnt because I had ignored them, but because 
we are an informal service and so I summarised the key events and activities. However, I 
can assure Mr and Mrs S that I had taken into account everything that had been explained 
by Mr S in his submissions when I originally assessed the complaint. 
While I can understand that Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that their mortgage wasnt paid off 
when it should have been, I cant hold Barclays responsible for that error. It was not 
Barclays responsibility to ensure that the right amount of money was transferred to it to pay 
off Mr and Mrs S mortgage and MCA balance. In addition, the redemption statement made it 
clear that if the mortgage wasnt paid off on the proposed date of 11 February 2020, a new 
redemption statement needed to be obtained. 
In addition, I cant agree with Mr S suggestion that Barclays should have frozen or closed 
the MCA. Its not unusual for redemption statements to be requested and not always when 
the mortgage is being paid off. Even where there is a plan to pay a mortgage off, it doesnt 
always happen or, as Mr and Mrs S are aware, happen when anticipated. It wouldnt be 
appropriate for Barclays to close or freeze an active account in such circumstances. 
I am also satisfied that in the first conversation Mr S had with Barclays about the situation, 
he was provided with the right explanation of why there was still an outstanding balance on 
the mortgage account. Given that he and/or Mrs S would have been aware of the spend of 
the £2,000 Barclays told him was the cause of the issue, I dont consider that it was 
reasonable that they concluded they didnt owe that money because the solicitor said it had 
paid what the redemption statement said was needed. While Mr S has said he paid what he 
was told was outstanding in that initial conversation, the evidence on file shows that this 
didnt happen, although some money was later paid. I cant find that the action of Barclays in 
reversing the redemption was inappropriate. I am also satisfied that Barclays was justified in 
pursuing the debt, as Mr and Mrs S remained liable for the shortfall in the redemption funds.
I would also remind Mr and Mrs S, in relation to the charge on the property, that the MCA 
debt was also secured on the property. It was not an unsecured debt as Mr S has said he 
believed. That said, as I detailed in the background to this complaint, the redemption money 
that was paid was used to clear the MCA balance and this left a balance on the mortgage, 
so the debt that Mr and Mrs S acknowledge was secured, was where the outstanding 
balance remained in February 2020.
Having reviewed the entire file and listened to Mr S oral representations, I havent been 
persuaded to alter my conclusions. I remain satisfied that Barclays was entitled to reverse 
the redemption when it did, leave the charge on the property and pursue the shortfall. While 
Barclays communications could have been better at times, which would have increased the 
stress the situation naturally caused Mr and Mrs S, the offer it made of compensation was 
sufficient.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to accept or reject my decision 
before 20 September 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman