DRN-2348075
The complaint
Mr R complains that Provident Personal Credit Limit, trading as Satsuma Loans, (SL), has 
unfairly recorded a default on his credit file. He wants the default removed.
What happened
Mr R took out a loan for £700 with SL on 15 August 2019. The loan was repayable by six 
monthly instalments of £221.20 starting on 1 October 2019. Mr R didnt make his first two 
repayments on the due dates. After several promises to pay, he made payments in 
November 2019 and December 2019, after which he set up a repayment plan with SL. Mr R 
said that he thought this was set up in a call and that the payments were to be made by 
direct debit. But hed since discovered that the call wasnt logged on SLs system and the 
direct debit hadnt been set up. 
Mr R said that SL had made no effort to contact him at all since December 2019 about the 
fact that no payments were being made. At the end of April 2020, Mr R learnt that a default 
had been applied on his credit file. As soon as he discovered this, he said that hed 
contacted SL and offered to make a payment. He had then made further repayments so that 
the loan was repaid on 30 July 2020. Mr R said that the default shouldnt have been listed as 
SL didnt maintain any contact with him when it could have done so. He would like the 
default removed from his credit file.
In its final response letter SL said it could see that as Mr R had missed payments from 
December 2019 to May 2020, it had contacted him several times via SMS, email and 
telephone calls. SL noted that Mr Rs Continuous Payment Authority (CPA) had been 
cancelled in November 2019 after two declined payments in October and November 2019. 
As the CPA was never reinstated by Mr R, he had to make manual payments which SL did 
not receive despite its attempts at contact. SL said that a default notice was sent to Mr R on 
30 March 2020 and then the account was defaulted on 27 April 2020. SL was satisfied the 
default had been applied correctly. 
The adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said that having 
looked at all the information available, he could see that in late 2019 Mr R had written
communications with SL in which it asked Mr R several times how he wished to make his 
repayments, and whether the payments were affordable to him. The adjudicator noted that 
Mr R was also advised by SL that failure to make payments would result in his account going 
into arrears. The adjudicator said that payments were not made when agreed, but that Mr R 
had a duty to ensure his payments were successfully paid to SL. Based on what he had 
seen he was unable to safely say that SL had acted unfairly as it had been accommodating 
to his needs and gave him options about making his repayments.
Mr R disagreed. He said that SLs communications were made through lots of
mediums. There were calls, texts and emails all happening concurrently. He was certain 
there was a call around the same time as the text messages in which he opted to pay by 
direct debit, but SL had no record of this call. Mr R noted that SL had said that it had been 
contacting him to tell him about his failure to repay the loan. As soon as Mr R discovered the 
mistake, he made a payment that very day. It wasnt that he didnt want to pay but that SL 
hadnt contacted him at all. If SL had contacted him in 2020, he wouldve set up the direct 
debit that he already thought was in place. Mr R doesnt think that it is fair for the default to 
be on his credit file.
As this complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where information is incomplete, unclear or contradictory - as some of it is here - I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
I have read through SLs detailed contact notes which contain information from calls and the 
content of texts and emails between the parties. This has given me an understanding of     
Mr Rs loan repayment history and I think it is helpful to summarise this.
I can see that SL contacted Mr R by text as soon as he missed his first repayment in early    
October 2019. Mr R promised to pay £442.40 on 1 November 2019 by debit card but didnt 
do so. Mr R then said on 4 November 2019 that he would pay £221 but he didnt do so. He 
paid £100 on 8 November 2019 and then said in mid-November 2019 he would repay four 
monthly repayments of £300. On 21 November 2019 Mr R said by text he would make two 
payments of £200 and clear the balance in January 2020. I can see that SLs text then said 
that it would extend the loan term so that Mr R could pay five monthly payments of £221.20 
and a sixth payment of £121.20. Mr R agreed to this and he said by text that he would make 
the payments online.  On 3 December 2019, Mr R made two payments totalling £222 and SL 
asked him by text if he was happy to make manual payments going forward. But there didnt 
appear to be a response to this.
The next entry in the contact notes was on 27 March 2020 which noted that Mr Rs payment 
arrangement had been removed due to non-payment. I can then see that Mr R had sent SL 
an email on 30 April 2020 to say that he had just realised that there was no direct debit on 
his loan, and he wanted to make a payment. There are then notes on 6 May 2020 to say that   
Mr R had thought there had been a phone conversation with SL after 3 December 2019. It is 
noted that SL had told Mr R that a default notice had been sent to the address it had on file 
for him, but he said that he had moved from that address. Mr R made a payment of £300 on 
that day and agreed to make further payments by standing order.
SL then asked Mr R about his income and expenses and agreed monthly repayments of 
£150. I note that these were made at the end of May and June 2020 and the balance of the 
loan was paid on 30 July 2020.
I note that Mr R believes that he set up a direct debit with SL in a phone call after                  
3 December 2019. As SL had no record of this, I asked Mr R to provide evidence of the call 
with SL on his phone records. Mr R said that the call was made by SL and his phone 
company wasnt able to provide itemised records of incoming calls. 
I think its likely that Mr R intended to set up a direct debit. Ive seen his bank statements 
from around the time and note that he paid several of his bills by direct debit, although not all 
of them. But I havent seen any evidence that a call had taken place in which a direct debit 
was set up. So, on balance, I cant safely say that Mr R actually arranged a direct debit with 
SL, even if he thought he had.SL said that it had sent a default notice to Mr R on 30 March 2020. Mr R said he didnt 
receive the default notice as hed moved away from the address where hed previously been 
living. He said that he wouldnt have been able to give SL his new address as hed moved 
into a new property and the Royal Mail hadnt registered his new address. However, this isnt 
something I can hold SL responsible for. It was ultimately the responsibility of Mr R to keep 
SL informed of changes to his address and contact details. Based on all the information 
before me, I cant be satisfied Mr R met those responsibilities and made SL aware of his 
correct contact details before 30 March 2020.
I note that Mr R said that hed left the address hed given SL in July 2019, eight months 
before the default notice was sent to him. I can see that hed been in contact with SL many 
times in that period and so Mr R had the opportunity to give it his new contact details or an 
alternative contact address if he wasnt able to receive correspondence at his new address. 
So, I cant say that SL made an error in sending the default notice to Mr Rs previous 
address if it wasnt aware that this wasnt his current address.
I know Mr R feels strongly that SL should have contacted him about the arrears. I can see 
the text messages sent between Mr R and SL in November 2019 to arrange a repayment 
plan and note that Mr R had subsequently made some repayments on the plan. So, Im 
satisfied Mr R would have been aware what he needed to do. And I dont think its 
reasonable for Mr R to hold SL responsible for his failure to pay because it hadnt contacted 
him. As Ive said above, SL had correctly sent a default notice to the address last notified to 
it by Mr R.
I do appreciate Mr Rs strength of feeling and I understand that hes concerned about having 
a default on his credit file. But, on balance, I dont think that SL acted wrongly or unfairly in 
the actions it took. I can see it gave Mr R many general warnings about what might happen if 
he missed payments and it appears it sent Mr R a default notice after hed missed several 
repayments. I can also see that SL acted appropriately in giving Mr R additional time to 
make the payments required. 
So overall, I dont think SL should be required to make any amendments to Mr Rs credit file 
when this reflects how he managed his account. SL has a responsibility to report accurate 
and up-to-date information to credit reference agencies, and I think thats what it has done 
here. 
So, Im not upholding this complaint. I accept that Mr R will be disappointed at my final 
decision. It remains open to him to seek to record a notice of correction on his credit file. 
This allows him to explain the circumstances of the default. And that information would then 
be available to anyone reviewing Mr Rs credit file and considering his creditworthiness. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman