DRN-2359699
The complaint
Mr O complains that he couldnt cancel a direct debt from a bank account he holds with 
Barclays Bank UK PLC. He also complains that he received poor customer service over the 
phone.
What happened
On 1 July 2019, a direct debit was attempted on Mr Os account for £117.60  the payment 
was for services provided by a third party. There were insufficient funds in Mr Os account, 
so the direct debit was returned as unpaid and Mr O was charged an £8 fee by Barclays for 
the return of the direct debit.
On 9 July 2019, Mr O contacted Barclays by phone in order to cancel the direct debit that 
was due to leave his bank account the following day. Mr O couldnt pass security, and so 
Barclays werent able to action his request to cancel the direct debit. Mr O says he was so 
frustrated from the phone call he had with Barclays that he went out for a run. Mr O tells us 
that during the run, he fell over and broke his wrist. He feels that if Barclays had provided 
better service over the phone then he wouldnt have needed to have gone for a run  and so 
wouldnt have subsequently broken his wrist. Mr O tells us that he wants £50,000 as 
compensation for the broken wrist.
Because Mr O wasnt able to carry out his request over the phone, the direct debit was 
attempted the following day. There werent enough funds in Mr Os account for the amount 
to be collected and so the direct debit was returned as unpaid and Mr O was due to be 
charged an additional £8 fee for the unpaid direct debit. 
On 15 July 2019, Mr O went into a branch of Barclays to cancel the direct debit  his request 
to do this was actioned. And he also asked to raise a complaint about the service hed 
received. 
Barclays responded to Mr Os complaint to say that it thought it could have offered him better 
customer service when he called in to cancel his direct debit  and because of this it offered 
him £50 compensation, which Mr O hasnt accepted. Barclays also said that it wasnt 
responsible for Mr O breaking his wrist. 
Mr O wasnt happy with Barclays response and so he came to this service. Our investigator 
agreed that Barclays could have handled the phone call better but thought that £50 was 
enough to settle the complaint. Our investigator explained to Mr O about the direct debit 
process, and also said that she didnt think Barclays could be held responsible for Mr O 
breaking his wrist.
Because Mr O didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the 
matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. 
Direct debit
Mr O didnt have enough funds in his account when the direct debit was attempted for 
£117.60 on 1 July 2019, and again on 10 July 2019. For this reason, payment was returned. 
Mr O was charged an £8 fee for the unpaid direct debit on 1 July 2019. Its Mr Os 
responsibility to ensure he has the available funds in his account when a direct debit is due  
and the terms and conditions of his account also state that there would be a charge for a 
direct debit that was unpaid. So I dont think Barclays did anything wrong in applying a 
charge to his account for this.
Barclays waived the charge for the direct debit that wasnt collected on 10 July 2019. So I 
dont think Mr O has lost out here. 
I appreciate that Mr O was unhappy that he wasnt able to cancel the direct debit when he 
called Barclays on 9 July 2019. This was because he wasnt able to pass security. But even 
if Mr O was able to pass security, I dont think hed have had enough time to stop the 
payment from going out of his account. The direct debit was due to recollect the following 
day, on 10 July 2019. Looking at information from Barclays about their internal processes, I 
can see that it cant cancel a direct debit the day before it is due to collect. So even if Mr O 
was able to get through security on the call, and cancel the direct debit on the phone, I think 
it likely the funds would have still been collected the following day. Its for this reason that I 
cant fairly say that Mr O has lost out as a result of not being able to cancel his direct debit 
during the phone call on 9 July 2019.
Customer service
Barclays has agreed that the service Mr O received on the phone call of 9 July 2019 could 
have been better. Its said this is because it kept Mr O on the call for longer than it should 
have when the representative didnt fail security when Mr O got the answer to one of the 
questions wrong. Barclays has offered Mr O £50 to compensate him for this  which Mr O 
has declined.
Ive looked at Barclays telephone security process. And Ive listened to the call Mr O had 
with Barclays. I agree that the representative should have failed security sooner than they 
did. 
From what Ive heard on the calls, Mr O continued to disagree with the representative after 
they had explained that no one on that day would be able to access his account over the 
phone. During the conversations, Mr O made some remarks to the representatives in the call 
centre, which I find unnecessary and inappropriate. Each call I have listened to, the 
representatives tried to help Mr O, and they all let him know that they wouldnt be able to 
access his account after he had failed security. 
In any event, Mr O failed security because he didnt answer the questions correctly, so 
ultimately, he wouldnt have been able to carry out the actions hed have wanted to on this 
call anyway. So Barclays failing here is that it should have ended the call sooner. Given 
what Ive said above, I think the £50 Barclays has already offered Mr O is enough for the 
inconvenience he experienced here. So Im not going to ask Barclays to pay any additional 
compensation for this point. Mr Os accident
Mr O says that he was so frustrated after the call he had with Barclays that he went for a run. 
And while he was on the run, he fell and broke his wrist. Mr O feels that Barclays are 
responsible for his injury, as he went for a run as a direct consequence of the poor service 
on the call hed received.
I appreciate Mr O feels very strongly about this point. However, Im not able to hold Barclays 
responsible for Mr Os injury. It was Mr Os decision to go for the run after the call. And there 
are many things that could have contributed to the fall that Mr O had. I dont think Barclays 
are directly responsible for the injuries Mr O says he sustained after the run, and so Im not 
going to ask Barclays to do anything more for Mr O in respect of this point.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman