DRN-2567150
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Santander UK Plc (trading at the time as Abbey National) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out a PPI policy in 2002 at around the same time they applied for a 
mortgage. They recall the sale took place on the phone. The policy was in Mr Bs sole name 
and gave him cover against unemployment. They paid a monthly amount for the policy.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagreed so the complaint was 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete (as some of it is here), I have based my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is most likely given the available 
evidence and what we know about how Santander sold PPI at the time.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed
it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Santander had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs B that the PPI was optional, and they had to 
agree to take it out. Mr and Mrs B say they didnt know Mr B had PPI and the fact he didnt 
claim under the policy when he was made redundant shows this. 
Santander cant provide the PPI form or direct debit mandate it says Mr and Mrs B would 
have signed in 2002 after the PPI sales call. But thats not unreasonable or
surprising given how long ago the sale was. From what we know about Santanders PPI 
phone sales at this time, the script the sales adviser wouldve used would have prompted 
them to explain that Mr and Mrs B had a choice about taking the policy out. I havent seen 
any evidence to suggest the standard sales process wasnt followed. 
Also, Mr B only had unemployment cover, not the much more common package of accident, 
sickness and unemployment. This suggests to me there was discussion with the adviser, 
and Mr B understood he had choices. 
So on balance I think its most likely Santander made it clear to Mr and Mrs B that the PPI 
was optional, and they agreed to take it out for Mr B. I cant know why they didnt use the 
policy in 2005 when Mr B was made redundant, but this doesnt change my conclusion. I 
note the policy was cancelled in November 2005.
I think Santander recommended the PPI for Mr B to Mr and Mrs B so it had to make sure it 
was right for him. Based on what I know of his circumstances at the time I think it was 
suitable. I'll explain why.
He was eligible for the cover. And it seems there wasnt anything in the PPI that 
would make it difficult for him to claim  for example, the type of employment contract 
he had when the PPI was sold. So he wouldnt have been affected by the main 
exclusions or limitations in the policy.
From the mortgage application I can see Mr B had only been in his role for six 
months at the time of the sale, so it would be unlikely he was entitled to much of a 
redundancy package. And the PPI would have paid out in addition to any work 
redundancy entitlement for up to 12 months. They said family would have helped. But 
thats not suitable alternative protection, its not guaranteed, and peoples 
circumstances can change. Mr B also said he had life and critical illness cover 
through an endowment policy, but these are different products offering protection 
against different events. They wouldnt cover monthly mortgage repayments in the 
same circumstances as this policy. Mr and Mr B had borrowed a large sum over a 
long term secured on their home. Given the serious consequences of missing 
mortgage payments, I think the policy would have been useful for Mr and Mrs B if 
Mr B lost his job.
And Ive seen nothing to suggest the policy was unaffordable at the time of the sale.
Santander also had to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading at the time
of the sale. Its possible it didnt give all the details it should have. However, for the same
reasons I find the policy was suitable, I dont think better information wouldve changed their
decision. I say this as Mr B doesnt appear to have been affected by any of main exclusions 
or limitations, and the PPI was reasonably priced for the benefit it offered.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs B lost out because of any problems with the sale.
In response to the adjudicators view Mr and Mrs B also raised that Santander didnt advise 
them they had PPI when it was repossessing their home  had it done so maybe this would 
have been delayed or even avoided. This is a new and separate issue that doesnt related to 
the sale of the policy. It didnt form part of their mis-sale complaint to the bank (or this 
service) so they need to first complain to Santander to allow the bank to investigate and 
respond. If they are unhappy with the banks response, they can of course bring their 
complaint to this service.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I am not upholding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman