DRN-3071399
The complaint
Miss C complains about a number of issues arising from the credit card lending first made to 
her in 2007 by Marks and Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S Bank).
 What happened
Miss C wanted us to look into the lending that M&S Bank made to her. She said she took out 
a credit card in 2007, with an initial limit of £1,500. She thought that M&S Bank had lent her 
too much money. And she said she hadnt been given a preferential rate which was available 
to employees of the retail arm at the time, although she was entitled to that. 
Miss C said M&S Bank had continued to allow her to borrow money, and hadnt offered her 
any help or support with her debts. She has held this card, and been paying off the debt, for 
a very long time. She said M&S Bank let her accrue charges and interest without contacting 
her to see how it could help, even though she was often only paying the minimum amount.
Miss C said she was now in severe financial difficulty. Shed had to find help herself. She 
wanted M&S Bank to remove all interest and charges on the account. 
Miss C then contacted us some time after she first lodged her complaint, and said that M&S 
Bank had only just taken steps to default her account, although shed been paying through a 
debt management company for around two years. 
M&S Bank said that Miss C had opened her credit card account in April 2007. Her credit limit 
was never increased. It was reduced in August 2009, to the current limit of £800. M&S Bank 
said that the lending decisions on this card were taken too long ago for our service to 
consider those. Miss C has accepted our investigators view on this, so this point wont be 
addressed here.
M&S Bank said it would agree to our service considering whether Miss C should have been 
given the employee rate on her credit card. But it didnt think it had done anything wrong, 
because it said that it was up to the retail arm, a separate entity, to alert Miss C to the 
preferential rate. M&S Bank said if Miss C didnt know about the employee rate, then it 
wasnt responsible for that.
M&S Bank thought it had offered the appropriate level of support to Miss C, once it was 
made aware of her financial difficulties. It told us that it had written to Miss C about persistent 
debt, in line with the new rules on that. 
M&S Bank hasnt yet responded to a complaint from Miss C about the default which is being 
applied to her account, so this wont be considered further here. Our service is looking into 
this for Miss C.
Our investigator didnt think that Miss cs complaint about the employee rate or about 
support for Miss Cs financial difficulties should be upheld. He said M&S Bank had explained 
that it didnt advise Miss C when she took out the card, and it wasnt responsible for 
publicising this rate in stores. Miss C may have said on her application that she worked for 
M&S Bank but even if she did, that wouldnt be enough to get the preferential rate. She had 
to apply. 
So our investigator said he didnt think M&S Bank was at fault here. It was up to each 
employee to apply for the rate, and it wasnt M&S Banks responsibility to draw this rate to 
Miss Cs attention.
Our investigator also said M&S Bank had shown us that it had written to Miss C a number of 
times. And those letters included suggestions of help that might be available if Miss C was 
having problems paying, including from M&S Bank itself and from other, independent 
sources of advice. But our investigator said he couldnt see that Miss C had discussed her 
problems with M&S Bank until November 2019. Once M&S Bank was aware of the financial 
difficulty she was in, our investigator thought it had taken appropriate action  in particular 
because M&S Bank stopped any further interest and charges. Our investigator didnt think 
M&S Bank shouldve realised that Miss C was in financial difficulties before this. 
Our investigator explained that new rules about persistent debt were introduced in 2018. 
Persistent debt is when a consumer has paid more in interest, fees and charges than theyve 
repaid towards the capital they owe over the previous 18 months. M&S Bank had written to 
Miss C about this in September 2018 and April 2019, but Miss C didnt reply. 
Our investigator said he didnt think M&S Bank had to do any more. And he explained to 
Miss C that he was still looking into the issue of the recent default for her.
Miss C didnt agree. She said it was unfair to suggest that she knew about the preferential 
rate offer but did not take it up. Our investigator said that he wasnt saying Miss C knew 
about it. He just thought that if she didnt know about it, that wouldnt be M&S Bank fault. 
Miss C wanted her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me 
for a final decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
I understand that Miss C found it deeply frustrating to find out in 2020 that a preferential 
interest rate is available on this card, that she could have qualified for. She thinks M&S Bank 
shouldve given her that rate. But, like our investigator, I dont think that its M&S Banks fault 
if Miss C didnt know about this earlier. 
M&S Bank has told us it cant be sure if Miss C told it that she worked for M&S Bank when 
she applied for the card, because that application happened so long ago. But it says even if 
she did that, this wouldnt mean she got the preferential rate automatically. Staff who are 
entitled to that have to apply for it. And its the retail arm thats responsible for telling staff 
that they can have this rate, not M&S Bank. So I dont think that whats gone wrong here is 
M&S Banks fault. 
Miss C also says that M&S Bank should have done more to help her, because shes had this 
debt for a long time, and shes only been paying around the minimum. I can see that M&S 
Bank has written to Miss C a number of times, when she was having difficulties making her payments. It suggested that she could contact it for support, or highlighted independent 
sources of debt advice. Thats what I would expect it to have done at the time.
I can also see that when the rules on persistent debt came into force, M&S Bank wrote to 
Miss C about the impact of making on the minimum payments. It again suggested that she 
could talk to it, or seek independent advice. Thats also what Id expect M&S Bank to do.
Like our investigator, I havent been able to see that M&S Bank was aware, or should have 
been aware, of the extent of Miss Cs financial difficulties, until she contacted it about this in 
late 2019. And when it was made aware of this, it took steps to stop interest and charges on 
her account, which again I would expect it to do. 
I make no decision here on whether M&S Bank ought to have defaulted Miss Cs account at 
the same time. Our service is still looking into this. But I dont think that M&S Bank otherwise 
failed to support Miss C when she told it about her financial difficulties. 
I know that Miss C will be disappointed, but I dont think her complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman