DRN-4520283
The complaint
Ms L has complained about the amount Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) has
paid in settlement of her claim under her home insurance policy for damage to an
underground pipe in her home.
Ms L dealt with a separate business who acted as RSAs claim handling agent, but for the
sake of ease Ive just referred to RSA throughout this decision.
What happened
Ms L called a plumbing and drainage company, who Ill refer to as P, to come and
investigate damp on a wall at her home after having a damp expert inspect it and suggest it
was likely to be due to a leaking pipe. P established it was due to a leaking underground
sewage pipe five feet below the ground immediately underneath Ms Ls house. Ms L called
RSA and its claims adviser said it would arrange for a company, who Ill refer to as C, to
contact her in the next 24 hours. Ms L has said that she was also told it would be three to
five days before C could actually come out. Ms L asked if she could go ahead regardless.
RSAs claim adviser told her she could, but RSA could not promise it would cover the claim
or how much it would pay out if it did. Ms L decided to allow P to continue with the work
required to expose the pipe and fully establish the cause of the problem. She also decided to
allow them to carry out the repairs needed to the pipe and the floor of her home. She got 
other contractors to carry out redecoration work and reinstate the floor covering. Ms L has 
said RSA said it would send a loss adjuster round to review what was going on.
RSA actually sent two drainage engineers from C to look at what was happening while P 
was carrying out its investigation work. They were at Ms Ls home for just under two hours 
and saw the leaking sewage pipe, as part of it had been exposed by P. They also saw the 
camera images from further down the pipe. Ms L has said the engineers didnt take any 
notes, but advised her that for insurance purposes she would need to have a manhole built 
inside her property; so the pipe could be more easily accessed in future. Shes said they 
then told her to allow P to continue to access the pipe and that they would provide her with a 
report. Ms L has further explained that they did not say C would be happy to take over from 
P; instead they simply left. Ms L kept RSA informed of the works and she chased C for a 
report from its engineers. She finally received a report from C (but not from its actual 
engineers) after the works were complete, which listed out the work it thought would have 
been required and what it would have cost if it had carried it out.
After P had finished the works, including reinstating Ms Ls floor, she submitted copies of its
invoices to RSA totalling £44,836.02. She also submitted separate invoices for the
redecoration work and the floor covering. RSA made two payments to Ms L. One for
redecoration and floor covering of £6,386.3. And one of £4,865.28 for the repairs to the pipe,
installation of the manhole cover and reinstatement of the floor.
Ms L was very unhappy with the payment for the works carried out by P and complained to
RSA. She explained that she would not have had the manhole cover installed if Cs
engineers hadnt said it was needed. And she thought it very unfair that RSA was now
refusing to pay anything for this. RSA wouldnt alter its position, as it felt what it had paid was
fair.
Ms L asked us to consider her complaint. One of our investigators did this. He didnt think it
should be upheld. He didnt think there was sufficient evidence to say that Cs engineer
advised Ms L to have the manhole installed. He also said it was not surprising RSA had paid
less than P charged Ms L to carry out the works to her home.
Ms L was not happy with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 29 November 2023 in which I set out what Id provisionally 
decided and why as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. RSA also needed to provide
Ms L with clear, fair and not misleading information. Ive taken these rules, and other
industry guidance, into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive provisionally decided to uphold it and make RSA pay the difference
between what Ms L paid for the works to repair her pipe and reinstate her floor and what
RSA has already paid. Ive explained why below.
When Ms L first contacted RSA about the leak in her home and asked about going ahead
with P regardless, I dont think RSAs claims adviser provided her with clear, fair and not
misleading information which enabled her to make an informed decision on whether to wait
for RSAs contractor to attend, investigate further and carry out any work required covered
by her policy or go ahead with P. I say this because the adviser simply said she couldnt
promise RSA would cover the works or how much it would pay. This meant Ms L knew the
works might not be covered, but I do not consider it left her with any idea that, if they were,
there could be a big difference between what RSAs contractor would charge and what a
commercial contractor carrying out private works for her would charge. And she couldnt
have realised that because of the terms of her policy, RSA would normally want to exercise
its option to carry out repairs. And, if Ms L would not allow it to do this, it would only pay what
it would cost for its contractor to carry out the works. I consider it was good industry practice
for the adviser, as a frontline claims handler, to explain all this to Ms L. She would then have
realised there could be a significant risk for her financially if she carried on with P.
I also think Cs engineers should have explained to Ms L that C could take over from P if she
wanted it to and that this could potentially save her being left having to fund part of the
repairs herself due to the difference in rates. As well as this, I am persuaded by Ms Ls
testimony that it was Cs engineers who suggested she needed to have a manhole cover
installed in her hallway as part of the reinstatement work, as opposed to it being something
P suggested. I say this because Ms L has been consistent on this from the outset and I have
not seen anything from Cs engineers specifically that refutes this. In fact, I am very
surprised that RSA doesnt appear to have obtained anything at all directly from the
engineers who actually visited Ms Ls property; and has instead relied on what I consider to
be a very brief report from C.
In view of what Ive said, I spoke to Ms L and asked her what shed have done if she
understood the terms of her policy allowed RSA to opt to repair, that any payment it made
would be limited to what one of its contractors would charge and that this could be
considerably less than a private contractor like P would charge. And she explained to me,that if she had known this, shed have waited the three to five days RSA had said it would
take for them to send a contractor out. And shed have allowed RSA to appoint its contractor
to carry out any works required and pay for it. Im persuaded this is what she would have
done, as she also explained to me that at the point she spoke to RSA there was not much of
a smell in her home and it was really just the fact damp had been discovered. And it seems
that whilst shed have known it was due to a leaking sewage pipe, which needed addressing,
it was not something that meant there was a risk of further significant damage in the short-
term.
This means that  in my opinion - RSAs claims agents failure to explain things clearly to Ms
L has clearly prejudiced Ms Ls position. This is because if she hadnt allowed P to continue
and carry out the works required; she would not have been left having to cover the large
difference between what it charged and what RSA has paid her. And, if Cs engineers had
been as clear as they should have been with Ms L, she would not have ended up with a
manhole in her hallway and having to pay for it and would have switched to using C at this
point.
It therefore follows that I consider the fair and reasonable outcome to Ms Ls complaint is for
RSA to put right the prejudice caused to Ms L by its failings and pay her the difference
between what it has paid her for the works to trace and access the pipework under her
home, repair it and reinstate everything including her floor and what she paid P for this. As I
understand it, this will mean RSA needs to make a further payment of £39,970.74. This is
calculated by taking the total of the invoice amounts Ms L paid to Pimlico (£44,836.02) and
subtracting the £4,865.28 RSA has already paid for the works. RSA will also need to pay
interest on the amount due to Ms L to compensate her for being without these funds. For the
sake of ease, I think its fair to make RSA pay this from the date Ms L made her final
payment to P to the date RSA pays her the amount due. Interest should be at 8% per annum
simple.
Im not going to make RSA pay anything further for the redecoration work and the
reinstatement of the hall flooring carried out by Ms Ls contractors, as she has not raised this
as part of her complaint to RSA or with us. Also, she has said she is broadly happy with what
she received for these things.
I also consider that RSAs poor handling of Ms Ls claim has caused her a great deal of
distress and inconvenience. Shes been left having to cope with a large outlay without any
idea of whether she would get this back and the frustration of knowing it was Cs engineers
who advised her to have a manhole installed in her home, which she never really wanted. So
I think a compensation payment of £500 for distress and inconvenience is appropriate.
I gave both parties until 13 December 2023 to provide further comments and evidence in 
response to my provisional decision. 
Ms L has responded to says she has no further comments or evidence to provide. RSA has 
responded and provided the following comments:
It has referred to the policy wording which sets out that the maximum it will pay is the 
lesser of what the work to Ms Ls home would have cost if it had been carried out by its 
nominated contractor or a competitive estimate or tender from Ms Ls nominated 
contractor. 
When Ms L contacted it originally she was asked to get an estimate for trace and access. 
And subsequently informed it that she intended to proceed. And was told this was at her 
own risk and RSA could not confirm liability or quantum at the time. 
When C attended the drain repairs had been completed on the authority of Ms L. And C 
merely inspected the works and provided a report. C did not authorise the work to install the manhole cover. It has said at the time of the 
inspection the manhole had been installed and only surface repairs were outstanding. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so Ive considered RSAs further comments, but they do not alter my view as to the 
fair and reasonable outcome to Ms Ls complaint. Ive explained why below. 
The main problem with RSAs approach in this case was the conversation Ms L had with its 
claims adviser when she said she intended to proceed with the works required. As, I 
explained in my provisional decision, I dont think the adviser followed good industry practice 
and made it clear to Ms L that if she did proceed what RSA paid could be significantly less 
than she was likely to be charged. RSA has not commented at all on this point; so my view 
on it hasnt changed. And I think if the adviser had been as clear as she should have been 
Ms L would not have proceeded with P. 
I do not agree with RSAs point that when Cs engineers attended the drain repairs had been 
largely completed and the manhole cover installed. I accept Ms Ls testimony that at the 
point they attended P had exposed the sewerage pipe and that it was C who advised Ms L 
she needed to have a manhole cover installed. It also remains my view that C could and 
should have told Ms L it was willing to take over from P, but failed to do so. 
I appreciate what the policy wording says, but it does not alter my view on the fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint. This is because it was poor claim handling by RSA 
and its agents that led to Ms L paying a lot more for the work than RSA would have paid if its 
contractor had done it. So, it wouldnt be fair to limit the payment in line with the policy terms 
when it was RSAs errors that led to Ms L paying what she did. 
Putting things right
It therefore follows that for the reasons set out in my provisional decision and above, I still 
think the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is for RSA to put right the prejudice 
caused to Ms L by its failings and pay her the difference between what it has paid her for the 
works to trace and access the pipework under her home, repair it and reinstate everything 
including her floor, and what she paid P for this. 
This will mean RSA needs to make a further payment of £39,970.74 to Ms L. And I set out 
how I calculated this figure in my provisional decision. And neither party has challenged it.  
For the sake of ease, I think its fair to make RSA pay interest on this amount from the date 
Ms L made her final payment to P to the date it pays her the amount due. Interest should be 
at 8% per annum simple1.
I also consider that RSAs poor handling of Ms Ls claim caused her a great deal of
distress and inconvenience. Shes been left having to cope with a large outlay without any
idea of whether she would get this back and the frustration of knowing it was Cs engineers
who advised her to have a manhole installed in her home, which she never really wanted. So
1 RSA must tell Ms L if it has made a deduction for income tax. And, if it has, how much its 
taken off. It must also provide a tax deduction certificate for Ms L if asked to do so. This will 
allow Ms L to reclaim the tax from His Majestys Revenue & Customs (HMRC) if appropriate.I think a compensation payment of £500 for distress and inconvenience is appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold Ms Ls complaint and order RSA to do what Ive set out above in the Putting things 
right section. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman