DRN-3694918
The complaint
Miss F complained about the service provided by Invesco Fund Managers Limited 
(Invesco). Miss F said she instructed Invesco to perform a conversion between classes 
of a fund and Invesco told her it wouldnt be able to do this. Miss F is not happy about 
this and said she has incurred a cost because of Invescos decision not to carry out her 
instruction. She would like compensation because of this. 
Miss F is represented in this complaint, and they have made representations on her 
behalf, but to keep things simple I have referred to Miss F throughout. 
What happened
Miss F held a stocks and shares ISA with Invesco. She invested in one of its funds 
directly and her details were recorded on its register. In November 2021, Miss F 
contacted Invesco and asked it to convert what she held in the fund from no trail shares 
to Y shares. The shares were in relation to the same fund, but they had different 
classification. 
Miss F explained to Invesco that she was looking to convert her shares because she 
was looking to consolidate all her investments into one platform, and she was looking to 
make an in specie transfer of the holding to a new provider. The new ISA provider 
(Party A) was only willing to accept Y shares of the fund.
Invesco said it could not carry out a conversion of Miss Fs shares and said it only 
offered no trail shares to individuals. It said Y shares were restricted and not available to 
individuals so it couldnt convert her shares before she transferred them. It referred to its 
Supplementary Information Document (SID) where it specified this. 
Miss F then went ahead and transferred her holding from Invesco to a different platform 
provider (Party B), who was able to convert the shares. She then instructed Party B to 
convert them and then once this was done transferred the holding from it to Party A. 
Miss F said that Invescos unwillingness to convert the shares has incurred her a cost 
and it should pay her compensation for this.
Miss F also did not agree with Invescos comments about why it said it couldnt convert 
and so she made a complaint to our service. An investigator looked into Miss Fs 
concerns and didnt think Invesco needed to take any action. She said she looked at the 
SID form and could see that Miss F didnt meet the criteria for being able to hold Y 
shares. She concluded that the actions taken by Miss F to convert the shares and then 
transfer to her new provider, were not something that Invesco could reasonably be 
responsible for. 
Miss F responded and said the investigator had misinterpreted the regulations and 
referred to FCA rules regarding collective investment schemes (COLL) and a relevant 
policy statement. She said she had not seen any evidence that would suggest Invesco 
were unable to facilitate the transfer as she had requested. She said it seemed more 
likely that it was unwilling. 
Invesco responded to Miss Fs comments and said it follows the regulations and best 
practice rules. It said it states in its SID that Miss F cannot hold Y shares whilst her name is 
on the register. Miss F asked for an ombudsmans review and so her complaint comes to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not upheld Miss Fs complaint, and I will explain why.
Miss F held a stocks and shares ISA with Invesco. Within this ISA, she was able to buy 
and sell funds with it. Miss F held shares in a fund within her ISA, and these were 
classified as no trail shares. Miss F wanted Fidelity to convert these to Y shares and then 
transfer them to Party A. 
Invesco said it couldnt convert the shares. It told Miss F that it could transfer her no trail 
shares to Party A, and then it could convert the shares when it received them. It referred 
to its documentation relating to the stocks and shares ISA and the fund. 
I have looked through the documentation Invesco has referred to, one of these 
documents being the SID. I can see within the SID it does state under the heading what 
share classes are available? that Y shares are only available to investors that meet 
certain criteria such as nominees and fund platforms. As an individual investor, Miss F 
would not have been able to hold Y shares within her ISA. So, I can see why Invesco 
wouldnt convert Miss Fs holding to Y shares, after she had instructed it to do so.
Invesco also referred to some best practice rules for transfers and conversions. Within 
this it stipulates that good industry practice is for re-registration to take place first, and 
then it is for the acquiring party to carry out any conversion required. It says this supports 
what it is saying that the shares should be transferred to Party A and then it was up to it to 
convert. I dont need to consider Party As role in the transfer as it is Invesco that Miss F 
is complaining about here. But I acknowledge the point it has made about what it says are 
its responsibilities within these best practice rules that it says it adheres to. 
Miss F referenced an FCA rule regarding collective investment schemes this being COLL 
6.4.8. This rule states that where there is more than one class of units offered for issue or 
sale, the unit holder has a right to convert from one to the other, provided that doing so 
would not contravene any provision in the prospectus. She says that this rule would not 
be breached if Invesco carried out her instruction to transfer between unit classes. She 
also referenced a policy statement. 
I have given what Miss F has said here careful thought. And having looked through the 
documentation Invesco provided I cant agree with her on this occasion. Invesco says 
converting Miss Fs shares would contravene its prospectus. It says within its SID it states 
that individuals cant hold Y shares. It says she cannot hold Y shares whilst her name is 
on its register. I havent been able to see its prospectus in relation to the fund that Miss F 
held, but I can see that in its SID document, it has given detailed information about what it 
can and cant do with share conversions. I think on balance, Invescos SID document provides a fair reflection of what would be given in a prospectus for the fund and by virtue 
I think its more likely than not that any potential conversion would contravene it. So, I am 
not persuaded Invesco would have breached the rule referenced by Miss F by not 
agreeing to convert her shares.  
Finally, Miss F has said she thinks Invesco should pay for the costs that she incurred for 
having to transfer her holding to Party B and then post conversion, transfer her holding 
from Party B to Party A. For the reasons I have already given, I dont think I can hold 
Invesco responsible for Miss Fs actions here. But in any case, I can see that Party B did 
not charge Miss F for transferring her holding to it or for converting the shares. From what 
I can see, Miss F managed to find a way to solve the problem without incurring a financial 
cost.  
On balance, I dont think Invesco has done anything wrong, in deciding not to convert 
Miss Fs shares. So, I wont be asking it to do anything further.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Miss F, but I hope she will at least feel 
that her complaint has been fully considered and that the way I've set things out helps to 
explain how I've reached my conclusions.
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold Miss Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman