DRN-2649263
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Legal & General Society Limited declined a terminal illness claim for 
her late husband, Mr L.
 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
Mr and Mrs L had a term assurance policy with Legal & General that provided a sum 
assured of £150,000 up to 24 November 2019. The policy included a terminal illness benefit.  
In April 2018 Mr L was diagnosed with myeloma and he sadly passed away in December 
2019. Following this, Mrs L made a retrospective terminal illness claim under the policy for 
her husband. 
Legal & General declined the claim. They explained that, under the policy terms, terminal 
illness claims arent valid in the final 18 months of cover. And for them to consider settling a 
retrospective terminal illness claim for Mr L, theyd require the opinion of a treating medical 
specialist and a medical officer appointed by themselves to confirm that his life expectancy 
was 12 months or less prior to 24 May 2018. Legal & General said theyd obtained a report 
from Mr Ls treating consultant and that, in the opinion of one of their medical officers (a 
consultant oncologist), it wouldnt have been possible to say what Mr Ls life expectancy 
wouldve been as at 24 May 2018. They added that when considering terminal illness claims 
their usual practice is to wait to establish the response to treatment regimes and consider 
what treatment options may be available. And at that time, Mr Ls treatment response hadnt 
been assessed. 
Mrs L complained about the decision to decline the claim. She said her husbands first 
treating consultant, Dr A, had informed them in April 2018 that he wouldnt see Christmas 
2018 due to the aggressiveness of the disease. And had it not been for Mr L benefiting from 
private medical insurance, and so having access to non-NHS therapies/treatment, he 
wouldnt have lived as long as he did. Mrs L was also unhappy that Legal & General hadnt 
contacted Dr A, who was treating Mr L for the first eight months of his illness, when 
considering the claim. She also said, in response to the opinion of Legal & Generals medical 
officer, that myeloma is a very individual cancer and so one size doesnt fit all  therefore 
myeloma cant be generalised with statistics.
Legal & Generals position didnt change. They reiterated that, while Mr Ls prognosis may 
have been poor, the medical information theyd received to support the claim doesnt show 
that his life expectancy was medically confirmed to be less than 12 months when the policy 
entered the last 18 months of cover. And that their medical officer confirmed a medical 
prognosis of less than 12 months wouldve been unlikely given following the new diagnosis, 
in an otherwise fit patient, before any treatment had been tried. And, as at 24 May 2018, Mr 
L was only four weeks into his first round of treatment and it wasnt yet known what his 
response to it would be. Legal & General further explained that while private healthcare may 
have helped Mr Ls prognosis and prolonged his life expectancy, it didnt play a role in their 
decision. They also noted that most of Mr Ls private healthcare happened after 24 May 
2018. 
The complaint was referred to our service. Our investigator didnt think Legal & General had 
unfairly declined the claim. He said it wasnt in dispute that Mr L was diagnosed with an 
incurable illness before 24 May 2018. But the policy terms required confirmation from an 
attending consultant and Legal & Generals chief medical officer (CMO) that he had less 
than 12 months to live. And the medical information suggests that in March 2018, when the 
likelihood of a myeloma was discussed with Mr and Mrs L, they were told the life expectancy 
could be a number of years. Unfortunately, in April 2018, it was found that Mr L had a more 
aggressive form of the disease which carried a worse prognosis. But, our investigator 
explained that when treatment commenced, it appears Mr L initially responded quite well to 
it. And he couldnt see that the treating consultant, or Legal & Generals CMO, wouldve 
considered Mr Ls life expectancy to have been less than 12 months prior to 24 May 2018. 
Our investigator noted Mr L benefitted from private healthcare that may have prolonged his 
life. But he said the claim had to be considered on the medical evidence available. And this 
doesnt support that Mr L wouldve met the policy definition of a terminal illness before the 
last 18 months of cover. 
Mrs L disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I go on to explain my findings, I wish to pass on my deepest condolences to Mrs L. I 
know this will have been an extremely difficult time and Id like to reassure her that Ive 
considered this matter very carefully, taking into account everything shes said to support her 
complaint. Having done so, Im afraid I dont think Legal & General has unfairly declined the 
terminal illness claim. Let me explain why.
Ive looked at the policy condition that applies for a terminal illness claim. This says:
If either Life Assured has a Terminal Illness, namely an advanced or rapidly 
progressing incurable illness where, in the opinion of an attending Consultant and our 
Chief Medical Officer, the life expectancy is no greater than 12 months, Legal & 
General will make an advance payment of the Sum Assured. This benefit will be not 
be available during the 18 months immediately before the Expiry Date. Once the 
payment has been made the policy will terminate and no further benefit will be 
payable. 
Mr and Mrs Ls policy expired on 24 November 2019 which means the terminal illness 
benefit ran up to 24 May 2018. Mr L was diagnosed with myeloma, an incurable illness, in 
April 2018. However, the crux of the issue here is whether Mr Ls life expectancy was no 
greater than 12 months in the opinion of both an attending consultant and Legal & Generals 
CMO before 24 May 2018. 
Mrs L says that Dr A told them in April 2018 that her husband wouldnt live to see Christmas 
 so his life expectancy was eight months. And although drugs were given to try and give 
him more time, there was no guarantee they would work. Because of this, Mrs L considers 
her husband was given a life expectancy prognosis of less than 12 months while the terminal 
illness benefit was in place. Ive given what Mrs L has said careful thought and I accept there was likely a conversation 
about her husbands life expectancy with Dr A at that time. This is evidenced by a letter of 
18 April 2018 in which Dr A says:
I had a detailed discussion with Mr L in the presence of his wife and explained that 
he appears to have quite an aggressive disease. I had previously explained that Iga 
myeloma carries a worse prognosis than Igg type of myeloma. However, I have 
reassured them that chemotherapy will be the best option which he has already 
started. We will continue to monitor him very closely. 
However, while it is clear Mr Ls prognosis was worse than initially thought, there isnt 
anything to evidence that Dr A considered his life expectancy to be no greater than 12 
months at that time. But rather it seems Mr L initially responded well to treatment in the 
subsequent months, including chemotherapy, and he then underwent an autologous 
transplant. A September 2018 letter from the consultant overseeing the transplant to Dr A 
says:
We went onto discuss the role of transplant in the management of myeloma. I have 
explained it is not curative, but extends the length of time disease is controlled for 
typically two and a half to three years. There is evidence that maintenance 
Lenalidomide can extend this even further and I understand he may be able to 
access through his private insurer. 
It isnt in dispute that Mr Ls condition was terminal. But the above evidences that there were 
treatment options available to Mr L which couldve extended his life expectancy beyond 12 
months. And so, it seems unlikely that an attending consultant wouldve given a definitive 
prognosis of less than 12 months until such treatment options had been explored. 
A requirement of the policy for a terminal illness claim includes that Legal & Generals CMO 
must also, in addition to an attending consultant, consider the life expectancy to be no 
greater than 12 months. And, in this case, Legal & Generals CMO has said the following:
Taken from the CRUK website the 5 year survival for newly diagnosed myeloma is 
around 50%, the one year survival just under 80%
In the absence of any patient specific factors that would have indicted a much worse 
prognosis we would not usually consider a TI diagnosis in otherwise fit patient with 
newly diagnosed myeloma.

As a result with no other patient specific features at the time of diagnosis we would 
have expected a prognosis considerably in excess of 12 months and would have 
deferred a TI application in May of 2018.
I understand Mrs L has argued that myeloma cant be generalised with statistics as cancer is 
very individualistic. But, while Ive noted her views on this, such statistics are based on past 
experience and theyre used by the medical community as an indicator of what to expect in 
similar cases. So, while people may have different experiences when suffering from 
myeloma, I dont think its unreasonable for Legal and General to have considered this 
information as part of the decision-making process.
The opinion of the CMO is that its unlikely Mr Ls life expectancy wouldve been considered 
less than 12 months in May 2018. Or that this wouldve been supported by his attending 
consultant at that time. So, while Mr and Mrs L may have been advised his life expectancy 
could be as short as eight months, I think it might have been explained as a worst-case 
scenario. That said, and whats relevant in relation to whether Legal & General has fairly considered the claim, is that there isnt anything to show Mr Ls life expectancy was 
medically confirmed as such. 
I know Mrs L feels very strongly about this matter and that she feels it is unfair, given Mr L 
was diagnosed with a terminal illness, for an insurer to see how a patient (policyholder) 
responds to treatment  and lives  before a claim is accepted. Ive considered this but I 
think it would be helpful if I explained that the purpose of a terminal illness benefit is to allow 
a policyholder to finalise their affairs by paying out the sum assured in situations where they 
will die before the policy (cover) ends. When considering such a claim, and as per the policy 
terms, I think its reasonable for Legal & General to rely upon the opinion of medical 
professionals. And medical professionals are typically better able to provide a more accurate 
prognosis after treatment has been explored. 
In Mr Ls case, it is the CMOs opinion his life expectancy was greater than 12 months as at 
24 May 2018. There also isnt anything to evidence that the opinion of Mr Ls attending 
consultant differed to this. And, from what Ive seen, I think it is unlikely given a treatment 
option Mr L underwent hoped to extend his life by up to three years. So, I know this isnt the 
outcome Mrs L is hoping for but I dont think Legal & General has unfairly declined this 
retrospective terminal illness claim. It therefore follows that I dont think they have to do 
anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman