DRN-2928738
The complaint
 Mrs C complains that Everyday Lending Limited (ELL) irresponsibly lent to her. 
What happened
Mrs C took out a loan with ELL in June 2018, the loan was for £5,100, the loan was to be 
repaid in 36 monthly instalments of £268.53. Over the term of the loan, Mrs C was due to 
repay around £9,667 in capital plus interest payments. Mrs C still has an outstanding 
balance on the loan. Mrs C has also said the interest on the loan is unfair bearing in mind 
the amount she has to repay.
Mrs C complained to ELL in December 2020 about the loan, it didnt uphold her complaint 
and so she referred it to this service. It was looked at by one of our adjudicators who thought 
that ELL was wrong to have lent the loan. ELL disagreed, it said that its checks went far 
enough, and those checks suggested that Mrs C could afford the loan and so it wasnt wrong 
the lend.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the loans were offered.
Before lending money to a consumer, a lender should take proportionate steps to 
understand whether the consumer could repay without borrowing further or suffering 
significant adverse consequences.
A lender should gather enough information for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. Although the guidance and rules themselves didnt set out compulsory checks, 
they did list a number of things a lender could take into account before agreeing to lend. The 
key thing was that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to take into account a 
number of different things, including things such as how much was being lent and when what 
was being borrowed was due to be repaid. A business should also take into account and 
react appropriately to what it knew about the consumer at the time it made its lending 
decision.
ELL has provided evidence to show that before lending, it searched Mrs Cs credit file, asked 
her for her monthly income and living expenses, including credit commitments. ELL also 
verified some of the information Mrs C provided by requesting bank statements and payslips. 
I can see that it got her payslip for the month before the loan and bank statements for a few 
months before the loan. The reason for the loan was for Mrs C to consolidate her debts. ELL 
worked out that Mrs C would repay her payday loans and based on these checks and the 
debt consolidation, ELL thought it would be fair to lend.
Having considered all the information, I dont think ELL reacted appropriately to the 
information it gathered. ELL saw Mrs Cs bank statement from the time and from the 
information within the bank statements and payslip, Mrs Cs average income in the two 
months before the loan was around £1,826, I have included the average she earned from 
her second job over the same period. The bank statements also show that Mrs Cs average 
living expenses over that two-month period was around £1,500, this doesnt include the 
credit being consolidated or her other credit commitments, taking into account the repayment 
for this loan, Mrs C would have been left with around £57 in disposable income. 
Bearing in mind the 36-month commitment of the loan term and the fact the loan wasnt 
sufficient to consolidate/repay all of her existing debts, I think ELL should have seen that the 
loan was unaffordable even with the consolidation. ELL should have been aware that she 
was likely to struggle to repay it over the term.
I think in those circumstances, ELL should have seen this and shouldnt have lent to Mrs C. 
ELL needs to put things right.
Putting things right
I understand the loan is still outstanding and so to put things right for Mrs C, ELL should:
remove all interest and charges applied to the loan, and
treat all payments Mrs C has made as repayments towards the capital of £5,100.
If theres a surplus after doing the above, the ELL should pay to Mrs C, it should add 
interest at 8% per year simple on the surplus payments from the date they were paid, if 
they were, to the date of settlement;
if theres still a balance outstanding ELL should agree a suitable repayment plan with 
Mrs C.
ELL should remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Cs credit file as a result 
of the interest and charges on this loan.
HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to take off tax from this interest. ELL must give Mrs 
C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mrs C complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman