DRN-4435009
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Alphabet (GB) Limited collected a payment on a credit sale agreement 
he had with them, after hed settled the outstanding balance.
What happened
In July 2019, Mr S was supplied with a car through a credit sale agreement with Alphabet. 
He paid a deposit of £5,000 and the agreement was for £22,279.74 over 43 months; with 42 
monthly payments of £400.95 and a final payment of £8,036.98. 
Mr S was supplied with the car through a car ownership scheme with his employer. This 
meant the deposit was provided by way of an interest free loan from his employer, and this 
increased the payments to £465.55, which were collected by a direct deduction from Mr Ss 
salary. The agreement Mr S signed on 16 July 2019 was clear that payments would be 
collected one month in arrears i.e., the first payment was deducted from his salary in the 
second month, the second payment in the third month etc.
In November 2022, Mr S asked Alphabet for an early settlement figure. This was provided on 
28 November 2022, and it had an expiry date of 26 December 2022. In a follow up email on 
30 November 2022, Alphabet confirmed we would like to make you aware that any rentals 
invoiced up to and including the expiry date of the quotation will also be due for repayment.
Mr S sold the car and repaid the outstanding balance to Alphabet on 12 December 2022. 
However, the payment due for December 2022 was still deducted from Mr Ss salary in 
January 2023. He was unhappy with this and complained to Alphabet.
Alphabet didnt deal with Mr Ss complaint within the timescale they shouldve, and Mr S 
brought it to us for investigation. While we were investigating matters, Alphabet said that the 
payment had been collected correctly, but they acknowledged theyd incorrectly told Mr S 
that Decembers deduction will be as normal, and Januarys deduction is included in the 
purchase price. So, they offered Mr S £200 compensation for the impact of this.
Mr S didnt accept the compensation. Our investigator said that, although Alphabet had said 
theyd invoiced Mr Ss employers for the December 2022 payment on 1 December 2022, Mr 
Ss employer had said this didnt happen until 5 January 2023. The investigator also said 
that Mr S had relied on the settlement quotation when selling the car, and the deduction of 
the payment in January 2023 caused him to suffer an overall loss on the sale.
Given this, the investigator said that Alphabet should refund the payment taken in January 
2023, along with statutory interest, and pay Mr S an additional £50 for the distress and 
inconvenience hed been caused.
Mr S accepted the investigators view, but Alphabet didnt. They said they had acknowledged 
their mistake and offered compensation for this. They provided evidence that the invoice for 
the December 2022 payment was sent to Mr Ss employers on 1 December 2022 (for 
collection in January 2023), and they said they thought it was unjust that a refund of this 
payment would mean that Mr S wouldve had full use of the car for a period of time, without 
paying for this. 
I issued a provisional decision on 24 October 2023, where I explained my intention not to 
uphold the complaint. In that decision I said:
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr S was supplied with a car under a credit 
sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to 
investigate complaints about it.
As detailed above, the agreement that Mr S signed in July 2019 was clear that the payments 
would be collected one month in arrears. Whats more, the settlement agreement of 28 
November 2022 says, please note that if your monthly instalments are deducted from your 
salary they may not have been paid over to Alphabet by the Settlement Date. And the follow 
up email of 30 November 2022 says that any payments invoiced up to the expiry of the 
settlement quote will still be collected.
Given this, Im satisfied its reasonably clear that the settlement quotation assumed the 
December 2022 payment would be paid; a payment that, as per the agreement Mr S signed, 
was collected in arrears, and would be deducted from his salary in January 2023.
I can see that the investigator attempted to establish when the December 2022 payment was 
actually invoiced, and that Mr S has raised the issues of missing call recordings for when he 
discussed the settlement quotation with Alphabet. However, in this instance, I dont think 
either of these are relevant. I say this because Alphabet have acknowledged they provided 
incorrect information to Mr S when he asked them about the settlement figure. So, Im 
satisfied they need to do something to put things right.
When considering a matter such as this, where possible I look to put the customer back in 
the same position they wouldve been in had the financial business not made an error. And 
in this instance, the error was Alphabet incorrectly advising Mr S that a payment would be 
collected from his December 2022 salary, but nothing would be collected from his January 
2023 salary.
So, what shouldve happened is that Alphabet shouldve advised Mr S the settlement 
quotation included the assumption his December 2022 payment would still be paid. Which 
would be deducted from his salary in January 2023. Had they done this, then the payment 
wouldve been collected from the January 2023 salary, which is exactly what happened. So, 
the misinformation didnt result in Mr S paying an additional payment  he paid exactly what 
he shouldve paid under the agreement. And its for this reason I wont be asking Alphabet to 
refund a payment to Mr S.
This doesnt mean that Mr S was expecting the payment to be deducted in January 2023. 
And it would no doubt have come as a shock to him to find this deduction had taken place. 
So, I think Alphabet should compensate Mr S for this. 
Ive also considered that, when accounting for the January 2023 payment, Mr S made a 
£290 loss when selling the car. He was aware of the settlement figure, and its reasonable to 
assume that Mr S would try and sell the car for as much as possible. So, even if hed had 
known a payment would be deducted from his January salary, I dont think this wouldve 
altered what he could achieve as a sale price, nor do I think it wouldve altered his decision 
to sell the car, as this was always something he intended to do. So, I dont think Alphabet 
should compensate Mr S for any loss he made on the sale of the car.Alphabet have offered Mr S £200 compensation for the shock and inconvenience of having 
the December 2022 payment correctly collected from his January 2023 salary, after he was 
advised this wouldnt happen. For the reasons stated above, this offer is in line with what I 
wouldve directed had no offer been made. So, I see no compelling reason to ask Alphabet 
to increase this offer. And its now for Mr S to decide whether to accept it.
Responses
Alphabet accepted my provisional decision, but Mr S didnt. He said Id assumed hed sold 
the car for the best price he was able to, but this wasnt the case. Instead, he sold the car to 
a friend at the same price as the purchase cost from Alphabet. So, he was only paid the 
settlement amount and he didnt profit from the sale. And it was the misleading information 
from Alphabet that caused him a loss.
Mr S also said he hasnt declined the £200 offered by Alphabet, but I am merely attempting 
to cover the loss which I have suffered. I am not attempting to profit.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr Ss comments that he only sold the car for the settlement figure, and he 
didnt look to make any profit on the sale. However, while I dont doubt this was the case, I 
havent seen anything that shows me that, if the settlement figure was higher, then he 
wouldve been able to sell the car for more. So, Im not satisfied that, if Alphabet hadnt 
incorrectly told him that no payment would be deducted from his January 2023 salary, Mr S 
wouldve been able to realise a higher sale price for the car.
As I explained in my provisional decision, Mr S wouldve been aware that he was paying a 
month in arrears, and the settlement figure was based on the assumption that the December 
2022 payment would always have to be paid (which was by direct deduction from his 
January 2023 salary). As such, Mr S didnt pay any more to Alphabet that he was required 
to, based on settling the agreement in December 2022.
Given the above, I see no compelling reason why I shouldnt now adopt my provisional view 
as my final decision. And its for Mr S to decide whether to accept the £200 offer.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint about Alphabet (GB) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman