DRN-4299807
The complaint
Mr B complains that Scottish Widows Limited has failed to manage his pension investments 
in a professional manner.
What happened
Mr B holds pension savings with Scottish Widows. His plan was opened as part of a group 
scheme offered by his former employer. In 2020, when Mr B left that employer, his pension 
savings were moved from the employers bespoke investment funds into Scottish Widows 
standard funds.
Mr B reached his selected retirement age in 2023. He contacted Scottish Widows to arrange 
for the payment of his pension benefits. At that time he noted that his pension investments 
had fallen in value over the previous year by around 4%. Mr B complained to 
Scottish Widows saying that he considered the firm to be responsible for managing his 
pension investments. He said that he would expect Scottish Widows to move his pension 
investments into low-risk funds as his selected retirement date approached.
Mr B also complained to Scottish Widows about the difficulties he faced in getting in touch by 
telephone to discuss his retirement options. Scottish Widows agreed that it hadnt dealt with 
Mr B as promptly as it would have wanted. It offered Mr B £40 for the inconvenience he had 
been caused. Mr B accepted that offer, so in this decision I am only dealing with the way in 
which Mr Bs pension savings have been invested.
Mr Bs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She thought that Mr B, 
rather than Scottish Widows, was responsible for ensuring the pension savings were 
invested appropriately. And she thought that Scottish Widows had provided Mr B with 
sufficient information about his pension savings and the investment choices he could make. 
So the investigator didnt think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld.
Mr B didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr B and by Scottish Widows. Where the evidence is unclear, or there 
are conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
I think it is important to first set out the basis of the relationship between Mr B and 
Scottish Widows. Mr Bs pension had been with Scottish Widows for many years since it was 
established by his employer. Whilst an member of his employers scheme Mr Bs pension 
investments were set via a bespoke lifestyling approach.  When he left his employer 
Scottish Widows wrote to Mr B to explain that he was no longer able to use the employers 
lifestyle fund. So it told him he was being switched into its Balanced - Targeting Flexible 
Access Pension Investment Approach. It invited Mr B to consider whether that fund was 
appropriate for his circumstances, and if not to make his own fund selection.
Scottish Widows is not Mr Bs financial advisor. So it simply acts on the instructions he 
provides. It isnt for Scottish Widows to ensure that any investment decisions are suitable for 
Mr Bs needs  those are essentially decisions he needs to make for himself. And I have 
seen that Scottish Widows website (or by post on request) provides comprehensive 
information for investors about the range of funds that are offered.
Mr B has said that the annual statements he received from Scottish Widows said that it 
applied charges for managing and administering his pension plan. Mr B says that he 
considers the management of his plan to mean the management of the pension investments 
that are held within it. But, as I will now go on to explain, I dont agree.
Mr Bs pension plan is essentially a receptacle into which his investments can be placed, to 
receive the beneficial tax treatment that is offered to pension savings. The responsibilities of 
Scottish Widows extend to the operation of the plan to ensure that any investments held 
within it comply with the rules put in place by HMRC and the relevant legislation. But, most 
importantly here, those responsibilities dont extend to ensuring the suitability of the 
investments that are held within the plan.
I have noted that in the annual statements Scottish Widows sent to Mr B, a number of 
comments are made that highlight his responsibility to ensure the suitability of the pension 
investments that he holds. For example it suggests that Mr B might want to review the funds 
into which his pension savings are invested. Later in the document it tells Mr B that 
Scottish Widows offers a wide range of funds and investment approaches to choose from. It 
goes on to say that he can choose where he would like his plan to be invested. And it again 
warns Mr B that he should check whether the funds in which his pension savings are 
invested are still right for his circumstances.
So I dont think it would have been reasonable for Mr B to conclude that Scottish Widows 
was solely responsible for ensuring that his pension savings were invested suitably. It had 
no knowledge of Mr Bs personal circumstances, such as his attitude to risk on which to base 
any investment decisions.But the investment option that Scottish Widows gave to Mr B did provide him with an 
approach designed to reduce the risk in his pension investments as he neared retirement. 
So, even though Mr B was responsible for choosing the overall approach, I dont think it 
unreasonable for me to consider whether the overall approach met its published objectives. 
As Mr B has said, it would be expected that, so close to his retirement, Scottish Widows took 
steps to reduce the risk of falls in the value of his pension investments.
Mr B has said that his pension investments fell by around 4% in the year leading up to his 
retirement. He has said that it would have been better if Scottish Widows had not invested 
his pension savings at all. As Ive explained above, a radical decision such as moving all the 
pension savings into a cash fund would have been something that Mr B needed to direct. His 
pension savings remained invested in the Balanced Fund with an expectation that they 
would be used to provide flexi-access benefits.
The acceptable risk for funds being used to provide flexi access is naturally greater than 
those being used to purchase an annuity, or be taken as a cash lump sum. They generally 
have a greater period of time to recover from any market fluctuations in their value, with the 
date of their use being less defined. But, in line with the stated objectives of the fund, it was 
reasonable for Mr B to expect the investment risk to be reduced as he neared retirement. In 
the information Scottish Widows had sent to him hed been told that process would start 
around 15 years before his selected retirement date.
But a reduced investment risk doesnt mean no investment risk at all. In late 2022 unusual 
market conditions were experienced, with falls in what are generally seen as safer 
investments due to Government economic policy, and rising interest rates. Many 
commentators noted that what are considered to be more risky investments, such as 
equities, suffered smaller losses during that time. I havent seen anything that makes me 
think that Scottish Widows investment decisions were outside what could be considered 
normal industry practice for consumers in Mr Bs situation.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr B. I havent seen anything to make 
me think that Scottish Widows failed to meet its obligations in terms of the investment 
decisions it made in relation to the Balanced Fund. It was for Mr B to decide how his pension 
savings should be invested. And I think that Scottish Widows provided Mr B with sufficient 
information about the way in which his pension savings were invested, and the choices he 
had should he want to make use of alternative investment approaches.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Scottish Widows Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman