DRN-3793493
The complaint
Miss W, through a representative, complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out 
proportionate affordability checks before it granted her loans. 
What happened
Miss W was advanced six home collected loans between April 2019 and December 2021. 
Ive included some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £300.00 25/04/2019 01/11/2019 33 £15.00
2 £600.00 01/11/2019 17/04/2020 34 £30.00
3 £1,000.00 17/04/2020 29/10/2020 34 £50.00
4 £1,000.00 29/10/2020 11/10/2021 53 £35.00
5 £300.00 29/10/2020 09/04/2021 34 £15.00
6 £600.00 29/12/2021 10/06/2022 35 £30.00
Following Miss Ws complaint, Morses wrote to her representative to explain that it wasnt 
going to uphold it. Miss Ws representative then referred the complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. 
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint. He thought Morses had made a reasonable decision 
to provide loans 1  3 so he didnt uphold Miss Ws complaint about these loans. But he 
thought the lending was now harmful for Miss W by the time loan 4 was granted and so he 
upheld Miss Ws complaint about loans 4 - 6. 
Morses disagreed with the outcome the adjudicator had reached. Ive summarised its 
comments below.
Loan 4 was the same value as loan 3 and Miss W chose to take a longer-term loan 
thereby reducing her weekly payments. 
Loans 5 and 6 were both smaller than loan 4.
Although the loans were taken out in a consecutive manner Miss W was able to 
settle loans early and she received an interest refund. 
Loan 6 was affordable and by this point in time Miss W continued to have a good 
repayment history. 
A detailed income and expenditure assessment was carried out by Morses before it 
granted loans 4  6. 
Miss W sent an email through her representative telling the Financial Ombudsman she 
accepted the outcome reached by the adjudicator. 
The case was then passed to an ombudsman to make a decision about the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Miss W could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks couldve taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and 
Miss Ws income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss W. These factors include:
Miss W having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss W having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss W coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss W.
Morses was required to establish whether Miss W could sustainably repay the loans  not 
just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss W was able to 
repay her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without 
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, 
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it 
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Ws complaint.
Neither Morses nor Miss W (or her representative) disagree with the outcome the adjudicator 
reached about loans 1  3. I therefore no longer think these loans are in dispute. But Ive 
kept them in mind when thinking about the overall lending relationship. 
For these loans Morses has shown, that it gathered information from Miss W about her 
weekly income and expenditure. For loans 4 and 5 Miss W declared the same weekly 
income of around £796 per week. She also declared weekly expenditure of £579 for loan 4 
and £583 for loan 5. This left a minimum disposable income for loans 4 and 5 of £216 per 
week to afford the largest repayment of £35.It is also worth saying for loans 4 and 5 Miss W declared she already had weekly credit 
commitments to credit cards, loans and other home credit loans of at least £269 per week. 
So Morses knew, before it advanced further lending that close to third of Miss Ws income 
was already being taken up meeting existing credit commitments. This in my view is not an 
insignificant portion and, in some circumstances, on its own could be enough to uphold the 
complaint. But I consider it to be further evidence that these loans (4  6) were likely to be 
unsustainable for her.  
For loan 6, Miss Ws declared income had increased to around £979 per week, with declared 
weekly expenditure of £820.54. Leaving £158 in disposable income to afford her repayment 
of £30. 
Clearly, there must have been a change in Miss Ws circumstances by the final loan, given 
the significant increase in both income and outgoings. Although, this was one of the smallest 
disposable incomes that Miss W had. But there doesnt appear to be any information to 
suggest what this change in circumstances may be. 
Morses also says, for these loans Miss Ws income was checked with a credit reference 
agency but no further information about this check has been provided. Although it also 
provided a copy of a system note that suggests that during this time Miss Ws sole source of 
income was benefits although this isnt reflected in the information contained within the 
income and expenditure spreadsheet Morses has provided. 
Based solely on Miss Ws income and expenditure information Morses couldve been 
confident she would be able to comfortably afford the repayments she was committed to 
making. 
But its arguable whether these checks went far enough considering how long Miss W had 
been indebted to Morses, by loan 4 borrowing the same amount as loan 3 but over a much 
longer term and what Morses already knew about Miss Ws lending. For example, Miss W 
returning for further borrowing on the same day a previous loan had been repaid.
By loan 4, it wouldve been reasonable for Morses to have at the very least, started to have 
verified the information it was being given about her income and expenditure. Ive not seen 
anything to suggest it carried out further checks in this case. However, I dont think I need to 
try and establish, in this case, whether a proportionate check wouldve led Morses to 
conclude these loans were unaffordable for Miss W.  
I say this because in addition to looking at the checks that Morses did Ive also looked at the 
overall pattern of Morses lending history with Miss W, with a view to seeing if there was a 
point at which Morses should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, 
or otherwise harmful. And so Morses should have realised that it shouldnt have provided 
any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Miss Ws case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan 4. I say this because:At this point Morses ought to have realised Miss W was not managing to repay her 
loans sustainably. Miss W was taking out her fourth loan within 18 months. So 
Morses ought to have realised it was more likely than not Miss W was having to 
borrow further to cover a long-term short fall in her living costs. 
Miss W was provided with a new loan each time on the day a previous loan was 
repaid, and some of the loans appear to have been used to repay the outstanding 
balance of the previous one. For example, it seems that some of loan 4 likely went 
towards repaying loan 3. To me, this is a sign that Miss W was using these loans to 
fill a long-term gap in her income rather than as a short-term need.  
When it comes to loan 4, Miss Ws weekly commitments only decreased because 
she had increased the repayment term to over a year. While the commitments did 
drop for loan 5, it again increased to close at the same level of loan 4 when loan 6 
was advanced. The total commitment for loan 6, was £30 per week which was more 
than twice the amount compared to the first loan in the lending relationship. However, 
the fact that these loans were lent consecutively and at times overlapped, ought to 
have led Morses to realise these loans werent sustainable anymore. 
Miss W wasnt making any real inroads into the amount she owed Morses. Loan 6 
was taken out 32 months after Miss Ws first loan and was to be repaid over a similar 
term. Her final loan was also twice the size of her first loan.  Miss W had paid large 
amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Morses over an extended period.
I think that Miss W lost out when Morses provided loans 4 - 6 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Ws indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of 
time
the number of loans and the length of time over which Miss W borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Miss Ws ability to access mainstream credit and 
so kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding Miss Ws complaint about loans 4 - 6. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had if it hadnt lent loans 4 - 6, as Im satisfied it ought not to have. Clearly 
there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Miss W may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, she may 
have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how she would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Miss W in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Miss W would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morsess liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.Morses shouldnt have provided Miss W with loans 4 - 6. 
A. Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss W towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything Morses has already refunded.
B. Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Miss W which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss W 
originally made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Morses should pay Miss W the total of A plus B.
D. The overall pattern of Miss Ws borrowing for loans 4 - 6 means any information 
recorded about it is adverse, so Morses should remove these loans entirely from 
Miss Ws credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Miss W a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Miss Ws complaint in part. 
Morses Club PLC should put things right for Miss W as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman