DRN-4260041
The complaint
Mr C has complained about the handling of a pension withdrawal by Scottish Widows 
Limited, trading as Halifax Financial Services (HFS).
What happened
The investigator who considered this matter set out the background to the complaint in his
assessment of the case. Im broadly setting out the same background below, with some
amendments for the purposes of this decision.
Mr C contacted HFS on 29 March 2022 to make a drawdown request of £31,000 from his
pension. He wanted to receive the payment before the end of the 2021/2022 tax year to
maximise income tax savings and HFS had confirmed that he should receive the payment
before the end of the tax year. However it only managed to make the payment on, or around, 
11 April 2022.
Mr C complained to HFS about this, saying that it hadnt treated him fairly and had delayed
the payment of his withdrawal. Mr C said that, as a result of the delay, hed received the
payment in the 2022/2023 tax year and would incur an unnecessary tax liability.
HFS issued three final response letters. The first letter of 21 April 2022 acknowledged that it
had caused a delay. It said that the payment should have been settled on 5 April 2022. It 
offered to pay interest of £10.87 for the delay. In terms of the inconvenience, it accepted that 
the service fell far short of the standard Mr C was entitled to expect and it offered £50 for the 
trouble and upset caused to him.
Regarding the tax liability issue, it stated that any potential future tax liability was dependent
upon several unknown factors. It also asked Mr C to provide evidence of the potential loss
incurred as a result of the delay.
On 6 May 2022, Mr C contacted HFS and said he hadnt received the final response letter or
the compensation it had suggested. HFS arranged to resend the final response letter and
confirmed the compensation payment of £60.87 was paid into Mr Cs preferred bank account
on 21 April 2022.
On 22 June 2022, Mr C wrote to HFS and expressed his dissatisfaction with the poor
service. He also maintained that he would incur a tax liability of around £6,200 arising from
the delay and provided his loss calculations to support that position. Mr C remained unhappy
with the delay and errors made by HFS and he wanted it to make up the financial loss he
said had stemmed from the delay in payment.
On 23 June 2022, HFS issued the second final response letter and said that it hadnt
changed its position on the matter. After reviewing the evidence Mr C had sent, it did
however explain that it wasnt always possible to reach a definitive verdict on some issues,
particularly when speculating about hypothetical future tax liability. It agreed to indemnify Mr
C for any tax for which he might become liable as a result of the delay.
Between late July 2022 and early September 2022, Mr C made several phone calls to HFS.
Much of the discussion between him and HFS centred around the responsibility for the tax
liability. Mr C remained sceptical of HFS reassurances. HFS treated Mr Cs concerns as a
new complaint.
On 7 September 2022, HFS issued the third final response letter and concluded it had
caused further inconvenience and offered £100 for the trouble and upset caused. It
reaffirmed its earlier position on the tax liability issue and explained that it wasnt reasonable
to expect it to compensate Mr C for a hypothetical loss  particularly one that may
materialise sometime in the future based on a large number of assumptions.
Mr C remained unhappy with this and referred the matter to this service.
During the course of the investigator considering the complaint, Mr C has said that he thinks
the evidence strongly suggested that his taxable income has changed significantly from one
year to the next, and it appeared to have a considerable impact on his annual tax bill by
making investment and other decisions with the liability in mind.
The investigator issued his assessment on 9 March 2023, in which he set out his rationale
for not upholding the complaint. He said the following in summary:
HFS had since confirmed that it clarified with HMRC that the units had been sold,
and that therefore payment had technically been made, in the 2021/22 tax year and
had issued a P60 attesting to this. And so HFS had taken appropriate corrective
action to resolve that particular issue.
There had been a delay in payment, but HFS had paid £10.87 in interest to reflect
this.
With regard to the customer service Mr C had experienced, complaint handling
wasnt a regulated activity, and so he couldnt consider that aspect.
In terms of the payment for the trouble and upset caused to Mr C by HFSs error,
HFS had agreed that it had made mistakes and that the level of service had been
poor. He agreed, but he considered that the £150 offer was fair in the circumstances.
Mr C disagreed, however, saying the following in summary:
Hed received the P60 confirming that the transaction took place in the 2021/22 tax
year, but he thought it would be interesting to know when HFS had decided this, as
this had been the essence of this complaint from the start. It would also be 
reassuring to have it confirmed by HFS that this was HMRCs understanding of the
situation also.
Hed already completed his tax return for the 2021/22 tax year and he presumed that
he couldnt resubmit on the basis of the new information from HFS. He also sought
confirmation that he could make a further withdrawal in the 2022/23 tax year without
the previous withdrawal being counted in the same tax year.
HFS had been inconsistent in the information it had provided him, and had from the
beginning maintained that the payment couldnt be backdated into the 2021/22 tax
year. It now appeared that it could, and that there would be no additional tax liability if
he made his withdrawal for the 2022/23 tax year as planned.But given the circumstances, the £150 offered by HFS in no way compensated him
for the inconvenience and stress that the matter had caused him. And he remained
unsure of whether he would face a penalty as a result of the incorrect tax return
hed submitted.
The investigator responded as follows:
He couldnt confirm as to when HFS had realised the error in its stance on the tax
year issue, but he was satisfied that it had now put that matter right.
HFS had confirmed that the transaction record had been amended to show it
occurring in the 2021/22 tax year. It had also said that Mr C would be able to update
his tax return, without penalty, and if it couldnt be done online, then Mr C could send
a letter to HMRC.
HFS had also said that Mr C would be able to withdraw in the 2022/23 tax year
without this being impacted by the previous payment from a tax perspective.
The investigator agreed that the matter would have been difficult and distressing for
Mr C, but he said that the awards made by this service in respect of distress and
inconvenience tended to be modest. He also took into account the steps which HFS
had taken to correct the matter. And so he remained of the view that the £150 offered
to Mr C by HFS was appropriate.
Mr C continued to disagree, however, saying the following:
HFS had told him from the beginning that the transaction couldnt be backdated to
the 2021/22 tax year  and this is what had prompted him to refer the complaint to
this service.
It was only in an email from the investigator on 9 March 2023 that he was advised
that the transaction had been recorded in the 2021/22 tax year. He still hadnt been
officially advised of this by HFS itself, other than by receipt of the P60.
There had been a further instance of poor customer service when trying to make his
most recent drawdown, when hed sought clarity as to the tax year in which this
would be included. His call to ascertain this had been disconnected and when he
received a follow up call some weeks later, he was told that the information hed
been given about the turnaround times for the payment were wrong  and HFS
apologised.
Mr C therefore considered that HFS was still demonstrating poor levels of customer
service and that if it only needed to pay him £150, then it would feel emboldened to
continue this behaviour with impunity.
The only way that the actions of financial institutions would change is if they were
aware that their actions had consequences, either in the form of compensation or a
fine from an organisation such as this service.
A phone call then occurred between the investigator and Mr C, in which the investigator
reiterated his points that HFS had taken appropriate action to correct matters, and Mr C
accepted that, although things could have been different, he would now suffer no financial
loss as a result.But in terms of the customers service and the trouble and upset caused to him, Mr C said
that hed paid around £3,000 in administration charges to HFS and that these should
therefore be refunded to him.
But the investigator said that this wouldnt be fair or proportionate, and also that HFS would
have incurred costs whilst administering Mr Cs policy.
Mr C said that, if hed sought the services of a financial adviser or tax adviser to resolve the
issue, he would have incurred costs, but the investigator said that, as no such costs had in
fact been incurred, he wouldnt be asking HFS to make a payment in that regard.
With regard to the recent events relating to Mr Cs drawdown, the investigator said he could
raise a new complaint, and if he remained dissatisfied with the response, he could refer to it
to this service.
He added that this service doesnt have the power to fine or punish businesses, and that if
Mr C was concerned about HFSs processes and procedures, he could refer this to the
regulator.
In a subsequent call, the investigator reiterated the same points, but also noted that HFS
had at all times said that it would be prepared to consider any tax liability incurred by Mr C
as a result of its error if he could provide evidence of that impact.
But Mr C considered that HFS should face further sanctions and, as agreement couldnt be
reached on the matter, it was referred to me for review.
I issued a provisional decision on the matter on 18 July 2023, in which I set out my reasons 
for partially upholding the complaint. The following is an extract from that decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Ive reached some of the same conclusions as the investigator and for
similar reasons  with one notable difference as set out below.
At the outset, Id reiterate the investigators comment relating to our purpose and remit,
which is to right financial wrongs. Were not responsible for imposing sanctions on
businesses, punishing them for errors, or imposing fines. Our role is to address what has
happened in the individual complaint and ensure that, as far as is possible, any error is
corrected.
In this instance, I agree with the investigator that HFS has now taken the appropriate steps
to correct the matter, and I can see that Mr C agrees that, now that HFS has confirmed the
transaction date within the 2021/22 tax year and that HMRC will accept both this and a
penalty-free amended tax return, there will now be no financial disadvantage to him as a
result of the initial error.
And so this then leaves the matter of the appropriate award to Mr C in respect of the poor
customer service he received, along with the trouble, stress and upset caused to him by
what happened. I can see that Mr C feels very strongly about this, and I understand both the
underlying sentiment and his specific concerns about what he considers to be HFSs
ongoing poor level of service.
As the investigator said, if Mr C has specific concerns about his more recent experience with
HFS, then this is something he may raise with it, and provide it with the opportunity torespond and, if it feels it appropriate, take corrective steps.
My consideration is therefore more focussed on the subject of this particular complaint, and I
agree that Mr C hasnt received the standard of service to which he should be entitled  as
does HFS.
But excluding  for the reasons set out above - any punitive award, I need to think carefully
about the type of award which would address the impact specifically on Mr C as a result of
the errors made here.
And having done so, I think Mr C has a point in terms of the fact that it was only once the
case had been referred to this service that HFS confirmed that it could amend the
transaction date to reflect the payment as having been made in the 2021/22 tax year.
Although I acknowledge that HFS said that it would consider any additional tax liability
caused to Mr C as a result of its inclusion in the following tax year, there was a prolonged
period of uncertainty here and the knock on effect of Mr C being uncertain as to what
payment he could or should take in the 2022/23 tax year.
And these arent minor inconveniences when an individual is reliant on pension income.
They can have a substantial impact on financial planning and an individuals enjoyment of
life in retirement. 
And so I think the payment in respect of the trouble and upset caused should be higher.
Taking into account the types of award which this service might make in similar situations of
prolonged uncertainty, and that it was necessary for the complaint to be referred to this
service before HFS confirmed that it could be resolved with HMRC, I think a payment of
£350 is probably about right.
HFS acknowledged my provisional decision, but had no additional comments to make.
Mr C also said he agreed and accepted the outcome, but he wished to clarify a technical 
point.
Mr C said that he didnt receive payment on 6 April 2022 (as I had set out in the what 
happened section of the provisional decision)  rather this was received on or around 11 
April 2022. He said that he didnt expect payment to be made any sooner, but did expect that 
the transaction would have taken place in the 2021/22 tax year.
Mr C said that he considered the whole issue in that instance  and indeed the more recent 
situation in March 2023  to be the lack of understanding on behalf of HFS between the 
transaction and payment date. 
Mr C added that hed always stressed to HFS that it hadnt been about when he received the 
funds, but when the transaction occurred for tax purposes.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr C for the correction to the date of payment in April 2022. Ive amended 
the what happened section above accordingly.
And I also acknowledge what Mr C has said about the fundamental issue here, and Im sure, or certainly hopeful, that this wont be lost on HFS. It would certainly be unfortunate if a 
similar situation has arisen in March 2023, but as previously set out, I havent considered 
that specific matter in this complaint. 
Mr C has indicated that hes happy to accept the proposed outcome, and as HFS hasnt 
made any further submissions, my view on the matter remains the same as that outlined in 
the provisional decision.
Putting things right
For the reasons given in the provisional decision, Scottish Widows Limited, trading as 
Halifax Financial Services, should pay to Mr C £350 in respect of the distress and 
inconvenience caused by this matter. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Scottish Widows Limited, trading as Halifax Financial Services, 
should pay Mr C £350.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman