DRN-2145294
The complaint
Mr P complains about changes Equitable Life Assurance Society made to the 
management of his unit linked life assurance policies. Mr P is unhappy that Equitable Life 
changed his allocation rate which meant it now invested 100% of the premiums Mr P paid 
for his policies into units instead of 105%. He says he wasnt told about the change, and 
that Equitable Life has acted outside the terms and conditions. Mr P also said hed lost out 
financially as a result of Equitable Lifes actions and hasnt been treated the same as other 
customers.
What happened
Mr P took out two unit linked life assurance policies with Equitable Life in 1987. From 1997, 
105% of the premiums Mr P paid were invested. On reviewing his May 2019 statement, Mr 
P discovered that only 100% of his premiums were now being invested. He complained to 
Equitable Life.
Equitable Life said it used to have a 5% bid/offer rate (the difference between the buying 
and selling price of the units) which was offset with an enhanced allocation rate of 105% of 
the premiums paid being invested. It explained that it has now moved to a single pricing 
system
 which means the corresponding allocation rate can be reduced to 100%. It said this 
was fairer for all its customers.
Equitable Life said its actuary has discretion on investing in funds, the management and 
alteration of such funds. It said the allocation rate is not a term of the contract it has with 
Mr P, and can be varied. Equitable Life explained to Mr P at length how the change 
came about, the reasons for it, and the impact it had on his policies. And how hed not 
lost out financially because of the change. Equitable Life also said it had sent Mr P 
letters in 2015 about the changes. But because the changes had a cost neutral effect, 
there was no requirement for Mr P to be notified. Equitable Life did however point out 
that its website and annual statements had been updated to reflect the changes.
One of our investigators considered Mr Ps complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. 
He didnt believe Equitable Life had treated Mr P unfairly or that hed suffered a financial 
loss.
Our investigator also concluded that letters sent to all customers from Equitable Life in 
2015 had alerted Mr P to the change.
Mr P didnt accept what our investigator said and both he, and Equitable Life, have asked 
for an Ombudsmans review to resolve matters.
Mr P says his central issue is that Equitable Life doesnt have authority, under the terms 
and conditions, to reduce the amount of his premiums that is invested from 105% to 100%. 
And because of this, hes been treated unfairly and suffered a loss.
Mr P said while the terms and conditions allow for the removal of the bid/offer rate, they 
dont specifically refer to the actuaries having discretion over the percentage of the 
premiums invested. And he said its stated in the terms and conditions that the percentage 
is set at 105%. So, Mr P maintained Equitable Life hadnt acted in accordance with the 
terms and conditions and that as a result, hes suffered a financial loss now, and in the 
future, because his policy has fewer units.
Mr P also felt hed been treated unfairly in respect of other customers. He said other 
customers who had 100% of premiums invested before the change wouldnt have bought 
fewer units after the change as he has  and so hes been treated differently. Mr P wanted 
to know if a 5% reduction in allocation had been applied to all investors and to see evidence 
of this, and that all investors were told of the change. Mr P also questioned information from 
Equitable Lifes actuary. He said the actuary had said the change was made to put other 
policy holders in the same position as him. Mr P said this shows other policy holders gained 
from the change, but he didnt.
Mr P also questioned our investigators findings that Equitable Life had told all investors 
about the changes in letters sent in 2015. He said these letters were nothing to do with 
his specific situation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely 
the same reasons. I know Mr P feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as 
a disappointment to him, so Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
the central issue. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it 
on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what 
I think is the right outcome.
Its clear from what Ive read on file that Mr P strongly disagrees with the actions Equitable 
Life took, and hes questioned the rationale for those actions and maintains hes been 
treated unfairly. But such strength of feeling and disagreement is not, in itself, evidence 
that Equitable Life has done anything wrong. Mr Ps questioned much of what Equitable 
Life has told him, and us, throughout the course of his complaint and wants specific 
answers to the points he raised. But if I think the explanations already provided by 
Equitable Life are reasonable, despite Mr Ps disagreement, then I wont be asking it to do 
any more. If Mr P wants to find out more about the calculations made by Equitable Life on 
his own policies, then he would be best directing those questions to Equitable Life or 
seeking his own financial advice.
Mr P has also raised several concerns around the fairness of his case compared to other 
Equitable Life customers. I should explain that we look at each case on its own individual 
merits. It wouldnt be possible, or indeed practical, to compare how Equitable Lifes actions 
impacted other customers  and then use that as a basis to decide if Mr P has been 
treated fairly. Other customers couldve taken their policies out at different times to Mr P, 
and have different terms and conditions. My focus is only on whether Mr P has been 
treated fairly.
I should also add that as an informal dispute resolution service, we look at whether actions 
taken by a business are reasonable, and whether a customer has been treated fairly. This 
is our overriding consideration  and whilst well consider the contractual arrangements in 
place between the parties, well always apply the fair and reasonable test when looking at the impact a business actions have had on an individual.
Change in allocation rate
Equitable Life has explained to Mr P that section 6(f) of the policy terms and conditions:
enables the Actuary to make reasonable amendments to any liability, charge or 
cost (this will include the allocation rate) connected with the Fund which is 
considered by the Actuary necessary to preserve equality between policies which 
may be linked to the Fund.
Equitable Life has added that:
the allocation rate is not a term of the contract and can be varied at our discretion.
Mr P on the other hand doesnt believe the terms and conditions explicitly allow for 
changes to be made to the allocation rate. And so, whilst he accepts Equitable life can 
change the pricing system, he doesnt believe it has authority to change his allocation rate, 
which he believes forms part of his contractual agreement with Equitable Life.
Ive considered carefully what both parties have said about the terms and conditions. And I 
can appreciate Mr Ps point that they dont explicitly say the allocation rate can be changed 
and that section 5 refers to the 5% uplift being applied. I can see theres also reference to 
an allocation rate of 105% in paperwork specific to Mr Ps policies.
But I do believe Section 6 of the terms and conditions allow for changes to be made to the 
fund  at the discretion of the actuary. And in Mr Ps case, this has meant a resulting 
change to his allocation rate, so he gets the same return on his investment as he did before 
the changes.
The change to a single pricing system reflects industry practice and was a business 
decision taken by Equitable Life. Mr P accepts this decision. But he feels hes lost out 
because he no longer has 105% of his premiums invested in units. Im persuaded that all 
the evidence provided by Equitable Life demonstrates that the changes it made havent had 
a detrimental impact on Mr P. In summary, Im satisfied that the reduction in his allocation 
rate is offset by the removal of the bid/offer rate.
Mr P has said there is a loss now, and in the future, because less of his premiums are 
being invested. Im afraid I dont agree. Less of Mr Ps premiums are being invested, but 
the unit price has reduced because of the single pricing system. So, regardless of the 
change to the allocation rate, Mr P is still getting the return on investment he expected 
when he signed up for the policies and isnt in a worse position. I appreciate that Mr P 
would like to benefit from the improvement in his bid/offer price, without losing on the 
allocation rate. But I dont think it would be fair to oblige Equitable Life to offer this.
Notification of change
Mr P is also concerned about how Equitable Life told him about the changes. Ive looked 
at the letters sent to Mr P in 2015. The letter sent in October 2015 wasnt specifically 
about Mr Ps policy  but was to keep him informed about a transfer of business. I note 
that this letter also included a leaflet that covered unit linked policies like Mr Ps, and did explain that a review was taking place. A further letter in December 2015 talked about the 
outcome of that review. And information was available on Equitable Lifes website.
But Equitable Life didnt specifically tell Mr P that his allocation rate was changing. I can 
understand his frustration here, and I do think it wouldve been helpful to have notified him 
of the allocation rate change, even though there was no material change in Mr Ps return.
Whilst having knowledge of the change before he received his annual statement mightve 
allowed Mr P to ask questions about the process sooner, I think the impact on him has 
been minimal. So, I wont be asking Equitable Life to take any action here.
I know this issue means a lot to Mr P and I want to assure him that Ive taken his concerns 
seriously within the parameters of my remit. Ultimately whilst the way Mr Ps policies are 
managed has changed, hes not been disadvantaged or treated unfairly. Equitable Life 
couldve provided Mr P with notification of the allocation rate change sooner  but its since 
provided Mr P with what I consider to be clear and detailed explanations for the changes 
and how theyve impacted him. Mr P might not agree with those explanations, but Im 
satisfied from what Ive seen that Equitable Life hasnt treated him unfairly.
So, taking everything into account, I dont believe Equitable Life has acted unreasonably 
or that Mr P has been treated unfairly. And so, I wont be asking it to take any action here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
Anna Jackson
 
Ombudsman