DRN-2006212
The complaint
Mr T complained that he was mis-sold a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy by Barclays Bank UK plc, trading as Barclaycard (Barclays).
What happened
Mr T bought the policy in March 1995 when he took out a credit card. Mr T and Barclays 
agreed that the sale took place in a meeting. Barclays said it advised Mr T to take the PPI. 
Mr T raised a number of complaint points, but in summary he said he didnt understand what 
PPI was, and indeed wasnt aware he had it. He also said he didnt need PPI as he had 
good employee benefits. 
The policy cost 70p for each £100 Mr T owed on his credit card. If hed successfully claimed 
on the policy, each month it wouldve paid out 10% of what he owed on the card when he 
stopped working. This wouldve carried on for up to 12 months per claim,
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr T disagreed so his complaint 
has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ts case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
Barclays sent us a copy of Mr Ts credit card application, along with a copy of its computer 
records of Mr Ts account. I can see from these account records that the PPI was cancelled 
in January 1997, less than two years after he took it out, although the credit card continued 
until 2007. 
Mr T said he was pushed into taking out the card and didnt know what he was signing for in 
respect of the PPI. I accept that, as the credit card and PPI were taken out in a meeting in a 
branch of Barclays, I cant know what was discussed. But looking at the credit card 
application, it shows a tick in a box to say that Mr T wanted PPI  and there was a separate 
box that he couldve ticked to say that he didnt want it. I think its likely that Mr T wouldve 
looked over the form - even if only briefly -before he signed it, so overall, I think its more 
likely than not that Mr T was aware of the PPI and had a choice about whether to take it  
and decided to do so. I think he probably just doesnt remember doing so as it was so long 
ago  the sale was just over 25 years ago.
Barclays said it advised Mr T to take out the PPI, so it shouldve made sure it was suitable 
for him. On balance I think it was.
As Ive said, as the sale took place in a meeting, I cant know how the adviser explained the 
PPI, in particular the things not covered. But Mr T said he was in good health at the time of 
the sale and I cant see anything else about his circumstances to suggest he wouldve been 
affected by any of the main limitations or exclusions that are likely to have applied to the 
cover.
Otherwise, Mr T told us that, when he took out the policy, he wouldve been entitled to full 
sick pay and redundancy pay from his employer, but its not clear how long this wouldve 
lasted, and from the information we have I dont think Mr T was entirely certain about the 
situation in 1995. I can see that Mr T said he was off work for several months after a sports 
injury, and he was given full sick pay throughout. But he didnt say when this took place, or 
how long hed been working for his employer at that point (although as he said he was in 
good health at the time of the sale, I take it that it was at some time after that).
At the time of the sale, the credit card application shows that Mr T had been working for his 
employer for just over a year. The PPI policy couldve paid out for up to 12 months for 
accident, sickness or unemployment, and it seems unlikely that after a short period of 
service an employers sick pay  or redundancy pay  wouldve lasted that long. And of 
course, any pay-out from the PPI policy wouldve been in addition to Mr Ts employee 
benefits. So taking all this into account, I dont think I can fairly say that the PPI was an 
unsuitable recommendation  I think it couldve been of benefit to Mr T. 
Ive also considered the information that Barclays mightve given Mr T. As Ive said, I cant 
know how the adviser explained the policy, or when Mr T mightve been given a policy 
summary or full policy document. So its possible the information about the cost and benefits 
may not have been as clear as it shouldve been. However, although I cant say that 
Barclays fully explained the policy, Im not satisfied that Mr T would have acted differently  
and not taken out the PPI  if it had. It could have provided useful protection for him if he 
was unable to work. 
I understand Mr T feels very strongly about this, but from the evidence I have, I dont think 
the PPI was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2020. 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman