DRN-4033902
The complaint
Mrs H complains that she was given misleading information about her pension by Phoenix 
Life Limited. 
What happened
Mrs H has a section 32 plan with Phoenix Life, which provides a Guaranteed Minimum 
Pension (GMP). 
 
In 2021, Phoenix Life wrote to Mrs H and her independent financial adviser (IFA) about her 
options as she approached retirement. Mrs H and her IFA understood from Phoenix Lifes 
correspondence that Mrs H would be able to transfer her pension to another provider if she 
wished.
 
Phoenix Life then sent Mrs H her retirement pack in September 2021. This confirmed that 
the only options available were for Mrs H to take the pension as income, or to defer taking it. 
Mrs H complained to Phoenix Life as she thought it had previously led her to believe she 
could transfer her pension elsewhere. 
Phoenix Life accepted that one of its letters had included a sentence that was misleading. It 
apologised for this and offered Mrs H £150 compensation, plus £50 compensation for the 
delay in responding to her complaint. Unhappy with this, Mrs H brought her complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigator agreed that one of Phoenix Lifes letters had been misleading, but thought 
the compensation offered by Phoenix Life was reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mrs H didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Phoenix Life offered Mrs H £50 compensation for the delay in responding to her 
complaint, Mrs H hasnt complained about this. Therefore, this decision focuses on whether 
Phoenix Life misled Mrs H about whether she could transfer her pension.
In 2016, Mrs Hs IFA requested the transfer value of her pension. Phoenix Life confirmed 
this, but said that transfer to a money purchase scheme was not permitted as the estimated 
cost of providing the GMP was greater than the transfer value. 
On 15 May 2021, Phoenix Life wrote to Mrs H in advance of her retirement date. It said her 
retirement options can include theoptions listed, one of which was transferring pension 
benefits to another provider. I think its clear this was a generic letter, and so wouldnt have 
led Mrs H to think she could definitely transfer her pension elsewhere.
In June 2021, Phoenix Life wrote to Mrs Hs IFA and that letter included a current transfer 
value, though it said this was not guaranteed. I think this letter could have been clearer that 
a transfer to another scheme was not permitted, but it didnt say that Mrs H could transfer 
her pension elsewhere. 
Then on 7 September 2021, Phoenix Life again wrote to Mrs Hs IFA. This letter again gave 
a transfer value (again, not guaranteed). Phoenix Life confirmed a retirement pack would be 
issued to Mrs H around 10 weeks before her normal retirement date, and would state what 
was required to actively defer the retirement benefits. The letter then said, in active 
deferment benefits can still be transferred out if applicable. This does suggest that Mrs H 
could transfer her pension elsewhere if she deferred taking her pension. 
However, a few weeks later (on 23 September 2021), Phoenix Life sent Mrs H a letter 
specific to her pension. This explained her two options were to take the pension as income, 
or defer taking it.
Therefore, although I agree that Phoenix Lifes correspondence of 7 September 2021 was 
misleading, soon after this Mrs H was made aware of the options available to her (which 
didnt include transferring her pension). 
Mrs H accepts she has not been financially affected by the matter, but says she has suffered 
extreme mental and emotional distress as her hopes of transferring her pension were 
destroyed. She wants Phoenix Life to allow her to transfer her pension to another provider. 
Phoenix Life has confirmed that it cannot transfer Mrs Hs pension to another provider. 
Thats because the value of her pension is below the amount needed to fund the GMP, and 
Phoenix Life is legally required to make up the shortfall (another provider would not be 
required to do so). Therefore, the pension needs to remain with Phoenix Life.
Whilst I appreciate Mrs H was disappointed to learn she could not transfer her pension to 
another provider, Im satisfied that Phoenix Lifes offer of compensation was reasonable in 
the circumstances. This takes into account that Phoenix Life provided clarity to Mrs H about 
her actual options around two weeks after its misleading letter of 7 September 2021. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Phoenix Life Limited has offered appropriate compensation to settle 
the complaint. If it hasnt already done so, Phoenix Life Limited should pay Mrs H the 
compensation offered.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman