DRN-4171318
The complaint
Miss G is unhappy Revolut Ltd wont refund money she lost as a result of a scam.
What happened
Miss G came across an advert on a popular social media platform. It suggested she could 
make money by trading cryptocurrency. She left her contact details and was contacted by 
someone claiming to represent an investment company.
She made a series of payments from her account at another financial business (that Ill call 
W) and Revolut to various payees, which she believed were connected to the investment 
platform. 
The payments from Revolut took place after those from W and totalled £8,600. All of the 
payments went to other Revolut users, none of which were obviously connected to 
cryptocurrency. 
It appears that by 28 October 2022, when the payments from Revolut began, Miss G 
believed her investment had increased in value significantly but that shed need to pay 10% 
of the value of her investment in order to withdraw the profits. She made five payments all to 
different payees between 10am and 11am on 28 October 2022.
It appears that after she made these payments, the fraudster claimed not to have received 
her money and then requested more. Following this Miss G realised shed been the victim of 
a scam.
Miss G initially contacted Revolut but does not appear to have pursued the matter with it 
directly. She then complained to Revolut through a third party. 
It said that it hadnt been provided with enough information about what had happened in 
order to consider her claim but didnt think it was responsible for her loss.
Miss G referred her complaint to our service and one of our Investigators upheld it in part. 
They thought that Revolut ought to have considered the pattern of activity on Miss Gs 
account to be unusual and suspicious. They thought that Revolut should have questioned 
the third payment which debited Miss Gs account and, had it done so, the scam would have 
come to light and the loss would have been prevented. However, they also thought that Miss 
G should bear some responsibility for what happened. So, they recommended that Revolut 
pay Miss G 50% of payments three, four and five. 
Revolut accepted our Investigators recommendation, but Miss G did not. In summary, her 
representatives argued:
- There were a number of very sophisticated aspects to the scam  including the 
provision of a trading platform on which live markets could be viewed, the 
involvement of numerous different people and the fraudsters communication with 
Miss G in her native language. 
- Although they accepted the Investigators arguments that the returns Miss G were 
promised were high, they pointed to her inexperience and the asymmetry of 
knowledge between her and Revolut and argued that a 50% deduction was simply 
too high.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point in law is that Miss G is responsible for payments shes carried out. Theres 
no dispute about that here. But, taking into account regulators rules and guidance, relevant 
codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, 
Revolut ought, fairly and reasonably, to be on the lookout for out of character and unusual 
transactions that might indicate that its customer was at risk of financial harm from fraud. 
Revolut have made an offer to settle this complaint. For reasons Ill explain, I think that offer 
is fair in the circumstances and I dont intend to revisit whether it should have intervened at 
all or whether such an intervention would have made a difference and prevented Miss Gs 
further loss. Theres now no dispute about that. 
I have briefly considered whether the suggested point of intervention is fair. I think it is, as by 
that point Miss G was attempting a third payment to a third different payee in under ten 
minutes. I think that fairly and reasonably ought to have caused significant concern. So, the 
only issue for me to decide is whether the suggested deduction is a fair one. 
I acknowledge what Miss Gs representatives have said about her level of knowledge and 
the techniques employed by the fraudsters. I accept that, to the layman, much of what Miss 
G saw and was told would have appeared convincing.
Nevertheless, I think Miss G ought to have been significantly more concerned about two 
features of the scam. As the Investigator noted, the returns were very high (double digit 
increases in just a matter of days) and appeared to be promised in advance. I think a 
reasonable person would understand that any type of trading would not be able to produce 
guaranteed results (even if the trading had been successful up to that point). 
Secondly, by the time Miss G came to make these payments, she was paying a fee in order 
to release her money. According to Miss Gs representatives, these sums were to be paid to 
the investment company. I dont think this explanation was particularly persuasive and I think 
that Miss G ought to have thought more carefully or taken advice before making these 
payments. 
Finally Ive thought about whether Revolut should have attempted to recover Miss Gs 
money. While I can see that the payments went to other Revolut customers, Revolut say 
they were customers based in another country and customers of a different Revolut entity 
(one that does not fall under our jurisdiction). Revolut has told our service that it didnt have 
any concerns about those accounts prior to the payments being made and, even if any of 
Miss Gs money did remain in those accounts, its European entity would not be able to 
return it without being instructed to do so by the relevant authority in that jurisdiction. I only 
have power over Revolut Ltd, not its European entity and I cannot compel the latter to 
provide information or return funds. And, in any case, given there was a reasonably 
significant gap between the payments and the matter being reported, the chances of any 
funds remaining in the recipient accounts would be very low.Overall, for the reasons Ive explained, I think a fair deduction from the amount Revolut 
refund is 50%. I also think that Revolut should pay 8% simple interest per annum on the 
amount it refunds, from the date of the payments to the date of settlement. 
My final decision
I uphold in part this complaint about Revolut Ltd and instruct it to pay Miss G:
- 50% of payments three, four and five - £2,655
- 8% simple interest per annum on that amount from the date of the payments to the 
date of settlement, less any tax lawfully deductible 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman