DRN-4222622
The complaint
Mr H complains about the settlement that Advantage Insurance Company Limited offered 
him for the total loss of his van following a claim made on his commercial motor insurance 
policy. 
What happened
Mr Hs van was damaged in an accident, and he made a claim on his policy. Advantage 
offered him £3,552, less the policy excess, in settlement of his claim. But Mr H was unhappy 
with this. He thought he couldnt replace his van for this amount. Advantage paid Mr H £500 
compensation for disposing of his van when he had wanted to retain it. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought 
Advantages compensation for its error was fair and reasonable. And he thought Advantage 
had reasonably reimbursed Mr H for the loss of his private number plate. But he thought 
Advantage hadnt shown that it had assessed the vans market value from the motor trade 
guides we use. He checked the motor trade guides and he thought Advantages offer was 
unfair as it was too low. 
He thought it should increase its valuation to £3,837 and add interest to the £285 difference. 
He thought Advantage had unfairly deducted £50 for the absence of an audio system. Mr H 
said he had lost earnings because of the loss of his van. But the Investigator didnt think 
Advantage was responsible for this uninsured loss. And he thought Advantage had 
reasonably offered to consider the loss of Mr Hs personal possessions if he provided 
evidence for these. 
Mr H replied that the settlement wouldnt be enough to buy a replacement van. Advantage 
didnt reply to the Investigators view, so the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr H wants a fair settlement for the loss of his van. He said he didnt 
receive enough from Advantage to replace his van, and so he was disappointed with 
Advantages offer. 
Mr Hs policy provides for the vans market value in the case of its total loss. I can see that 
the Insurance Policy Information Document (IPID) explains that Mr H is covered for the loss 
of his van up to its market value. This is defined in the policy booklet as:
The cost of replacing your Van in the United Kingdom at the time the loss or damage 
occurred with one of the same make, model, age and condition. This may not necessarily be 
the value you when the insurance was taken out. Your Insurer may use publications such as 
Glass's Guide to assess the Market Value and will make any necessary allowances for the 
mileage and condition of your Van and the circumstances in which you bought it.
And so Advantage isnt obliged to replace Mr Hs van or pay him what he paid for it. The 
Investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Our Investigator thought Advantages settlement offer wasnt fair and reasonable. So Ive 
checked how he came to this conclusion. Advantage said it had found a valuation for the van 
in one of the trade guides we use. But it didnt provide sufficient information for us to validate 
this. So the Investigator looked in the motor trade guides we use for vans of the same make, 
model, age, mileage and condition as Mr Hs van at the date of its loss. 
In keeping with our approach he took an average of the three valuations he found. The 
average of the valuations he found was £3,837. Advantages valuation was £3,552. And so I 
agree that Advantages offer wasnt fair and reasonable. And I think it should increase this by 
£285. And, as Mr H has been without his money for some time, I think it should reasonably 
add interest to this amount. 
Mr H had made it clear that he wanted to retain his van. But Advantage mistakenly allowed it 
to be sold. It paid Mr H £500 compensation for the impact of this error. I can see that the 
vans estimated repair costs were much higher than its value. And so I think it would have 
been difficult for Mr H to repair the van to a roadworthy standard for his settlement less the 
deduction for the retention of its salvage. So Im satisfied that Advantages compensation 
was fair and reasonable in restoring Mr Hs position and for the impact of its error. 
Advantage had deducted £50 from the vans value due to the absence of an audio system. 
But it hasnt provided evidence to support this. And, in any case, I agree with the Investigator 
that this would make little difference to the valuation of a van of this age. And so I think this 
deduction was unfair. 
Advantage compensated Mr H for the loss of his private plate, and so hes been reimbursed 
for this loss. And its offered to consider evidence to support the loss of Mr Hs personal 
possessions. I note that Mr H said these werent of great value, but of sentimental value. Its 
unfortunate that these were lost. But I think Advantages offer was fair and reasonable. 
Mr H said hed lost work due to the loss of his van. But I can see that his policy doesnt 
provide cover for loss of work. This is an uninsured loss. Mr H doesnt have legal cover on 
his policy. So he would need to approach the other drivers insurer to recover these costs or 
seek legal advice.
Putting things right
I require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr H £285 further in settlement of 
his claim. Advantage should add interest to this amount at the rate of 8% simple per annum 
from the date of its initial settlement to the date of payment.
If Advantage considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should also give Mr H a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman