DRN-3998277
The complaint
K, a limited company complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) unfairly refuses to 
refund money after agreeing that it would. 
Mr S, who is a director of K, brings the complaint on Ks behalf.
What happened
In early 2022, Mr S wanted to book a business flight using Ks debit card. The payment 
attempts were declined several times. Mr S says that when hed had a similar problem in 
2021, he received security text messages but this time, he didnt receive any messages.
Mr S contacted Barclays who said the issue had been resolved. Mr S continued to search 
the best flight price but another transaction was declined. Mr S says that when he spoke to 
Barclays the price had gone up further but Barclays said it would refund the difference 
between the more expensive price and the original price.
Mr S later noticed that Barclays had credited Ks account with £50 and then a further £100. 
Mr S was unhappy with the way Barclays handled Ks complaint and wanted it to pay the 
entire ticket price. Mr S wanted Barclays to listen to the call recordings to establish what he 
was promised when he rang.
Barclays explained that the transactions were picked up by the Verified by Visa (VBV) fraud 
prevention system and that the terms of Ks account allowed Barclays to decline an 
instruction if it had reason to believe that funds were being obtained through deception.
Barclays agreed that it had given Mr S the wrong advice about paying K the difference in 
flight price and paid a total of £150 to apologise. 
The investigator thought that Barclays had already done enough to put things right for K. 
Mr S disagrees with the investigation outcome. He says hed had similar problems with the 
debit card back in November 2021. And that despite Barclays telling him things would be 
alright, they werent. Mr S says Barclays confirmed to him  after putting him hold - that it 
would make up the difference in price. And that he proceeded based on Barclays 
reassurance.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so in my words. The rules that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean 
Ive not considered everything that the parties have given to me. 
Barclays has provided systems evidence that shows the payment attempts that Mr S tried to 
make were stopped because they were identified by the VBV system. Whilst I understand  
Mr S was trying make legitimate payments, Im satisfied that Barclays is entitled to apply 
authentication methods. 
My understanding is that while Barclays doesnt have control of the VBV system, it can 
approve a blocked payment once the customer gets in touch. It looks as though after 
Barclays unblocked a payment; Mr S tried to make the purchase using the same card but 
with another provider. This payment was also declined before Mr S ended up paying even 
more to another provider. 
Barclays accepts that it told Mr S that it would look to refund the difference in price. As this is 
agreed, I dont consider it necessary to listen to the calls between Mr S and Barclays. 
Instead, Ive thought about whether Barclays should be made to honour the incorrect advice 
and refund the difference in price. If I dont think Barclays must pay the difference, Ive 
thought about whether Barclays has already done enough to put things right.
Barclays made the offer to K before it had investigated. Once Barclays investigated, it found 
the problem with the declined transactions lay with VBV, not Barclays own system. If 
Barclays had realised this at the time, it seems likely it wouldnt have offered to make up the 
price difference as originally discussed. I appreciate Mr S says he proceeded to buy the 
more expensive flight on Barclays reassurance but it seems to me that the flight was a 
business expense that K wouldve incurred regardless of Barclays reassurance.
As I dont find that Barclays incorrectly blocked payments from Ks account, I dont consider 
it was responsible for the increased flight costs. It follows that I dont think its reasonable to 
require Barclays to make up the difference as originally discussed. 
As K and not Mr S is the complainant, I cant make an award to reflect any distress or 
frustration that Mr S may have felt after Barclays didnt refund as much as hed expected. 
Like the investigator I agree that £150 fairly represents Ks loss of expectation when 
Barclays backtracked.
Mr S is generally unhappy with how Barclays has handled Ks complaint. However, the FCA 
Handbook limits the types of complaint that this service can consider to those: 
...about the provision of, or failure to provide, a financial service.... 
While I can appreciate that Mr S is unhappy about how Barclays has handled Ks complaint, 
the handling of complains isnt a financial service. This means I havent considered this 
aspect of Ks complaint
Barclays has already paid K a total of £150 to apologise for the misinformation it gave to    
Mr S. As I dont find Barclays was responsible for the payments being blocked, I dont 
require it to do more than it already has.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint in the sense that Barclays has already 
done enough to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman