DRN-2523265
The complaint
Mr Ss complaint arises from a claim made under his home emergency insurance cover with 
Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA). IPA uses agents to deal with claims on its behalf, so any 
reference to IPA should be read as including those agents.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in December 2020, part of which is copied 
below: 
In March 2019, Mr S made a claim under his policy as his boiler was not working. IPA sent 
one of its contractors out to repair the boiler. The contractor needed to access the loft and 
while climbing the loft ladder, he dropped an aerosol can which dented and marked the 
wooden bannister rail. 
IPA accepts that its contractor damaged the bannister and agreed to put that right. However, 
the parties cannot agree on how that should be done.
Mr S says the rail is solid oak and had only been fitted a year earlier. He says he was told by 
his joiner that the only way of restoring the rail fully would be to replace it (which would cost 
£1,314.60). Otherwise the dent could be sanded down, as it is small mark and not deep; or it 
could be filled with a filling product. However, his joiner could not guarantee an exact colour 
match and he also said that sanding would apparently leave a 2mm difference in depth. 
Neither of the second two options are acceptable to Mr S and he wants IPA to pay to replace 
the bannister. 
Mr S is also unhappy that his calls were not always returned and the way he has been 
treated. Mr S also obtained copies of call recordings on his file and is extremely upset that in 
discussions between IPA and the agent, it said  Mr S was trying to get a cash settlement 
and essentially swindle IPA. He is disgusted that the agents would talk about him in this 
way.
IPA does not agree that the bannister needs to be replaced. It says its expert repairer has 
said the filler would be unnoticeable and would be a satisfactory colour match. IPA also 
accepted that there was some delay in communications with Mr S and offered £150 
compensation for the trouble caused. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter. She did not consider there was enough 
evidence that the bannister needed to be replaced. The investigator thought IPA should 
have the opportunity to repair the dent but that, given the possibility of the colour not 
matching, it should also pay for an independent assessment of the repair (after its 
completed) and if it is not deemed satisfactory, IPA should pay to replace the bannister. 
The investigator also recommended that the compensation paid to Mr S be increased to 
£250 because of the way Mr S was spoken about in the telephone conversations and the 
delays. 
Mr S says even if the damage was no longer visible, he would know that his solid oak 
bannister was in fact part plastic filler. IPA promised to put him back in the position he was 
before this happened, and that will not be done by using non-oak on an oak bannister. He 
also says his joiner told him the colour would not be an exact match and IPAs expert hasnt 
seen the damage. Mr S also says IPA deliberately delayed and the way he was spoken 
about in the telephone calls shows the agents personal opinion about him influenced how 
IPA dealt with his claim. However, having said this, Mr S has reluctantly accepted the 
investigators assessment. 
IPA does not accept the investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to me. 
IPA does not agree that any further inspection should be required, or that it should have to 
pay for the replacement of the bannister. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
IPAs contractor caused damage to Mr Ss bannister and so it is responsible for putting that 
right. IPA has a responsibility to restore the bannister but the lengths it is required to go to in 
order to do so, have to be reasonable. From a photograph provided to us, the dent is small; 
it looks no larger than a small coin. There is evidence that there are two options for repair 
(filling and/or sanding). 
IPA says its expert has said the filler would be the most likely successful repair option and 
would mean the damage could not be seen or felt. They also said that sanding would be an 
option but it would have to inspect the damage first to determine if this was going to be as 
successful. Mr Ss joiner apparently said sanding could be done but would leave a 2 mm 
difference in depth. While I can understand Mr Ss position, this might be an acceptable 
repair, if it can be done so that the graduation is unnoticeable. Given this, I am not 
persuaded that IPA should replace the bannister. 
Mr S may know that a section has been filled but if this is not visible or detectable, then it 
would be a satisfactory repair. Mr S is concerned, as the expert has not seen the damage 
and may not have even seen a photograph. I do not consider this means the repair is not 
possible, or that it should not be attempted. 
The investigator said that IPA should be allowed the opportunity to do such a repair but 
should also pay for an independent expert to assess the repair, and if deemed  
unsatisfactory, it should then replace the bannister. I do not consider that this is reasonable. 
I do not consider that it should have to pay for another expert to assess the repair, unless a 
problem with the repair has been identified. It seems to me the repair should be done and if 
Mr S is not satisfied with it, he can provide evidence about that afterwards. If necessary, this 
might lead to an independent inspection of the repair at that stage. And if it is independently 
considered that the repair is not of an acceptable standard, then IPA would be responsible 
for the cost of any such inspection. But I cannot reasonably require IPA to incur the cost of 
such an inspection, unless and until Mr S has good reason to be dissatisfied with the repair. 
My provisional decision
I uphold this complaint against Inter Partner Assistance SA in part and require it to carry out 
a repair of the bannister (by filling or sanding, whichever is deemed most suitable by the repairer in consultation with Mr S); and pay £250 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by this matter.
Responses to my provisional decision 
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further information or 
arguments they want considered. 
IPA has confirmed receipt of my provisional decision and has not added anything further. 
Mr S does not accept my provisional decision. Mr S says he still thinks his contractor is 
correct and has proposed the best option (i.e. replacing the bannister). He has seen the 
damage in person and not just seen a photograph. 
Mr S says he doesnt understand how IPAs repairer can provide a different opinion from his 
expert who has actually seen the damage. Mr S is reluctant to allow IPAs repairer to do any 
work on his bannister and has asked if based on this he can be compensated instead. He 
says the entire system is awful. Its caused me so much distress over the last year if it 
hasnt already been tough enough. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at everything again, including Mr Ss response to my provisional decision, I 
see no reason to change my provisional decision. Mr S has not made any new arguments. 
He remains of the opinion that his repairers opinion should be preferred as he has seen the 
damage in person. IPAs repairer has so far only seen a photograph but they are also 
experienced in carrying out repairs such as this. I am still not persuaded that it is reasonable 
to require IPA to pay for a replacement bannister, when two options to repair it are 
apparently possible. 
I remain of the opinion that IPAs repair should be allowed to try to repair the damage (either 
by filling or sanding it) and if there is good reason for Mr S to be dissatisfied with the 
outcome, it can be assessed independently afterwards. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Inter Partner Assistance SA in part and require it to carry out 
a repair of the bannister (by filling or sanding, whichever is deemed most suitable by the repairer in consultation with Mr S); and pay £250 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by this matter. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman