DRN-3492017
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr L complain Nationwide mis-mismanaged their loan account and negatively 
affected their credit files. 
What happened
The facts of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I will only provide a summary of 
the key points. Whist the loan was held jointly between Mrs B and Mr L, I will mainly refer to 
Mr L as he is leading the complaint.
Mrs B and Mr L held a joint loan with Nationwide. Between May and July 2020 Nationwide 
granted Mrs B and Mr L a payment holiday on the loan due to the Covid pandemic. The 
holiday was extended to October 2020. Nationwide contacted Mr L about re-writing the loan 
in October, November and December 2020. 
In December 2020 a payment was made towards the loan, but due to an error Nationwide 
defaulted the loan and passed it over to a debt collection agency. Nationwide accepted it 
was at fault here and it has paid £100 in compensation to Mrs B and Mr L in recognition of 
the upset and inconvenience caused. Nationwide also explained it would recall the loan and 
make the necessary amendments to Mrs B and Mr Ls credit files. 
Mr L remained unhappy with Nationwides response as he says Nationwide hadnt properly 
amended the credit files or treated him fairly when rewriting the loan. Nationwide responded 
to Mr Ls further concerns in February and March 2021, but Mr L remained unhappy and 
referred the complaint to our service. 
An investigator reviewed the complaint. They acknowledged that the account had been 
defaulted and passed to a debt collection agency incorrectly. But they thought Nationwide 
had taken the necessary action after this incident to put things right. And that the 
compensation paid by Nationwide was fair. So, they didnt think Nationwide needed to take 
any further action. 
Dissatisfied with the investigators review, Mr L asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres a great deal of correspondence on this complaint and many complaint points have 
been raised. If I dont comment on every point Mr L has made its not because Ive ignored it 
- Ive considered all he has told us and provided to us, as I have with Nationwides 
submissions. I will focus on issues which are relevant for me to reach a fair and reasonable 
outcome in the circumstances of this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy. It simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service.
Mrs B and Mr L have a separate complaint with our service which dealt with the information 
they were given about their payments holiday during a call in September 2020. This means I 
will not be including this issue within this decision. I will instead focus on the points outlined 
above. 
In April 2020 The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) announced guidance to lenders in 
response to the effects on customers of the COVID-19 pandemic. All lenders, including 
Nationwide, had to put in place payment holidays on many credit agreements, including 
personal loans  to help customers who were affected. Customers could ask for a total of 
two payment holidays each of three months  whereby payments could be suspended. 
Missed payments would not be reported to credit reference agencies, although interest 
would still be debited to the accounts. In Mrs B and Mr Ls case I can see they were able to 
benefit from the support Nationwide offered in keeping with this guidance and the issues 
began when the payment holiday ended. I will address the key issues in turn. 
Rewriting the loan 
In September 2020 Mrs B and Mr L were informed that as the payment holiday was coming 
to an end, they needed to discuss rewriting the loan going forward. I can see Nationwide 
tried to contact Mr L on 5 and 6 November and 2 December 2020 to discuss rewriting the 
loan. Based on the information Ive seen I cant see that Mr L or Mrs B tried to contact 
Nationwide during this period to discuss next steps following the payment break. 
I think it would be helpful to explain at this point that the rewriting of the loan is not related to 
Nationwides error in defaulting the account. The loan needs to be rewritten so that the six- 
monthly payments legitimately missed during the payment holiday can be added to the loan 
term. I do understand that Mr L wanted the complaint resolved to his satisfaction before 
rewriting the loan. And Mrs B and Mr L have been unable to view the loan through online 
banking. 
But its Nationwides process to rewrite the loan following the Covid related payment holiday, 
so I dont find that Nationwide are acting unfairly in asking Mr L to contact it to arrange the 
rewrite. And Nationwide has explained that the loan will be visible again once the new terms 
of the loan had been agreed. In the meantime, Mrs B and Mr L are able to make repayments 
by phone, online transfer or in branch. These methods may not have been as convenient as 
using the online banking facility but given the circumstances Im satisfied Nationwide 
provided enough alternative options to assist Mrs B and Mr L in making the payments due. 
The default
Mrs B and Mr L did not make the necessary contractual payment for the loan in November 
2020. I note Mr L has disputed that a payment was due in November. But as the investigator 
has explained, this issue has been dealt with separately by both Nationwide and this service. 
So, I make no finding on this point. But a payment was made in December 2020. 
But due to an error Nationwide defaulted the account and it was passed over to a debt 
management company. Nationwide has accepted this was a mistake on its part.  
Nationwide, like many other loan providers, experienced administrative issues with its 
systems due to the introduction of the payment holidays under the pandemic support 
scheme. I appreciate this must have been a stressful and worrying time for Mrs B and Mr L. 
And I would expect Nationwide to put this mistake right and consider compensation for any 
inconvenience caused. And from what Ive seen the loan is now back with Nationwide and 
the default has been removed from Mrs B and Mr Ls credit files. Nationwide has also paid 
£100 compensation in recognition of this stress and worry caused. Given the circumstances, I think this is a fair amount and accurately reflects the impact of the error made by 
Nationwide. 
Credit file entries 
Mr L has expressed concerns over the impact Nationwides error has had on his and Mrs Bs 
credit files. As mentioned above, Nationwide has contacted the debt management company 
to resolve the problem, and also made the necessary amendments to their respective credit 
files. But I should explain that any changes to credit files can take time for the relevant 
agencies to properly update. I can see that Nationwide explained this to Mr L and Mrs B on 
multiple occasions. And as a gesture of goodwill Nationwide also removed the negative 
entries that were added in the following two months whilst it was attempting to contact Mr L 
about the rewriting of the loan.  
Ive seen that in March 2021 Nationwide explained that although the December 2020 and 
January 2021 credit file entries had been amended to ensure negative information wasnt 
recorded going forward, it would report data on the loan as normal going forward. Ive seen 
that Nationwide tried to engage with Mrs B and Mr L from October 2020 onwards to rewrite 
the loan and no progress had been made. Nationwide is obliged to accurately report the 
status of Mrs B and Mr Ls loan and Im satisfied Nationwide made sufficient attempts to 
contact Mrs B and Mr L and explain what needed to happen next. As no further payments 
have been made, Im satisfied that Nationwide hasnt done anything wrong in recording 
missed payments from February 2021.
Ultimately this led to the loan defaulting in May 2021. I accept this has caused concern for 
Mrs B and Mr L. However, I find given the number of missed repayments and the lack of 
contact from Mrs B and Mr L, it was fair and reasonable for Nationwide to consider the loan 
in default as the relationship between Mrs B and Mr L and Nationwide had broken down. 
Mr L says he was unable to make a purchase on credit due to this negative entry. I cant say 
for certain the issue with Nationwide mistake was the sole reason Mr L was unable to obtain 
this credit  lenders take into account various factors when making lending decisions. So, on 
balance, I dont think it can be held responsible for this issue. 
Customer service 
Mr L has raised concerns about Nationwides customer service. In particular Mr L says 
Nationwide has not recognised his communication needs  he says the repeated calls 
constitute harassment. As mentioned above, the loan needed to be rewritten and Nationwide 
needed to discuss this with Mr L. So, Im satisfied that Nationwide acted fairly in contacting 
Mr L and when it continued to attempt to contact him as previous contact wasnt successful.  
I note Mr L has since told us about his and Mrs Bs disabilities, but Ive not seen enough to 
make me think that  Nationwide was aware that Mr L did not want contact by telephone until 
the end of February 2021. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for Nationwide to contact 
Mr L using this method prior to this, especially as rewriting the loan required detailed 
conversations about Mrs B and Mr Ls financial circumstances. 
Mr L says Nationwide has breached the Equality Act 2010 as it didnt adapt its service to his 
needs. It isnt for our service to make a ruling as to whether the Equality Act has been 
adhered to  that would be for the courts to decide. But we do consider whether or not a 
business has treated their customer fairly and this will include requests for reasonable 
adjustments. I can see that as soon as Nationwide became aware of Mr Ls request it 
provided an online option for Mr L to use and it didnt contact him by phone again. This demonstrates its willingness to adapt its service to meet Mr L and Mrs Bs specific needs 
when they become aware of them. 
In response to the investigators view Mr L explained that both he and Mrs B had mental and 
physical disabilities and Nationwide shouldve dealt with them and the loan differently. But 
again, Ive not seen enough for me to conclude that Nationwide was aware of any particular 
requirements Mrs B and Mr L had. If it had been, I wouldve expected these to be responded 
to and dealt with fairly, with the necessary reasonable adjustments made. But I must 
highlight that regardless of any additional needs Mrs B and Mr L may have had, the 
outstanding loan needed to be rewritten and up until this was done, Nationwide was obliged 
to contact them regularly about the outstanding debt and report on the status of the loan to 
credit agencies.
It is clear Mrs B and Mr L have had a negative experience with Nationwide and there has 
been a breakdown in the relationship. However, Im satisfied that Nationwide corrected its 
error and paid fair compensation. And I dont find that Nationwide has acted unfairly in its 
dealings with them in respect of rewriting the loan. 
I know Mrs B and Mr L would like Nationwide to remove the adverse information that has 
since been recorded on their credit files. While I sympathise with the position they are in, I 
cant fairly require Nationwide to amend their credit file in these circumstances as 
Nationwide made it clear that it would continue to report adverse information if payments 
werent made after the loan had been returned to it and the initial credit file entries removed. 
I know Mrs B and Mr L will be disappointed with the outcome Ive reached on their complaint. 
But this final decision ends what our service can do for them. However, they can reject my 
decision and pursue the matter elsewhere if they wish to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman