DRN-4175052
The complaint
Mr D complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt do enough to protect him from losing money 
to an investment scam. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
here. In brief summary, in June 2022, Mr D made four debit card payments from his HSBC 
account for what he thought was a legitimate investment. The four payments made, in order, 
were for £3,000, £6,498.76, £9,987.83, and £995.65. They totalled £20,482.24.
Mr D later got in touch with HSBC to report hed been scammed. HSBC didnt reimburse 
Mr D his lost funds. Mr D was unhappy and referred his complaint about HSBC to us, the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. As our Investigator couldnt resolve the matter informally, the 
case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint in part. Ive reached the same outcome 
as our Investigator for materially the same reasons. Ill explain why. 
HSBC has obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in its customers best 
interests. These are predicated on there having been a fraud or scam. Its not disputed in 
this case that Mr D was scammed. 
Prevention
I accept that these were authorised transactions even though Mr D was tricked. So although 
he didnt intend the payments to ultimately go to scammers, Mr D is presumed liable for the 
loss in the first instance. However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts  and any payments made or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
My fellow ombudsmen and I have referenced the relevant rules, codes of practice and good 
industry practice at the time in many previous decisions published on our website.
Bearing this in mind, I need to decide whether HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in its 
dealings with Mr D when it processed the relevant payments.
In this case, prior to the payments in question that were successfully made, Mr D instructed 
HSBC to make a push payment of £4,600 to Coinbase, which flagged on HSBCs systems 
for fraud checks. HSBC paused this £4,600 payment, pending enquiries with Mr D. And after 
speaking with Mr D on the phone, HSBC wasnt sufficiently reassured, and so it didnt allow 
the payment through. Its with this context in mind that the subsequent payments that were 
successfully made as a result of the scam should be viewed. 
Ive thought carefully and I dont think its unreasonable HSBC didnt then intervene in Mr Ds 
first payment made as a result of the scam (the £3,000). As our Investigator said, this was a 
smaller payment than the one Mr D previously tried to make. HSBC, on its call with Mr D 
about the previous payment instruction, had spoken to him about fraud and scam risks, in a 
general sense at least. And whilst it would, of course, have been preferable for HSBC to 
intervene again at this stage, Im not persuaded I can say it ought reasonably to have been 
obliged to. I must bear in mind the number of payments made by customers each day and 
the balance HSBC needs to strike between identifying payments that could potentially be 
fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments; and also HSBCs previous call 
with Mr D.  
Having reviewed Mr Ds account activity in the prior six months, I am satisfied, however, that 
HSBC should have intervened in Mr Ds next payment instruction (for £6,478.76). This was 
for a larger and unusual and uncharacteristic amount. It was destined for another new payee 
 and crypto again, instructed only shortly after the previous payment instructions referred to 
above. Given HSBC had sufficient concerns not to allow Mr Ds first attempted payment (of 
£4,600) through a few days earlier, I think HSBC ought to have been alert and that this 
payment ought to have raised its further concern. HSBC has said that loan funds had just 
been received into the account and its common for a large amount of money to leave an 
account after receiving a loan. But I dont think this is a good argument because in my 
experience this is also reasonably common in scam cases, so its not a reliable indicator 
someone isnt being scammed.  
So I think HSBC ought to have paused this payment instruction for £6,478.76, pending 
enquiries with Mr D to check he wasnt at risk of financial harm from a fraud or a scam. As 
part of appropriate intervention, Id reasonably expect HSBC to have asked Mr D who the 
payment was for, what it was for, and for the basic surrounding context, and to have then 
proceeded appropriately from there, with the intention to disturb or unearth a potential fraud 
or scam.
Mr D had only just taken a loan of £13,000 from HSBC. HSBC has said it cant reasonably 
supervise whether a loan is used by a customer for the purposes they specified it was for. 
But I dont think this is a good argument here either. As part of its systems being triggered by 
the £6,478.76 payment instruction, and to enable it to appropriately question Mr D, its not 
unreasonable to expect HSBC to have had a least a cursory look at Mr Ds recent account 
history and noticed the loan funds. 
In my opinion, HSBCs best argument is, instead, if it had intervened appropriately Mr D 
wouldnt have told the truth, and ultimately it wouldnt have been able to prevent him going 
ahead anyway. I understand where its coming from here  having listened to the prior 
intervention (on 10 June 2022), Mr D wasnt upfront with HSBC about the reasons for that previous payment instruction. However, HSBC ultimately didnt allow that previous payment 
through, such was its level of concern. And I cant really see what ought to have been 
materially different here, on this £6,478.76 payment, if Mr D hadnt engaged with HSBCs 
intervention nor otherwise have reassured it he wasnt being scammed. And actually, given 
the general context including the loan as the parties are aware of and as explained by our 
Investigator, I think a more forceful intervention was warranted this time. I dont think Mr D 
sounded confident or comfortable in the previous call. I think HSBC ought to have had 
enough concern by now and been able to probe and question Mr D sufficiently at this point 
such that he opened up about things. At which point, given the manner in which Mr D had 
been introduced to the investment opportunity, Id expect HSBC to have broken the spell, 
such that Mr D wouldve appreciated the risk of proceeding with the investment was too 
high to accept (and I note that when Mr D did later have concerns, a friend of his was able to 
unearth things).
So I think if HSBC had done what Id reasonably expect it to have done, given its obligations, 
its more likely than not that Mr D ultimately wouldnt have proceeded with the £6,478.76 
payment, nor the subsequent payments of £9,987.83 and £995.65.
The loss of these three payments, which I think HSBC ought to have been able to prevent, 
amounts to £17,482.24. Ive thought about whether Mr D should bear some responsibility for 
this loss by way of contributory negligence (which might justify a reduction in compensation). 
I dont think its unfair to say Mr D really wasnt as careful with these payments as he 
reasonably ought to have been. I wouldnt have expected him to be well versed with scams 
like this, or necessarily to be aware how prevalent they have become in recent years. But 
I do think he ought to have been much more cautious during and after his first call with 
HSBC, when it spoke to him about fraud and scams and wouldnt allow the initial £4,600 
payment through. Im satisfied in circumstances like this there should be a 50% reduction to 
the compensation payable to reflect Mr Ds contribution to the loss of these payments. I 
appreciate HSBC has argued for a greater reduction than this. And Ive thought about this 
carefully. Ultimately, though, HSBC ought to have been on high alert, given its initial 
intervention with Mr D, by the time of his £6,478.76 payment request. And whilst Mr D 
reasonably ought to have been much more careful, HSBC also, in my opinion, made 
significant mistakes in its failure to prevent the payments, so Im satisfied its fair for the 
parties to share responsibility for the loss of the last three payments equally.
Recovery
For the sake of completeness, Ive considered whether HSBC unreasonably hindered 
recovery of the payments after they were made. However, because they were debit card 
payments, the only potential avenue for recovery of the payments would have been via the 
chargeback scheme. Mr D made the payments from his HSBC debit card to crypto accounts 
held in his own name (from where he transferred the money onto the scammers). This 
means the merchants here, for chargeback purposes, would be crypto exchanges Mr D paid 
(and not the scammers). Its my understanding that the crypto exchanges legitimately 
provided the services intended (which was the exchanging of fiat currency into crypto). The 
subsequent transfer of the cryptocurrency onto the scammers would not give rise to a valid 
chargeback claim through HSBC. So I dont think these payments were recoverable through 
HSBC once they had been made.
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied HSBC should pay Mr D 50% of £17,482.24, 
which is £8,741.12.To compensate Mr D for having been deprived of this money, our Investigator also 
recommended that HSBC pay Mr D interest on this amount calculated at 8% simple per 
year, which I note neither party contested. And Im satisfied this is fair. So HSBC should also 
pay Mr D interest on the £8,741.12 calculated at 8% simple per year from the date of loss to 
the date of settlement. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint in part and I direct HSBC UK Bank 
Plc to pay Mr D:
£8,741.12; plus
interest on this amount calculated at 8% simple per year from the date of the loss to 
the date of settlement. If HSBC deducts tax from this interest, it should provide Mr D 
with a tax deduction certificate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman