DRN-3168487
The complaint
Mr H complains that a finance agreement he entered into with Santander Consumer (UK)
Plc (Santander), trading as McLaren Financial Services, was misrepresented to him.  
What happened
I issued a couple of provisional decisions on this complaint in October of this year. An extract 
from my last provisional decision, that covers all of the relevant points, is set out below.
Mr H took receipt of a used prestige vehicle in June 2019. He financed the deal through an
agreement with Santander.
But Mr H was subsequently disappointed to find that the agreement was a conditional sale
agreement and not the personal contract purchase (PCP) agreement hed been told he was
signing up to.
He explained to Santander that hed always had PCP agreements and had been promised
this was one by the dealership who brokered the arrangement. He explained that the
conditional sale agreement meant he wasnt able to hand the car back without a voluntary
termination whereas under a PCP agreement he would be able to simply hand the car back.
Voluntary termination could only be done once half of the sums due under the agreement
had been made and hed therefore need to pay a shortfall of about £15,000 at the end of the
agreement in order to terminate it, without taking ownership of the car and paying a
significant final payment.
Santander didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. They said the terms of the agreement he signed
were clear.
Mr H referred his complaint to this service and our investigator provided her view. She
reviewed messages that Mr H had exchanged with the dealership in which they had
confirmed the deal was a PCP. She thought it was therefore clear Mr H had been mis-sold
the agreement and she didnt think it was likely he would have proceeded with the
agreement had he known it wasnt a PCP. But she also thought Mr H should shoulder some
of the blame as he should have read the agreement he signed. She thought the fairest 
solution would be for Mr H and Santander to split the additional cost involved when
voluntarily terminating the agreement and she thought Santander should pay Mr H £250 to
compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hed been caused.
Santander didnt agree with the investigators opinion and they asked for a final decision by
an ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree that this agreement has been misrepresented to Mr H, but I dont currently agree with
the resolution our investigator has suggested. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr H acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our
service is able to look into complaints about it.
The relevant legislation explains that finance providers are liable for what they say and for
what is said by a credit broker before the consumer takes out the credit agreement. So,
anything Mr H was told by the broker of this agreement should be considered to have been
said on behalf of the Santander.
If Mr H was given a false statement of fact and that false statement induced him to enter into
an agreement he wouldnt otherwise have entered into, I would think the agreement had
been misrepresented to him and Id ask Santander to take some further action
Was there a misrepresentation?
Mr H has provided a series of WhatsApp messages he exchanged with the dealership. I
understand that Santander have questioned when these were made but Im persuaded, on
balance, that they were messages exchanged before the finance agreement was put in
place. I cant see that the dealership who brokered this agreement have disputed that.
Mr H regularly asks the dealership if the deal is a PCP arrangement and the dealership
confirm it is. So, I think Mr H was provided with a false statement of fact.
The terms of Mr Hs agreement did explain the nature of the agreement he was entering into
and I can understand that Santander expected him to have read those terms when he
signed it. But I think there is significant evidence in the WhatsApp messages to
suggest Mr H was relying on the dealer to provide information about the type of agreement
he was agreeing to. That was the same type of agreement that Mr H had had in the past and
I think it was quite clear he wanted the same agreement again.
So, I think Mr H was given a false statement of fact. Would Mr H have entered into the 
agreement had it not been for that false statement?
I dont think its likely Mr H would have entered into the agreement if hed have known it was
a conditional sale. I say that because Ive considered the calculations made by our
investigator and can see that shes suggested repayments would have been between £1,700
and £1,900 per month rather than the £1,300 -1,400 Mr H wanted to spend. Mr H clearly
didnt want to spend £1,800 each month as WhatsApp messages show he was very
concerned to find that a previous inaccurate agreement had been drawn up which
necessitated a payment of £1,866.
Overall, I therefore think this agreement was misrepresented to Mr H.
Putting things right
The investigator has considered what would be paid had the agreement been a PCP andshe has tried to put things right by suggesting the difference is part funded by Santander.
I dont think thats the correct approach.
The usual remedy for a misrepresentation is to put the consumer in the position they
wouldve been in had the misrepresentation not been made. But we wouldnt ask the
business to put the consumer in the position they wouldve been in had the
misrepresentation been true.
I explained in my previous provisional decision that its usual in these circumstances to tell
the business to take the car back and to end the agreement. In those circumstances I said I
was expecting to tell them keep the finance instalments that Mr H had paid in respect of the
fair use hed had from the car but that theyd need to return the deposit with interest as Mr H
had been deprived of that money.
But subsequently Mr H settled his agreement and returned the car. It cost Mr H £18,051 to
do so and I think Santander should refund that settlement figure as he shouldnt have had to
pay it. They should add interest to the refund as Mr H has been deprived of the money and
for the same reasons they should also refund Mr Hs deposit with interest.
Mr H has been inconvenienced by these matters. Hes had to escalate his complaint to this
service when I think it could have been resolved earlier and it would have been distressing to
think he couldnt escape a large unexpected bill at the end of the agreement. In those
circumstances Im expecting to tell Santander to pay him £250 compensation.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell Santander
Consumer (UK) Plc to:
refund the £18,051 Mr H paid to settle the misrepresented agreement and add 8%
simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mr H £250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience their actions
have caused;
refund any deposit Mr H paid and add 8% simple interest per year to that refund from
the date of payment to the date of settlement;
remove any record of the agreement they may have reported to Mr Hs credit file.
Mr H accepted my provisional decision and had nothing further to add. 
Santander didnt accept my provisional decision and provided a further detailed submission. 
Ive considered that submission in its entirety and note that some of the points are repeated 
so Ive tried to summarise the main thrust of Santanders argument below before I go on to 
reconsider the complaint in light of those comments. Santander said:
It was unreasonable to be so influenced by the content of the WhatsApp messages 
as they were undated, out of context and inaccurate. They said I hadnt commented 
on that in my provisional decision and stressed that the WhatsApp comments hadnt 
explained how the agreement would operate.
There were three documents Mr H had signed that explained the nature of the 
agreement and they should be given greater weight and they questioned why Mr H 
hadnt challenged the documents before signing them. They said I hadnt referred to 
the pre-contract document. 
They hadnt seen evidence Mr H had sold the car.Mr H would have been likely to have been in negative equity even if hed had a PCP 
and where the PCP figures are investigator had calculated correct? 
They had no record, and I hadnt referred to the customer not understanding the 
contractual documents.
Surely Mr H should shoulder some responsibility?
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst Santander continue to dispute the accuracy of the WhatsApp messages I dont think 
theyve provided any significant evidence as to why they would be inaccurate or even 
fabricated. Theyve not, for instance, provided the sales agents copy. The messages are 
dated and contain much more detail than I would expect if theyd been fabricated. For 
example, a message dated 22 May 2019 has 19 separate comments. I cant see any 
inaccuracies in the WhatsApp messages. The times all follow on from each other and agree 
with the time thats shown on the phone thats also recorded in the top left-hand corner. I 
think, on balance its likely these WhatsApp conversations did take place.
Whilst I accept that the WhatsApp messages couldnt explain how the agreement operated I 
think Mr H would have known that. Thats because hes provided evidence he had a PCP 
contract previously. The WhatsApp conversations show he wanted one again. One comment 
on 22 May 2019 said, Just double checking your doing this on PCP yeah (sic) and Mr H 
repeats those requests later (it seems likely on 27 May 2019) when he says and just to 
double check the deal we did was a PCP over 4 years yeh and its a PCP yeah? to 
which the sales agent eventually replied and its a PCP agreement
So, Im still persuaded that there is significant evidence in the WhatsApp messages to
suggest Mr H was relying on the dealer to provide information about the type of agreement
he was agreeing to and that it was the same type of agreement that hed had in the past. I 
think it was quite clear he wanted the same agreement again.
Whilst Mr H had signed all of the contractual documents I think its reasonable to suggest a 
consumer would rely on the advice of the sales agent. I think thats particularly true here as 
the WhatsApp messages suggest Mr H had struck up a significant rapport with the sales 
agent. In those circumstances I think it is reasonable to suggest Mr H would not have read 
the documents in too much detail so that he could understand all of the contractual features. 
He had after all been assured the contract was a PCP.
Mr H has provided a proof that the car was sold to a dealership in September 2021 and that 
the balance on his finance agreement was settled. 
The business has explained that Mr H may well have been in negative equity even if hed 
had a PCP. But the point here is that he was promised a PCP and didnt receive one. The 
scale of any payment he would therefore need to pay to terminate the deal was impacted by 
the misrepresentation that had taken place.
The business have also asked about whether the investigators calculation of potential 
repayments is accurate. They havent provided any alternative calculations and I note they 
are very well placed to do so. Im not therefore persuaded that the evidence suggests those 
calculations are wrong and Im still persuaded that Mr H would not have proceeded with the 
deal had he known it wasnt a PCP. I dont think this is a case in which Mr H should shoulder some of the responsibility. The law is clear that where there is a misrepresentation we 
should try to put the consumer back in the position he would have been in had the 
misrepresentation not occurred. 
Putting things right
Ive not been provided with any further evidence that has persuaded me to change my 
provisional decision on this complaint and my provisional decision now becomes my final 
decision on this matter.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Santander Consumer (UK) 
Plc to:
refund the £18,051 Mr H paid to settle the misrepresented agreement and add 8%
simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mr H £250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience their actions
have caused;
refund any deposit Mr H paid and add 8% simple interest per year to that refund from
the date of payment to the date of settlement;
remove any record of the agreement they may have reported to Mr Hs credit file.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman