DRN-3271131
The complaint
Mr C complains that Revolut Ltd blocked and closed his account. And havent returned 
money to him he says was paid into his account. 
What happened
In April 2020, Revolut carried out a review of Mr Cs account. And asked Mr C to provide 
information about how he used the account. Whilst it completed the review Revolut blocked 
Mr Cs account, which meant he wasnt able to use the account or access the money in it. 
Revolut returned the balance of the account to Mr C in May 2020 and completed its review in 
October 2020. Following this Revolut decided to close Mr Cs account. 
Mr C says not having access to his account was inconvenient and his direct debits bounced 
which made things difficult for him as he his mobile phone bill went unpaid. He also says he 
was expecting around £500 in benefit payments, but he never received it. And its still 
missing.  Mr C sent several messages using Revoluts in app chat to try and trace his benefit 
money but didnt get any information. He wants Revolut to provide a proper explanation for 
its actions and release his benefit money.
Revolut said Mr Cs benefit money had never credited his Revolut account but accepted it 
should have provided Mr C with better service and provided my clarity to him in response to 
his in app messages. So, it offered Mr C £50 compensation for any distress and 
inconvenience this had caused him.
 
Mr C wasnt happy with this response, so he brought his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. She asked Mr C to provide her 
with some information about his benefit payment  that it had credited his Revolut account 
and hed contacted DWP whod confirmed it had been sent to his Revolut account. But Mr C 
didnt provide anything.
Based on the information she had the investigator said Revolut hadnt done anything wrong 
by reviewing Mr Cs account. She thought Revoluts offer was fair. Mr C disagreed. He said 
his account had been blocked for a long time and hes still out of pocket as he hasnt 
received his benefit money.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Revolut are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Having looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied that Revolut acted in 
accordance with these obligations when it blocked and reviewed Mr Cs account. And it was 
entitled to do so under the account terms and conditions. 
I know Mr C wants Revolut to explain why it blocked his account in the first instance. But 
Revolut doesnt disclose to its customers what triggers a review of their accounts. It wasnt 
obliged to tell Mr C why it was carrying out a review, so, I cant say its done anything wrong 
by not giving Mr C this information as much as hed like to know. And it wouldnt be 
appropriate for me to require it do so. 
Ive considered what Mr C has said about how Revoluts actions impacted him.  And that he 
feels the compensation offered doesnt adequately reflect the trouble hes been caused and 
how long his account was blocked. Ive no doubt this was a worrying and upsetting time for 
Mr C but for me to award more compensation Id have to be satisfied that the delays caused 
an unreasonable level of inconvenience and financial loss. 
Mr C says he was expecting a benefit payment after he lost his job and is now out of pocket 
because Revolut havent returned his benefit money to him, of around £500. Revolut says 
the money never credited Mr Cs account. And Mr C hasnt provided the investigator any 
evidence to the contrary.  So, it wouldnt be fair of me to tell Revolut to pay financial loss or 
compensation for something theres no evidence of. 
Turning to awards for non-financial loss there isnt a set formula that we use to calculate 
awards for particular mistakes or poor service. Its my role to consider what impact Revoluts 
actions have had on Mr C and decide, within guidelines set by our service, whether 
compensation would be appropriate in the circumstances. 
Mr C had to write to Revolut on several occasions to try and find out what was happening 
with his account and to try and track down his benefit money. Mr C has explained hed lost 
his job so needed the DWP payment to help out financially. So, I think its likely that 
Revoluts poor communication wouldve been upsetting for Mr C at the time as he was 
already facing financial difficulties. So, I agree some compensation is appropriate for this.
Revolut accepts it should have been clearer with Mr C that his benefit money hadnt credited 
his account. Its only right that Revolut recognises this. However, Im satisfied that £50 
already offered is a fair amount of compensation and proportionate to the trouble and upset 
Mr C was caused. So, while Mr C may disagree with me, Im satisfied that the compensation 
offered by Revolut recognises the impact its actions had in the overall circumstances of this 
complaint. So, I wont be asking Revolut to pay any more.    
In reaching this conclusion, Ive kept in mind that Revolut blocked Mr Cs account for around 
six months. So, I do accept that it took Revolut a relatively lengthy period of time to review 
Mr Cs accounts. But I dont consider that it would be right for me to conclude it should not 
have taken in excess of any particular or specific timeframe. Because Revolut was entitled  
as a matter of principle  to do what it did. From looking at the timeframe and Revoluts 
records, I can also see that Revolut were actively progressing its review and didnt cause 
any unreasonable delays in doing so. Once it had completed its review it also promptly 
released Mr Cs balance to him which was around £10.
Revolut was also within its rights to close Mr Cs account and did so line with the account 
terms and relevant regulations. So, I cant say Revolut have done anything wrong when it 
closed Mr Cs account. And, I wont be asking Revolut to reopen Mr Cs account. 
Finally, Mr C says hes unhappy that he could only contact Revolut via its in app chat facility. 
And says he shouldve been able to call Revolut. I can appreciate that not being able to pick 
up the phone to Revolut was frustrating for Mr C. But as the investigator has already explained, we are not the regulator of firms  so we cant tell them how to run their 
businesses , or how to design or implement their processes. Revolut communicates with its 
customers via an in app chat facility- thats how it runs its business  and we cant interfere 
with its commercial decisions. 
In summary, its clearly caused Mr C inconvenience when he wasnt able to use his account. 
So understandably hes upset. And I appreciate it must have been a worrying and frustrating 
time for him when he was trying to trace his benefit payment. So, I realise he will be 
disappointed by my decision. But having looked at all the evidence and circumstances of this 
complaint, I havent found grounds to increase the level of compensation. And Im satisfied 
that £50 compensation is fair and reasonable. So, I wont be telling Revolut to do anything 
else to resolve Mr Cs complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, if it hasnt already done so, to put things right Revolut Ltd 
should pay Mr C £50 compensation for its poor service.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Ombudsman