DRN-2420255
The complaint
Mrs A has complained about her bicycle insurer Tradewise Insurance Services Ltd because 
it has declined her theft claim.
What happened
On a Saturday evening, Mrs A put her bicycle in her car. The next day, Sunday, around 9am, 
she put some other items in the car but then left to deal with an emergency. When Mrs A 
returned to her car on Wednesday, she found that the back window had been smashed and 
the bicycle stolen. Mrs A called the police and made a claim to Tradewise. She later found a 
witness who had seen the theft occur at around 5pm on the Sunday.
Tradewise began reviewing the claim straightaway, and whilst it was still deciding on policy 
liability it also discussed with Mrs A what a likely settlement might be. Tradewise then 
declined Mrs As claim as it felt that, in line with the policy terms, the bicycle had been 
abandoned at the time it was stolen  meaning the theft wasnt covered. Abandonment being 
defined in the policy as:
when a pedal cycle is left in a location other than the insured location for more than 
18 consecutive hours (the insured location being, essentially, within a property, not a 
vehicle).
Mrs A was unhappy about this. She felt that as Tradewise had told her what the claim 
settlement would be, its choice to suddenly decline the claim was unfair. She surmised this 
might have been driven by discrimination. She said the term for abandonment had not been 
drawn to her attention when the policy was sold and it was subjective, reliant on what the 
intent of the policyholder was. Mrs A argued that she had seen the bicycle on Sunday 
morning so it had only been left in the car for a matter of hours before it was stolen on 
Sunday evening, and she had always intended to return but the emergency kept her away.  
Tradewise denied the allegation of discrimination. It said it had declined the claim on a fair 
assessment of the situation against the policy terms. It noted Mrs A no longer had the 
bicycle and told her she could cancel the policy if she wished (for a pro-rated refund with no 
cancellation fee)  or if she replaced the bicycle the cover could be transferred. Mrs A wasnt 
sure what to do as she thought no longer being a customer of Tradewise might prevent her 
from complaining. Mrs A complained to us but she didnt replace the bicycle and the policy 
lapsed at renewal before our investigator issued her view on the complaint.  
Our investigator didnt think Tradewise had discriminated against Mrs A. But she did feel that 
the claim outcome was unfair and unreasonable. She said this was because the definition of 
abandonment was not that used in normal parlance. She also felt that Mrs A seeing the 
bicycle whilst packing the car on Sunday morning had likely changed the risk which the 
policy term relied on by Tradewise had been intended to protect it against. She felt 
Tradewise should accept and deal with Mrs As claim.
 
Tradewise objected to the findings. It said the policy definition was standard for the type of 
cover in question, that Mrs A had been asked to agree to the terms and conditions at the 
point of sale  but that the policy had a cooling off period too. 
The complaint was passed to me and I didnt think it should be upheld. Tradewise replied 
stating it had nothing further to add. Mrs A objected to my findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said provisionally:
Tradewise was likely responsible for the sale of this policy  being completed as it was by 
an intermediary which Tradewise underwrites policies for. But I dont see that any failing 
occurred during the sale. Mrs A had the opportunity to read the terms if she wished  but it 
isnt unusual for purchasers to not see or be told of every term during the application and 
acceptance process. This policy came with a cooling off period so even after the sale had 
completed, Mrs A did have the chance to check the full terms and cancel if she wished.
Whilst we wouldnt expect every term to be communicated during a sale, any that are 
significant and unusual should be highlighted. Im not persuaded that the term and definition 
relied on by Tradewise here are either significant or unusual. Overall they relate to a small 
part of the cover for certain circumstances prevailing during a theft  so they dont impact the 
cover as a whole. And many insurance policies seek to restrict the circumstances of theft for 
which the insurer will be liable  with abandonment being a fairly common part of that. 
Definitions will vary between insurers but, in regards to abandonment, insurers will usually 
seek to apply a time period for an item being left. Ive seen cover which sets that at 12 hours, 
whereas as Tradewise applies a more generous 18.
So Mrs A bought a policy where Tradewise did not need to highlight the terms regarding 
theft and abandonment to her and where shed had the chance to consider the policy terms 
and conditions. Im satisfied then that Tradewise didnt fail Mrs A during the sale of the policy 
and it was reasonable for it to take the theft term and abandonment definition into account 
when considering Mrs As claim. 
According to the policy, theft claims will only be covered if the bicycle is not abandoned. 
Tradewise has chosen in its policy to define what it means by abandoned (quoted in my 
background above). As long as an insurer is clear about what terms are defined, and the 
definitions given are clear, well usually let an insurer rely on those. We likely wouldnt if they 
were felt to be significant and unusual with the insurer having failed to draw them to the 
policyholders attention  but Ive dealt with that above. 
I think the definition is generally clear  but Ive considered specifically the concerns Mrs A 
has raised in this respect. Mrs A says the definition is not clear because it requires the 
insurer to determine the intent of the policyholder  but also because it doesnt give a start or 
end time. I dont think the definition does refer to any intent. If an item is left, it is left, 
regardless of any intent to return. And I think the definition is also clear that the timeframe 
starts at the point the item is left and ends 18 hours later. 
I know Mrs A saw the bicycle in the car on Sunday morning, having left it in the car the night 
before. But Mrs A hasnt suggested that, on Sunday morning she took the bicycle out of the 
car, before putting it back and leaving it there again. I dont think I could reasonably say that 
Mrs A merely seeing the bicycle in the car interrupted the period over which the bicycle was left in the car. And nor do I see that Mrs A, having been around and in the car on Sunday 
morning, then reduced the risk presented by the bicycle having been left in the car for an 
extended period  starting the night before and continuing beyond the 18 hours allowed for 
by Tradewises definition. I think Tradewises decline of the claim, on the basis of the theft 
term and abandonment definition, was fair and reasonable. 
I appreciate that it must have been upsetting for Mrs A to think this claim was going to be 
covered, only for it to be declined.  I think Tradewise was trying to expedite her claim with 
the best of intentions  but that lead to an unfortunate loss of expectation when it was 
decided that the claim would not be settled. But I dont think Tradewise ever misled Mrs A in 
this respect. Tradewise did not say to Mrs A, for example, that her claim was accepted. The 
communication Ive seen clearly shows that whilst Tradewise was discussing the theft and 
possible settlement with Mrs A, it was also asking her more details about the circumstances 
of the loss. Tradewise has said it will learn from the upset which occurred here and I think 
that is a reasonable response in the circumstances. But because Im not persuaded that 
Tradewise misled Mrs A, Im not going to require it to pay her compensation. 
I note Mrs A is concerned that she continued to pay for cover following the theft of her 
bicycle  Tradewise was getting money for a policy she could no longer have benefit from.  
But I also note that Tradewise had offered to cancel the cover and refund the unused portion 
of the premium if Mrs A asked it to. I havent seen that Mrs A has done this, or that a 
complaint has arisen because Tradewise has now refused to honour that offer. If Mrs A 
wants a pro-rated premium refund, she should revert to Tradewise in the first instance. 
In response Mrs A maintained her view that the definition of abandonment is vague as it 
requires a degree of interpretation to know what is meant because it doesnt explain what is 
meant by left. And her bike was stolen within 18-hours of her opening her car, seeing her 
bike and leaving it there.
I explained provisionally why I felt the term was clear. But, it may help Mrs A if I explain that 
it is not unusual for an insurer to use everyday language at times in their policies. And where 
they do that, and chose not to give a different, extended or more specific meaning to that 
word, they dont have to set out a definition, or explanation of what is meant. If they did then 
policies would be cumbersome and confusing. 
Im satisfied that most people generally understand that an item is left somewhere when it is 
placed in a certain position and the person who placed it walks away. But that person, 
seeing that item later whilst doing nothing with it, does not break that chain of that item 
having been left. So I can place my tea cup in the kitchen after breakfast and see it when 
I walk through the room at lunchtime but would still think of it on the evening as it having 
been left there since breakfast. But if I pick that cup up at lunchtime, even if only briefly, then 
that act breaks the period of when it was left. As I said provisionally, Mrs A seeing her bike in 
her car on Sunday morning did not break the period of it being left in the car, which began 
the night before.
Mrs A also said she felt Tradewise should have acted to discuss with her the 
recommendation of our investigators view.
I realise Mrs A would have been hopeful of a swift resolution following our investigators 
view. But Mrs A had asked us to consider her complaint and there is a process to that. The 
parties can choose whether or not to accept the investigators view. Tradewise wasnt 
minded to agree to it. That was its right. 
It is regrettable that, on this occasion, Mrs A has been left without a remedy for her loss. 
Unfortunately for Mrs A, having reviewed matters again, Im not persuaded to change my view on the outcome of her complaint. My provisional findings remain unchanged and now 
form part of this, my final decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Tradewise Insurance 
Services Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman