DRN-3428037
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Provident Personal Credit Limited trading as Satsuma Loans 
(Satsuma) unfairly defaulted a loan account during the COVID-19 Pandemic and while she 
was held up abroad. 
In order to put things right, Mrs G has asked for the default to be removed from her credit 
file.  
What happened
The default recorded on Mrs Gs credit file relates to a loan that Mrs G was advanced by 
Satsuma on 27 November 2019. She borrowed £1,000 to be repaid by 12 monthly 
repayments of £166. 
I can see from the statement of account provided by Satsuma that Mrs G made her 
contracted payments for January and February 2020. There are then no further payments 
until December 2020, when she paid £50. In January 2021, Mrs G paid £40 before making 
monthly repayments through a repayment plan of £30 in February, March and April 2021. 
Payments then stopped and restarted at a rate of £100 per month from July 2021 until 
December 2021 when the outstanding balance was written off.  
From the statement of account, Mrs G had some problems repaying this loan, and Satsuma 
defaulted her account in May 2021. 
However, it seems Satsuma was on notice fairly early that Mrs G was out of the country and 
was stuck there as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. I can see a call note which details 
this and so Satsuma was aware of the situation at least by 10 April 2020. 
A call note dated 28 May 2020 re-stated that Mrs G was still stuck aboard due to the borders 
being closed as a result of the pandemic. But she told Satsuma she had a flight booked at 
the start of June 2020 and would be back at work from the start of July 2020. 
Satsuma says due to the arrears on the account then it proceeded to issue a default notice 
on 20 July 2020.  
On 27 July 2020, Mrs G spoke to Satsuma and confirmed she was now back in the country, 
and at work. At this point in time, Satsuma reinstated the contractual repayments of £166 per 
month. 
However, as can be seen from the statement the next payment due on 26 August 2020 
wasnt made. 
There was then no further contact (according to the notes supplied by Satsuma) until 
10 December 2020, when Mrs G spoke to Satsuma about the arrears. She provided some 
further information about her financial difficulties and how she was in arrears with other 
priority bills. Its clear, based on what she said, that Mrs Gs financial problems were being 
caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. Mrs G then made a payment of £50 to Satsuma and the 
call note says she would call back the following day to set up a payment plan and to 
complete income and expenditure details. 
The next phone call was 26 January 2021, Mrs G called and made a payment of £40 
towards the balance and set up a three month reduced repayment plan of £30 each month. 
The notes also says customer advised may call next week to complete I&E [income and 
expenditure]
Satsuma says at the end of the three-month payment period, Mrs G was expected to go 
back to normal contractual repayment  so £166 per month. However, as no income and 
expenditure form were completed (in order to extend the repayment plan) Satsuma 
attempted to collect a payment of £166 on 10 May 2021. When this failed, Satsuma says it 
emailed and texted Mrs G about this. As no response was received the account was then 
marked as being defaulted on Mrs Gs credit file. 
Satsuma says that a decision was made in December 2021 to write off the balance that was 
owed and it says Mrs Gs credit file was updated to show the account was partially settled. 
Mrs G then made a new complaint about what had happened, and Satsuma issued its final 
response letter on this matter on 15 July 2021. In it, Satsuma gave a brief overview of the 
events that led up to Mrs Gs account being defaulted. However, it said that it hadnt done 
anything wrong and therefore wouldnt be removing the default from her credit file. 
 
Unhappy with this response, Mrs G referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. 
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and he said it shouldnt be upheld. She provided a 
brief overview of what happened. But she explained, that as payments werent made 
between March 2020 and December 2020, this led to the account being sufficiently in 
arrears for the account to be defaulted and the monthly repayments Mrs G was making 
werent sufficient. Overall, she didnt think Satsuma had made an error.
Satsuma didnt respond to the adjudicators assessment. 
Mrs G didnt agree with the adjudicators recommendation because she said that some of 
her reasons werent taken into account and the communication from Satsuma was 
inaccurate. 
Later on, Mrs G sent in another email that contained further points that she wanted 
considered. 
Payments couldnt be made towards the loan due to the pandemic. 
When Mrs G contacted Satsuma it offered to help and was happy to accept £30 per 
month towards the balance. 
Mrs G says she didnt receive any confirmation that the £30 monthly payment was for 
only three months and she didnt know that after that shed need to return to 
contractual repayments. 
Mrs G didnt know that she was to complete an income and expenditure form and this 
wasnt emailed to her. 
Mrs G confirmed that after she received a letter from a third-party collection 
company, she arranged to make monthly repayments of £100. 
Even though Mrs G made her three-monthly payments of £30 these have been 
shown as late payments on her credit file. 
After December 2021 the balance should be updated as partially settled and not 
defaulted. As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To begin with, there was further information that I wished to receive from Satsuma before 
issuing the decision. This information was confirmation and evidence of the contact it had 
with Mrs G such as a record of text messages and emails. This information wasnt initially 
given to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Satsuma provided details of the telephone 
conversations that took place between it and Mrs G. 
However, this information hasnt been supplied. This is likely due to the current position of 
Satsuma. While, it wouldve been useful to have had the information that was requested I am 
now having to make a decision based on the information that Satsuma and Mrs G have 
already provided. Therefore, this decision is based on what I think is most likely to have 
happened in this case. This is because nothing further can be provided in relation to the 
notes and it isnt fair to Mrs G to delay the issuing of this decision any further. 
Pandemic support
Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, in April 2020 the industry regulator  the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) released guidance to lenders  such as Satsuma as to how it ought to deal 
with consumers who were having problems directly related to the pandemic. 
Based on the call note between Mrs G and Satsuma in April and May 2020 it is clear that the 
non-repayment of the account was solely down to the fact Mrs G was stuck abroad and the 
wider issues caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. 
As part of the support offered by the FCA, this included for example payment holidays and 
during this time no adverse credit file data would be recorded with the credit reference 
agencies. 
Looking at the credit file, there doesnt appear to have been any late payment markers or 
arrears added to the credit reference agency  at least initially when Satsuma was aware of 
what was going on. 
Ideally, it wouldve been useful if Satsuma couldve confirmed what action, if any it provided 
to Mrs G under the COVID-19 guidance. However, Satsumas notes do show that on 
26 May 2020 a breathing space review note has been added. So, its likely, some form of 
COVID-19 support was provided to Mrs G. 
So I think, its likely although, I cant be sure as the information isnt available, that Satsuma 
did assist Mrs G with COVID support and this may explain why, there isnt any adverse 
information reported to the credit reference agencies initially. I dont think this was an 
unreasonable course of action to take. 
Recording a default
When thinking about whether Satsuma ought to have placed a default on Mrs Gs credit file, 
Ive considered the guidance issued by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). The 
ICO is the body created which deals with an individuals data, and it has released a 
document called Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies. It is entirely reasonably to rely on this, because in my view, it 
constitutes good industry practice.
Principle 3 of the guidance is entitled If you offer or make a reduced payment, how it is 
reported will depend on whether it is agreed with the lender.
It goes on to say:
Should a temporary reduction in the payment amount be jointly agreed between you 
and your lender, this arrangement will be recorded at the CRAs.
and
If your lender agrees to give you a temporary arrangement, but you fail to make the 
agreed payment against the new terms, they may still file a default (see Principle 4 
below) as soon as a payment is missed, as long you were at least 3 months in arrears 
on the original agreement.
In principle 4, the ICO says:
4. If you fall into arrears on your account, or you do not keep to the revised terms of an 
arrangement, a default may be recorded to show that the relationship has broken down.
As a general guide, this may occur when you are 3 months in arrears, and normally by 
the time you are 6 months in arrears.
Principle 4 also provides reasons for when a default should not be recorded. 
A default should not be filed:
If you make a payment, in time, that fully meets the terms set out in the default 
notice
If jointly with the lender an agreement is reached for an arrangement and you 
keep to the terms of that arrangement
If the amount outstanding is solely made up of fees or charges
If a lender is given evidence that a customer is deceased (for example a 
verifiable death certificate, probate or letter of administration)
So, the ICO, is clear, all the time that had Mrs G stuck to her repayment plan a default 
wouldnt be recorded on her credit file  although adverse information would still be reported 
about such a plan. This adverse information could be shown as missed payments markers 
which would be correct  because although Mrs G was making payments under a plan she 
was paying less than the contractual amount. But as long as the account was sufficiently in 
arrears, then Satsuma could, if any repayment plan wasnt adhered to then proceed to 
default the account.  
Again, I will reiterate, that there is some information missing that I think would be useful. For 
example, I know Mrs G spoke to Satsuma in July 2020 when she returned from abroad. She 
was clear, in this contact, that she was back at work and Satsuma reinstated the payments 
of £166. However, as I know from the statement of account, the payment in August 2020 
wasnt taken, but no further contact appears to have been made. 
Now, its entirely possible, given what Satsuma says in the final response letter, that there 
was attempted contact, after all it says also called you 29 times, sent eight texts and emailed you four times between 10 January 2020 until 28 August 2020 . However, no 
evidence, has been provided about this contact. So, I repeat here that the decision is based 
on what I can see in the information provided and what I think is most likely to have 
happened and finally what I consider to be fair and reasonable. 
Mrs G, from the statement of account, hadnt made any repayments from February 2020, so 
even taking into account the help and support potentially offered by the FCA as part of its 
COVID-19 support package, Mrs Gs account was clearly in arrears as no payments had 
been made. Allowing for any repayment holiday, the account wouldve been at least three 
months in arrears  which is the amount of time the ICO says is the minimum amount 
required before a default can be recorded with the credit reference agencies. Therefore, on 
20 July 2020 a default notice was dispatched to the address that Satsuma wouldve held for 
Mrs G. 
Mrs G has said this wasnt received by her. But in cases such as this, the onus is on 
Satsuma to show the default notice was sent. I have no reason to doubt the system note that 
it has provided which shows one being generated and dispatched. So, on balance, I think it 
is more likely than not that Satsuma did generate and send Mrs G a default notice in 
July 2020. 
It is of course possible, that Mrs G didnt receive a copy of the notice  I have no way of 
knowing for sure. But its worth saying that Satsuma only has to provide evidence of the 
notice being sent, not that the notice was actually received. And given this was at the start of 
the pandemic it is entirely possible the notice wasnt delivered. But that wouldnt be an error 
on the part of Satsuma.
As Ive said above, Mrs G contacted Satsuma around a week later to provide an update 
about her situation and to confirm she was back in the country. Payments were reinstated 
and Mrs G, as part of this call even asked for a settlement figure. This may have been 
enough to stop the default being applied at this point in time. 
Although, what isnt clear is why, when no payment was made in August 2020 why the 
default wasnt applied to Mrs Gs credit file at this point. This is especially so, given that there 
wasnt any further contact (as far as the evidence suggests) between the parties. It is entirely 
possible at this point though, that Satsuma didnt want to default the account given the 
COVID-19 pandemic was ongoing. But I cant say for sure. 
But what I can say is that there was no contact (based on the evidence) until 
10 December 2020, when there was a call where Mrs G provided further information about 
her financial difficulties. She also agreed to pay £50  Satsumas notes are clear that this is 
just a token payment. Satsuma, has noted, that Mrs G would call back the next day to go 
through an income and expenditure form. However, Satsuma didnt hear again from Mrs G 
until 26 January 2021. It isnt clear why she didnt call back the next day, as the note 
suggests she would. 
On the January 2021 call, a repayment plan was set up. Mrs G and the notes from Satsuma 
both agree, that a plan for £30 per month was put in place and I can see these repayments 
reflected in the statement of account. 
However, Mrs G says she was never told or made aware that repayments would return to 
the contractual amount of £166 at the end of the three months or there was a need to 
complete income and expenditure forms. 
As Ive said above, information isnt going to be available, that means I cant listen to the 
calls. But, I have no reason to doubt, what the call note says, indeed, taking the call notes of 10 December 2020 into account, it looks like on three separate occasions Mrs G was 
informed about the need to complete an income and expenditure form. Of course, its 
possible, Mrs G wasnt aware of the implications of not completing one, but I cant agree that 
she wasnt told, given the content of the notes, that one was needed. 
In addition, I dont know and cant be sure what if any paperwork was sent to Mrs G about 
the terms of her repayment plan. 
After the three month repayment plan, Satsuma has said on 10 May 2021, it tried to collect 
the contracted amount of £166  which would be consistent with what it said was agreed to 
and consistent with the payment schedule of the repayment plan that Ive seen.
This payment wasnt successful, I dont know why, but I dont need to speculate in order to 
reach a fair outcome. It is worth saying that Mrs G didnt contact Satsuma for another six 
weeks  until the end of June 2021. At which point, under Mrs Gs understanding (that she 
was due to pay £30 per month) shed have missed two payments of £30 each.  
So, looking at the ICO guidance and what has happened in this case, clearly, Mrs Gs 
account was sufficiently in arrears to be defaulted. No contractual payment had been made 
since February 2020, no payments at all between March and November 2020 and then only, 
reduced payments. 
Clearly, Mrs Gs account was at least three months in arrears. As Ive already mentioned Im 
satisfied a default notice was issued. So, the conditions have therefore been met for a 
default to be recorded with the credit reference agencies. 
Mrs G, clearly feels strongly, about what she was told on the phone about the £30 payment 
plan, but I have no way of knowing, for sure what was she told, I only have the system notes 
provided by Satsuma. But all the time she made the repayments, this would explain why the 
default wasnt recorded at this point in time (between December 2020 and April 2021). 
However, once the final £30 payment was made, and there was no further contact, Satsuma 
was entitled to try and collect the full contractual repayment of £166  when this failed the 
account was at this point;
sufficiently in arrears,
a notice of default had been issued, 
there had been a breakdown in communication, given after the failed May 2021
payment, Satsuma didnt hear from Mrs G for a number of weeks and
Mrs G wasnt in a position to return to normal contractual repayments. 
Also, thinking about what the ICO guidance says about when an account shouldnt be 
default, Mrs Gs circumstances dont fit any of the possible options, so it was therefore 
reasonable for Satsuma to default the account. 
So, while I know Mrs G will be disappointed by the decision, I do think it was reasonable for 
Satsuma to record the default notice when it did, and in my view it has done this in line with 
the ICO principles. This means I cant ask Satsuma to make a correction to her credit file. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman