DRN-2518759
The complaint
Mr B complains about the amount that hes been charged by Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited, trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance, when he returned a car and ended 
his hire purchase agreement.
What happened
A new car was supplied to Mr B under a hire purchase agreement with Mercedes-Benz 
Finance that he signed in June 2016. He ended the agreement early and returned the car. It 
was inspected by a third party on behalf of Mercedes-Benz Finance in April 2020 and the 
inspection report shows that the carts mileage was 28,558. The report identified damage to 
one of the alloy wheels and a missing compressor and tyre sealant and recommended a 
charge of £298.40.
Mercedes-Benz Finance charged that amount to Mr B and he complained to it about the 
charges. His complaint wasnt upheld so he complained to this service. Our investigator 
didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied that the damage to 
the alloy wheel was chargeable and that, on the balance of probabilities, the missing items 
wouldve been supplied with the car  so she thought that it was fair for Mercedes-Benz 
Finance to charge for those items.
Mr B has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He has responded in 
detail and says, in summary, that he accepts that hes liable for the damage to the alloy 
wheel but the car wasnt supplied with the compressor and tyre sealant, hes never used 
them and hasnt removed them from the car. He says that a more probable explanation is 
that the items had not been put in the car when it was supplied to him.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr B says that he accepts that the wheel scuff damage is his fault and that hes 
happy to pay for it so I havent considered the charge for that damage any further;
its clear that the compressor and tyre sealant werent with the car when it was 
returned by Mr B;
he says the car wasnt supplied with them, hes never used them and hasnt removed 
them from the car;
Mercedes-Benz Finance has provided evidence to show that the compressor and 
tyre sealant are standard equipment supplied on this model of car with the tyres that 
were fitted on the car that was supplied to Mr B  and they are included on the build 
specification for the car;
the photo taken when the car was inspected shows a space where the compressor 
and tyre sealant should have been;
I consider it to be more likely than not that the compressor and tyre sealant were with 
the car when it was supplied to Mr B and Im not persuaded that theres enough 
evidence to show that they were removed from the car before it was supplied to Mr B 
or that its likely that the car would have been supplied to Mr B without them;
I understand the frustration that Mr B feels in these circumstances but Im not 
persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the charge for the compressor 
and tyre sealant has been applied unfairly or unreasonably;
Mercedes-Benz Finance put the charge on hold when Mr B complained to this 
service but he was contacted by a debt collection agent about it  I sympathise with 
Mr B for any distress and inconvenience that he was caused but Mercedes-Benz 
Finance has confirmed that the charge is on hold, no adverse information has been 
recorded on Mr Bs credit file about the charge and Im not persuaded that an award 
of compensation is justified in these circumstances; and
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require Mercedes-Benz Finance 
to waive or reduce the charges thats its made to Mr B, to pay him any compensation 
or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman