DRN-3708947
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in September
2000 alongside a mortgage. The PPI was added to the account at the same time Ms M
took out the mortgage.
Ms M says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold her the PPI. Our adjudicator felt 
the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Ms M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so this 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ms case.
I dont think the policy was mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Ms M says it wasnt clear that the policy was optional, and it was sold to her as part of the 
mortgage package. But Ive seen a copy of Ms Ms mortgage application which included a 
separate section for PPI. In this the application includes the option to sign to agree to the 
policy under the words I would like to take advantage of mortgage repayments insurance. 
But there is nothing here to suggest Ms M had to take out the PPI or that it would come as 
standard as part of the mortgage application. Ms M has signed and dated in this section in 
addition to her signature to agree to the mortgage. 
Ive also seen a copy of a separate PPI application form that Ms M saw and signed. This set 
out the monthly cost and benefit of the policy. And again, there is nothing here to suggest 
the policy was compulsory or part of the mortgage package. So I think, at the time, it 
wouldve been clear that the PPI was optional and separate to the mortgage. 
Our adjudicator considered the evidence and felt this was an advised sale. Ms M hasnt 
disagreed with this, so Ive also considered this to have been an advised sale. This
means Halifax had to take reasonable steps to ensure the policy was suitable for her -
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For
example, she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the cover and
she seems to have had a need for this type of cover.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Ms M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But it looks like she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And for the same reasons I think the policy was suitable for her, I think it wouldve 
been useful for her had something gone wrong. So, I dont think better information about the 
PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
So overall, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold and so I dont think Halifax needs to refund all 
of the PPI payments made. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I am not upholding Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman