DRN-4010142
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (Virgin Money) 
delayed their mortgage application.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G applied for a £331,500 mortgage with Virgin Money through a broker on 
20 April 2021. The property they were purchasing cost £500,000, and the remainder of the 
funds was coming from an equity release on their existing mortgage with a third-party lender. 
Mr and Mrs G say their mortgage adviser provided information to confirm this on 
10 May 2021. And Mr and Mrs G sent further information to support this on 25 May 2021. 
A mortgage offer was produced on 10 June 2021. But, on 25 June 2021, Mr and Mrs G say 
their solicitor provided information to Virgin Money which made reference to a gift from a 
relative to assist them in paying stamp duty and doing some home improvements. Despite 
Virgin Money already having evidence of how the purchase was being funded, they say it 
asked for further forms to be completed and insisted on issuing a new offer to include this 
information. 
The revised offer was issued on 1 July 2021, so Mr and Mrs G missed their deadline of 
30 June 2021. Mr and Mrs G say Virgin Money caused them financial losses because they 
had to pay £27,500 in stamp duty instead of £14,000. They also had to pay an additional 
£500 to their solicitors to have the new offer reviewed. And, they say the delay caused them 
significant stress and inconvenience, particularly as it prevented their daughter starting a 
new school when planned. 
Mr and Mrs G are also unhappy with how long it took Virgin Money to investigate their 
complaint. 
Virgin Money looked into Mr and Mrs Gs concerns and issued a final response letter on 
28 March 2022. Virgin Money said it hadnt been informed of the gift previously. And once it 
became aware, it followed its processes by requesting more information and issued a new 
offer when that was received. 
Virgin Money did agree that it hadnt always met its own Service Level Agreement (SLA) in 
relation to turnaround times for documentation assessment. It confirmed it should review any 
documents within three to five working days, but there were two occasions when it took 
longer, causing a total delay of eight working days. Santander offered Mr and Mrs G £150 to 
apologise for this. 
As Mr and Mrs G remained unhappy, they referred their complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into what happened, but they didnt think Virgin Money needed to do 
anything more to resolve the complaint. Mr and Mrs G disagreed, so the complaint was 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mr and Mrs Gs complaint should be upheld, and Ill explain 
why.
A loan offer was issued on 10 June 2021 which would have allowed Mr and Mrs G to 
complete on the property purchase before the changes to stamp duty came into place on 
1 July 2021. 
On 25 June 2021 Mr and Mrs Gs solicitor sent some further information to Virgin Money. 
Ive seen a copy of a Gifted Deposit form which said that Mr and Mrs G were going to 
receive £45,000 towards the purchase of the property from a relative. There was also a letter 
dated 24 June 2021 that explained a copy of the gift document from the borrower was 
attached. Virgin Money received this on 26 June 2021.
While Mr and Mrs G say thats not what the funds were to be used for, it was their solicitor 
that said it was to be used for the purchase. The form doesnt specify the gift was to be used 
for stamp duty or home improvements as Mr and Mrs G have since said. So, I dont think it 
was unreasonable for Virgin Money to rely on this information. And Virgin Money has 
explained this was considered a significant change which meant it had to issue a new offer. 
This was done by 1 July 2021, so I think it was turned around fairly quickly. 
Mr and Mrs G dont think it was necessary for Virgin Money to reissue the offer. But its not 
for me to decide what Virgin Money puts in its loan conditions. Virgin Money had reason to 
believe Mr and Mrs G were being gifted funds towards the property purchase, and it felt that 
needed to be reflected in the special conditions of the mortgage offer. I can see this was 
added to the new offer it issued on 1 July 2022. So, I dont think Virgin Money is responsible 
for the additional £500 Mr and Mrs G had to pay their solicitor for the new offer to be 
reviewed. If Mr and Mrs G disagree that the gift was for a different purpose, they would need 
to take that up with their solicitor.
Mr and Mrs G have provided an email from their broker confirming she had evidence of 
source of funds on file, but that Virgin Money never requested this. She said, if it had, she 
could have provided it. But Virgin Money was never made aware of the gift as Mr and 
Mrs Gs broker hadnt made any reference to it, only the solicitor did when it sent the 
relevant documents on 25 June 2021. If the broker had referenced it prior to this, 
Virgin Money could have asked for more information about the gift sooner than it did  which 
would more likely than not have prevented the need to reissue the loan offer.
Virgin Money has accepted it didnt always meet its own SLA  it took longer to review some 
documents than it should have. But both of these events took place before Mr and Mrs Gs 
solicitor sent in further information about the gift and so I dont think these small delays had 
any real impact on the event Mr and Mrs G are complaining about. Virgin Money couldnt 
have anticipated the new information it received, and the delay was primarily caused by that. 
Virgin Money has offered Mr and Mrs G £150 compensation to acknowledge the earlier 
delays and I dont think it needs to do anything more in the circumstances. I understand Mr and Mrs G are also unhappy with how their complaint was handled, 
specifically how long it took to get an initial response, and then how long it took to get a 
response to their follow-up letter.  But complaints about complaint handling do not fall under 
our remit. The Financial Conduct Authority sets out what complaints we can and cant 
consider in its Dispute Resolution Handbook. Under Disp 2.3, it explains that this service can 
only look into complaints about financial services provided by the business. This does not 
include how it handles complaints.
Considering everything, while I empathise with Mr and Mrs G I dont think Virgin Money is 
responsible for them having to pay higher stamp duty, an additional £500 fee, or for any 
impact on their daughter moving school. The information it received clearly suggested the 
gift was to be used towards the purchase of the property and Virgin Money felt this had to be 
reflected on the offer. Virgin Money was not given notice of the gift prior to its original offer, 
so it couldnt have resolved the matter any sooner than it did. And I think Virgin Moneys 
offer of £150 compensation for the other delays is fair in the circumstances. If Mr and Mrs G 
want to accept this now, they can return the attached form.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman