DRN-3233951
The complaint
Mrs Y complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) has applied 
spending limits on her account.
What happened
Mrs Y says she opened her AESEL account in July 2021 and needed to spend £5,000 within 
the first three months in order to receive 20,000 promotional points. She says she tried to 
make a number of purchases using her AESEL account charge card, but they were declined. 
Mrs Y says she was given incorrect information about her spending limit and was told a 
payment of £10,000 should be approved. She would like points awarded for the declined 
attempted purchases and a refund of the annual fee of £150.
AESEL accepts it gave Mrs Y misleading information and has awarded her 3,000 points. It 
says Mrs Y has received the 20,000 promotional points and says its entitled to decide the 
spending limits.
Mrs Y brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Mrs Ys charge card account didnt have a credit limit but thought it up to AESEL to 
decide upon spending limits. The investigator thought AESEL fairly awarded the 3,000 points 
for the misleading information and that she had received the opening points offer.
Mrs Y doesnt accept that view and says she was told the £10,000 payment would be 
authorised and questions how customers can qualify for the points incentive if AESEL block 
the payments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mrs Y will be disappointed by my decision. 
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties and there is no need for me to 
repeat it in detail in this decision. And there is no dispute that Mrs Y was given incorrect 
information for which I can see that AESEL has fairly awarded her 3,000 points. Im satisfied 
that offer is fair and reasonable for that part of the complaint.
I have looked at the online exchange between AESEL and Mrs Y and accept that she was 
told that the intended payment of £10,000 should be approved. I appreciate in those 
circumstances Mrs Ys frustration when the payment was declined. But I also think that no 
guarantee was given to her and the term should does not provide such a guarantee. I am 
sure Mrs Y appreciates that there is never a guarantee that any type of transaction will 
always be authorised for security and other reasons. So, I dont think AESEL made a 
mistake or acted unfairly by rejecting the payment.
Im satisfied that Mrs Y did receive the 20,000 points as part of the opening offer. So, whilst I 
appreciate what she says about the misleading advert and if customers can reach that 
spending amount, I can only consider what did happen and Mrs Ys complaint. I have made 
clear that despite the declined transactions Mrs Y did reach the spending threshold of 
£5,000 to qualify for the points.
I find that its up to AESEL to decide when exercising its commercial judgement what it 
allows its customers to spend and so it follows that I cant fairly order it to pay Mrs Y the 
points for declined transactions. I also find Mrs Y had the benefit of the account and can see 
no reason why AESEL should refund the annual fee.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman