DRN-3112842
The complaint
Mr W says Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans (Everyday) irresponsibly 
lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about one loan Everyday provided to Mr W in July 2016. Mr W borrowed 
£1,500 and he was due to make 24 repayments of £154.43. The total he would repay would 
be £3,702.32 over the term of the loan. 
I understand that Mr W had problems making the loan repayments and he has been able to 
repay £1,431.01. The loan payments are now being collected by a third-party collection 
agency.  
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ws complaint. She though that Everyday shouldnt have given 
the loan. This was because Mr W had a significant amount of other debt which it knew 
about. And this would mean that Mr W wouldnt be able to sustainably repay this loan. 
Everyday disagreed. It said that whilst it was aware that Mr W had other short term and high 
cost loans, it was recorded that this new loan was for debt consolidation and a computer. 
And so, his other debt wouldnt mean that the new loan was unsustainable as his other debt 
would be repaid. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think the 
overarching questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint are:
Did Everyday Loans, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate 
checks to satisfy itself that Mr W would be able to repay in a sustainable way? If not, 
would those checks have shown that Mr W wouldve been able to do so?
Did Everyday Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
If I determine that Everyday did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr W, and 
that as a result he has lost out, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ws ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Everyday had to think about whether repaying 
the loan would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for Mr W. In 
practice this meant that business had to ensure that making the payments to the loan 
wouldnt cause Mr W undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr W. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint.
Did Everyday complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr W 
would be able to repay the loan without experiencing significant adverse consequences?
Everyday has provided evidence to show that before approving the loan it obtained some 
information about Mr Ws income and employment. It also looked at some credit reference 
agency information. It used a proportion of his income to estimate his expenditure using 
national averages. Based on those checks, Everyday thought it was reasonable to lend. It 
thought the checks showed that Mr W had enough disposable income to be able to repay 
the lending sustainably. 
As I mentioned above, our adjudicator thought that the checks Everyday did showed that 
Mr W wasnt in a position to borrow. This is because the bank statements he provided, and 
that Everyday saw, showed that he was borrowing and repaying a significant amount to 
short-term lenders, and other creditors, each month. He was also struggling to pay his 
ordinary expenses, some direct debits were routinely being returned and there was evidence 
of payments to a debt recovery organisations. So, he wouldnt be able to sustainably repay 
this lending.In its response to the opinion Everyday didnt dispute that Mr W had taken 13 short term 
loans over the four months running up to the loan. And at least two were taken very recently. 
But it says that the new loan was to help him repay this lending and purchase a computer. 
Ive looked to see if what Everyday says is reasonable. There is only a passing reference to 
debt consolidation in the point of sale information. And its not unreasonable to say that Mr 
W was borrowing and repaying significant amounts to other creditors including short term 
lenders before he took this loan. The total amounts were not far short of, or above, the new 
loan amount itself. 
And Mr W was clearly struggling to repay his other bills and payments. And this had been 
going on for some time given the entries showing payments to a third-party debt collection 
organisation. This would be on top of the amounts he owed to the short term lenders. 
I dont think its reasonable to say that the information Everyday had showed that this new 
loan would be enough to repay his other lending in full. And I dont think it was reasonable to 
assume Mr W would be able to repay enough of his existing debts for this loan to have made 
a difference to what he would pay towards other creditors going forwards.  
So, I dont think that Everyday could say with any degree of confidence that taking new loan 
would allow Mr W to make the loan repayments sustainably. As he wouldnt be able to afford 
to do so given his other commitments and financial problems. And so, I dont think it was 
responsible to lend. 
And this was borne out going forward. Mr W has provided his bank statement for August 
2016, the month after he took the loan. This shows that he borrowed just over £1,600 from 
other short term lenders. So, its clear that his loan wasnt going towards debt consolidation 
and wasnt used as such.
Given all of the above, I think Everyday needs to put things right. It shouldnt have approved 
this loan as I dont think Mr W could sustainably repay it. 
Did Everyday act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive also thought about whether Everyday acted unfairly in some other way and I havent 
seen any evidence that it did.
Putting things right
Everyday shouldnt have given Mr W this loan. So it should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan,
Treat any payments made by Mr W as payments towards the capital amount of 
£1,500,
If Mr W has paid more than the capital then any overpayments should be refunded to 
with 8%* simple interest from the date they were paid to the date of settlement,
But if theres still an outstanding balance, Everyday should come to a reasonable 
repayment plan with Mr W.
Remove any adverse information about this loan from Mr Ws credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday to take off tax from this interest. Everyday 
must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Ws complaint. Everyday Lending 
Limited should put things right for Mr W as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman