DRN-2526629
The complaint
A partnership, which Ill refer to as B, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLCs application 
process for a Bounce Back Loan was unclear.
 
Bs partners, Mr N and Mrs S, bring the complaint on its behalf.
What happened
On 18 May 2020 Mr N applied to Barclays for a Bounce Back Loan for B. The application 
was approved for a loan of £4,000.
A short while later, Mrs S tried to apply for another BBL Bounce Back Loan on behalf of B. 
But Barclays didnt accept this application. It said only one Bounce Back Loan could be 
granted per business and, as B had already applied  through Mr N  and been approved for 
a loan, it wouldnt be able to apply again.
 
Mr N and Mrs S complained. They said theyd thought that as B was a partnership, theyd 
each needed to complete a separate application. They said the application process wasnt 
clear about this and, as a result, Mr N had provided his personal turnover rather than Bs. 
Mr N and Mrs S said this had left B unable to obtain the extra funding it needed.
Barclays sent its final response on 6 October 2020. It said the rules of the Bounce Back 
Loan Scheme, as set by the Government, allowed one loan per business. So there was 
nothing further it could do.
 
Unhappy with Barclays response, Mr N and Mrs S asked this service to consider Bs 
complaint and it was reviewed by one of our investigators. She thought the application 
process was clear and didnt think Barclays had misled Mr N or Mrs S in any way. So she 
think it should be held responsible for a misunderstanding of the application process.
The investigator also said Barclays had correctly declined any further applications because 
the Scheme rules at the time prohibited more than one loan. Although she did note that Mr N 
and Mrs S had successfully topped up Bs loan after the Scheme rules had changed in 
November 2020 to allow additional borrowing. She acknowledged Mr N and Mrs S thought 
they shouldve been able to apply for more top-up funding. But she didnt think Barclays had 
done anything wrong by not allowing them to do so, she said that was because the top-up 
amount is based on the self-certified turnover provided in the initial loan application.
Mr N and Mrs S remained unhappy so, as agreement couldnt been reached, Bs complaint 
has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In correspondence with this service Mr N has said he and his business partner, Mrs S, 
assumed they would need to apply separately for a Bounce Back Loan. He thinks the 
application process was unclear on how to apply on behalf of a partnership, and this caused 
him to provide inaccurate information about Bs turnover. So Ive checked the application 
Mr N completed to see the steps he wouldve taken and the questions he was asked.
 
From what Ive seen, theres nothing which suggests a partnership needs to follow a different 
process  or that Barclays required each partner to make a separate application.  
Mr N has said he misunderstood the application process. Ive no reason to doubt thats what 
happened but, even so, I dont think that means the application process was unclear. Ive 
been provided with a copy of the application completed by Mr N, and I can see it specifically 
names B as the applicant. So the questions asked throughout are about the business rather 
than Mr N or his business partner as individuals. The question specific to turnover asks:
What is your annual turnover, or if your business was established after 
1 January 2019, what is your estimated annual turnover? For businesses 
which are part of a broader group, please state your groups turnover.
Further, Im satisfied that the declaration  which needed to be read and signed to complete 
the application  is clear that the application is on behalf of the business, and that only one 
was permitted. It reads:
I/We confirm that this is my/our only application for a Bounce Back Loan 
for this business 
Taking all of that into account, I think Barclays was clear in explaining that the application 
was being made on behalf of the business and that its the business details  rather than 
those of the individual partners or directors  that had to be provided. So Im not persuaded 
that any misunderstanding on Mr Ns part  which he says caused him to provide inaccurate 
information  is the fault of Barclays.
 
Mr N and Mrs S were unhappy Barclays wouldnt allow a second loan application to be 
made. But, like the investigator, I think Barclays was correct in not doing so. Thats because, 
at the time, it wasnt possible to obtain a second loan  or top-up an existing loan  under 
the rules of the Scheme. 
The Scheme changed in November, and businesses were given the option to top-up existing 
loans. Mr N and Mrs S successfully applied to top-up Bs loan by £4,000 on 18 November. 
This was the most they were allowed to borrow, as the total loan was now equal to 25% of 
the turnover declared in the application  the maximum permitted under the Scheme rules.
 
Mr N and Mrs S think they shouldve been able to apply for more  but because of the wrong 
turnover information Mr N provided when he initially applied, they couldnt. But, as Ive said 
above, the error wasnt caused by something Barclays did. The Scheme rules are clear that an applicants turnover is self-certified, so Mr N had a responsibility to ensure the information 
he provided was accurate. Barclays then processed both the original loan application and 
the top-up request based on that information, as it was expected to do under the Scheme 
rules. It follows that I dont think Barclays is responsible for B being unable to apply for a 
larger amount.
 
I appreciate Mr N and Mrs S will be disappointed by what Ive said, and I recognise their 
frustration at the matter. As Ive said above, Ive no reason to doubt there was a genuine 
misunderstanding. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I cant conclude the issues B 
encountered with its Bounce Back Loan are because of anything Barclays did wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman