DRN-1291434
 
complaint
Mrs M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a monthly premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs M took out a credit card in 1996. She was sold the PPI at the same time in connection 
with this card.
The PPI would have cost around 70p per £100 of the outstanding balance and would have 
paid 10% of the monthly outstanding balance for up to 12 months if Mrs M was off work sick 
or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. Mrs M didnt agree with our 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ms case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
First of all Ive considered whether Mrs M would have been eligible for the policy. Based on 
Mrs Ms age and circumstances at the time of the sale, Im satisfied Mrs M was eligible.
Barclays had to make it clear to Mrs M that the policy was optional and needed her consent 
before it could be applied to the account. 
I cant know for sure what took place during the sale and so Ive thought carefully about what 
Mrs M and Barclays have told us and looked at the documents provided to help me decide 
what is more likely to have happened.
In particular, Ive seen a copy of the credit application from the time of the sale. This had a 
section for PPI. Within this section were two equally clear options to take or refuse PPI. I 
note that the option to take PPI has been selected and Mrs M signed this application form.
So I think its more likely that the PPI was presented as optional and was only added to the 
account because Mrs M chose to take it out. Of course I can understand if Mrs M no longer 
recalls this given the length of time since the sale.
Barclays say that based on the type of application form, PPI could have been sold in the 
branch or as a postal application. However, in fairness to Mrs M they have treated this as a branch sale. I say in fairness because a branch sale would mean that Barclays would have 
advised Mrs M to take PPI. This in turn means that Barclays would have needed to take 
adequate steps to ensure the PPI was suitable for Mrs M. They wouldnt have needed to 
take these steps if it was a postal/non-advised sale. 
I dont know if Barclays took all the steps they should have to check that the PPI was 
suitable for Mrs M but I think the PPI was suitable for Mrs M anyway. I say this because:
 
The PPI would have paid out in addition to Mrs Ms existing benefits. Ive seen 
conflicting information about Mrs Ms employee benefits but even if I take Mrs Ms 
benefits at their highest (six months full pay followed by six months half pay), the 
policy would still have been suitable for Mrs M as it would have paid out in addition to 
her benefits and would have been particularly useful when her sick pay reduced to 
half. It would also have paid out for up to 12 months if she lost her job.
 
Mrs M didnt appear to have been affected by the exclusions and restrictions in the 
policy which would have made it difficult for her to make a successful claim under the 
policy.
 
I havent seen any evidence to suggest the policy was unaffordable to Mrs M at the 
time of the sale.
 
Mrs M could have cancelled the PPI at any time without losing out financially if she 
no longer wanted or needed it.
 
As well as checking the PPI was suitable for Mrs M, Barclays also had to give her clear 
information so that she could make an informed decision about whether or not to take PPI. 
Its possible the information Barclaycard gave Mrs M wasnt as clear as it should have been. 
But this in itself doesnt mean the PPI was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider whether 
better information would have put her off taking it out.
And I dont think better information would have put Mrs M off taking PPI. I say this for the 
same reasons I think the PPI was suitable for Mrs M.
So having taken everything into consideration, I dont think Barclays mis-sold Mrs M this PPI 
policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman