DRN-2762133
The complaint
Mr W complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) failed to deal with the damage it
caused to his home under his British Gas Home Cover.
What happened
I set out the background to the complaint within my provisional decision and also here. 
When Mr W noticed some damage to his water tank in late June 2019 he contacted BG. BG
sent its engineer to repair the tank. However, a few days later the repair failed and water
came through Mr Ws ceiling which he said damaged ceiling plaster and laminate flooring.
Mr W called BG again and further repairs were made to the tank the same day. BG then
carried out repairs to Mr Ws home, but Mr W said it wouldnt complete these and he was left
with no lights in his living room and damage to ceiling and flooring and his sofa. Mr W said
BG asked him to provide an electrician's report.
BG apologised to Mr W for causing the leak. It said it had repaired the ceiling and offered
£300 for the decoration and £150 for the sofa clean. BG said it wouldnt pay for the flooring
or the coving as it said these werent damaged by the leak and it wanted an electrical report
about the light fitting. Mr W said hed provided photos of a water stain on the coving and of
the damaged flooring. BG subsequently agreed to repair the coving and the light fitting, but
not the flooring. BG offered a total of £500 cash settlement for the ceiling repair.
Mr W said his laminate flooring was left wet until 12 July when BG provided a dehumidifier.
He said this was faulty and was replaced on 17 July. Mr W said BGs claim that his flooring
has settled down is incorrect as it is not as good as it was, and he cannot lift the floor without
damaging it to inspect for hidden damage and dampness to the underlay. BG said its
assessor found no damage to Mr Ws flooring and this is confirmed by his photos.
Mr W accepted payment for the sofa clean but wasnt happy with the quality of the repairs by
BGs contractor or its offer of cash settlement for this work. Mr W estimated the replacement
of his flooring at £1,540. And he estimated compensation of £1,700 for time hed taken off 
work and the stress BG had caused him. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said Mr Ws photos werent
sufficient evidence of damage to require BG to carry out repairs to his flooring or coving. He
said BG should consider a quote or pay the £500 it offered for the ceiling repairs. He said the
delays were due to a dispute with Mr W and it was fair for BG to await our ruling. The
investigator said no compensation to Mr W should be paid as there was no financial loss.
Mr W said he will get a report about the damage to his flooring. BG sent payment of £300 for 
the ceiling repairs but its payment for cleaning his sofa was delayed. BG had offered a 
further £200 for ceiling repairs so it wouldnt have to send contractors to Mr Ws home. Mr W 
obtained a quote of £1,050 for the work and said BG still hadnt sent its electrician. BG 
declined to pay Mr Ws quote and Mr W requested an ombudsman review his complaint.
My provisional findings and the parties responses
In my provisional decision I said the parties disagree about the extent of the damage to Mr 
Ws home and whats required to restore it. And I hadnt seen any progress in resolving the 
issues for over a year.
I have seen Mr Ws photos of the damage to his ceiling and part of the coving. There is
clearly a water stain covering part of the coving and so I think it was right that BG made
repairs. Mr W said BGs initial work was flawed as the contractor wanted to paint over a long 
crack and plastered up to the coving rather than removing it to achieve a good finish. Mr W 
said he had to stop the contractors work because of his concerns.
Following Mr Ws dispute with the contractor BG was reluctant to send contractors back to 
complete the work. BG offered a cash settlement, which Mr W considers to be inadequate to 
pay for the work to be done properly. I agreed with Mr Ws concerns about the work as he 
would have been left with different levels of ceiling plaster as the coving hadnt been 
removed, and a large crack just painted over.
I thought Mr Ws estimate for the ceiling work at £1,050 offered the prospect of competent 
redecoration and a lasting repair. And, as this is what we would expect an insurer to do I 
thought BG should pay him £1,050 for the work to be completed properly, deducting any of 
the £500 it may have already paid Mr W for the repairs.
BG inspected Mr Ws floor at the time of the claim and the photos hes provided and said
there was no lasting damage. Mr W hasnt obtained his own report about the flooring as he 
said he might. I thought BG had reached a reasonable conclusion about Mr Ws flooring.
BG said it would send an electrician to inspect Mr Ws light fitting many months before it did 
so in August 2020. But no arrangement was made to replace the fitting. I said an internal 
email shows BG would respond to a quote for the fitting from Mr W, but BG hadnt told Mr W 
this and he has been left to chase this up for over a year. I thought BG should tell Mr W how 
it will settle the repair or replacement of his electrical light fitting.
I said that its our role to see if there have been avoidable delays and inconvenience and 
assess how this might be reflected in an award of compensation. I thought there had been a 
host of avoidable delays and poor service by BG. I said the repairs took a long time, partly 
due to the dispute between Mr W and BGs contractor. It took some time for Mr W to obtain a 
quote for the ceiling repairs. But I found that by far the greater delay was due to BG who 
appeared to want to wait for our ruling, rather than taking action to resolve the claim. 
Even after our investigator sent his recommendations, BG only made part payment for the 
damage and Mr W had to chase up the remainder. I dont think BG has ever communicated 
properly with Mr W or our service about its handling of his claim. From the investigators view 
in February 2020 to date, it was open to BG to either carry out repairs or pay Mr W to do so. 
Instead BG has provided confused information about what it has done and has delayed its 
response, or done nothing. BG also told our service that the complaint was closed and that it 
had made Mr W an offer of settlement in February 2021 - neither of which was correct.
I thought BG hadnt made a proper effort to resolve this complaint and I thought it has 
provided very poor service to Mr W, leaving his home unrepaired for more than a year longer 
than necessary. I could well understand Mr Ws frustration at the lack of progress and
very poor, or non-existent communications from BG. And I was minded to require BG pay Mr 
W £500 compensation for the impact its poor service has had upon him.Mr W responded to the provisional decision to say it looked much fairer than our services 
previous assessment. He said his only concern is the lighting issue as that still isnt settled. 
He said the engineer BG sent out didnt carry out a test. He said the light fitting and the 
circuit need to be tested and then lights refitted - either new or old depending on test results.
Mr W said it would cost him at least £150 for a qualified electrician to test the lighting circuit
and cut back any cable that may have water damage from rust and extend it and then refit 
new lights. He said he could replace the light fitting for around £100. 
BG has not responded to the provisional decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered the complaint I remain of the view that it should be upheld. 
From the information I have seen I can understand why Mr W halted the work of BGs 
contractor in redecorating his home. We expect an insurer to carry out competent 
redecoration and make a lasting repair and I dont think thats what BG was providing. I 
remain of the view that Mr Ws estimate for the ceiling work at £1,050 is the best way to 
achieve this. And so, BG should pay Mr W for the estimate, less any of the £500 it may have 
already paid Mr W for the repairs.
Mr W has pointed out that when BGs electrician eventually attended his home he didnt 
carry out an electrical test and so he is no further forward in knowing if his light fitting and 
circuit are safe. I think BG should now make the tests it said it would carry out a long time 
ago or pay Mr W £250 so he can pay for his own test and new light fitting.
Its approaching two years since Mr W made his claim to BG and much of the damage its 
engineer caused has yet to be repaired. I have been very critical of BGs failure to deal with 
the issues and progress Mr Ws repairs. Since BG hasnt responded to my provisional 
decision I see no reason to amend these views. Consequently, I require BG to pay Mr W 
£500 compensation for the impact its very poor service has had upon him.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld.
I require British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr W £1,050 in accordance with his estimate 
for the repair and redecoration of his ceiling and coving. British Gas may deduct any 
payment it has already made to Mr W by way of cash settlement for the repairs.
I require British Gas Insurance Limited to send a qualified electrician to Mr Ws home to test 
the light fitting and light circuit that were exposed to water when the damage occurred and 
then either refit the light or provide a replacement of the nearest available equivalent 
depending on the test results. Alternatively, British Gas Insurance Limited may choose to 
pay Mr W £250 to carry out the work himself.
I also require British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr W £500 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience he has been caused by the very long delays and misinformation from 
British Gas in its very poor handling of his claim and the subsequent repairs.I expect British Gas Insurance Limited to carry out the requirements of this final decision 
within 30 days. If it fails to do so we may add interest to the awards set out here.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman