The complaint
Mr B says Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr B bought the policy in connection with a credit card that he took out some time between 
1999 and 2000. Lloyds cant say for sure whether the PPI was added to Mr Bs account at 
the same time as he applied for the card.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of 
the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr B's complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr B applied for his credit card some time between 1999 and 2000 and its possible
that he bought PPI at the same time. But Lloyds doesnt know for sure if this is the
case. Ive not seen anything to suggest the PPI was taken out after the card. So I
think its most likely Mr B bought the PPI at the same time as applying for his credit
card.
I think its likely that Lloyds made Mr B aware the PPI was optional and he chose
to take it. I say this because from what we know about Lloyds sales processes
between 1999 and 2000, Mr B wouldve had to actively select the PPI on his credit
card application form. So without anything else to support what Mr B has told me, I
dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to say that Lloyds didnt give him a
choice about whether or not to buy the PPI.
Lloyds accepts that it probably recommended the PPI to Mr B, but it doesnt look as if
it was unsuitable for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the
time. Mr B says he wasn't entitled to sick pay from his employer if he couldnt work
because of sickness or accident, and he didn't have any savings. So I think the policy
would've been useful to Mr B if he was off work sick.
DRN-1252227Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as
it should have been. But its unlikely Mr B would have been affected by any of
the main things the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and
had a reasonable benefit. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped him
buying the PPI.
My final decision
 My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept  
or reject my decision before 3 March 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman