DRN-4286267
The complaint
Mr B complains that Nutmeg Savings and Investments Limited failed to inform him in time 
that his bank had rejected the direct debit that theyd tried to use to collect a contribution to 
his pension.
Mr B says that because of this, he wasnt able to make the pension contribution, so it would 
arrive in his plan in the 2022/23 tax year. He would now like Nutmeg to refund the lost tax 
relief that he says hes missed out on because of their actions.
What happened
In December 2020, Mr B set up a direct debit instruction to make a single contribution to his 
Nutmeg pension. The intention was, that as and when he wished to make further 
contributions to his pension in the future, Nutmeg could then use the same direct debit 
instruction.
In March 2023, Mr B contacted Nutmeg explaining that he wished to make a further 
contribution into his plan. Mr B was keen to ensure that the payment was collected before 
the end of the tax year. As Mr Bs bank details hadnt altered, he understood the existing 
direct debit that Nutmeg had on their systems would be adequate. 
On 4 April 2023, Nutmeg contacted Mr B to explain that having tried to take payment, his 
bank had informed them that the existing direct debit had become dormant and as such, a 
new instruction would need to be set up. The following day, Mr B contacted Nutmeg but by 
this stage, the opportunity to set up a new direct debit and have the payment reach his 
pension before the end of the tax year had passed.
Shortly afterwards, Mr B decided to formally complain to Nutmeg. In summary, he said 
Nutmeg shouldve informed him sooner that his existing direct debit had become dormant 
and as such, a new instruction would need to be created. Mr B felt it was because of 
Nutmegs failure to keep him abreast of the direct debit rules that he subsequently missed 
out on the tax relief he couldve claimed.
After reviewing Mr Bs complaint, Nutmeg concluded that they were satisfied theyd done 
nothing wrong. They also said, in summary, that as soon as theyd become aware that Mr 
Bs direct debit instruction had been rejected by his bank, theyd highlighted this to him. 
Nutmeg went on to say that if Mr B still wished to make a pension contribution, he could 
make use of the pension Carry Forward rules.
Mr B was unhappy with Nutmegs response so he referred his complaint to this service. In 
summary, he repeated the same concerns hed set out to Nutmeg.
The complaint was then considered by one of our Investigators. He concluded that Nutmeg 
had acted reasonably in its dealings with Mr B. Our Investigator said that as far as he could 
see, Nutmeg had highlighted the problem with Mr B soon after being advised by his bank 
that they wouldnt accept the existing Direct Debit.
Mr B, however, disagreed with our Investigators findings. In summary, he said given that 
Nutmeg knew when the last Direct Debit had been taken from his bank account, they 
shouldve realised that it had become dormant and as such, cancelled. Mr B says Nutmeg 
shouldve made him aware of this. At the very least, Mr B says, Nutmeg shouldve 
telephoned him when they realised there was an issue with the collection of the payment, 
particularly in light of how close the tax year end was approaching. In addition, Mr B has 
explained that had Nutmeg informed him of the dormancy rules earlier, he couldve taken 
steps to ensure a new direct debit had been set up.
Our Investigator was not persuaded to change his view as he didnt believe Mr B had 
presented any new arguments hed not already considered or responded to. Unhappy with 
that outcome, Mr B then asked the Investigator to pass the case to an Ombudsman to 
review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important for me to note that I very much recognise Mr Bs strength of feeling 
about this matter. He has provided detailed submissions which Ive taken time to read and 
consider very carefully. However, I hope that Mr B and Nutmeg wont take the fact that my 
findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail as they 
have outlined, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr B and Nutmeg and to reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of this case. In deciding whats fair and 
reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulations and best industry practice, but it is 
for me to decide, based on the available information I've been given, what's more likely 
than not to have happened. Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint. Im in 
agreement with the Investigators initial view and for broadly the same reasons. I appreciate 
thatll likely come as a disappointment to Mr B, so Ill explain why below.
Ive looked closely at the timeline of this complaint. Mr B contacted Nutmeg on 27 March 
2023 asking them to collect a one-off pension contribution of £9,200. Whilst Nutmeg sent 
confirmation of the instruction to Mr B that stated the payment would be made the same 
day, further correspondence was issued that stated that the payment could take up to 10 
working days to complete. After Nutmeg requested payment, Mr Bs bank informed Nutmeg 
on 3 April 2023 that the existing direct debit had become dormant, and a new instruction 
would need to be set up. The following day, Nutmeg informed Mr B of this and on 5 April 
2023, Mr B responded to Nutmegs message of 4 April 2023. He asked whether it was too 
late to arrange a payment so it would arrive in his pension before the end of the tax year. 
By this point, it was too late and Nutmegs response of 6 April 2023 (in the new tax year) 
confirmed this. So, it seems to me that Mr B asked Nutmeg to make a payment to his 
pension, Nutmeg then approached Mr Bs bank to collect that payment within the 
timescales they set out, but it was Mr Bs bank who were unable to provide Nutmeg with 
the monies to fund his pension. 
In addition, once Nutmeg found out that Mr Bs bank wouldnt send them the funds, they contacted Mr B the following day to let him know. So, Im satisfied that they acted in a 
timely manner. Mr B says he wouldve expected Nutmeg to phone him given the urgency of 
the issue. However, Im not convinced that had they done, it wouldve made any difference 
to the outcome.
Ive taken a look at Nutmegs website and it states that the only payment method they can 
accept for their pension product is via direct debit. Therefore, Mr B couldnt have made 
alternate arrangements with his bank when he realised his direct debit had been cancelled. 
In addition, Nutmegs website also states that when a new direct debit is set up, the first 
collection can take up to 10 business days. So, even if Mr B had been aware on 27 March 
2023 that he needed to set up a new direct debit, there wasnt then enough time between 
then and 5 April 2023 (tax year end), that wouldve allowed Nutmeg the opportunity to set 
up the new payment authority, collect the premium and apply it to his pension. As the direct 
debit had become dormant, the latest Mr B couldve been sure his contribution wouldve 
been credited to his pension was if he had asked Nutmeg to set up the direct debit no later 
than 22 March 2023.
Ive also thought about whether Nutmeg shouldve been aware that Mr Bs direct debit had 
become dormant. Whilst the direct debit website does confirm banks and building societies 
will typically hold direct debit details on file for a minimum period of 24 months, I wouldnt 
expect Nutmeg to know the precise arrangements between different institutions which can 
and do differ. In addition, they were only advised that the direct debit had become dormant 
when they attempted to collect Mr Bs 2022/23 pension contribution.
Mr B says hes unhappy that Nutmegs online portal showed his direct debit option as still 
being available despite the fact that it had become dormant. Whilst I can well appreciate Mr 
B mustve thought that there wouldnt have been a problem, Nutmeg only found out that 
there was an issue with it after theyd tried to collect the premium.
Mr Bs bank was within its rights to decline the payment request, particularly given the 
amount and the fact that Mr B hadnt made a similar payment to Nutmeg in nearly three 
years. The dormancy rules are there to protect consumers. Mr B should contact his bank to 
understand their terms and conditions relating to expired direct debits. The run up to the tax 
year end is always a very busy time for pension providers as many consumers decide to 
utilise unused tax relief. However, its the consumers responsibility to ensure that they 
apply in good time to allow for any payment issues and as such, I dont think Nutmeg acted 
unreasonably in the circumstances.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and wont be instructing Nutmeg Savings and Investments 
Limited to take any action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Simon Fox
Ombudsman