DRN-3043007
The complaint
Mr S has complained that there were delays caused by Curtis Banks Limited in processing 
the acquisition of a commercial property by his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). He 
says the delays resulted in its completion falling into a new tax year leading to additional 
costs and a higher overall capital gains tax liability.
What happened
Mr S has complained about several issues relating to the administration of his SIPP. This 
decision only considers the particular complaint as I have outlined above. 
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint on 12 April 2021. I set out the background 
and circumstances to the complaint in that decision. 
To recap, Mr S owned a number of commercial properties. In 2017 he intended to use his 
SIPP to buy three of the properties he owned (I will refer to them as Property 1, 2 and 3). He 
wanted to complete the purchases within the 2017/18 tax year so that he could offset the 
capital gains tax liability incurred on the sale of one property against losses on the two 
others.
Mr S said he agreed with the Trustees consent to lend money to the SIPP himself under a 
loan agreement dated 30 May 2017. In brief, the loan agreement was approved and signed 
by the SIPPs Trustees (the borrower) and Mr S (the lender) and said:
The principle amount of the loan was to not exceed £400,000;
The interest rate was 2.59%;
The purpose of the loan was to purchase Property 1;
Repayment was through 6 annual instalments comprising both capital and accrued 
interest.
The agreement also said:
5. Interest
5 1 The Borrower shall pay interest on the Loan at the rate of 2.59% for the term of the loan.
5.2 Interest shall accrue daily and shall be payable annually, in arrear, and shall be
compounded on the last Business Day of each year.
5 3 If the Borrower fails to make any payment due under this agreement on the due date for
payment, interest on the unpaid amount shall be added to and compounded with the
total amount outstanding at that date.
6. Repayment
6 1 Subject to the provisions of this agreement, the Borrower shall repay the Loan in full by
six annual instalments comprising repayment of capital and accrued interest starting on
the first anniversary of the date of this agreement. The last repayment Instalment will be
repaid on the final repayment date being six year from the date of this agreement and
will be for the balance of the outstanding Loan including any outstanding interest.
6.2 The Borrower and Lender may agree in writing to vary this agreement including to
increase the amount and length of term of the Facility to finance the purchase of such
additional commercial property or properties as the parties may agree.
In August 2017 Mr S applied for the SIPP to purchase Property 2. Part of the funding was to 
be through a loan of £95,000. Mr S says this was provided for under Clause 6.2 in the loan 
agreement as above. 
Mr S completed a Commercial Property Purchase Application which was sent to Curtis 
Banks. Curtis Banks sent a letter to Mr S dated 7 August 2017 acknowledging receipt of the 
application. The letter went on to set out the further requirements for the purchase to be 
made. This included a section on borrowing which referred to a loan agreement and included 
the following:
You will be a party to the loan agreement, a copy of the facility document will be forwarded 
to you for your signature, as confirmation that you agree to the terms of the borrowing and 
so that we can proceed.
As advised I will request quotes from the solicitors, to draw up a new loan agreement, and
another, as to how we legally change the current Loan Agreement, we will also request 
guidance from our appointed legal representative in this regard.
The surveyors provided an independent "Red Book" valuation for Property 2 dated 14 
November 2017.
Mr S e-mailed the solicitors on 21 November 2017 saying, amongst other things:
The current loan agreement is for £400,000.00, I am assuming that you will be bringing 
clause 6.2. into action and issuing an instruction to increase the loan amount.
The solicitors report for Property 2 was provided on 15 January 2018. And there was a 
series of e-mails exchanged leading up to the April 2018 year-end deadline. These included:
30 January 2018 - The solicitor e-mailed Curtis Banks referring amongst other things to the 
rent review. He said, I have also been notified that [Mr S] as seller, has exercised the rent 
review provision in the occupational lease, increasing the rent from £7,950 to £9,450 
effective from the 24th of June 2017. I have drafted a completion statement with 
apportionments for a proposed completion date of 9 February. It assumes that the old 
occupational rent is paid up to 24 March 2018. .I note that the rent under the occupational 
lease will now be higher than the current valuation.
31 January 2018 - Mr S e-mailed the solicitor and Curtis Banks saying, amongst other 
things, The rental value has not changed since the date of valuation as the comparables 
given in [the surveyors] report support the figure now agreed. ie the property was always 
reversionary.
Curtis Banks contacted Mr S by e-mail. The e-mail referred to a number of issues about the 
property purchase. But in particular it said that it would need to contact the surveyor to 
confirm if the increase in the rent had increased the market value of the property. And that it 
would need evidence that the borrowing was on an arms-length basis. It said that Mr S was 
intending to borrow additional sums and amend the repayment schedule from 6 monthly 
repayments to a one-off lump sum repayment in 2021. It said where variations were made to 
existing borrowings it would expect to see evidence it had been obtained from a commercial 
lender that confirmed it would, in a like for like borrowing, agree to such an amendment.It said it couldnt see evidence from a commercial lender had been obtained and asked if Mr 
S had such confirmation. It also said as the borrowing terms (repayment terms) were to be 
amended, it would expect the borrowing to be secured against the property.
6 February 2018  Mr S e-mailed Curtis Banks referring to the terms of the loan being on an 
arms-length basis and secured against the SIPP assets. He also said: The valuation yield 
on the £95,000 valuation was lower than it would otherwise have been to reflect
the reversionary nature of the property ie 8.75% as against 7.75%. Bear in mind [the 
surveyor] had just let an identical unit at [the same location] for £9,500 pa with no incentive 
package which proved the open market rental value. (in fact I quoted terms to the tenant at 
£9,450 before I had the information on that comparable as I used the rental evidence in the 
first [surveyors] report).
26 February 2018 - Curtis Banks e-mailed Mr S. It said, amongst other things, that it had 
asked the surveyor about a number of issues including the rent review and indemnity. It said 
in terms of borrowing, HMRC rules required it to be on an arms length commercial basis and 
it wanted further evidence to be obtained from a commercial lender. It also said if the 
borrowing terms were to be amended (such as increasing the amount or amending the 
repayment terms) then it would expect the amendment to include securing the borrowing 
against the commercial property.
26 February 2018  Curtis Banks e-mailed the surveyor saying that it understood the rent 
review was ongoing and wanted to know if this would have an impact on the assessment of 
the market value.
27 February 2018 - Mr S e-mailed Curtis Banks addressing the points raised in its e-mail 
including
The rent review 
The indemnity
Valuations and deductions for costs
The proposed borrowing
He asked that it proceeded to complete without delay.
1 March 2018 - Mr S e-mailed Curtis Banks saying the state of play over the rent review 
hadnt changed since the date of the valuation. He said Curtis Banks hadnt understood the 
position over the indemnity or the valuation and costs. 
On the issue of the borrowing he said the initial agreement with the Trustees was for up to 
£400,000. This had been approved as being on an arms-length basis as provided by offers 
from two banks. He said the proposed loans (putting the borrowing back up to £400,000) 
was not amending the terms of the loan drawn up by a solicitor. He said the SIPP had over 
£5 million of assets and so the obligation to repay him £400,000 was backed up by the value 
of the SIPP.
12 March 2018 - Mr S e-mailed Curtis Banks saying he didnt understand its position on the 
issues surrounding the valuation. He reiterated his position on the borrowings. He went on to 
ask that the transaction should be completed with cash already held in the SIPP. He said if 
the transaction wasnt completed by the end of March he would take the matter further to 
obtain costs.
13 March 2018 - The surveyor e-mailed Mr S and Curtis Banks explaining the reasoning 
behind his valuation (deducting costs and allowing for the indemnity issue).28 March 2018  The solicitor emailed Mr S requesting an indemnity from him for the lack of 
a fire risk assessment. 
31 March 2018  Mr S e-mailed the indemnity to the solicitor.
Further emails were exchanged between Curtis Banks and the solicitor relating to several 
other details that required clarifying prior to completion. 
The solicitor e-mailed Mr S on 9 April 2018 saying the sale hadnt yet been completed.
In my provisional findings I said that Clause 6.2 of the loan agreement dated 30 May 2017 
said that the borrower and lender could agree in writing to vary the agreement. So there was 
provision in the existing agreement to vary the terms subject to both parties agreeing to it.
The agreement provided for interest to be payable yearly, whereas my understanding was 
the proposal to buy Property 2 was for interest to roll up for the duration of the loan term and 
be paid in a lump sum at the end of it. I thought the proposed variation to the repayment 
terms was a material variation. Clause 5.3 provided for interest to be payable on any unpaid 
instalments, and it wasnt entirely clear how this would be treated under the roll up 
arrangement. If no interest accrued on the annual instalments that would otherwise have 
been paid, the costs of the loan had changed.
I thought Curtis Banks had acted reasonably when wanting confirmation that a loan on the 
revised basis was on an arms-length basis.
Mr S had said that Curtis Banks was aware of his intention to rely on the May 2017 
agreement for the SIPP to buy further properties. I accepted that in terms of his general 
intentions, this was likely the case. But I thought each purchase would have been 
considered on its particular circumstances. 
Curtis Banks e-mail dated 7 August 2017 acknowledging receipt of the application included:
You will be a party to the loan agreement, a copy of the facility document will be forwarded 
to you for your signature, as confirmation that you agree to the terms of the borrowing and 
so that we can proceed.
As advised I will request quotes from the solicitors, to draw up a new loan agreement, and
another, as to how we legally change the current Loan Agreement, we will also request 
guidance from our appointed legal representative in this regard.
Mr S had said this showed Curtis Banks wasnt prepared to use the existing Loan 
Agreement and wanted a new loan agreement at further cost. I said in my view it suggested 
both options were still under consideration at that stage. And I thought the content of Mr S 
e-mail to the solicitors on 21 November 2017 saying, amongst other things:
The current loan agreement is for £400,000.00, I am assuming that you will be bringing 
clause 6.2. into action and issuing an instruction to increase the loan amount.
was consistent with nothing having been firmly decided at that stage.
However as the surveyors report was sent to Curtis Banks on 14 November 2017, and the 
solicitors report on 15 January 2018, I thought what was key was what happened between 
15 January and the April 2018 tax deadline in any event. It wasnt clear what steps were taken, if any, either by Curtis Banks or Mr S to contact a 
lender to establish the revised loan was on commercial terms. However I noted that on 12 
March 2018 Mr S told Curtis Banks that he would buy the property with cash in the SIPP. So 
the borrowing issue effectively fell away at this point.
In my view there was still time to complete the transaction, albeit time was tight. A number of 
issues were raised just prior to the April 2018 deadline which were set out e-mails 
exchanged between Curtis Banks and the solicitor. I said although it may have been 
possible for those issues to have been addressed earlier, I thought there was still one issue 
that hadnt been resolved between Mr S and Curtis Banks. And that was the basis for an 
appropriate valuation.
The solicitor had e-mailed Curtis Banks on 30 January 2018 referring to the rent review and 
the rent payable on the property being higher than assumed under the valuation. Curtis 
Banks had then contacted Mr S by e-mail, referring to this issue (and others) saying it would 
need to contact the surveyor to confirm if the increase in the rent had increased the market 
value of the property. 
Mr S has said the valuation was still valid and made a number of points about it including 
saying:
The valuation yield on the £95,000 valuation was lower than it would otherwise have been 
to reflect the reversionary nature of the property ie 8.75% as against 7.75%. Bear in mind 
[the surveyor] had just let an identical unit at [the same location] for £9,500 pa with no 
incentive package which proved the open market rental value. (in fact I quoted terms to the 
tenant at £9,450 before I had the information on that comparable as I used the rental 
evidence in the first [surveyors] report).
But the Valuation Report under 04.00 BASIS OF VALUATION said in our opinion it is 
appropriate to assess the Market Value of the subject property in the following manner and 
it referred to the rental at that time of £7,950.
Point 21 said:
21.00 OPINION OF VALUE:
21.01 Having regard to the foregoing and based on the assumptions set out in this report, 
we are of the opinions that, at the date of this report
a) the Market Value of the property subject to the existing occupational lease is £95,000 
(Ninety five thousand pounds).
Mr S had said the valuation was completed in accordance with the required standards. And 
as I set out above, he referred to the assumed yield being lower to reflect the reversionary 
nature of the property. However, although nothing may have actually been signed, it 
appeared to me that at the latest by January 2018, the rental increase had effectively been 
agreed and for it to be backdated to April 2017. But the November 2017 valuation had been 
based on the rental at the time it had been carried out - £7,950.
In his original complaint letter to us dated 19 October 2018 Mr S had said:
I have been [Mr S occupation] all my career and it was obvious to me that once the 
[Property 2] rent review was agreed and documented with an increase in rent from £7,950 to 
£9,450 there would be an increase in value.I thought the main issue here was that this was a connected party property acquisition. If Mr 
S had an element of control over the timing of the rent increase agreement there was the 
potential for the property to be undervalued.  However the transaction needed to be carried 
out on an arms-length basis. Although nothing may have been signed, the evidence 
suggested the rental increase had been agreed by January 2018 and to be backdated to 
2017. So I said I agreed with Curtis Banks that there was a risk this wouldnt be acceptable 
to HMRC.
In the circumstances, I said I didnt think it was unreasonable for Curtis Banks to make 
enquiries to satisfy itself the transaction was carried out using an appropriate valuation and 
was on an arms-length basis. I said I thought the queries about the valuation were 
reasonable. And given they werent resolved prior to the new tax year deadline, I said I didnt 
think Curtis Banks actions caused it to be missed. So my provisional decision was not to 
uphold this particular complaint.
Mr S didnt agree with my provisional findings. In brief, he said delays were caused by other 
valuation issues raised by Curtis Banks which had been addressed, rather than the rent 
review; the rent review issues werent the reason for the hold up.
I sent an e-mail to Curtis Banks dated 19 August 2021. In summary, I said having 
reconsidered the matter, I understood that once the April tax year deadline had passed the 
rent review was agreed and it was this and the November valuation becoming out of date 
that led to the requirement for a new valuation. I said Curtis Banks had raised the issue of 
the rent review and its impact on the valuation in the e-mail to the surveyor on 26 February 
2018. However, I noted that when the surveyor e-mailed back on the 13 March 2018 
explaining his reasons behind the valuation, he only addressed the issues of deducting costs 
and the indemnity.  He didnt address the impact of the rent increase. But that in the 
intervening period Mr S had e-mailed Curtis Banks initially on 27 February 2018, explaining 
the position. 
I said it appeared that the transaction was then going ahead. Curtis Banks hadnt raised the 
issue with the surveyor again following his reply on 13 March 2018.  And the e-mails 
discussing other issues that were subsequently exchanged between the parties just prior to 
the tax year end didnt refer to this matter. I said on the face of it, Curtis Banks had accepted 
the rent review/valuation explanation. So I thought on the basis of the documentary evidence 
that had been provided, it wasnt the rent review/impact on the valuation issue that held up 
the transaction.
I said although I accepted that there were other technical queries that were raised just prior 
to the end of tax year deadline, I couldnt see a reason they couldnt have been raised at an 
earlier date. Curtis Banks had been put on notice that Mr S was trying to complete before the 
end of the tax year. Whilst that didnt mean it had to complete in that period, I thought Curtis 
Banks was obliged to act in a timely manner with an aim to try and meet that objective. 
 
I said in the circumstance I was minded to change my provisional findings on this complaint 
and intended to uphold it. So I was minded to award Mr S £2,000 in respect of the additional 
capital gains tax he had to pay as a result of completion missing the tax year-end deadline, 
£600 in respect of additional solicitors costs and £474 for the second valuation fee. 
 
I asked the firm to provide any further evidence or arguments that it wanted me to consider 
before I made my final decision.
No further evidence or arguments were provided.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from the findings I set in my e-mail to the firm 
dated 19 August 2021 which I have summarised above, that the complaint should be upheld.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In my view fair compensation in this case is to pay Mr S directly £2,000 in respect of the 
additional capital gains tax he had to pay as a result of completion missing the tax year-end 
deadline. It should also pay him (directly and not into his SIPP  he has told us he has 
Enhanced Protection) £600 in respect of additional solicitors costs and £474 for the second 
valuation fee.
Interest at the rate of 8% per year simple should be added to the compensation from the 
date of this decision to date of payment if settlement isnt made within 28 days of us notifying 
Curtis Banks that Mr S has accepted this final decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr S complaint.
I order Curtis Banks Limited to pay compensation to Mr S as outlined above under Putting 
things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman