DRN-2657011
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out PPI alongside a joint mortgage which started in 1995. The policy 
covered Mr S and it protected the monthly mortgage repayments in the event that he 
couldnt work. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend upholding the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. They have raised a number of 
concerns but, in summary, their main complaint is that Halifax didnt explain that PPI was 
optional and they werent clearly told that it wasnt required to complete the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs S also said that if theyd been advised about the policy they wouldnt have taken 
it out as it appears it only covered Mr S and not Mrs S. 
In response to our adjudicators view, Mr and Mrs S told us that they dont think PPI was 
something they needed and it looks like the application form was filled in by someone else.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Heres why I say this.
Its completely understandable that Mr and Mrs S mightnt be able to remember in detail 
everything that happened when this PPI was arranged. This was a long time ago and so, 
whilst Ive no reason at all to doubt that theyre sure about what they have told us, what 
Mr and Mrs S say isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold their complaint.
I have to decide what I think is most likely taking into account all the information Ive got and 
the wider circumstances. 
The first thing Ive thought about is whether Halifax gave Mr and Mrs S a choice about taking 
out the PPI. 
In order to be able to uphold this complaint Id have to find that its likely that Mr and Mrs S 
werent given a fair choice about taking out PPI or that the policy was added to their 
mortgage account without their knowledge or consent. 
Based on the information Ive seen, I cant fairly say that the policy wasnt presented as 
optional or that it was added to Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage without their agreement. 
I can see that theres a section on their mortgage application headed MORTGAGE 
PAYMENTS PROTECTOR. This gives brief details of the protection this offers and gives 
applicants the chance to say if theyd like to take it out.
On Mr and Mrs Ss completed mortgage application, next to where it says: Do you wish to 
join the Scheme? (Y/N) the box is marked N. 
So I think there probably was some discussion about this and Mr and Mrs S understood that 
having PPI was optional and it was up to them to choose whether or not to take it out.  
As well as completing the mortgage application to arrange the borrowing they wanted, I've 
also seen a copy of the separate PPI application which Mr S completed a few weeks later. 
I accept that this form may have been completed for Mr S by Halifaxs advisor. But I think its 
likely that the information on the form probably reflected discussions the advisor had with 
Mr S. I think its reasonable to expect that Mr S wouldve looked carefully over the completed 
application before signing to make sure it reflected his wishes. And I think its fair to say that 
by signing the completed application he was indicating he agreed with the information on the 
form. 
Mr S was named as the person to be insured, he completed some questions to confirm he 
was eligible to take out this cover and he signed the completed form to take out the policy. 
So it looks like Mr S reconsidered his position and decided to apply for PPI. And I can see 
why he mightve done this. 
The mortgage was a long term financial commitment and their home couldve been at risk if 
Mr and Mrs S found themselves unexpectedly unable to keep up the monthly mortgage 
repayments. It looks like Mr and Mrs S couldve found the policy useful if theyd needed to 
claim. So its understandable that Mr and Mrs S mightve wanted to protect their home by 
taking advantage of the benefits that PPI offered. 
On balance, I think its likely that Halifax made Mr and Mrs S aware that it was up to them to 
say if they wanted the PPI and it was added on to their mortgage account when they chose 
to take it out for Mr S.
Halifax says it recommended PPI to Mr and Mrs S. If a business makes a recommendation 
about PPI, it doesnt just have to give important policy information in a clear way. It also has 
to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable. 
Looking at the likely policy terms and conditions, Mr S was eligible for the policy. He was 
covered for accident, sickness and unemployment.
It looks like Mrs S might not have been eligible for the policy as she wasnt in full time paid 
employment at the time  and her circumstances meant the policy might not have been 
suitable for her. As well as this, Mr S seems likely to have been the main earner. So for all 
these reasons, it makes sense to me that the policy was just in Mr Ss name alone. 
But this doesnt mean that PPI wasnt suitable for Mr and Mrs S. If Mr S made a successful accident or sickness claim the policy couldve paid out for up to 
24 months per claim. So, although Mr S told us he had good sick pay through work, the 
policy couldve paid out for longer than Mr S said he couldve depended on his employer to 
pay him sick pay. And the policy wouldve paid out on top of his work benefits  I think this 
couldve been particularly useful if Mr S mightve had some extra costs as a result of being 
sick or disabled.   
The policy also paid a monthly benefit for up to 12 months if Mr S lost his job unexpectedly 
and he found himself out of work. 
There was no guarantee when Mr and Mrs S took out this mortgage that they would always 
have savings to rely on because everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
And, if Mr and Mrs S didnt put all their money towards keeping down the cost of the 
mortgage, perhaps because they wanted to keep savings intact to provide financial security 
or to spend on other things, then I think they wouldve valued the extra protection PPI 
offered. Having PPI meant that Mr and Mrs S could be sure theyd be able to pay the 
mortgage monthly repayments without breaking into their savings.  
I think its likely that losing Mr Ss income wouldve had a substantial impact on 
Mr and Mrs Ss joint financial circumstances, even if Mrs S was also earning  PPI protected 
them against that risk. And the policy provided long term protection as Mr S couldve made 
repeated claims on it.
I've taken into account that Mr S changed jobs around the time the mortgage started. But it 
looks like he moved out of one job and into the next without being unemployed for any 
significant length of time in-between. So I havent seen enough to make me think that it 
wouldve been any harder for him to make a successful claim on the policy. And this 
information doesnt affect the outcome of this complaint. 
Overall, after thinking carefully about everything that Mr and Mrs S told us about their 
financial situation at the time, I think that the PPI offered them useful benefits and Halifaxs 
recommendation was suitable. 
Its possible some of the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. But it doesnt look as if Mr S wouldve been affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover. So, I dont think its likely that having more information 
about the policy exclusions and limitations wouldve put them off taking out the PPI to cover 
Mr S. 
I dont know what information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs S about the monthly policy cost. But 
they chose to take out cover when they didnt have to and there was an indication of the cost 
set out on the application Mr S filled in to get the policy. So Mr and Mrs S had an idea what 
they would have to pay for the policy and it appears they were happy to pay the monthly 
premium for the benefit they wanted to have. 
As this was a policy they paid for each month, Mr and Mrs S couldve cancelled the policy at 
any time without incurring any extra cost if they no longer wanted to pay for it.  
Its possible there were some failings in the way this policy was sold  but I dont think this 
wouldve made any difference to what happened. I think Mr and Mrs S still wouldve decided 
to buy the policy for Mr S even if theyd been better informed as the PPI gave them useful 
protection in their particular situation. Ive also thought about whether Halifax needs to give back to Mr and Mrs S some of the 
commission Mr and Mrs S paid. The Supreme Court ruling and new rules and guidance dont 
apply to certain types of mortgage agreement  including a regulated mortgage. 
As Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage became a regulated mortgage before 6 April 2008 they dont 
apply. So Halifax doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs S paid for the 
PPI which they had with that mortgage.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs S feel strongly about this complaint. I understand that what Ive 
said will come as a disappointment. In my decision, I havent commented on everything 
theyve said during the course of this complaint where theres nothing more I can usefully 
add to what our adjudicator has said in response already. But I've dealt with all the main 
points that have an impact on the outcome of this complaint. And I hope that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman