DRN-2425334
The complaint
Mr M complains that he was given unsuitable advice by Dunnottar Insurance Services 
Limited, an appointed representative of Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited (Quilter), 
when selecting the investment fund for his SIPP (self invested personal pension). 
Quilter is responsible for the advice its appointed representative gave. For convenience Ive 
just referred to Quilter below. 
Mr M is represented in making his complaint. 
What happened
In March 2017 Mr M sought advice from Quilter. He had preserved benefits in a final salary 
occupational pension scheme (OPS). Quilter advised Mr M to transfer to a SIPP (a 
drawdown arrangement) and invest the transfer value in the Old Mutual Generation 4 Fund 
(the Old Mutual Fund). 
Mr M, through his representative, complained to Quilter on 3 March 2020 making the 
following points:
Mr M was 55 at the time of the advice and had little experience or knowledge of 
pensions or investments. He accepted the advice as being in his best interests. 
COBS (Conduct of Business Sourcebook) 2.1.1R, COBS 4.5.6R and COBS 9.2.1R 
applied. The adviser also had duties under common law  to act with reasonable skill 
and care, which implies a duty not to expose a client to unnecessary risks, costs 
complexity or taxation. Disclosure of the risks and alternatives is also required to 
allow informed consent, as confirmed in the Supreme Court case of Montgomery v 
Lanarkshire Health Board. 
Investment costs are the most important factor in fund returns. Even seemingly small 
unnecessary costs can compound into significant long term detriment. Theres no 
reliable way to select in advance high cost funds that will deliver better returns than 
lower cost alternatives.
A financial adviser shouldnt expose a client to unnecessary fund costs and should 
give due consideration to low cost funds and their advantages, as well as ensuring 
the client is aware of those advantages and warned of the risks of higher cost 
alternatives. Choosing a higher cost, actively managed fund over, say, a low cost 
index fund exposes the client to an increased risk of a relatively poor investment 
return. Only a small proportion of fund managers can deliver sufficient 
outperformance to make up for the extra costs and those fund managers cant be 
identified in advance.
The client must be informed of all the costs they will be paying, including any hidden 
costs (such as trading costs within an actively managed equities fund or implicit costs 
in a with profits fund). Costs should be avoided altogether if possible (particularly if 
the alternative comes with guarantees and/or inflation protection). If costs cant be 
avoided altogether, they should be kept to a minimum. 
And, specifically about Mr Ms complaint:
Mr M was advised in invest in just one high cost, actively managed fund. According 
to Quilters recommendation report, the total expense ratio of the Old Mutual Fund 
was 1.15%. Total is misleading. There are substantial additional costs associated 
with actively managed funds, mainly as a result of trading within the funds. 
As highlighted in the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Asset Management Market 
Study, there are substantial additional costs associated with actively managed funds. 
When trading costs are taken into account, the true total annual cost is nearer 2%. 
Exactly the same asset allocation couldve been achieved with low cost index funds 
with total costs (including trading costs) of less than 0.4% pa. 
Lower costs mean higher returns. Low cost fund such as index funds shouldve been 
properly considered. He wasnt properly informed of the available alternatives, 
including (but not limited to), low cost index funds. Hed been exposed to 
unnecessary fund costs.
Mr M wasnt properly informed of all the investment costs associated with the fund 
recommended. 
Nor was he properly informed of the inherent risks in the product recommended. 
Mr M shouldnt have been advised to invest in the Old Mutual Fund without a fair and 
balanced comparison of the available alternatives. The advice was in breach of the 
regulators rules at the time; the common law duty to act with reasonable skill and 
care and the requirement to disclose all material information regarding risks, costs 
and available alternatives to allow informed consent. 
Quilter issued its final response letter on 31 March 2020. It didnt uphold the complaint. In 
summary it made the following points about the Old Mutual Fund:
It met Mr Ms objectives, including his requirements in relation to investment risk and 
investment strategy. It aimed to achieve an annual return of 4% above the UK rate of 
inflation over the medium term through a combination of the returns on income and 
capital by exposing Mr Ms capital to a diversified range of asset classes. The 
suitability report made it clear that a key benefit of a single fund was that it was 
relatively simple to view overall performance. A no cost switch to a cheaper fund 
couldve been arranged at any time. Whilst a lower cost fund was available, it 
wouldnt have met Mr Ms agreed investment objectives. 
Part of the FCAs Asset Management Market Study, published in June 2017, 
proposed to encourage increased transparency and standardization of costs and 
charges for institutional investors. The FCAs response was to require firms to 
provide aggregated and ongoing information on all costs. All costs and charges must 
be shown as a single disclosure, including asset management charges and indirect 
costs such as transaction costs and intermediary charges. 
Since the introduction of MiFID II (Markets in Financial Instruments Directive) in 
January 2018, firms have been required to provide aggregated costs and charges 
information to clients at least annually for the lifetime of their investment. And to 
calculate and disclose indirect costs (such as transaction costs) and to present these 
charges as a cash amount in cost disclosure documents. 
The transaction costs are estimated on product literature as the exact costs involved 
with the management and running of an investment fund cant be known. But exact 
details of aggregated costs as a monetary amount are provided at least annually. 
The key facts illustration issued to Mr M on 20 March 2017 showed the annual 
management charge (AMC) as 0.55% pa and other charges as 0.60% pa. The latter 
incorporated additional annual charges not included within the AMC. Quilter hadnt 
found evidence to substantiate the claim that the total expense ratio was closer to 2% 
pa. Mr M had been given full details, including monetary amounts, of all charges 
since inception of the plan. Mr Ms attitude to investment risk and preference with regards to investment 
strategies had been established during meetings with the adviser. It was agreed he 
was prepared to accept a moderate risk and wanted the benefit of an actively 
managed portfolio to meet his investment objectives of income and capital growth 
whilst protecting against inflation. Alternative fund options were available, including 
index tracking funds, but these didnt match Mr Ms investment preferences.
Index funds are generally cheaper to individual investors than actively managed 
funds as the managers of the former try to mimic the returns of the chosen index by 
purchasing all or almost all of the holdings in the index. Actively managed funds, 
such as the Old Mutual Fund, try to beat the market by picking and choosing different 
assets. The advisers conclusion was that an actively managed fund was best placed 
to meet Mr Ms objectives.  
Mr M had been made aware of cheaper alternatives and why they didnt meet his 
investment objectives. The suitability letter said that cheaper alternatives were 
available. And that a no cost switch could be made but a lower cost fund wouldnt 
meet Mr Ms agreed investment objectives. 
Mr M had emailed the adviser on 12 April 2017 saying hed read the letter and 
confirmed it was an accurate reflection of his situation and that he didnt have any 
queries. 
The answers Mr M gave to the risk questionnaire indicated he was a Dynamic 
Investor. After discussion his agreed risk rating was determined as a Moderate 
Investor (a lower level of risk). The attitude to risk report and the suitability letter 
clearly informed Mr M there were no guarantees and the potential for loss. In his 
email Mr A said he appreciated that his new pension could run out if I draw too 
heavily from it or the stockmarket takes a hit. Mr M was made aware of the inherent 
risks and made an informed decision to accept the advice given. 
The complaint was referred to us. One of our investigators looked into it but didnt uphold it. 
He thought the Old Mutual Fund was suitable for Mr M. The investigators main points were:
Mr Ms attitude to risk had been correctly assessed. Although the attitude to risk 
report indicated he was a moderately-high risk investor, that was changed to 
moderate. 
Mr Ms objectives were to access his tax free cash and secure an income of £600 pm 
to allow him to reduce his working hours, with the flexibility to increase or decrease 
that in the future. Mr M would be relying on the drawdown pension for the rest of his 
life and the investment selected needed to preserve his fund or, if possible, increase 
it. A moderate level of risk had to be taken to achieve the long term goal. 
The suitability report set out why the Old Mutual Fund had been selected. It also said 
that Mr M could switch to a cheaper alternative fund at no cost. The Old Mutual Fund 
was sufficiently diversified. It gave Mr M the flexibility he required and was easy to 
understand. It offered a balance of risk to gain some returns but not exposing Mr Ms 
fund to a high risk of depletion. The Old Mutual Fund was a reasonable 
recommendation.
The risks associated with the fund and the charges were clearly communicated. The 
retirement options report had a risk warnings section. Amongst other things it 
referred to the risk that investments can go up or down. And that, if taking a return 
from a fund that isnt guaranteed and the investments decline in value, there was a 
risk that the level (of income) might be unsustainable and the fund might run out 
unless investments rose significantly later on. 
The suitability report also highlighted the risks. And a risk of ruin calculated was done 
which showed the fund would last way past average life expectancy of 83. Other 
risks were mentioned. Mr M confirmed he understood the risks and was comfortable 
with them.Charges for both the advice and the fund were set out in the pension report. The 
ongoing charges for the fund were 1.15%. The illustration also set out the charges  
in total 1.15% but broken into two parts: The fund manager will charge you 0.55% 
each year to manage the fund. 0.60% is charged because Individual funds may have 
additional annual charges not included within the annual management charge. There 
was also a table setting out the effects of the charges over the years which was easy 
to understand. And the charges were highlighted and explained on the first page of 
the suitability report which also drew Mr Ms attention to the illustration and to the 
product brochure. The charges werent excessive and had been disclosed. There 
was no evidence that the fund charges shouldve been noted as 2% not 1.15%.
Mr Ms representative didnt accept the investigators views and said that the issues raised in 
the complaint letter dated 3 March 2020 hadnt been addressed. The representative asked 
for an ombudsmans decision. Mr M expected, as he was entitled to, his complaint to be 
properly considered in the context of the law, the applicable regulatory provisions and what 
was considered good (not common) industry practice at the time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account, as Im required by DISP (Dispute Resolution) 3.6.4R, the relevant 
law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
(where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
And I bear in mind what Mr Ms representative has said there being a difference between 
common and good industry practice. 
I dont dispute that Quilters adviser had legal duties, including contractual and common law 
obligations. And I dont disagree that informed consent requires full disclosure. But Ive 
focused on what the advisers regulatory duties were as I think those encompassed any 
legal obligations and imposed higher standards.
I agree that under COBS 2.1.1R the adviser had a duty to act honestly, fairly and 
professionally in accordance with Mr Ms best interests. And that COBS 4.5 contains 
provisions about communicating with retail clients (such as Mr M). But I think the central 
provision is COBS 9.2 and the requirement to provide suitable advice. So Ive concentrated 
on whether the Old Mutual Fund was suitable for Mr M. 
Mr Ms complaint is just about that fund recommendation. He isnt complaining that he 
shouldnt have been advised to transfer. That said, there is an overlap. Quilter had to 
consider the overall transaction. The intended underlying investment formed part and parcel 
of the transfer and so was part of the advice about transferring. But nothing turns on that 
given that I agree with the investigator that the Old Mutual Fund was suitable for Mr M.
I think the Old Mutual Fund met Mr Ms objectives. It was targeted at retirees such as Mr M 
who wanted an income but werent purchasing an annuity. Its central strategy was to beat 
inflation  it aimed to generate returns of 4% over the UK rate of inflation. 
I also think Mr M was in a position to take the level of risk posed by the Old Mutual Fund. 
The fund fact sheet Ive seen doesnt show a fund risk score. But, looking at the Funds 
make up, I dont think it was obviously unsuitable for a moderate risk investor such as Mr M.  
There was a substantial holding in International Equities (which I assume included UK 
equities). I dont know exactly what was included in the Alternative Assets. But it seems the 
higher risk holdings were balanced by the Global Fixed Interest and Money Market elements. I think the breakdown also indicates that the Fund was diversified, both in terms of 
having a mix of assets and geographically. 
I also agree with the investigator that the risks and the costs associated with the Old Mutual 
Fund were clearly communicated to Mr M. 
But, as Mr Ms representative didnt think wed addressed the issues set out in its complaint 
letter of 3 March 2020, Ive revisited that letter and made some further comments. 
Mr Ms representative has stressed the impact of charges. I dont disagree that charges are 
important and even relatively small (compounded) charges will impact on fund performance 
and so need to be taken into account. 
Mr Ms representative says that due consideration should be given to low cost funds. But I 
think the adviser did consider alternatives. The suitability letter said that cheaper funds were 
available. And that a no cost switch could be made later. But the adviser didnt think a lower 
cost alternative would meet Mr Ms objectives and explained why. 
I note whats said about not exposing a client to unnecessary costs. But the selection of one 
fund over a cheaper alternative doesnt automatically mean that unnecessary costs have 
been incurred. Its simply a reflection of the fact that not all funds carry the same costs. It 
doesnt mean that the higher charging investment must be unsuitable. 
Mr Ms representative says that actively managed funds rarely sufficiently over perform to 
make up for the higher costs. And that its not possible to identify, in advance, those 
managers who will deliver sufficient out performance, hence lower cost funds are preferable. 
But I think thats somewhat of a generalisation which, taken to its logical conclusion, would 
mean that no investor would select actively managed funds over lower cost funds. Opinions 
will differ as to actively managed funds. Such funds can deliver performance that, after fees 
are paid, beats the market, even if research shows that relatively few actually achieve that 
consistently. And, in comparing the performance of an actively managed fund with a lower 
cost index fund, I agree with what Quilter has said about the makeup of tracker funds being 
geared towards replicating the indexs holdings and so likely to perform in line with that.  
Id add that the issue isnt whether a different, cheaper fund would have done as well or 
better. With hindsight it will probably be possible to identify lower cost alternatives which 
would have delivered similar or better net returns. There are a huge variety of available 
pension arrangements and funds. The fact that one adviser may recommend one fund and 
another adviser may suggest another doesnt mean that one advisers recommendation 
must be wrong but simply that the opinion of different advisers will differ.  
I agree that the client must be informed of all costs that they will be paying. But I think that 
happened here. The costs were disclosed in the retirement report, the suitability report and 
on the illustration. The latter showed how charges could reduce the value of Mr Ms plan. 
The costs of advice were shown as well as if only plan and investment charges were taken. I 
think the illustration made clear the impact of the charges and how theyd affect growth. And, 
according to Quilter, Mr M will have received information at least annually which shows the 
charges that hes actually paid. I havent seen anything to suggest thats nearer 2% than the 
1.10% Mr M was told hed pay. 
Mr Ms representative says that, if possible, costs should be avoided altogether, especially if 
someone is giving up guaranteed and/or inflation protected benefits. But, in a situation such 
as this, it wasnt going to be possible to avoid costs altogether. Mr M was giving up an 
arrangement where he didnt pay any fees as such  his OPS - in favour of a drawdown arrangement. The fact that he may have given up guaranteed and/or inflation protected 
benefits by transferring isnt part of this complaint which isnt about the transfer itself. 
Nor do I agree that costs had to be kept to a minimum in the sense, if a cheaper alternative 
was available, that shouldve been recommended as a matter of course. Id agree that if 
costs were excessive that would be a problem. But I dont think the charges were. Simply 
because other cheaper funds couldve been chosen doesnt mean that the fund selected 
must have been unsuitable. 
I dont agree that Mr M wasnt informed of the risks. The suitability report contained a section 
about risk warnings and referred to the key features document which had been provided to 
Mr M and discussed with him. The retirement options report also dealt with risks, including 
those of drawdown with exposed investments  that is where the value of the investments 
was subject to the financial markets and could go up or down. 
Mr M confirmed he understood the recommendations and accepted them. From what Ive 
seen I dont agree that he didnt give informed consent. 
All in all, I dont think the recommendation to invest in the Old Mutual Fund was unsuitable 
and so Im not upholding the complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and I dont make any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman