DRN-2770118
The complaint
Mr C complains about how Haven Insurance Company Limited handled his claim on his car
insurance policy. 
What happened
In July 2019 Mr C was involved in an accident when driving his car. He called his broker who
referred him to an accident management company. Over a month later he called Haven to
chase what was happening on his claim. Haven said as he hadnt claimed on his policy, he
would need to speak with the accident management company.
The accident management company had closed its file on Mr Cs claim, so he claimed on his
policy with Haven. Haven reviewed the claim and initially said Mr Cs car would be a deemed
a total loss, and because of this he was told he wasnt entitled to a courtesy car. A month
later he chased Haven for the settlement and was told his car would now be repaired. Haven
instructed the repairers to fix Mr Cs car on 24 October 2019.
Over the next few months Mr C chased Haven about repairs to his car. As Mr C was
unhappy with the time taken to repair his car he complained. Haven responded to Mr C to
say there had been some delays to the repairs because of additional parts which needed to
be ordered. It said the repairs to Mr Cs car were expected to be completed on 24 January
2020. Mr C wasnt happy with Havens response, so he brought his complaint here. He said
the repairs were taking too long and hed had no access to a courtesy car or another car
while his was being repaired. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 8 April 2021 where I said:
Since this complaint has come to us Mr Cs car has now been repaired and he collected it 
on 30 April 2020. While Im glad to see Mr C has got his car back and its been repaired Ive
looked at whether Haven has done what its supposed to under the policy and in a fair and
reasonable way.
When an insurer deals with a claim on a policy its required to do so promptly. Ive looked at
the timeline for Mr Cs claim and can see that not all the delays to the claim are Havens
fault. However, I can also see that Mr C hasnt been kept updated, has been given incorrect
information and has had to chase for updates. Both Haven and Mr C have agreed £200
compensation is a fair amount for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience for this, so
Im not going to comment on that further here. I also think paying for the taxis Mr C took is
fair, so I wont comment on that further here either. Ill therefore look at whether I think
Haven has acted reasonably in regard to the provision of a courtesy car.
The terms of Mr Cs policy say in the event his car is deemed a total loss he is entitled to a
courtesy car for seven days. It goes onto say that in the event his car is repaired then he will
be provided one while his car is in for repair.
I can see from Havens contact notes that Mr C requested a courtesy car when he claimed
on his policy but was told he wasnt entitled to one. As Haven have confirmed Mr C has
courtesy car cover with them, Im satisfied it gave him incorrect information. Ive therefore
looked at the impact this has had on Mr C.
Mr C explained that he also had additional courtesy car cover through his broker, but it was
only for 14 days. So, while I agree Mr C should have mitigated his losses, even if he had by
claiming on his other policy which provided a courtesy car, he still wouldnt have had one for
the duration of his repairs. And as Mr C didnt have access to the courtesy car provided in
his policy or have access to another car, Im satisfied hes suffered a loss here.
The terms of Mr Cs policy dont provide a cash equivalent for when a courtesy car isnt
provided. Haven initially offered to pay him this but then withdrew the offer. I dont think it
was fair to withdraw the offer for the reasons Ive given above. Ive therefore looked at what
would be a fair amount and Im satisfied that £10 per day for loss of use is a fair amount for
Haven to pay Mr C for not providing a courtesy car as it should have.
To calculate the amount Haven should pay Mr C Ive looked at the amount of days his car
was in for repair, from the date the repairs were authorised, 24 October 2019, until the date
he collected it. This is because the cover under his policy is for the time his car was in for
repair. Mr Cs car was thought to be a total loss initially, along with it also being with an
accident management company for around a month and that Mr C had another courtesy car
provider for 14 days. Because of these I think its only fair Haven pays for the loss of use
from the date it authorised the repairs until the date he collected his car. Plus, the additional
seven days for the provision of the courtesy car when his was thought to be a total loss. Ive
therefore worked this out to be 197 days multiplied by £10 per day, giving a total amount of
£1,970. As this is the cash equivalent, Im satisfied the fair and reasonable outcome to this
complaint is for Haven to pay this amount in addition to what its already agreed to pay. 
Haven responded and accepted my provisional decision. Mr C responded and said while he 
overall accepted my provisional decision, he didnt think payment of £10 per day was fair. He 
said that he wouldnt be able to hire a car for that amount and as he was without his car 
while his was in for repair, he should have had a like for like. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr C was entitled to a courtesy car under his policy it wasnt a like for like car, so I 
dont think it would be fair to tell Haven to compensate him for a like for like car. In addition, I 
think it would help to clarify the £10 per day payment is an inconvenience payment which is 
generally awarded by the courts for similar situations. Im therefore satisfied its a fair and 
reasonable amount to compensate Mr C for not having a courtesy car.   
My final decision
For the reasons explained above its I uphold this complaint and require Haven
Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr C:
1. £78.85 to reimburse his taxi fares
2. £1,970 for the loss of use for the time he didnt have a courtesy car and should 
have
3. £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman