DRN-3561884
The complaint
Ms C complains that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited would only pay £100 
per hour for her solicitors costs. 
What happened
Ms C had a dispute with her employer. So she made a claim under her legal expenses 
insurance policy. DAS agreed to cover the claim and appointed one of its panel firms of 
solicitors. 
Ms C was unhappy that a trainee solicitor would be handling her case. She felt the matter 
was too complex and, as her employers had a barrister acting for them, she wanted 
representation of equal standing. She asked DAS if she could use a solicitor of her own 
choice.
DAS agreed, but said the most it would pay is £100 per hour. It referred Ms C to the policy 
terms and conditions which explained this. But Ms C didnt think it was fair. She felt DAS 
should use its discretion  like it had in other claims  to increase the rate based on the 
complexity of her case. 
As DAS refused, Ms C raised a complaint about the hourly rate and some delays to her 
claim. DAS didnt uphold it, but it acknowledged it had taken six days to action some 
correspondence from the solicitor, so it offered £75 compensation. In addition, it put cover in 
place for her solicitors to act under the policy in November but backdated this to September.  
Ms C wasnt satisfied with this, so she bought her complaint to our service. But our 
investigator didnt uphold it. He was satisfied DAS had shown that its panel firm couldve 
handled this claim under the usual panel rate. He also didnt think DAS had caused any 
avoidable delays and he was persuaded the compensation already offered, plus the 
backdating of cover, was sufficient to resolve things. 
Ms C didnt accept this, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Ms Cs legal expenses insurance policy say:
If you choose a law firm as your appointed representative who is not a preferred law 
firm, we will give your choice of law firm the opportunity to act on the same terms as 
a preferred law firm. However, if they refuse to act on this basis, the most we will pay 
is the amount we would have paid if they had agreed to the DAS standard terms of 
appointment. The amount we will pay a law firm (where acting as the appointed 
representative) is currently £100 per hour. The amount may vary from time to time."
Insurers must provide information thats clear, fair, and not misleading. Where theres a 
significant limit on cover, such as an hourly rate lower than the amount the policyholder 
might pay their own solicitors, the insurer needs to make this clear; policyholders should 
know at the outset what cover theyre getting. Im satisfied the policy is clear that the rate 
DAS will normally pay is £100 per hour. As the insurer that will be paying the legal costs, its 
reasonable for DAS to have a say in the amount being charged by the policyholders 
solicitor. So, the starting point is that this is what the policyholder can expect.
Ms C argues that her claim is complex so a higher rate should be offered. But whilst her 
employment dispute involves a number of issues, DAS panel firms have teams of lawyers 
who are used to dealing with employment disputes like this. Theyve confirmed that the case 
wasnt so complex or unusual that they wouldve charged a higher rate than the £100 per 
hour offered by the policy, had they remained instructed on the claim. And Ive not seen any 
evidence to support that it was, so I dont think DAS not offering an increased rate based on 
the complexity of the case is unfair.
Ive thought about Ms C comments that DAS had increased the hourly rate on other cases in 
the past, but I cant comment on this. Im only looking into her complaint, and whether DAS 
has made a fair decision on the circumstances of this claim. Other cases will have different 
circumstances and DAS say they were particularly complex. As Ive said above, Im not 
satisfied Ms C has shown that her case is.
Ive also thought about Ms Cs concerns that her employer was represented by a barrister. I 
cant see anything in the policy that offers or guarantees Ms C legal representation of equal 
standing to that of her opponent. The policy is there to provide a lawyer who is suitably 
qualified, but the seniority of that lawyer is down to what DAS and the law firm consider 
appropriate for the individual circumstances of the claim. In any event, it is usual practice for 
a solicitor to deal with the day to day running of a claim, and a barrister would be instructed  
if necessary  to attend any hearings, which is standard procedure throughout the industry.
And finally, Ms C says the solicitor appointed at DAS panel firm wasnt suitably qualified, he 
was a trainee solicitor. Again, I refer to my comments above that the policy doesnt 
guarantee a certain seniority of lawyer. And the panel firm have provided comments which 
say that based on the information available at the time, this was appropriate. However, its 
likely that after receipt of the CMR and ET1, the case wouldve been passed to a more 
senior member of the team. But the case wouldve remained on the panel rate of £100 per 
hour.
Overall, Im satisfied DAS has offered funding in line with the policy terms and conditions. I 
havent seen anything to persuade me that this claim was too complex or unusual for a panel 
firm or for the usual panel rate. So I dont uphold this complaint.
In regard to the customer service element of Ms Cs complaint, I havent identified any 
avoidable delays caused by DAS other than an instance where DAS took six days to 
respond to Ms Cs solicitor, which DAS has offered  and now paid  £75 compensation for. 
In addition, it has backdated cover to almost three months prior to putting cover in place. Im 
satisfied this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman