DRN-1323816
 
The complaint
Mr K says MYJAR Limited irresponsibly lent to him. Mr K has said the lending was 
unaffordable for him and he had to re-borrow to make the loan repayments. This led to him 
being in a cycle of debt. 
What happened
This complaint is about five short-term loans MYJAR provided to Mr K between October 
2017 and January 2019. Mr Ks borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment
1 28/10/2017 30/10/2017 6    £450.00 £134.36
2 30/10/2017 30/11/2017 12    £925.00 £139.29
3 30/11/2017 27/01/2018 12 £1,000.00 £151.43
4 27/01/2018 09/10/2018 12    £925.00 £139.76
5 20/01/2019 22/04/2019 6    £600.00 £185.94
 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ks complaint and thought the loans from loan four 
onwards shouldnt have been given because by this time Mr Ks borrowing behaviour 
suggested he was having problems managing his money. 
MYJAR disagreed. It said there was a gap in the lending between loan four being repaid and 
loan five being taken. And loan five was for a smaller amount which would that suggest Mr 
Ks financial position was becoming stable. 
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for a decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr K could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr K could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Mr K didnt comment on the adjudicators opinion that loans one to three shouldnt be 
upheld. Because of this, I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. 
So, I wont be making a decision about this lending. But the loans were part of the borrowing 
relationship Mr K had with MYJAR. So, it is something I will take into account when 
considering the other loans he took. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ks complaint. After doing so, Ive decided to partially 
uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
MYJAR has told us of its assessment of Mr Ks financial circumstances before it agreed to 
the lending. It checked Mr Ks income and expenditure, carried out fraud prevention and 
credit checks as well as reviewing public data bases. From these checks it concluded it 
wasnt irresponsible to lend to Mr K.But like the adjudicator, I think MYJAR should have reconsidered whether it was right to lend 
to Mr K when he came back for further borrowing at loan four. I say this because Mr Ks 
borrowing behaviour suggested he was having problems managing his finances. 
When Mr K applied for loan four, a pattern of borrowing had been established. When Mr K 
repaid a loan, he took out further borrowing on the same day. The amounts he borrowed had 
increased and the term of the loan had doubled from loan one to 12 months for loans two 
and three. This would suggest that the lending was becoming unsustainable for Mr K, which 
I think seems likely, as its one of Mr Ks complaint points. 
Mr K was also repaying his loans well before the term agreed at the outset. While I accept 
this would have saved Mr K interest charges, it can equally be an indication of someone 
struggling with their finances and juggling their money to make ends meet. And bearing in 
mind the nature of high-cost short-term credit I would question why someone would repay 
one loan early only to come back the same day and borrow again. I think MYJAR should 
have taken notice of this and reconsidered whether the borrowing was becoming 
unsustainable for Mr K. 
MYJAR has pointed out there was a gap in the lending between loan four and loan five and 
the amount borrowed at loan five was for a lower amount which would suggest Mr Ks 
finances were becoming more stable. 
Loan five was applied for three months after loan four was repaid. But by this time Mr K had 
been indebted to MYJAR for over a year so I dont think a three-month gap was sufficient 
enough for MYJAR to have reasonably concluded that Mr K had overcome whatever the 
financial circumstances were that had caused Mr K to take high-cost credit in the first 
instance. And while I recognise that the amount borrowed was less than loan four, again I 
dont think that decrease was significant enough for MYJAR to conclude that Mr Ks finances 
had stabilised. 
So, Im upholding the complaint about loans four and five and MYJAR should put things 
right.
Putting things right  what MYJAR needs to do
refund all interest and charges Mr K paid on loans four and five;
 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
 
remove any negative information about loans four and five from Mr Ks credit file;
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Ks complaint. MYJAR Limited 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 June 2020.Catherine Langley
Ombudsman