DRN-3744951
The complaint
Mr T complains that Caledonian Consumer Finance Ltd, who Ill call Caledonian, were 
unreasonable to reject a claim he made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr T, but I dont think Caledonian have been unreasonable here.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a fixed sum loan, it might be 
possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says 
that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has the same right to 
claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract 
or misrepresentation by the supplier.
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I 
dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
Mr T says the course he financed through his loan wasnt as expected and the level of 
service has been poor. He says he was sent CDs to play but didnt have the facility to do so 
and he says the training material wasnt what he expected, and it didnt, for instance, include 
2d or 3d interactive learning as he was led to believe it would.
Im not persuaded theres evidence the supplier breached its contract with Mr T as there is 
no mention of 2d or 3d interactive learning in the contract, and a clause explains:
it is important to ensure you have checked the contents of your work kit. If you feel 
something is missing or does not cover all the items outlined by the advisor, you should 
contact us in writing within 14 calendar days of your enrolment.
I cant see evidence of Mr T doing that.
Theres also a clause in the contract that asks the student to confirm he or she has access to 
a PC that has, amongst other things, a CD drive. Mr T signed to say he agreed to that in 
April 2021.
I understand that the thrust of Mr Ts argument is that he doesnt feel he is getting value for 
money from the course but, whilst I understand his frustration I dont think theres sufficient 
evidence of a breach of contract or a misrepresentation upon which I could fairly suggest 
Caledonian were unreasonable not to uphold his section 75 claim.
Mr T also suggests the terms of the contract were unfair. But hes not explained which terms 
and, having considered them I dont think theres anything that a court would consider 
created an unfair relationship between Mr T and the supplier.
Im reviewing Mr Ts complaint on its own individual merits and whilst hes referred me to 
some poor online reviews I dont think it would be reasonable to take them into account as 
the circumstances are likely to differ to Mr Ts. I note that whilst some of the reviews are 
poor, others are excellent, and I think that supports my view that circumstances will vary.
Ultimately, I dont think Caledonian have done anything wrong here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman