DRN-1837051
The complaint
Mrs S and Mr S complain that Connells Limited mis-sold them a monthly premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy during a meeting in connection with a joint mortgage in 
1999. 
What happened
Mrs S and Mr S complained to this Service. They said they were specifically told they could 
not have the mortgage without also having the PPI.
Our adjudicator realised and explained to them that when this policy was sold in 1999, 
Connells complied with the requirements set out by the Mortgage Code Compliance Board 
(MCCB) from 2 March 1998 to 30 October 2004. As a result, complaints were dealt with by 
the Mortgage Code Arbitration Scheme (MCAS). And our adjudicator concluded that this 
Service could only consider this complaint to the same extent that MCAS would have been 
able to at the time of the sale.
So our adjudicator decided he couldnt uphold the complaint on the limited basis which 
would have been covered by the MCAS. Mrs S and Mr S disagreed with our adjudicators 
view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
They added that the Mortgage Code had been breached throughout by this PPI sale. I read 
all of their points very carefully. Im limited in the grounds I can look at due to the operation 
of the MCAS scheme.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We can only look into a complaint if it falls within certain criteria laid down in our case 
handling rules. Our case handing rules are found in the Dispute Resolution section of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook (available online).
I am only able to consider complaints relating to activities carried out by a financial business 
which were covered by our scheme  or a relevant predecessor scheme  at the time they 
were carried out.
There are several questions for me to answer in this case. They are:
am I allowed to consider this complaint against Connells? 
if I am, to what extent can I consider the complaint points made by Mrs S and Mr S? 
was there a breach of the Mortgage Code in this case?
 
Am I allowed to consider this complaint against Connells? The sale and marketing of insurance etc, (including PPI) first became a Financial Services 
Authority (now the Financial Conduct Authority  FCA) regulated activity on 14 January 
2005. That meant this Service could consider complaints about the sale of insurance 
products from that date. This sale took place in 1999, which was before that date. So 
Connells was not and did not need to be authorised by the FCA to sell insurance. 
We can look at PPI sales before 14 January 2005 for businesses like Connells only when, 
and to the extent, they were covered by one of the schemes which existed before then  and 
known as former schemes. 
Connells was a member of the MCCB from 2 March 1998 to 30 October 2004. This means 
complaints about it could be considered by the MCAS - one of the former schemes. But I can 
only consider complaints about events that happened during this time if Connells then went 
on to be covered by our scheme. Our records show that it was covered by our scheme from 
2 November 2004. This means that Im able to consider complaints about Connells for 
events that happened during the time it was a member of the MCCB.
How much of Mrs Ss and Mr Ss complaint can I consider?
As explained above, although this office was given permission to consider complaints where 
the business was a member of MCAS, were limited to only being able to consider the same 
issues that the MCAS scheme could. This means that when considering Mrs Ss and Mr Ss 
complaint against Connells I can only consider the points that MCAS could have considered. 
Please see the extract from the rules, below, which can be found at website: 
fshandbook.info/FS/html/handbook/DISP/2/7 or a copy can be provided on request.
"(5) Where the former scheme in question is the MCAS Scheme [Mortgage Code Arbitration 
Scheme], a complainant is not to be treated as eligible for the purposes of paragraph (2) (d) 
if  
(a) the complaint does not relate to a breach of the Mortgage Code;
(b) the complaint concerns physical injury, illness, nervous shock or their consequences; or
(c) the complainant is claiming a sum of money that exceeds £100,000."
Mrs Ss and Mr Ss complaint isnt caught by (b) and (c) above. So I need to consider 
whether or not it relates to a breach of the Mortgage Code before I can continue.
The Mortgage Code was chiefly concerned with mortgages and secured lending. There was 
only a very small part of the code that related to insurance. This can be found in section 3.2 
of the code and it said:
When providing information to help you to choose a mortgage we will give you the 
following:
A description of any insurance service which we can arrange (for example, buildings, 
contents, mortgage payment protection and life insurance);
Whether it is a condition of the mortgage that such an insurance be taken out and 
whose responsibility it is to ensure that it is taken out;
Whether it is a condition of the mortgage that such an insurance must be arranged by 
us;
A general description of any costs, fees or other charges in connection with the 
mortgage which may be payable by you (for example, mortgage valuation fees, 
arrangement fees, early repayment charges, legal fees and insurance premiums).
 So I can consider Mrs Ss and Mr Ss complaint but only in relation to the specific bullet 
points above. This means I can consider the elements of their complaint in which they say 
the insurance was shown as compulsory and where there was no general description of 
costs. 
So if Mrs S and Mr S have raised other complaint points about the sale of the policy, Im not 
allowed to consider them if they are not covered by the four bullet points Ive listed.
Did Connells breach the mortgage code?
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done that, Ive decided Im not 
going to uphold this complaint on the limited basis that I can consider this complaint. I know 
this will be a disappointing result for Mrs S and Mr S, so Ill explain why. 
Mrs S and Mr S said the policy was sold to them during a meeting. They said they were told 
they had to have the PPI in order to get the mortgage. 
Its agreed the sale took place during a meeting. But I havent any specific record or notes of 
what was said that day. So Ive also looked at the documents which were created at the time 
of the sale. 
Ive seen their mortgage application form which shows they both declined PPI on 3 July 
1999. However, I accept there must have been a conversation about PPI, because Mr S 
signed a separate PPI application form requesting PPI on the same day. Mr S said they 
were told they had to have PPI, but as Mrs S and Mr S had earlier exercised their choice not 
to have PPI on the mortgage application, I can reasonably assume they knew the product 
was optional. I also noted the PPI only covered Mr S, even though Mrs S was also working 
at the time. So I think its reasonable to assume they knew it wasnt compulsory for Mrs S to 
have PPI.
I think the limited evidence Ive seen shows that PPI was an optional product  and without 
any persuasive notes or evidence of what was said that day I dont think theres enough here 
to show a breach of the Mortgage Code.  
Ive also looked at how the costs were described to Mrs S and Mr S. Ive seen the PPI 
application form which does set out the costs clearly and tells them they will pay £18.01 per 
month. According to the Mortgage Code, I only have to see there was a general description 
of any costs, fees or other charges. I think the form shows the general description of the 
PPI costs which Mrs S and Mr S were expected to pay. And I think this satisfies the 
Mortgage Code  so I dont think theres been a breach here.  
As I dont think Connells breached the Mortgage Code, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ss 
and Mr Ss complaint. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs S and Mr S.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 July 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman