DRN-4100784
The complaint
Mrs T and Mr M complained, in their capacity as the appointed executors of the estate of 
Ms R, about the service provided to the executors by RBS Collective Investment Funds 
Limited (RBSCIF) and also about investment loss suffered by the estate.
  
Mrs T has handled the complaint on behalf of the executors. She doesnt feel that the 
goodwill payment of £200 paid to her by RBSCIF is adequate to reflect the impact of the 
poor level of customer service RBSCIF has provided in relation to Ms Rs estate. 
To put things right, the executors want RBSCIF to provide an explanation and apology for 
what happened and pay more compensation. 
 
What happened
Ms R died in 2020 and Mrs T is one of her appointed executors, with authority to bring a 
complaint on behalf of the estate. 
In 2021, RBSCIF engaged a tracing service to identify any beneficiaries and executors of 
Ms Rs estate and this led to Mrs T being prompted to make contact with RBSCIF in early 
February 2022. This complaint mainly concerns what happened when the executors were 
made aware of an investment in stocks and shares that Ms R held with RBSCIF.
On 25 February 2022, RBSCIF sent a letter to Mrs T stating the value of funds at death 
together with interest and distributions, which had accumulated in Ms Rs account. 
During a phone call on 4 March 2022, Mrs T expressed her concern that the initial £10,000 
investment made in 2003 had performed poorly resulting in a drop in value of the 
investment. She also said her searches had produced no annual statements after 2003 and 
she enquired if there were any other accounts in the estate. 
In response, RBSCIF told her:
the investment was in stocks and shares and so subject to fluctuation in value
a restriction had been placed on the account which would have stopped mail being 
sent 
there were no other accounts
the next steps in order to release the funds were explained.
Mrs T experienced significant delays when trying to speak to RBSCIF on the phone  she 
was kept on hold for long periods and calls were sometimes cut off. Promised call backs 
were not made. She expressed her frustration to RBSCIF and the executors meanwhile 
instructed solicitors to act for the estate.
Throughout March 2022, there was contact between Mrs T, the estate solicitors and RBSCIF 
concerning the necessary authorisations and paperwork needed to enable RBSCIF to take 
instructions to deal with the estate. RBSCIF said the appointed solicitors initially failed to 
send the necessary authorisation to act, so it couldnt discuss account specific information, 
although RBSCIF said it did address generic information with them relating to assisting in 
registering the executors. Some of the information submitted was rejected by RBSCIF and 
Mrs T continued to experience difficulties when attempting to speak to RBSCIF on the phone 
in an effort to progress matters. She told RBSCIF she was concerned that money was being 
lost due to these delays and the economic situation. At this point she was told the account 
valuation was £7,885.  
On 25 March, acting on instructions to sell the investment, RBSCIF arranged the sale of the 
stocks. 
On 28 March, 24 cheques were sent to Mrs T relating to the outstanding distributions on this 
account. 
On 5 April, RBSCIF paid the investment sale proceeds of £7,951 to Mrs T by bank transfer. 
Mrs T told RBSCIF she was unhappy about the way it had handled matters generally, 
including (in brief summary) the following:
she wanted to know why there had been delays on this matter and also on another 
estate connected to this one that involved RBSCIF
she wanted to know why RBSCIF hadnt tried reaching out by post or in some other 
way after placing a restriction on the account
Mrs T said she wouldve known about any post sent to Ms R - she thought it was 
highly unlikely that mail addressed to Ms R wouldnt have reached her home address
no one at RBSCIF had been able to help her regarding forms or process, causing a 
further delay, which meant the estate was losing money as fund values dropped 
she was upset at being asked to fill in various forms and, after the executors had 
involved solicitors, that RBSCIF would not speak to them/they couldnt get through 
RBSCIF promised her call backs which didnt happen 
Mrs T had received multiple cheques from RBSCIF (46 in total) without any 
explanation or apology.    RBSCIF explained it used a tracing agency to track down beneficiaries or executors who had 
not been in touch for over two years in order to establish contact and reallocate funds to the 
estate representatives. It said the value of the funds stocks and shares based investments 
were subject to volatility in the financial market and global world events had impacted on 
fund values, which explained why Mrs T had received less than she expected when Ms Rs 
stocks were sold. RBSCIF acknowledged that Mrs T had issues speaking to our contact 
centre... and said it was sorry this had happened and that feedback had been passed on to 
its senior management team for review. In recognition of the fact that Mrs T had received 
poor customer service that fell below its expected standard, RBSCIF paid her £200 as a 
gesture of goodwill and apologised to Mrs T for the issues she had experienced. 
Mrs T remained unhappy with RBSCIFs responses and brought her complaint to us. 
Our investigator said he understood Mrs Ts frustration and he looked into the points of 
concern Mrs T had raised and set out his findings in an effort to assist her, but ultimately 
concluded that RBSCIF didnt need to take any further action.
As Mrs T feels this is an unfair outcome, she has asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint, so it comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that Mrs T has suffered significant inconvenience during the course of her 
dealings with RBSCIF. I sympathise with Mrs T and I understand that whats happened has 
been upsetting and frustrating for her. Mrs T feels strongly about everything that happened 
 she put things this way: This whole episode has been highly distressing to me and 
extremely stressful as executor. So I can understand why she feels RBSCIF should be 
held to account for its admitted communication failures and poor handling of matters. 
 
But to be clear, this complaint relates to the way RBSCIF has handled Ms Rs estate and 
Mrs T brings this complaint in her capacity as one of the executors representing the estate 
and not in her personal capacity. This is an important distinction which goes to the heart of 
what this service can do in this situation. 
Under the rules governing our service, Mrs T (as an executor of Ms Rs estate) isnt entitled 
to any compensation for the upset and inconvenience she experienced in the course of 
carrying out her duties as executor. We can only tell a business to pay compensation for 
upset and inconvenience experienced by its client, not by a third party. Here, the client is 
the late Ms R. Following her death, the investments remained within her estate and in this 
particular situation, the capacity in which Mrs T has dealings with RBSCIF is as a 
representative of the estate.  
Whilst its clear there were shortcomings in the service RBSCIF provided to Mrs T, this isnt 
enough on its own for me to be able to uphold the complaint. Mrs T was throughout acting as 
the appointed representative of Ms Rs estate when dealing with RBSCIF so shes not 
entitled to receive any compensation or other redress in her capacity as one of the 
executors. I would like to assure Mrs T that Ive taken carefully into account all the information I've seen 
and everything thats been said. My approach is to consider whether RBSCIF has made any 
error in relation to the estate or acted unfairly or unreasonably in a way that has impacted 
adversely on the estate and caused loss. 
Its unfortunate that there were some contradictions in what RBSCIF said to Mrs T but this 
doesnt make any overall difference to the outcome of this complaint. RBSCIF admitted it 
incorrectly told Mrs T that a stop was put on post to Ms Rs home address after a letter was 
returned. What actually happened is that a distribution payment RBSCIF made to Ms Rs 
account was returned to RBSCIF when it seems Ms Rs bank had mistakenly recorded 
beneficiary deceased against her account. Although that information was incorrect at the 
time, I havent seen anything to make me think that RBSCIF shouldve known this and 
putting a stop on post to an address where it has reason to think the account holder is 
deceased is a sensible security precaution, intended to protect the deceaseds estate from 
fraud. 
I dont think it was unreasonable for RBSCIF to expect that representatives of a deceased 
person would be likely to get in touch in due course. And when more than two years had 
elapsed without any contact being made with RBSCIF, I think it was reasonable that RBSCIF 
instructed a tracing agent to try to locate anyone with an interest in the estate. Ms R had 
since died so, in the event, it was useful that RBSCIFs tracing policy led to Mrs T being 
contacted so she could deal with the investments in the estate. Although none of this affects 
the outcome of the complaint, I hope this explanation goes some way towards answering 
questions Mrs T has raised about why she hadnt seen any recent annual statements for the 
investment and how RBSCIF tracked her down. 
Mrs T feels strongly that delays on the part of RBSCIF resulted in the investment dropping in 
value. I've thought carefully about this. I could award redress to the estate if there was 
evidence to show that RBSCIF had made an error or acted in a way that wasnt fair and 
reasonable and this resulted in the estate suffering detriment or losing out in money terms. 
But I havent seen enough to persuade me that this is a reason to uphold this part of Mrs Ts 
complaint. As mentioned above, contact was established with Mrs T only as a result of 
RBSCIF instructing a tracing agent to find her and, once Mrs T was made aware of the 
investments, they were sold on her instructions within seven weeks. Despite the 
communication problems Mrs T experienced in her dealings with RBSCIF, given the 
requirements that RBSCIF had to satisfy in order to be able to take instructions from the 
executors and engage with the executors appointed solicitors and deal with the investments, 
I dont think that was an unreasonable timescale. 
RBSCIF said that the reduction in value of the funds Ms R was invested in was mainly the 
result of markets worldwide having experienced a significant number of periods with high 
levels of volatility. That seems likely to me to be a reasonable explanation taking into 
account some of the key events during the lifespan of the investments which impacted on 
global and UK financial markets.
Ive also noted that the price achieved on sale was better than the valuation Mrs T had been 
given a couple of weeks earlier, so this bears out what RBSCIF said about price movements. And whilst the investments were still held in the estate in the run up to being sold, the 
income earned continued to accrue. I appreciate that the number of individual cheque 
payments Mrs T received in respect of the accumulated distributions was inconvenient for 
her, especially given the lack of any clear information or explanation. But ultimately, this 
didnt impact detrimentally on the estate. Based on everything I've seen and been told, 
I dont find that if there is any investment loss this is directly attributable to delays on the part 
of RBSCIF.
This means I must conclude that there are no grounds upon which to uphold Mrs Ts 
complaint. So I cannot award the redress she seeks.
If I have not referred to each and every point mentioned during the course of the 
correspondence about this complaint, thats because theres nothing more I can usefully add 
to what our investigator said and Ive concentrated on what seems to me to be the core 
issues I need to address when deciding the complaint. This reflects the fact that we provide 
an informal complaints handling service as a free alternative to the courts. I hope that setting 
things out as I've done is helpful and even though this isnt the outcome Mrs T hoped for, 
she will at least feel that her complaint has been fully considered by the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint brought on behalf of the estate of Ms R about RBS Collective 
Investment Funds Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms R 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman