DRN-3615197
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited (SFASL) misled her as to 
the terms of her endowment savings plan. She also complains it failed to cancel the plan in 
line with her request.  
What happened
Mrs M bought an endowment savings plan from SFASL. The plan began in November 2019 
and required that Mrs M pay a monthly premium. 
In March 2020, Mrs M called SFASL to discuss her plan as shed been struggling to afford 
the monthly premiums. She recalls being told that if she paid her premiums in full up to 
November 2021, shed be able to surrender the plan at that point for a full reimbursement of 
what shed paid. With this in mind, Mrs M continued making payments towards her plan. 
In around August 2021, Mrs M had cause to discuss her plan with SFASL. At this point she 
was told that whilst its true that she could surrender her plan in November 2021, there was 
no guarantee shed get back what shed paid in. 
Mrs M complained that SFASL had misled her. She said if shed known this was how the 
plan worked, shed have cancelled it in March 2020. As part of her complaint, Mrs M says 
she asked SFASL to cancel her plan. And she continued to correspond back and forth on 
these issues over the coming months. 
SFASL first responded to Mrs Ms complaint in August 2021. It explained it hadnt retained 
records of the conversation Mrs Ms complaint focussed on, and there was no other 
evidence itd misled her over the terms of her plan. It issued a number of follow up 
responses reiterating this point over the months that followed. Throughout this period, Mrs M 
continued to receive letters warning her that shed missed payments towards her plan, and 
that she could contact SFASL to reinstate it. As Mrs M remained unhappy, she referred the 
matter to our service. 
Our investigator partly upheld Mrs Ms complaint. They werent persuaded there was 
sufficient evidence to conclude SFASL misled Mrs M in March 2020. But they felt its 
handling of her request to cancel the plan had been poor in a way which had inconvenienced 
Mrs M. They recommended SFASL should pay Mrs M £100 in recognition of this.  
SFASL didnt accept our investigators opinion. They felt if Mrs M had been inconvenienced, 
it was only to a very small degree, such that it shouldnt be required to compensate her. It 
also argued it had, for Mrs Ms benefit, intentionally delayed the cancellation of her plan, to 
give her a chance to make up her payments so she could recoup some money upon 
surrender in November 2021.  
Mrs M initially accepted our investigators opinion, before later changing her mind. She was 
adamant the business had misled her in March 2020, when she recalls being told shed 
receive back what shed paid in if she held the plan until November 2021. As neither party 
accepted our investigators opinion, the matters been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ill be partly upholding Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why. 
Ive studied the terms of Mrs Ms plan in detail, and Im satisfied the most recent explanation 
SFASL has given about how it functions is correct. Mrs M wouldve needed to fully pay her 
premiums for at least two years to benefit from a surrender value upon cancellation. But the 
value shed receive upon early surrender was never guaranteed, and may well be less than 
shed paid into the plan at the point of cancellation. Mrs M agreed to these terms when she 
completed her application with SFASL. And from the evidence Ive seen, I think its likely 
SFASL supplied Mrs M with copies of these terms at the outset of investing. So, Im satisfied 
SFASLs treated her fairly by applying the terms as theyre written, and that its met her 
information needs by providing her with the terms in the first place. 
But mindful of this, as I see it, the crux of Mrs Ms complaint is the matter of what she was 
told during her call with SFASL in March 2020. She remembers being told shed receive a 
reimbursement of all her premiums, as long as she made payments to her plan up until 
November 2021. Shes suggested that, but for SFASL giving her the wrong information in 
March 2020, shed have cancelled the plan then and there, and saved herself a lot of money. 
When communicating with its customers, SFASLs required to do so in a way thats clear, 
fair, and not misleading. Its also required to treat them fairly. And if the evidence persuaded 
me itd failed to do so in its dealings with Mrs M, Id consider what should be done to fairly 
compensate her.  
SFASL hasnt retained a recording of the call Mrs M is complaining about. But it has kept a 
brief note of what was discussed during that call. The note simply says adv no sv until after 
2years, which I take to mean Mrs M was advised her plan had no surrender value until itd 
been active for two years. Theres so little detail included in SFASLs note, that I doubt its 
representative of the full content of the call with Mrs M. I say this because although this was 
an inbound call, the note doesnt explain why Mrs M was getting in touch. Likewise, the note 
seems to contain an answer SFASL gave Mrs M, but it doesnt record what question she 
asked that prompted the answer. Im therefore not satisfied I have a complete record of what 
SFASL did or did not say to Mrs M during this call.   
In situations like this, where information is incomplete or ambiguous, I must use what 
evidence is available to decide, on balance, what I think is most likely to have happened. 
Having done so, Im not persuaded SFASLs likely to have misled Mrs M during this call. 
When deciding this, Ive considered that: 
The terms of Mrs Ms plan arent confusing or ambiguous in a way which persuades 
me an employee of SFASLs would likely misunderstand them.  
What little of the note there is, is accurate and in line with the terms of Mrs Ms plan. 
It doesnt mention what value would be payable on surrender, the specific point Mrs 
M says SFASL misled her on. 
Having considered SFASLs communications regarding the plan before and since the 
March 2020 call, its descriptions of how the plan functions has always been accurate, as per the plans terms. Im therefore not persuaded there was any 
widespread misunderstanding within SFASL about the way Mrs Ms plan functioned.  
Mrs M says she wouldve cancelled her plan in March 2020 if shed understood there was no 
guarantee shed get her premiums back. But as Im not persuaded SFASLs likely to have 
misled her during this call, I wont be asking it to compensate her as if shed cancelled the 
plan at this point. 
I do however have concerns with the way SFASL handled Mrs Ms eventual request to 
cancel her plan. 
SFASL has said in its more recent submissions that its searched its records and can find no 
evidence of Mrs M specifically asking to cancel her plan. It has however acknowledged that 
Mrs M sent it an email on 6 August 2021, in which she made reference to a cancellation 
request shed made verbally the week earlier. And its complaint response dated 12 August 
2021 specifically acknowledges Mrs Ms dissatisfaction with the service she received when 
cancelling her plan. 
If SFASL had no prior records of Mrs M asking to cancel her plan, Im satisfied that as of her 
email on 6 August 2021, it ought to have known she wanted it cancelled. If SFASL had any 
concerns about cancelling the plan based on what was said in the email, Id expect it to have 
followed this up with Mrs M directly. But theres no evidence that it did so. Instead, SFASL 
left the plan running, which resulted in Mrs M being sent unnecessary letters warning her 
about the plan lapsing. 
SFASL has said it let Mrs Ms plan run on without cancellation as it wanted to offer her the 
opportunity of making up her premiums and getting something back upon surrender. I accept 
that SFASLs actions here might have been well intentioned. But its not provided any 
evidence to suggest it clearly explained this to Mrs M. From her perspective, shed made it 
clear to SFASL no later than 6 August 2021 that she wanted to cancel her plan. And whilst 
SFASL responded to her complaint about the service related to that request, it never actually 
actioned it. Rather, it sent her letters chasing up payments for the plan instead. 
The evidence in this case persuades me this willve further frustrated and upset Mrs M, as 
well as inconveniencing her by having to follow the matter up as part of her complaint. This 
came at a time where SFASL knew Mrs M was already unhappy with her plan. And because 
of this, I dont think SFASLs treated her fairly. Im satisfied its fair and reasonable in these 
circumstances for me to direct SFASL to pay Mrs M £100 in recognition of the upset and 
inconvenience its caused. 
I wont be directing SFASL to do any more than this, as I understand Mrs M had cancelled 
her direct debit with her bank. So shes not paid more towards the plan as a result of 
SFASLs failure to make good on her request.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold Mrs Ms complaint about Scottish Friendly Assurance 
Society Limited. I direct that the firm must now pay her £100 for the reasons given above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Marcus Moore
Ombudsman