The complaint
Mr G and his late wife took out a lifetime mortgage some years ago, which has now been 
transferred to Pearl Group Management Services Limited (PGMSL). Mr S, acting on behalf 
of his father-in-law, Mr G, complains that PGMSL wont allow Mr G to add his son and 
daughter to the legal title of the property.
What happened
In 2004, Mr G took out an equity release mortgage jointly with his wife. Sadly, Mrs G has 
recently passed away. Mr G is 89 years old and not in the best of health.
In 2019, after Mrs G passed away, Mr S approached PGMSL about transferring the title of 
the property from Mr Gs sole name to the names of Mr G and his two children (including Mr 
Ss wife) jointly. Mr S said that adding Mr Gs son and daughter to the title, as joint tenants, 
would prevent them from needing to obtain a grant of probate when Mr G passed away, 
saving the family trouble and stress.
It would allow the property to pass directly into their names, and they would undertake to sell 
it and repay the mortgage immediately.
PGMSL refused. In summary, it said that adding Mr Gs children to the title of the property 
would affect its ability to enforce the mortgages terms and conditions. They would become 
joint owners of the property but not party to the mortgage. It said probate is the normal and 
proper process to go through and the mortgage was taken out on the basis that only Mr and 
Mrs G were party to it and owners of the property.
Mr S wasnt happy with PGMSLs response and referred the complaint to us. He said that it 
wasnt reasonable for it to stand on the strict wording of its terms and conditions. He, and Mr 
Gs children, would undertake to ensure the property was sold and the mortgage repaid. 
They would be acting as trustees and wouldnt have any ownership interest in the property. 
Going through probate would add unnecessary time, expense and stress that the family 
wanted to avoid  and it would be in PGMSLs interest to avoid too.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. Mr G disagreed with her 
opinion, so the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about how difficult the last few years have been for Mr G, and I appreciate 
that he is attempting to get his affairs in order  with the support of his children and son-in-
DRN-1053136law  while hes able to do so. I hope the whole family will accept my condolences for the 
loss of Mrs G.
The mortgage offer, which is the contract Mr G agreed to when he took out the mortgage, 
states Any sale, transfer or other dealing with the property is subject to our prior written 
consent , which PGMSL has refused to grant. So Ive thought about whether or not PGMSLs 
refusal was reasonable.
Overall, I think it was. Ill go on to explain why.
Mr S has said that Mr Gs children would look to sell the property promptly in the event of his 
death, and theyd keep PGMSL updated during the process. I have no doubt of their good 
intentions in this respect. 
But I think the effect of adding Mr Gs children to the property title would be to complicate the 
legal and practical position once Mr G passes away. As things stand, the mortgage would 
then become repayable, and the property would pass into Mr Gs estate. In winding up the 
estate as part of the probate process, the executors would be required to deal with his 
assets  including the property  and use them to offset his liabilities  including the 
mortgage.
If instead legal title immediately passes in full to the joint owner, then the probate process 
would  as Mr S says  be bypassed. But that means the property would not go into Mr Gs 
estate, which might not then be able to meet its liabilities.
If the property isnt sold or the mortgage repaid by some other means, PGMSL has the 
power to apply to the court for repossession of the property. Mr S says the property would be 
sold by Mr Gs children and used to repay the mortgage, so this wouldnt arise. Im sure 
thats their intention. But if for any reason that didnt happen, it would become more 
complicated and costly for PGMSL to enforce its security where the debt is owed by the 
estate and the property owned by third parties than it would if both the debt and the property 
sit in the estate  especially if anyone other than Mr G is by this point living in the property. 
Whether or not Mr Gs children would be entitled to a beneficial share, or were holding it on 
trust, by being added to the title they would be treated as legal owners  and any issues of 
trust potentially complicate matters further.
So while I dont doubt Mr Gs childrens good intentions and the good faith with which theyve 
promised to act, equally I can understand PGMSLs reluctance to move from a position 
where it has a straightforward and relatively easily enforceable security to one that is legally 
more complicated and risky and reliant, in part, on the good intentions of third parties it has 
no contractual relationship with. Overall, I dont think it was unfair for PGMSL to refuse the 
request. 
Mr S has raised some concerns that the full implications of the equity release mortgage 
werent understood by the family when Mr and Mrs G took it out.
I can see from the Solicitors Certificate completed at the time that Mr and Mrs G received 
advice from an independent financial advisor  who would therefore have been responsible 
for explaining it to them and making sure they understood it. The solicitor has also signed to 
say that he explained the terms and effects of the mortgage to Mr and Mrs G. I cant 
reasonably hold PGMSL responsible for the actions of the independent financial advisor, and 
I think the terms of the mortgage are clear.My final decision
For the reasons I've given my final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2019.
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman