DRN-4297590
The complaint
Mr H complains about his insurer, Marshmallow Insurance Limited (Marshmallow) charging a 
fee when he cancelled his policy in the cooling off period.
Any reference to Marshmallow in this decision includes their agents. 
What happened
In January 2023 Mr H took out a new motor insurance policy with Marshmallow, instead of 
renewing his existing policy with Marshmallow, with a policy start date at the beginning of 
February 2023. The premium for the new policy was higher than that for his previous policy, 
though there were differences in the cover provided between the two policies.
Policy documents for the new policy were uploaded to Mr Hs online account and Mr H 
asked that his old policy expire. However, he asked Marshmallow whether he could drive 
other vehicles under his new policy, to be told it wasnt possible to add this cover, saying it 
could only be added as part of the quotation process (not retrospectively). 
Mr H then asked Marshmallow to cancel his new policy and refund the premium hed paid. 
Marshmallow said they calculated refunds (and any applicable charges) on a pro-rata basis, 
meaning Mr H would only pay for the time he was on cover under the policy. Marshmallow 
said that as Mr H was within the 14-day cooling-off period under his new policy, they would 
make a cancellation charge of £25, to cover the costs incurred in cancelling the policy. 
Unhappy at Marshmallow applying the £25 fee, Mr H complained to Marshmallow, saying he 
didnt believe they were entitled to charge a cancellation fee within the 14-day cooling-off 
period for policies taken out online, under the Consumer Rights Act 2015. He thought the 
£25 fee, even though in the policy terms and conditions, represented an unfair contract as 
the terms and conditions werent provided until a policy quotation had been accepted. 
Marshmallow didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response, they maintained their 
position about the £25 cancellation fee to cover the costs of cancelling the policy, referring to 
the policy wording theyd provided to Mr H before asking him to confirm he wanted to take 
out the policy. The wording stated that cancellation within the 14-day cooling-off period 
would mean a pro rata refund and a £25 administration fee. Marshmallow confirmed 
cancellation of the policy (from two days after it started) and issue of a refund of £374.48. 
Marshmallow didnt think theyd made any mistakes in what theyd done.
Mr H then complained to this service. He said hed cancelled the new policy when he 
realised from the policy documents it didnt cover him for driving other vehicles. Hed 
received a refund of ££374.48 of the £399.48 premium hed paid  so Marshmallow had 
deducted the £25 fee. He didnt think Marshmallow could charge a fee during the cooling-off 
period under the Consumer Rights Act (he should receive a full refund) and provided an 
extract he thought supported his view. He wanted Marshmallow to refund the £25 fee and 
stop the practice of charging a fee for cancellation in the cooling-off period.
Our investigator initially upheld the complaint, asking Marshmallow to refund the £35 
cancellation fee (with interest). She thought Marshmallow should have told Mr H about the 
cancellation fee before Mr H took out the policy, not just to include reference to it in the policy 
terms and conditions issued after the policy was initially taken out. Marshmallow hadnt 
provided any evidence to show it told Mr H about the cancellation fee before he agreed to 
take out the policy, so the investigator thought it unfair to deduct the cancellation fee from the 
refund of premium.
Marshmallow agreed with our investigators initial view and said theyd refund the £25 fee.
Mr H disagreed with the investigators initial view because he didnt think it addressed the 
issue of there being a legal obligation to make a full (Mr Hs emphasis) refund within 14 days 
of a cancellation of a purchase made under distance selling regulations. Mr H provided an 
extract from the Consumer Contracts (Information, Cancellation and Additional Charges) 
Regulations 2013, which he thought supported his view.
Our investigator considered Mr Hs response and issued a second view, which remained 
unchanged. She referred to this Services role as an informal complaints resolution service, 
to decide what would be a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of a complaint 
brought by a consumer. She also referred to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) 7, which provided for a consumer to be 
charged a pro-rata premium for the time on cover under an insurance policy and an 
administration fee proportionate to the service provided. So, had Marshmallow told Mr H 
about the £25 administration fee for cancellation of the policy before the policy was 
purchased, Marshmallow would have been entitled to charge the fee. If Mr H wanted a 
specific decision about whether Marshmallow had breached the requirements of the 
Consumer Contracts Regulations, that would be for a court to determine.
Mr H disagreed with the investigators second view and asked that an ombudsman review 
the complaint. He said there was an important point as to whether Marshmallow was entitled 
to take the action they took (charging an administration fee for cancellation of the policy). Mr 
H said this was the fundamental part of his complaint. He didnt think Marshmallow could 
charge an administration fee for policy cancellation in any circumstances under the 
Regulations, regardless of whether the fee had been notified in advance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Marshmallow has acted fairly towards Mr H.
The two key issues in Mr Hs complaint are, firstly, whether Marshmallow acted fairly in 
charging a cancellation fee when Mr H cancelled his new policy, within the cooling-off period. 
Mr H says they werent entitled to do this, referring to the policy terms and conditions setting 
out the fee not being provided until a quotation had been accepted. 
The second issue is whether Marshmallow are entitled to charge a fee under consumer 
regulations. Mr H maintains Marshmallow arent able to do so under consumer regulations.
On the first issue, Ive noted Marshmallow have agreed to refund the £25 administration fee 
they deducted from the refund of the policy premium made to Mr H following the cancellation 
of his policy. 
While theyve agreed to refund the administration fee, I have considered the issue. Ive 
looked at the policy document setting out the policy terms and conditions for Mr Hs new policy. The relevant section for Mr C cancelling his new policy is headed Cancellation by you 
and states:
You can cancel your policy either by logging into your customer account, emailing  
[Marshmallow email address] or getting in touch via live chat on our website.
Cancelling the policy within the cooling off period
This insurance provides you with a cooling off period to decide whether you wish to 
continue with the full policy. The cooling off period is for 14 days from the date your 
policy commences.
If you cancel within the cooling off period, and you have not made a claim, you will 
receive a pro rata refund and be charged a £25 administration fee.
If you cancel before your policy has commenced, you will receive a full refund from 
us, of any premium payment made, minus a £25 administration fee.
Ive noted that the equivalent section in the policy document for his old policy doesnt include 
reference to a £25 administration fee {youwill not be charged a cancellation fee).
While I think the wording is clear, Marshmallow havent sought to challenge the view of our 
investigator that this wasnt made clear to Mr H before he accepted the quote and took out 
his policy. Based on this, Ive concluded they didnt act fairly and reasonably in then applying 
the fee when Mr H said he wanted to cancel the policy.
Having agreed to refund the fee, I think thats a reasonable way of putting things right. But as 
the fee was deducted from the refund of premium (Ive also noted Marshmallow effected the 
cancellation from the start of the policy, meaning there was no pro rata deduction for time on 
cover) then they should also add interest, at a rate of 8% simple, to the refund of the fee 
from the date they made the premium refund to the date they refund Mr H.
Turning to the second issue, Ive considered the points raised by Mr H. However, as 
indicated above, the role of this Service is to act as an informal complaints resolution service 
for complaints made by consumers against a financial services business. And, as set out 
above, to decide whether a business has acted fairly and reasonably towards a consumer, in 
the specific circumstances of a case.
Our role isnt that of a regulator of financial services businesses  thats the responsibility of 
the FCA. So, it isnt to regulate the conduct of businesses and their operations more 
generally. This would include their operational practices, such as the levying of 
administration fees where insurance policies are cancelled. 
Its also not our role to determine whether a business has acted unlawfully  the point Mr H 
raises about whether Marshmallow breached the Consumer Contracts (Information, 
Cancellation and Additional Charges) Regulations 2013  thats a matter for the courts.
So, taking these points together, Im not making any findings or conclusions on this issue.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint. I require 
Marshmallow Insurance Limited to:
Refund Mr H for the administration fee (£25) they charged when cancelling his policy.Marshmallow Insurance Limited should also add interest, at a rate of 8% simple, on the 
refunded administration fee from the date they deducted the fee to the date they refund the 
fee, assuming Mr H accepts my final decision.
If Marshmallow Insurance Limited consider theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Mr H how much theyve taken off. They 
should also give Mr H a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman