DRN-3076459
The complaint
Mr J has complained about the service he received from British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) 
when he made a claim under his HomeCare policy.
What happened
The facts of this case are known to both parties and have been set out by our investigator in 
her view of Mr Js complaint. 
Briefly stated, on 2 May 2021, Mr Js carbon monoxide alarm went off. He contacted his local 
gas network who initially attended.  A BG engineer attended on 3 May 2021 and found that 
the boiler door needed to be replaced as a hinge was missing. He considered that the boiler 
was unsafe and turned it off. 
A replacement boiler door wasnt available until 18 May. Mr J and his family were therefore 
without heating and hot water for 16 days and had to boil kettles and use a bucket for 
washing. Mr J also had a health condition at the time that would have been alleviated by hot 
baths, which he couldnt have. This was also over period of unseasonably cold weather but 
they were advised to keep windows open because of the carbon monoxide risk. The only 
heating the family had was a fan heater which BG provided. 
When Mr J complained to BG about the length of time for which they were without heating 
and hot water, BGs response was that the replacement boiler door was out of stock and had 
to be ordered, and that Mr J had been advised that there would be a delay. As a gesture of 
goodwill, BG agreed not to charge Mr J £29.99 for the replacement carbon monoxide 
detector it provided. He was required to pay the policy excess of £99.
 
Mr J wasnt happy with BGs response to his complaint and brought it to this service. Our 
investigators view was that BG should pay Mr J £250 to compensate for the stress and 
inconvenience he and his family suffered over a period of more than two weeks.
BG doesnt agree with our investigators view. It says that it cant fix a boiler if it cant get the 
necessary part, and that the delay was beyond its control. Its asked that an ombudsman 
consider the complaint, so its been referred to me for a final decision from this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im going to uphold Mr Js complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the HomeCare policy document. It doesnt provide a timescale for repairs but 
states:
Well carry out any repairs or visits youre entitled to within a reasonable time, unless 
something beyond our control makes that impossible  in which case well let you 
know as soon as possible and give you another time when we can visit.
So I need to consider whether 18 days was a reasonable time for Mr J to have to wait for the 
repair to his boiler to be completed so he could have heating and hot water again.
I think that what is reasonable depends on the circumstances of each case. Mr Js 
circumstances were that his is a household of three people including a child. They were left 
without heating (other than an electric fan heater for a four bedroom house) and hot water, 
and had to boil kettles and use a bucket to wash. I consider that the inconvenience to the 
family was considerable, and Mr J has provided evidence of a health condition which could 
have been alleviated by hot baths. I dont consider that a repair for which they had to wait 18 
days is a repair within a reasonable time in these circumstances.
I also have to consider BGs explanation, and whether the delay was outside its control. BG 
hasnt provided any information about the attempts it made to source the necessary part. Ive 
looked online and there are numerous suppliers of parts for the make and range of boiler 
that Mr J has. Im not satisfied that BG had no control over how long it took to source the 
required part. It was aware of the fact that Mr J and his family would be without heating and 
hot water until it had.
My decision is therefore that BG should compensate Mr J for the significant inconvenience 
he and his family suffered for an unreasonably long period of time. They were reliant upon 
BG to fix the boiler, whereas I think it reasonable to assume that BG has options when it 
comes to sourcing spare parts. I dont consider that it is reasonable for BG to simply say it 
wasnt at fault. Nor were Mr J and his family.
Im therefore agreeing with our investigator that BG should pay compensation to Mr J for the 
inconvenience he and his family suffered, and I agree that £250 is a reasonable sum in the 
circumstances.
Mr J also raised further complaints about rudeness by BGs engineer and discrimination by 
BG, the lack of a call back from a BG manager, and the fact that BG continued to contact 
him after hed brought his complaint to this service. In relation to these, I consider these 
have been correctly addressed by our investigator and I share her view.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Mr Js complaint and I require British Gas 
Insurance Limited to pay him £250 compensation. I also require it to reimburse £29.99 to Mr 
J for the replacement carbon monoxide detector if Mr J was charged for this. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman