DRN-3792450
The complaint
Mr D complains that Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) didnt treat him fairly when it entered into a 
credit agreement with him.
What happened
L2G agreed a loan of £300 for Mr D in July 2021. The total amount owing came to £1,110 
and was to be repaid over 18 months at £62 a month (all figures rounded). 
Mr D emailed L2G the same day he took out the loan to say that he didnt realise the term 
was 18 months and that he wanted to repay the loan in three. He explained hed been 
looking for money to tide him over until payday, that hed made a payment of £200 and 
wanted to repay the remaining £100 quickly. 
L2G produced an early settlement figure of £354 for Mr D and sent him a letter about this. It 
also emailed him on the 3 August to let him know that he could withdraw from the agreement 
within 14 days of the start either by letter, email or telephone and gave him these contacts. 
L2G told Mr D that hed then have 30 days to repay the amount borrowed plus a daily 
interest fee. If he failed to make the payment then the loan would continue as agreed. 
Mr D didnt respond to this or to further messages from L2G.
On 15 September L2G spoke with Mr D. The contact notes record that it informed him of an 
early settlement offer of £250 and Mr D said he thought he only owed £100. The call ended 
without an agreement.  
In March 2022, Mr D complained to L2G. He said that he couldnt afford to repay the balance 
as set out in the loan agreement, that hed already repaid £200 and shouldnt have to pay 
interest on this amount. He also complained that he was being sent texts day and night. 
L2G didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. It said that it carried out all the relevant and necessary 
checks before granting Mr D the loan to ensure it wouldnt have a detrimental effect on his 
finances. It found the loan would be suitable for him and approved his application. L2G also 
said that the terms of the loan were set out on the agreement Mr D signed before the funds 
were sent to him and that it had provided ample opportunity for him to withdraw from the 
agreement  Mr Ds withdrawal rights were set out on the loan agreement and it had 
repeated these in its email to him of the 3 August.
L2G apologised for any stress that its communications caused Mr D and explained that the 
correspondence hed received was system generated and automatically sent out once the 
account is in arrears or payments have been missed. 
Mr D referred his complaint to us. Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be 
upheld. They found that L2G didnt act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the credit 
agreement or in its actions after the agreement was in place. Mr D didnt agree with this 
recommendation and asked for his complaint to come to an ombudsman to review and 
resolve. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also had regard to the regulators rules and guidance on responsible lending (set out in 
its consumer credit handbook  CONC) which lenders, such as L2G, need to abide by. L2G 
will be aware of these, and our approach to this type of lending is set out on our website, so I 
wont refer to the regulations in detail here but will summarise them. 
L2G needed to provide Mr D with clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
agreement before he entered into it and throughout the term. It also needed to check that he 
could afford to meet his repayments out of his usual means, without having to borrow further 
and without experiencing financial difficulty or other adverse consequences. The overarching 
requirement was, and is, that L2G should treat Mr D fairly and with due regard to his 
interests. 
The main questions I need to consider here are whether or not L2G provided Mr D with 
clear, fair and not misleading information before and during the term of the agreement, and 
whether or not it carried out a proportionate check before lending to him. If I find that it didnt 
do either of these, then Ill need to consider whether further information would have changed 
Mr Ds mind about the loan or whether carrying out further checks would have led L2G to 
decline his application. 
Mr D said he applied for the loan via a third party website. I dont know what information was 
provided about the loan during the application process. However, L2G has provided a copy 
of the loan agreement which clearly sets out the terms such as the duration, number of 
repayments, amount of the monthly repayment and the total amount payable. I cant 
reasonably say that Mr D was unaware of his obligations under the agreement before 
entering into it, and I cant see that any more information would have changed his mind 
about continuing with it.  
Ive noted that the loan agreement provided information about how to settle the loan early 
and Mr Ds rights regarding withdrawing from the agreement. When Mr D enquired about the 
agreement term L2G reminded him of these rights and sent him an early settlement figure. I 
think L2G provided Mr D with enough, clear information that he could make an informed 
decision about how to proceed. 
L2G says that it asked Mr D about his income and expenditure and checked his credit file 
before lending to him. It provided the information it relied on. Mr D said his income was 
£2,000 a month and his expenses came to £650. His credit file shows that he had two loans 
with a combined balance of less than £500, and a hire purchase agreement. He also had 
several accounts in default, including two within the last 14 months amounting to over 
£1,600. 
Ive considered this information carefully. On the one hand there were indications that Mr D 
had some relatively recent problems managing his finances. On the other, he was managing 
his other accounts with no obvious signs of difficulty and the amount of money he was 
borrowing was relatively low compared to what hed said about his means. Altogether, 
considering what L2G knew about Mr Ds circumstances alongside the amount of credit hed 
applied for, Ive concluded that L2Gs checks were reasonable and proportionate on this 
occasion. L2G provided its customer contact notes and Ive reviewed these. I can see that L2G sent 
many texts to Mr D regarding his arrears and other topics, and none were sent at antisocial 
hours.  L2G has apologised to Mr D for any stress caused by its communications, and I dont 
consider it needs to do anything else in this regard. 
Mr D has told us that he cant afford to repay the full amount owing under the agreement. I 
would remind L2G of its continuing obligation to treat Mr D fairly and with forbearance and 
due consideration. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I am not upholding Mr Ds complaint about Loans 2 Go Limited 
and dont require it to take any action. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman