DRN-3178342
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy the National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
turned down a claim they made on the legal expenses section of their home and lifestyle 
insurance policy. 
What happened
In May 2017 Mr and Mrs C purchased a property which was in need of significant work. 
Initial plans included an extension but as this was in excess of their budget they scaled these 
back. They appointed a builder to carry out the main works at a cost of around £93,000. Mr 
and Mrs C agreed further works with other contractors but had difficulty in sourcing a 
plasterer to carry out rendering works. Their builder was aware of someone who could do 
this and their builder provided Mr and Mrs C with a price which they accepted. 
The rendering work was completed in April 2018 but issues with this became apparent soon 
after that. Mr and Mrs C initially contacted the legal helpline provided as part of their legal 
expenses cover. However, as the builder didnt respond to correspondence, they made a 
claim for assistance with legal costs in March 2019. 
NFU turned down the claim because it said Mr and Mrs Cs policy excluded claims relating to 
construction work on land where the value was in excess of £50,000. Having taken into 
account advice from its panel solicitors it thought this applied here. Mr and Mrs Cs own 
solicitors subsequently contacted NFU and argued the rendering works werent part of the 
main contract and were separate to it. And they didnt agree the renovations they were 
carrying out represented construction work.   
NFU agreed to get counsels opinion on these points which was received in November 2020. 
Counsel was satisfied the work in this case did represent construction work on land. And he 
was also satisfied the rendering work was a variation to the existing contract Mr and Mrs C 
had with their builder meaning the value was in excess of the £50,000 limit. Mr and Mrs C 
raised further points in response to that opinion which NFU referred to counsel but his 
opinion remained unchanged. So NFU maintained its decision to decline the claim. 
Our investigator thought it was reasonable for NFU to have taken into account the legal 
advice it had received and didnt think it had acted unfairly in applying the policy exclusion in 
this case. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree. In summary they said:
They didnt accept the renovation work they were carrying out could reasonably be said 
to be construction work on land and referenced the dictionary definitions of construction 
and renovation in support of their argument;
They believed the term in the policy to be ambiguous and said where that was the case 
any ambiguity should be read in favour of the policyholder. They didnt think it 
reasonable a layperson should have to consult legal tomes in order to understand the 
meaning of a term; 
Both the solicitor and barrister who advised the claim wasnt covered by the policy were 
paid for by NFU and were on its panel of firms. They didnt think their own solicitors 
opinion had been properly considered and thought NFU should have agreed to fund 
independent counsel to advise on the case;
And they said that in a phone call with NFU (relating to whether it needed to be notified 
of the further rendering work to be carried out at their property) it had drawn a distinction 
between structural work (which they argued meant construction) and renovations.
So I need to reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say NFU has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
I appreciate this has been an extremely difficult time for Mr and Mrs C and Im really sorry to 
hear about the financial problems theyve experienced as a result of the problems at their 
property. However, what I need to consider is whether NFU did anything wrong in turning 
down the claim they made on their legal expenses insurance policy. I dont think it did and Ill 
explain why. 
Ive looked first at the terms of that policy. These do cover a dispute arising from an 
agreement or alleged agreement which an insured person has entered into in a personal 
capacity for buying or hiring in goods or servicesprovided that the amount in dispute is 
more than £100
But thats subject to an exclusion in a section headed what is not insured which says:
Construction work on any land, or designing, converting or extending any building where the 
contract value exceeds £50,000 (including VAT) 
So there are two key issues in this case  does the work that Mr and Mrs C were carrying 
out represent construction work on any land and, if it does, is the value of the contract in 
excess of £50,000. I dont think its disputed the work in this case was being carried out on land. The issue is 
whether it represents construction. Mr and Mrs C argue they were having renovations 
carried out and thats not the same as construction. Using dictionary definitions they say 
construction involves building whereas renovation means restoring something old to a good 
state of repair. 
I understand that argument and I appreciate the term construction isnt defined in this policy. 
And where thats the case looking at the dictionary definition of a word can be a useful 
starting point to help establish what a reasonable interpretation of it might be. But I dont 
think thats necessary in this case because, as counsel noted, Parliament has defined what 
the term construction means. And thats construction, alteration, repair, maintenance, 
extension, demolition or dismantling of buildings
That wording forms part of the Housing Grants, Construction and Regeneration Act which in 
part amends the law as it relates to housing construction contracts. So I think its a relevant 
definition in this case. I think its appropriate NFU gave more weight to a statutory rather than 
a simple dictionary definition. And looking at the work Mr and Mrs C were carrying out I think 
it would fall within that definition. As a result I dont think NFU acted unfairly in concluding 
this was caught by the policy term as it relates to construction on any land. 
Mr and Mrs C argue the policy term is ambiguous and that any ambiguity should be read in 
favour of the policyholder. I understand their argument but I dont think this term is 
ambiguous. In my view its written in clear and intelligible language and Ive explained why I 
think NFU acted reasonably in interpreting it as they did. I note counsel described any 
attempt to say renovation work was not a construction activity as doomed. So I dont think it 
would be necessary to apply the doctrine of contra proferentem (which is what Mr and Mrs C 
are arguing). I think the term is capable of being understood without needing to do that.
Ive gone on to consider whether the value of the contract is more than £50,000. Mr and Mrs 
C argue they had two separate contracts in this case - one for the original works agreed with 
the builder (for £93,000) and a separate one for around £48,000 for the rendering. But while 
I understand why they regarded matters in that way theres nothing which explicitly says 
there were two contracts here. And it doesnt appear payments for the work were made 
separately. Payments were made to the builder who then made any required payment for 
the rendering work to the plasterer. 
Counsel concluded, having taken that and other evidence into account, it was reasonable to 
say the plasterer was acting as a sub-contractor to the builder and this was a variation of the 
existing contract with the builder rather than a separate contract. I havent seen any 
evidence to show the position was significantly different to that set out by counsel and so I 
dont think NFU acted unfairly in concluding there was only one contract here with a total 
value of around £141,000. And so the exclusion did apply and Mr and Mrs Cs policy didnt 
cover the claim theyd made. 
Mr and Mrs C have pointed out the original panel solicitors and the barrister were paid by 
NFU. But I dont think that means it was unreasonable of NFU to take into account the 
advice they provided. Both solicitors and counsel are independent of NFU and have 
professional obligations to provide advice regardless of who is paying them for that. In any 
event while the solicitors and counsel have provided their opinions it was ultimately for NFU 
to decide whether or not this was a claim that was covered by the policy. And Ive explained 
why I dont think its acted unfairly here. Mr and Mrs C also argue their solicitors opinion hasnt been considered. But I dont think 
thats right. It was because they provided that opinion NFU agreed to obtain counsels advice 
on what the correct interpretation of the policy wording was. And having obtained that advice 
I dont think it was unreasonable of NFU to give it more weight than the opinion from 
Mr and Mrs Cs solicitors. The opinion from Mr and Mrs Cs solicitors doesnt cite any 
relevant authorities (such as case or statute law) in support of the argument it makes. By 
contrast the barristers opinion is more detailed and clearly grounded in relevant authorities. 
Mr and Mrs C have highlighted a phone call they had with NFU prior to carrying out work at 
their property. They say in that NFU drew a distinction between structural work (which they 
argued meant construction) and renovations. However, I understand the purpose of that call 
wasnt related to whether cover was available under the legal expenses part of their policy 
but what NFU needed to be aware of from a buildings insurance perspective and the risks 
associated with that. So I dont think theres a direct read across to the position on this claim. 
And for the reasons Ive explained I think in any case NFU had reasonable grounds for 
concluding the claim they were making under their legal expenses policy wasnt covered by 
it. 
Finally I can see Mr and Mrs C have raised concerns about what they were told in a call with 
NFU in December 2019. They say they were told that because their case was closed they no 
longer had access to the legal helpline. NFU says it doesnt have a recording of that call. 
However, it appears what Mr and Mrs C wanted was detailed guidance on how to complete 
court papers in support of their case. The purpose of the legal helpline is to provide general 
advice on legal matters and I dont think it would have been able to offer the specific support 
Mr and Mrs C were seeking. So even if NFU did get something wrong here I dont think 
Mr and Mrs C have lost out as a result. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to accept or reject my decision before 
9 March 2022.
 
James Park
Ombudsman