DRN-4192430
The complaint
Mr K complains about the way Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has offered to settle an 
incapacity claim he made on a group income protection insurance policy.
Mr K is represented by Mr B.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties. So Ive simply set out a brief 
summary of what I think are the key events. Id like to reassure assure both parties though 
that Ive carefully considered the timeline of events, their submissions and all of the evidence 
thats been provided.
Mr K is insured under his insurers group income protection insurance policy.
In 2017, Mr K became unfit to work. In 2018, he made an incapacity claim on the policy. 
Aviva turned down Mr Ks claim, because it didnt think Mr K had provided enough evidence 
to show he was incapacitated in line with the policy terms. 
Subsequently, in August 2021, Mr K saw Mr H, an independent medical examiner (IME) and 
consultant occupational health physician. Mr H concluded that Mr K had likely been unfit to 
work in 2018 and 2019, but that hed been fit to begin a phased return to work, with 
adjustments, at some point in 2020.
Mr K made a complaint to us about Avivas decision to turn down his claim. Another 
ombudsman made a final decision in October 2021. She felt that based on Mr Hs report, 
there was enough information to show that Mr K had been incapacitated between 2018 and 
at least June 2020. So she directed Aviva to pay Mr K backdated benefit until at least June 
2020. She said that Aviva would need to explain to Mr K how it calculated any partial benefit 
past that date. Mr K accepted the ombudsmans decision and so Aviva admitted Mr Ks claim 
and paid backdated benefit, which ended June 2020.
However, based on Mr Hs report, Aviva concluded that Mr K had been fit to work on a 
phased basis from July 2020 onwards. But Mr K hadnt returned to work and so under the 
terms of the insurance contract, it didnt consider that any benefit was payable after this 
date. Nonetheless, in November 2021, it got in touch with Mr Ks employer to offer to pay Mr 
K proportionate benefit outside of the policy terms if he engaged with a return to work plan.
Mr K maintained he wasnt fit for work and so Aviva didnt pay proportionate benefit. 
In May 2022, Mr K saw another IME, Mr W, a consultant who was a specialist in Mr Ks 
particular illnesses. Mr W concluded that Mr K hadnt been fit to work at any time since 2017. 
He also stated that he didnt consider Mr K would be fit to return to work either full or part-
time for the foreseeable future. Aviva considered Mr Ws report and recommenced paying Mr 
K incapacity benefit from April 2022.
Mr B asked us to consider a new complaint about Avivas proposed settlement of Mr Ks 
claim. 
Following the provision and consideration of evidence and continued communications 
between the parties, Aviva went on to make the following offer of settlement:
Full benefit between 18 October 2020 and 13 August 2021 (the date of Mr Hs 
report);
Full benefit during January 2022.
Our investigator ultimately reached the following conclusions:
There wasnt sufficient medical evidence to show that Mr K was fit to return to work 
either full or part-time during 2020 or prior to the date of his appointment with Mr H, 
on 28 July 2021. Aviva hadnt sent Mr Ks employer a copy of a return to work plan 
until 5 November 2021, so Mr K hadnt had an opportunity to engage with the plan 
until that date. Therefore, the investigator recommended that Aviva should pay Mr K 
full benefit between July 2020 and 5 November 2021, together with interest;
Mr Hs report did indicate that Mr K was fit to return to work on a phased basis and 
this was the most persuasive, contemporaneous medical evidence available at the 
time. So the investigator felt it wouldve been reasonable for Mr K to have engaged 
with the plan at the time (as the policy terms required him to), but he hadnt felt able 
to return to work. As such, our investigator didnt think it would be reasonable to 
direct Aviva to pay proportionate benefit for a period when Mr K hadnt attempted a 
return to work in line with Mr Hs recommendations;
Medical evidence from Mr Ks treating doctor in his home country showed that Mr K 
had been incapacitated in line with the policy terms during January 2022. Aviva felt 
Mr K wouldve been fit to return to work between this point and April 2022, if hed 
resumed medication. However, the investigator didnt think there was enough 
medical evidence to show this was the case. So she recommended that Aviva should 
pay Mr K full benefit for the period January to April 2022, together with interest.
Neither party accepted the investigators recommendations. In brief, Aviva disputes that 
benefit should be paid between July and October 2020, or for the period between August 
and November 2021. It didnt comment on whether benefit should be paid for the full January 
to April 2022 period. Mr B felt Aviva should pay benefit for the full period and he also 
considers that Aviva should pay Mr Ks legal costs.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigators recommendations and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive carefully considered, amongst 
other things, the contract terms and the available evidence, to decide whether Aviva has 
treated Mr K fairly.
First, it seems to me that while there has been a great deal of correspondence and ongoing 
communications while the complaint has been with us, some main issues have already been 
resolved and Aviva has made offers for time periods which were previously in dispute. This 
means I think there are only a few key issues I now need to decide. These are: a) was it fair for Aviva not to pay benefit between July and October 2020, b) was it fair for Aviva to 
conclude Mr K was fit to work between August 2021 and January 2022, c) was it fair for 
Aviva not to pay benefit for the period February to April 2022 and d) should Aviva pay Mr Ks 
legal costs? Ill deal with each issue in turn. 
Was it fair for Aviva to decline to pay benefit between July and October 2020?
Its common ground that following the receipt of Mr Hs report, in August 2021, Aviva 
admitted Mr Ks claim between 2018 and June 2020. However, it concluded that after June 
2020, Mr K was fit to return to work on a phased basis. Mr K disagrees. Ive thought about 
this very carefully and Ive considered all of the available medical evidence.
In summary, Mr H felt that Mr K seemed to have improved in 2020. So Mr H said that he 
imagined that Mr K could have been able to commence a slow phased return sometime 
during that year. Aviva has appeared to have placed some weight on this particular finding. 
However, I note that Mr H preceded this finding by stating: I am apprehensive to provide a 
definitive opinion with regards to retrospective medical fitness to work because it entirely 
depends on his level of functioning at any given time.
I can understand why Mr H was reluctant to provide a definitive finding on this point, given 
he didnt assess Mr K until the end of July 2021. I dont find sometime in 2020 to be a clear 
indication that Mr H felt Mr K most likely had been fit to return to work from July 2020 
onwards. And Mr Ks medical records present a mixed picture of his health during the 
relevant period. Ive seen no persuasive medical evidence which shows, on balance, that 
during this period, Mr K was fit to return to work.
Once Aviva had admitted the claim, the responsibility effectively shifted to it to show that Mr 
K no longer met the policy definition of incapacity. As Ive explained, I dont think theres 
sufficient medical evidence to show that Mr K was no longer incapacitated between June 
and October 2020. Therefore, I dont think Aviva has shown it was fair and reasonable for it 
to conclude that Mr K wasnt entitled to full benefit between July and October 2020.
Was it fair for Aviva to conclude that Mr K was fit to work between August 2021 and January 
2022?
Its clear that Mr K feels strongly that the medical evidence hes provided shows that he 
wasnt fit to commence a phased return to work in August 2021. Mr H concluded, at this 
point, that Mr K was: medically fit to perform the material and substantial duties of his usual 
occupation on a part-time basis. A slow graduated return to work will be beneficial
Mr H went on to set out a detailed, proposed return to work plan, set out over a 19-week 
period. He also suggested reasonable adjustments which Mr Ks employer could make to 
facilitate Mr Ks return to work.
I appreciate Mr W stated that Mr K hadnt been fit to work since 2017. And that Mr K says 
another treating specialist stated that Mr K was just as incapacitated in August 2021 as hed 
been in 2018. However, Im not a medical expert and so I need to consider the expert 
evidence of Mr Ks treating doctors, and other experts in the relevant fields, to decide which I 
find more persuasive.
In this case, Im mindful that Mr W didnt have the opportunity to examine Mr K until April 
2022  several months after Mr H had assessed Mr K. This means that his medical opinion 
on Mr Ks fitness for work prior to that date was based on retrospective reporting of Mr Ks 
symptoms at a time when Mr Ks condition had deteriorated. It wasnt contemporaneous medical evidence of Mr Ks fitness to work in August 2021. I note too that Mr K has 
maintained that his specialist in his home country is prohibited by law from providing a 
medical opinion on his fitness to work.
I appreciate that Mr W is a specialist in the conditions which have caused Mr Ks periods of 
incapacity. But I need to bear in mind that Mr H is a consultant physician in occupational 
health and therefore an expert in occupational medicine. And on balance, I find his report 
from August 2021 very persuasive evidence that Mr K most likely was fit to start a slow, 
phased return to work in line with Mr Hs suggested plan. That means I think it was fair and 
reasonable for Aviva to conclude that Mr K wasnt incapacitated in line with the policy terms 
at the point Mr H assessed him and wrote his report.
As such, I think it was fair for Aviva to decline to pay Mr K incapacity benefit for the full 
period of his claim. If Mr K had returned to work in line with Mr Hs recommendations, Aviva 
wouldve been liable to pay proportionate benefit, reflecting the reduction in Mr Ks pay due 
to the drop in his earnings. Indeed, the policy terms require an insured beneficiary and their 
employer to take any reasonable action required following medical advice or adjustments to 
enable a return to work. But Mr K didnt return to work following Mr Hs report. And so, I think 
it was fair for Aviva to conclude that neither full benefit nor proportionate benefit was due.
Nonetheless, like the investigator, I too think it would be fair and reasonable for Aviva to pay 
Mr K full benefit between June 2020 and 5 November 2021, rather than limiting benefit to the 
date of Mr Hs report. Thats because thats the date Mr Ks employer was provided with a 
copy of the return to work plan and was in a position to offer to implement the reasonable 
adjustments which had been recommended. While I accept that Aviva isnt responsible for 
the employers actions, I dont think it would be fair to have expected Mr K to return to work 
until a phased plan had been agreed and adjustments had been made.
Was it fair for Aviva to decline to pay benefit between January and 7 April 2022?
Following the receipt of further medical evidence from Mr Ks treating doctor, Aviva now 
accepts that Mr K did meet the definition of incapacity for the whole month of January 2022. 
However, it doesnt agree that he met the definition of incapacity between the end of January 
2022 and April 2022. Mr K had experienced symptoms of light-headedness after hed 
ceased taking medication, which had led to the period of accepted incapacity. But Aviva felt 
that these symptoms would have resolved once Mr K began to re-start his medication.
I dont think theres enough medical evidence to show that Mr Ks condition had improved 
sufficiently between the end of January 2022 and April 2022 which meant he was no longer 
incapacitated.  This conclusion appears to be more based on Avivas assumptions. In the 
absence of clear medical evidence which shows that Mr K wasnt incapacitated between 
January 2022 and April 2022 (when Aviva accepts that Mr K was totally incapacitated after 6 
April 2022), I dont think it was fair for Aviva to decline to pay benefit for this broadly full 
three-month period.
Should Aviva pay Mr Ks legal costs?
Its clear Mr B feels strongly that Mr K required legal representation in order to make his 
complaint. However, this service is free to use, theres no need for representation and were 
proud of being accessible to our consumers. Mr K was previously able to bring a complaint 
about his claim without legal representation and so I think he was reasonably aware that he 
didnt need legal assistance to bring this complaint to us. In the circumstances then, I dont 
find it would be fair or reasonable to direct Aviva to pay Mr Ks legal costs.
SummaryIn summary, I dont think that it was fair for Aviva to decline to pay benefit for the period July 
2020 to October 2020; to decline to pay benefit between 13 August and 5 November 2021 
and to decline to pay benefit between January and April 2022. So I now direct Aviva to pay 
Mr Ks claim for incapacity benefit for each of these periods, in line with the remaining terms 
and conditions of the policy. Aviva will need to add interest to each of these monthly benefits 
at a rate of 8% simple per annum, from the date each payment was due until the date of 
settlement.
I make no award for Mr Ks legal costs.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to:
Pay Mr Ks incapacity claim for the period July 2020 until 5 November 2021;
Pay Mr Ks incapacity claim between January and April 2022;
Add interest to each monthly benefit payment at an annual rate of 8% simple, from 
the date each payment was due until the date of settlement.
If Aviva considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr K how much its taken off. It should also give Mr K a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman