DRN-2557781
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that St Andrew's Insurance plc unfairly limited their contents cover 
under a home insurance policy.
Both Mr and Mrs S are named policyholders on their St Andrews policy, so any claim or 
complaint is brought by them both. But for simplicity, and because most of the information 
about the complaint has been provided by Mr S, Ill refer mainly to Mr S from here onward.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out a Sainsburys Bank home insurance policy in December 2010 and 
renewed it each year. The policy was underwritten by St Andrews. 
In February 2020, a storm caused part of their chimney to collapse onto a shed. The shed 
was destroyed and the garden furniture inside severely damaged. Mr S estimated the value 
of the garden furniture at approximately £6,000. He made a claim under his home insurance 
for the damage to his home and garden furniture. 
The buildings claim was settled. However, Sainsburys Bank told Mr S that his policy only 
covered contents in his shed to a maximum £2,000. Mr S disputed this. He said this cover 
limit wasnt in his original policy document and Sainsburys Bank hadnt sent him the policy 
booklet containing the revised term. He brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. She found that 
the terms of Mr and Mrs Ss policy limited the cover for the contents of their shed to £2,000. 
She was satisfied that St Andrews had sent Mr S the policy booklet that set out this limit, 
and thought St Andrews had acted fairly by limiting its settlement to this amount.
Mr S disagreed with our investigator. In summary, he says:
The policy document he received at renewal was the same as the one he received 
when he first took out the policy.
His insurance contract with his insurer is formed of the policy booklet and schedule. 
The insurance information document doesnt form part of this contract.
The Contents section of his policy schedule lists his excesses and cover limits. It 
doesnt list the £2,000 limit relied on by St Andrews.
St Andrews is unable to prove it sent the revised policy booklet to him.
He has made an affidavit to support his claim.
The case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Mr S told us hes never had any direct contact with St Andrews, and it has never 
written to him. I understand this. However, while Mr S took out a Sainsburys Bank home 
insurance policy, his complaint is against the underwriter of the policy, St Andrews. This is 
because St Andrews set the policy terms and the limit on Mr Ss claim. For the avoidance of 
doubt, any reference in my decision to St Andrews includes actions or correspondence by 
Sainsburys Bank.
Second, Mr S has made several arguments why he believes the £2,000 limit doesnt apply. 
Ive considered everything hes said but I dont think I need to comment on each point to 
reach the right outcome. Ive focused instead on what I think are the key issues. I think these 
can be boiled down to three key points:
1. The £2,000 limit for damage to contents in his shed wasnt part of his original policy.
2. His insurance contract with his insurer is the policy booklet and schedule. His policy 
schedule lists his excesses and cover limits. It doesnt list the £2,000 limit relied on 
by St Andrews.
3. St Andrews is unable to prove it sent the revised policy booklet to him.
St Andrews referred to the Contents cover section of Mr Ss policy booklet as the reason 
for limiting Mr Ss claim. Specifically, it highlighted the paragraph headed What we cover 
which says: The most we will pay for contents within garages, greenhouses, sheds and 
outbuildings is £2,000. This is found at page 25 of the policy booklet. The same policy limit 
is set out in the table at page 9 of the policy booklet: Contents in your garages, sheds, 
greenhouses or outbuildings, £2,000 in total.
Mr S accepts this but says this is a different policy booklet to his own. Mr S provided a copy 
of the relevant section from his policy booklet. Section 2: Contents sets a cover limit of 
£2,000 for Contents stolen from your garage or outbuilding forming part of your home. Mr S 
explains that his garden furniture was damaged, not stolen, therefore the limit doesnt apply.
I disagree. Insurers can review and update the cover they offer and reflect this in the policy 
documents they send to policyholders at renewal. St Andrews has shown that its cover limit 
for shed contents was £2,000 from at least 2018. While I understand Mr Ss argument that 
this limit wasnt in his original policy, I dont think its reasonable to ask St Andrews to 
continue to offer him insurance on 2010 terms.
Mr S says his policy schedule doesnt set out the contents limit for his shed. I dont think it 
needs to. As Mr S says, his insurance contract is the policy booklet and the policy schedule. 
The policy booklet sets out the general cover that applies to all policyholders. The policy 
schedule sets out any limits, cover and special conditions that relate only to Mr S. For 
example, the total sum insured, cover for high risk items, specified items, voluntary 
excesses, and whether accidental damage cover is included.
So I wouldnt expect to see the outbuildings contents limit in the policy schedule because 
this isnt specific to Mr S. Instead, this limit is set out in the policy booklet and in the 
Insurance Policy Information (IPID). I appreciate Mr S says the IPID doesnt form part of his 
contract with St Andrews, however its a required document that summarises his insurance 
cover. The November 2019 IPID lists restrictions on cover, including Contents in your 
garages, greenhouses, sheds and outbuildings - up to £2,000. The November 2018 IPID 
and policy booklet included the same limit. So Im satisfied that Mr Ss insurance limited 
cover for the contents of his shed to £2,000.Finally, Mr S says he didnt receive the revised policy booklet. However, if the renewal pack 
didnt include the policy booklet, Id reasonably have expected Mr S to contact Sainsburys 
Bank about this. The renewal letters invited him to request a copy if it was missing from the 
renewal pack. I dont think its necessary or realistic for St Andrews to provide a sworn 
statement from the individual who placed the policy booklet in the envelope and sent it to Mr 
S in November 2019, as Mr S requests.
For the reasons set out above, I find that Mr Ss policy limited his cover for the contents of 
his shed to £2,000. Im satisfied that St Andrews acted reasonably by applying this limit to 
Mr Ss claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman