DRN-3847361
The complaint
Ms C complains about a decision by Nationwide Building Society (who Ill call Nationwide) 
not to continue to pursue a chargeback claim shed made to them.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Ms C, but I think Nationwide have been reasonable here and Im not
asking them to take any further action.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong, and the payment was made with a debit card it may also be 
possible to make a chargeback claim. The chargeback scheme isnt administered by 
Nationwide, its administered by Visa, and they set the rules. Creation didnt have to submit a 
chargeback claim but Id think it good practice for them to do so where the right exists and 
there is a prospect of success.
The chargeback scheme is voluntary, and Nationwide didnt have to process a claim for 
Ms C. But where theres a realistic prospect of success I would think it reasonable for 
Nationwide to do so.
Nationwide did process a chargeback regarding Ms Cs removal charges. But when the 
merchant provided a reasonable defence through the scheme administrators they didnt 
pursue the claim any further. 
I think they were reasonable not to as the merchants defence was a strong one. The 
contract explained that The Partner will load and deliver only the goods agreed in the
Comprehensive Inventory List. Whilst they refer to 8.5m3, I dont think it was agreed that 
this would be the space provided and that no inventory list would therefore be necessary. 
Nor do I think a room to room service was offered in which an inventory list may not be 
required. Im persuaded that the 8.5m3 was a guide and I dont think the evidence suggested 
that the merchant had, at any time, accepted they would move the items Ms C detailed on 
the inventory she gave to the merchant after the contract had been agreed. Theyd explained 
that there was no contract for collecting the additional items Ms C wanted moving, and their 
phone records suggested theyd explained that the additional items Ms C wanted to include, 
would come at an additional price and that they wouldnt be able to provide a refund if they 
arrived, and were asked to deliver that expanded list. In those circumstances they had not 
failed to deliver the service paid for.
I understand that ultimately the merchant didnt move any items, but I cant see what else 
they could have done in the circumstances. Theyd arrived to collect the items theyd 
originally been informed of, but Ms C wouldnt allow them to collect them, and wouldnt pay 
the extra to allow the full load to be collected and delivered.
I note that Ms C wanted Nationwide to cancel the payment she had made to the merchant 
but they wouldnt have been able to do that as the transaction had already been processed. 
In those circumstances I think they did the next best thing, which was to raise a chargeback 
claim to dispute the transaction. But as, ultimately, I dont think their handling of the 
chargeback claim was unreasonable, Im not asking Nationwide to take any further action.
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman