DRN-3770525
The complaint
Mr M complains that IGo4 Limited charged him a cancellation fee and a telematics fee when 
it cancelled his telematics motor insurance policy. He wants these fees refunded.
 
What happened
Mr M took out a policy online with IGo4. He said he only realised that it was a telematics 
policy after he had made his purchase and received an email saying that the black box had 
been dispatched for him to install. IGo4 asked Mr M to clarify an unrelated policy matter. As 
he didnt respond, IGo4 told him the insurer would cancel the policy. 
IGo4 said the black box was then delivered to Mr M. But Mr M emailed IGo4 to say that he 
hadnt received it. This email wasnt responded to. The policy was then cancelled, and a 
charge was applied. Mr M was unhappy with this charge and the charge for telematics. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She thought it 
was clear from the online journey that Mr M had purchased a telematics policy and he had 
agreed to this. She thought it was fair and reasonable for the policy to be cancelled as Mr M 
hadnt provided the required information about the unrelated matter. And so she thought it 
was fair for IGo4 to apply the cancellation charge in keeping with the policys terms and 
conditions. 
But she thought IGo4 hadnt provided evidence that the black box had been successfully 
delivered to Mr Ms address. And so she thought it was unfair for IGo4 to apply the 
telematics charge.
IGo4 replied that it thought this was unfair as the charge was for the set up and 
administration of the telematics policy. It thought it was being penalised because Mr M had 
decided not to go ahead with the telematics policy. IGo4 asked for an Ombudsmans review, 
so the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that IGo4 made it clear on the comparison site that Mr M used that Mr M was 
purchasing a telematics policy. I can see from the screenshots provided of his online 
purchase that Mr M agreed to the policys terms and conditions and these clearly state that 
its a telematics policy. So I cant say that Mr M was misled when he bought his policy.
Im also satisfied that IGo4 cancelled the policy on the insurers behalf in keeping with the 
policys terms and conditions. This is because Mr M hadnt provided the requested 
information about an unrelated matter. IGo4 then gave him seven days notice of 
cancellation, in keeping with the policys terms and conditions. And so I think it fairly and 
reasonably charged Mr M the cancellation fee set out in the policy documents. 
Mr M said he hadnt received the black box. IGo4 showed us a delivery notification provided 
by its agent. But this doesnt include any details of the name and address of the recipient 
and the delivery wasnt signed for. This notification is dated eight days after IGo4 told Mr M 
that the box had been dispatched. 
Mr M said he waited in on two separate days for the delivery. Whilst I dont doubt Mr Ms 
account, I havent seen any evidence to support this such as emails warning him of the 
delivery. 
Mr M then emailed IGo4 to say that he hadnt received the box. IGo4 received this email. But 
this email wasnt then acted on as the policy had already cancelled. This was unfortunate as 
IGo4 then missed the opportunity to check this with its delivery agent. IGo4 said the tracking 
information was only kept for a month. It said this would have been checked when Mr M 
complained. But I cant verify this as IGo4 hasnt retained a copy. But as Mr M had contacted 
IGo4, then I cant reasonably hold him responsible for its failing. So I cant safely say that the 
black box was delivered to Mr Ms home address. 
When IGo4 cancelled the policy, it applied its charges as stated in its policys terms and 
conditions. IGo4 said it applied a charge for telematics as this charge was non-refundable. 
And I can see that this is explained in the policy documents. And normally I would say that 
that applying the charge was fair and reasonable. 
However, whilst I agree that IGo4 incurred costs in setting up the telematics, I dont think this 
charge was fair and reasonable in Mr Ms particular circumstances. This is because I cant 
say that Mr M received the box. He said he had waited in for the delivery on two occasions. 
And he told IGo4 that he hadnt received the box. And for this reason, I think its unfair and 
unreasonable for IGo4 to apply the telematics charge. And so I think IGo4 should remove 
this charge from the balance Mr M owes. 
Putting things right
I require IGo4 Limited to remove the £150 telematics charge from the outstanding balance 
Mr M owes for his policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require IGo4 Limited to carry out the redress set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman