DRN-2129080
The complaint
Miss H complains that ACF Car Finance Limited mis-sold her a single premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy which she took out in October 2007 in connection with a 
loan to buy a car.
What happened
Miss H complained to this service. She told us she took out a loan on 12 October 2007 
during a meeting. Miss H said she wasnt told the policy was optional  but she was told 
she wouldnt be able to get the loan unless she bought the PPI; and she said she didnt 
need it.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should not be upheld. Miss H disagreed with our 
adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Hs complaint. I know this will disappoint to her, so Ill set out 
my reasons below.
Miss H said she wasnt told the PPI was an optional product. So I first looked to see if the 
policy was presented to her as a separate and optional product.
ACF Car Finance produced a copy of Miss Hs loan application and the PPI application 
forms which were probably completed for her at the time of the sale. I can see the PPI 
application says the consumer can tick a box to decline PPI and as it was a separate 
document, I can reasonably assume that Miss H didnt have to give instructions to complete 
it or sign it at all.
As she had that choice, I think the policy was presented as an optional product. I also 
noted that the loan application referred to optional insurance, so I think it was more likely 
that Miss H was aware the policy was optional, and she chose to buy it.
Miss H said she was told she had to get the PPI to get the loan  so she may have felt 
pressured to buy it at the time of the sale. However, I have looked at the documents very 
carefully, and there isnt enough evidence to show she was put under this pressure to buy 
PPI. So I cant uphold the complaint for that reason.
Both parties agree this was an advised sale so I will continue on that basis. For such sales, 
ACF Car Finance would have had to recommend a policy which was suitable for Miss H.
Having looked at Miss Hs circumstances at the time of the sale, I do think the policy was 
suitable because she was eligible for the cover. And I havent seen any evidence it wasnt 
affordable for her, and she didnt seem to be affected by the main things not covered by 
the policy (the exclusions).
Miss H said she would get sick pay from her employer, but I dont think she had any 
savings. I think the PPI could have given her a useful benefit which could cover her loan 
repayments if she made a successful claim for sickness or an accident. So I dont think 
Miss Hs employee benefits made the policy unsuitable for her.
ACF Car Finance also had to make sure Miss H got information which was clear, fair and 
not misleading. So I looked at the main PPI policy features which Miss H may have seen 
at the time of or shortly after the sale.
It isnt clear how or if any of the key features were explained or highlighted to her. But as 
the main exclusions didnt seem to affect her, I dont think that any more detailed 
information would have put her off from buying the PPI
I saw Miss Hs loan agreement. I saw it set out the PPI premium, the amount of the loan, 
the number of monthly instalments, the interest rate on the whole loan amount and the 
monthly premium for the whole amount she would have to pay. And as she signed the 
credit agreement, I think she probably saw these figures and was aware of the PPI cost. 
So I dont think any further information about cost and benefits would have stopped her 
from buying it.
Taking everything into account, I think the PPI was optional and that Miss H chose to 
have it added to her account. I think it was probably suitable for her and I think she was 
probably given enough information which was clear, fair and not misleading. So Im not 
going to uphold this complaint.
If Miss H has any complaints about her PPI, other than mis-sale in October 2007, she will 
have to complain to ACF Car Finance first and then refer the complaint to this service if she 
is unhappy with the outcome.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman