DRN-3615593
The complaint
Mr M complains, through his representative, that Phoenix Life Assurance Limited gave him
unsuitable advice to transfer out of his occupational pension scheme in 1992.
What happened
I issued a second provisional decision on this complaint on 7 July 2022. I set out the reasons 
why I wasnt provisionally minded to uphold the complaint in that decision. Ive reproduced 
the relevant parts of that provisional decision here and it forms part of this final decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on Mr Ms complaint on 10 March 2022. The background and
circumstances to the complaint and the reasons why I wasnt minded to uphold it were set
out in that decision. I wont repeat it all here as the facts arent largely in dispute. But in brief,
Mr M was advised to opt-out of his employers occupational pension scheme (OPS) and
transfer the benefits hed accrued in it to a personal pension arrangement in 1992. The
advice that hed been given was subsequently investigated as part of the regulators industry
wide pension review.
Phoenix Life sent Mr M a letter dated 5 August 2002 saying that it had completed
a review of his pension policy. It said Mr M had lost out as a result of having his personal
pension, and it offered Mr M compensation. Mr M accepted the offer on 8 August 2002 and
his pension was augmented with £7,173 that same month.
Mr M, through his representative, complained that the pension review hadnt been
completed in accordance with the regulatory standards required at the time. In my
provisional decision I said Id seen no persuasive evidence that the pension review hadnt
been carried out correctly.
Mr Ms representative didnt agree with my provisional findings. In particular it was
concerned that the firm had said given the term to Mr Ms retirement date the assumed
annual management charge was 0%. It said although the charges were implicit" (ie.
hidden) that didnt mean they were zero. It said it was and is common knowledge that the
real costs of With Profits funds were towards the higher end of the scale.
The representative said while there could be some debate about what allowance should be
made for the charge on a With Profits fund, there could be no question that some allowance
should be made, rather than no allowance at all. There were no With Profits funds with zero
charges.
It said, therefore, that it thought my decision was unfair and unreasonable.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The section of the RECAL calculation that usually shows the future charges was left blank.
There could be a number of explanations for this, as RECAL was used to effectively model
the capitalised value of the OPS scheme benefits against the capitalised value of the
personal pension benefits, with any adjustments made to those values where appropriate.
Adjustments could be modelled in a number of ways.
We asked Phoenix to explain the apparent assumption of zero future charges (given the
blank screens in RECAL). It said that it no longer employed any of the Actuaries that had
worked on the pension review. So it referred the query to the firm of independent actuaries
who had carried out calculations on its behalf.
The firm of actuaries provided a copy of its review process for dealing with this firms
calculations. This included:
6 RECAL
Bespoke version of RECAL
BASL have a bespoke version of RECAL for expenses. Leave M19 expenses blank (except
for MAPP SRA, which should be entered as per standard procedures)  input codes on M21.
See Appx 3 for error codes.
The firm of actuaries said the facility to allow for future policy expense charges was always
present within the redress calculation software. And the client specific procedures they used
for this particular firm itemised the "codes" to be used for different policy types in order to
load the appropriate expense charges into the RECAL software for the case. The firm of
actuaries said they were confident the redress calculation was correct.
Looking at the RECAL printout, M19  charges, was left blank. Whilst I couldnt see an M21,
the Bespoke Charge Facility for use by Pearl Assurance was marked as Y. And further
down the Expense Category was marked as 3 for the Regular Contributions Account
and 6 and 7 for the Transfer account ordinary rights and protected rights respectively. So
whoever completed the calculation clearly thought about the expenses and input the
different relevant codes.
So although the usual section for these charges in RECAL was left blank, Im satisfied, from
the evidence thats been provided by the firm of actuaries, that they were provided for in a
different section on this particular calculation.
Taking all the above into account, Ive seen no persuasive evidence that the pension review
wasnt carried out correctly. The pension review was a one-off exercise and Mr M agreed a
final settlement in respect of the advice hed received almost twenty years ago. There are
only limited circumstances where I would look beyond that agreement. In my view Phoenix
Life carried out the pension review and offered appropriate compensation to Mr M as it was
required to do at the time by the regulator. Im not persuaded that there are grounds to
require Phoenix Life to revisit the matter now.
Accordingly my provisional decision was that I didnt uphold the complaint. 
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or arguments that they wanted me to 
take into account.
Phoenix Life said it had nothing further to add.
Mr Ms representative didnt provide any further evidence or arguments.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive seen no reason to depart from the finding set out in my provisional 
decision above not to uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman