DRN-2500292
The complaint
Mr W complains Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited (AA) wouldnt accept 
his no claims discount (NCD) when he arranged a car insurance policy through it. Hes 
unhappy the AA keeps records for 25 years  which he considers excessive  but doesnt 
use this information to validate NCD.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
NCDs were created by insurance companies as a way of offering discretionary 
discounts. The considerations arent standard across the industry, but one of the 
generally agreed conventions is that NCD is only valid for a specific period. In my 
experience, most insurers accept NCD if it is used within two years (although some 
might accept up to three years). The AA has said no insurer on its panel will accept 
NCD if the gap is more than two years.
I understand Mr W was looking to use his NCD from a 2007 policy when he took out 
a new policy through the AA in 2019. This is well outside the industry-wide accepted 
period. I dont consider it unreasonable Mr Ws NCD wasnt accepted by the AA.
Mr W says he wasnt told his NCD would expire if he didnt use it within two years. 
Our investigator asked if his 2007 policy was arranged through the AA and Mr W said 
he couldnt remember. As I havent seen anything to suggest the policy was arranged 
through it, it would be unfair of me to hold the AA responsible for the information 
Mr W feels he ought to have received. Id also add its ultimately up to the new 
insurer to decide how it assesses the risk potential policyholders present and what it 
will accept as evidence of NCD.
Im satisfied Mr W had access to the AAs criteria for accepting NCD when he made 
an online application for the policy in 2019  the FAQs state proof of NCD must be 
dated within the past two years. Mr W subsequently spoke to an agent at the AA 
about this. So, Im satisfied he had the available information before deciding to 
purchase the policy.
Mr W says during this period, he was using hire cars and car clubs and remained a 
named driver on his wifes car insurance policy. I acknowledge what Mr W has said 
about using car share schemes and reducing overall car usage. But in general, NCD 
is only accrued by policyholders. NCD wouldnt have accrued during this period as 
Mr W didnt have a policy in his name. There are some policies that offer a named-
driver NCD. I understand this is something the AA offers too, but Mr W didnt meet 
the eligibility criteria as a claim had been made on his wifes policy. 
I know Mr W feels strongly about how insurance companies consider NCDs. The 
Financial Ombudsman Service was set up to consider complaints from customers 
about financial service providers. Were not the regulator and we do not oversee the 
industry, thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority.
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) regulates compliance to data protection 
laws in the UK. Although its for the ICO to decide whether the AA is compliant with 
data protection laws, it might help if I explain that retention periods may differ 
depending on the type of data. For instance, records kept for potential personal injury 
claims may be retained for longer than those kept for, say, marketing purposes. 
Ultimately, if Mr W is unhappy about the AAs data retention policy, hell need to raise 
his concerns with the ICO.
For these reasons, although I understand Mr Ws frustrations, I dont think the AA has 
treated him unfairly. Accordingly, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman