DRN-3067242
The complaint
Mr N would like to make a complaint about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy that 
he says HSBC Bank Plc mis-sold to him.
What happened
Our adjudicator looked in to this, but didnt think that this service could consider Mr Ns mis-
sale complaint. The adjudicator also explained why HSBC didnt need to refund Mr D any of 
the commission that he paid for his PPI policy.
Mr N didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ns mis-sale complaint
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. The rules applying to this service say that 
where a business doesnt agree  I cant look into a complaint if its been referred to us more
than six months after the business sends the consumer its final response letter, telling them
they can refer their complaint to us. This is Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(1)  and it can be
found online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook.
HSBC sent its final response letter to Mr N on 16 August 2013  so he had six months
from this date to bring his complaint to this service. But he didnt do so until 2021. So, the 
complaint was referred to us out of time under the rules I have to apply.
I can look at complaints referred outside of the usual time limits where Im satisfied that the
failure to comply was because of exceptional circumstances.
Mr N says that in January 2021, the letter sent to him by HSBC said that he had the right to 
bring his complaint to this service. But this letter was only about commission  and didnt 
address his mis-sale complaint. So, I dont think this is an exceptional circumstance, and Mr 
N hasnt said anything else for me to find that exceptional circumstances apply. Which 
means Im unable to consider Mr Ns complaint about mis-sold PPI as it has been brought 
too late.
Other considerations
The Supreme Court decided a case that involved the commission on a PPI policy  Plevin v
Paragon Personal Finance. And the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  who make the
rules for financial businesses  introduced some new rules and guidance for businesses to
follow when theyre looking at PPI complaints. This means businesses will sometimes need
to give consumers back some of the commission paid on certain PPI policies.
But this only applies to credit agreements taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements
taken out before then which were still running on 6 April 2008. From the information HSBC 
has provided, these dates dont apply to Mr Ns loan account, so these rules and guidance 
dont apply  and so HSBC doesnt have to pay back Mr N any of the commission he paid. 
 
My final decision
Im unable to consider Mr Ns mis-sale complaint about his PPI policy, as it was brought to 
this service too late under the rules I have to apply.
And HSBC UK Bank Plc doesnt need to pay back Mr N any of the commission he paid on 
his PPI policy as the dates his account was open means that the rules and guidance dont 
apply. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman