DRN-2733318
The complaint
Mr L complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc gave him incorrect information when he tried to 
move shares into his Individual Savings Account (ISA). This has resulted in him moving cash 
into his ISA rather than shares.
What happened
Mr L has an investment account with HSBC which holds shares. In March 2020 he wanted to 
move shares into a new ISA for the tax year. He said the website was confusing so he sent 
HSBC a message asking how to do this. HSBC replied explaining he needed to open a new 
ISA and then transfer money in from his settlement account. Mr L followed these 
instructions. He later saw that £20,000 had been taken from his current account and put into 
the ISA. He said this wasnt what he wanted to do and he continued to hold the shares that 
he had wanted to transfer into the ISA.
Mr L complained to HSBC. It said that he hadnt specifically asked how to move shares into 
his ISA, and had he done this it would have told him he had to sell the shares first and then 
repurchase the shares inside the ISA. HSBC didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint as it said had 
answered the question he had originally asked it.
Mr L disagreed. He felt it was clear he wanted to move shares and HSBC shouldve asked 
for clarification. He says HSBCs mistake has led to financial loss and trouble and upset. 
Mr L referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt feel the complaint should 
be upheld. She didnt think it was clear from Mr Ls request that he wanted to move shares. 
She also explained that the process he needed to follow was called a Bed and ISA, and 
that as hed done this before each year she thought he ought to have been aware that this 
isnt what was happening when he transferred money into his new ISA.
Mr L disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. Specifically, he said 
that his instructions were clear because he mentioned his investment account, which only 
held shares. He said he shouldnt be expected to recall the process as he only does it once 
a year, and HSBC shouldve done more to clarify what he wanted. 
As no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
The fundamental issue in this complaint is whether HSBC made a mistake when acting on 
Mr Ls request. So, Ive looked at what Mr L asked HSBC. His request was:
I want to transfer £20,000 of the investment account into new ISA allowance for this new tax 
year. Please advise what to do.
Mr L has said it shouldve been obvious that he wanted to transfer shares into the new ISA 
but I dont think this is the case. Mr L doesnt mention shares in this request, but rather he 
mentioned £20,000. I dont think it was unreasonable for HSBC to assume that he wanted to 
put £20,000 of cash into his new ISA.
Ive considered Mr Ls point that his investment account only holds shares, but the process 
he wouldve had to follow to transfer shares was to sell these shares, and then repurchase 
within the ISA  a process called Bed and ISA. The actual transfer of shares in specie wasnt 
possible here. And HSBC has explained this previously to Mr L, so I dont think it was 
unreasonable for HSBC to have given the instructions on how to fund the ISA from cash.
I have noted Mr L has completed a Bed and ISA process before. He says in his call with 
HSBC hes done it before many times. I can also see that when Mr L had requested a 
transfer before and HSBC had given him instructions to fund the ISA from cash it was Mr L 
that explained this wasnt what he wanted to do. So, whilst I understand this was something 
Mr L only did each year, I do think he ought to have been aware that he wasnt following the 
process that he usually did. And I dont agree that his request was clear that he wanted to 
move shares. 
HSBC confirmed to Mr L in July 2020 that it wasnt possible to do a Bed and ISA transaction 
over the phone due to this service being suspended. HSBC has shown that on its website, 
and when customers call in, this is made clear. There are also instructions for him to follow 
the Bed and ISA process online by selling his shares, and then using the funds in the 
settlement account to fund the ISA. So, I think HSBC did enough to make Mr L aware of how 
to follow this process in the absence of the telephone service.
Mr L has said throughout the complaint that he now has more shares than he would like  
but when he realised his ISA had been funded with cash, the option remained for Mr L to sell 
the shares in his investment account to rectify this situation. HSBC told him this in his call 
with it as well. So, I think Mr L was able to put the situation right  particularly given he 
wouldve always had to sell his shares and repurchase them in the ISA to carry out what he 
wanted to achieve.
In summary, I dont think Mr Ls request to HSBC was clear that he wanted to move shares 
into his ISA, so it follows that I dont think HSBC did anything wrong in giving him information 
about how to move a cash amount into his new ISA.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Ombudsman