DRN-3833728
The complaint
Mr O has complained that when he tried to make a claim on his mobile phone insurance 
policy with Chubb European Group SE (Chubb) he was told the policy had been cancelled.
What happened
On 30 January 2017 Mr O took out a policy through his mobile phone service provider for the 
insurance of his mobile phone. At that time Chubb wasnt the underwriter (insurer) of the 
policy. It took over as underwriter in April 2020. 
Policyholders were notified of the change of underwriter and of changes that were being 
made to the policy wording. The notification said:
Summary of changes to Full Cover and Damage Cover insurance terms and 
conditions effective from 30 April 2020
Under your new Chubb policy, whilst there are no changes to your level of cover, price 
or excess, there are some administrative changes to the terms and conditions. The 
sections of the Insurance terms and conditions affected by these changes are set out 
below.
For full details please see your Full Cover and Damage Terms and Conditions 
enclosed.
None of the changes referred to related to the substantive terms of the policy including its 
term.
Mr O has said he was informed that the policy would be changed to different underwriters 
but he says that at no stage was he told that the policy was for 5 years or sent any 
documentation of this.
In March 2022 Mr O attempted to make a claim on his policy only to be told by Chubb that 
his policy had expired on 29 January 2022. It told him that it had sent him a letter in 
November 2021 reminding him that as his policy was stipulated to be for a five-year period it 
would be ending on 29 January 2022. 
Mr O says he didnt receive that reminder letter and Chubb hasnt provided him with a copy. 
It says that once such letters are printed and mailed they are then deleted. He wants Chubb 
to provide the cover he says he paid for and to be compensated for the loss hes suffered.
Chubb has referred Mr O to the terms and conditions of his policy and specifically to the term 
which states when the policy will end. There are a number of events that will terminate the 
policy, one of these being at the end of the 60th month after the cover start date shown on 
the confirmation of his insurance cover. 
Mr Os confirmation of insurance cover letter, which enclosed his original policy terms and 
conditions, shows a start date of 30 January 2017. Its termination date, in the absence of 
any other terminating event, would therefore be 29 January 2022. Chubb has told Mr O that 
he hasnt been charged any premium after 29 January 2022.
Mr O complained that his policy was terminated without notice. He didnt accept Chubbs 
explanation that this was because the policy terms had expired. He brought his complaint to 
this service.
Our investigators view was that the policy terms from the original underwriter state that the 
policy would terminate after 60 months. In his view Chubb had acted in accordance with the 
terms of the policy so it hadnt done anything wrong.
Mr O doesnt accept our investigators view and has asked that his complaint be reviewed by 
an ombudsman. Its therefore been referred to me for a final decision from this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Os complaint and Ill explain why not.
Mr O argues that he didnt receive any notification from Chubb that his policy would be 
ending in January 2022. Unfortunately, Chubb isnt able to provide any evidence that Mr O 
was sent such a letter but it has provided the template of the letter that it says it wouldve 
sent out to Mr O. However, the absence of such a letter doesnt in my view provide a ground 
for Mr O to disagree with what it says. Chubb isnt required to send out reminder letters. 
I can see that the original policy document confirmation states that cover started on 30 
January 2017, and the policy document itself states the events that will bring the policy to an 
end which include the date falling 60 months after its commencement. Mr Os phone bills 
would also have reduced after that date as they would no longer have included his insurance 
premium.
Ive seen no evidence that when Chubb took over as underwriter in 2020 either this or any 
other substantive term of the policy was changed. The only change was to replace 
references to the previous underwriter with references to Chubb. Mr O has said he was 
never told his policy was for five years, but he has said he did receive the notification of 
change of underwriter, and this enclosed his policy terms and conditions.
In coming to my decision, I have to consider whether Chubb has acted in any way unfairly or 
unreasonably in terminating Mr Os insurance cover on 29 January 2022 in accordance with 
the terms of his policy. In my view it hasnt done anything wrong so it wouldnt be reasonable 
for me to require it to do anything.
For completeness I should address another part of Mr Os complaint about a potential 
breach of data protection rules. I can confirm our investigators view that this is something 
that Mr O will need to take up with his phone service provider as it doesnt relate to Chubb.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman