DRN-3029648
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE has declined to offer them a full 
refund, after cancelling their travel insurance policy. They also feel the policy was mis-
represented to them when they purchased it.
What happened
On 22 January 2020, Mr and Mrs D purchased a single trip travel insurance policy, which 
provided them with cancellation cover from this date. The policy also provided additional 
cover for Mr and Mrs Ds trip  including post-departure cover (including medical cover), with 
Mr and Mrs D due to go on holiday from 28 April 2020 to 6 May 2020. Mr and Mrs D paid 
£530.22 for the policy, which included cover for eight medical conditions they declared.
Mr and Mrs D have said at the time they purchased the above cover, they had spoken to 
Great Lakes on the phone, and explained they only required cover for medical matters, such 
as treatment and repatriation. They said have said they were going abroad to visit a member 
of their family, and it was that family member who had paid for the flights and would be 
providing accommodation. So, cover for cancellation of flights, and for lost baggage for 
example, wasnt needed.
After taking out the above insurance policy, Mr and Mrs Ds holiday was cancelled. This was 
because of the coronavirus pandemic. Mr and Mrs D havent provided a firm date for when 
they were told this holiday would no longer be going ahead. But on 25 April 2020, Mr and 
Mrs D contacted Great Lakes, and altered the dates of their trip. Mr and Mrs Ds trip had 
been re-booked for 7 July 2020, through to 14 July 2020.
Unfortunately, Mr and Mrs D werent able to go on the trip in July either. So, they contacted 
Great Lakes to cancel their insurance policy, and ask for a refund.
At this point, Great Lakes said it would allow Mr and Mrs D to move their travel insurance 
cover dates again, at no extra charge. As long as the new cover dates selected were within 
18 months of when they originally purchased his travel insurance policy. Alternatively, Mr 
and Mrs D could be given a pro-rata credit voucher for the unused part of their original travel 
insurance policy. They would then be able to use this to purchase a new travel insurance 
policy with Great Lakes - so long as they did so within 36 months. Great Lakes said the 
voucher equated to £9.40.
Mr and Mrs D were dissatisfied with this. They said they had only required cover for medical 
assistance whilst abroad and didnt require any of the other cover the policy came with. So, 
they felt they had been mis-led in respect of the cover they purchased. And, they maintained 
they should receive a full refund of the premium paid.
Great Lakes responded to Mr and Mrs D and maintained its position. It told Mr and Mrs D 
that it wasnt able to provide them with a full cash refund for their policy  because it had 
been cancelled after the 14-day cooling off period the policy provided. But it told 
Mr and Mrs D it could offer them one of the following;
A pro-rata credit voucher, for the unused part of their travel insurance policy  which 
equated to £9.40;
The opportunity to move their single trip dates to within 18 months of the policys 
original purchase date, compared to the usual 13, which is free its customer to 
provide reassurance of cover. It said this was providing the duration and destination 
for the holiday remained the same, and the original policy dates hadnt already 
expired. It said that is a different duration or destination was chosen, an additional 
premium may be charged;
A 20% discount off of the base premium of a new policy. 
Mr and Mrs D didnt think this was fair. So, they referred their complaint to this service for an 
independent review. When referring the matter to us, Mr and Mrs D said they had been mis-
led as to the policy they purchased. And, they had been unable to use the policy anyway, 
due to the circumstances surrounding the Coronavirus pandemic. Mr and Mrs D also said 
the reason they were going abroad was to visit a relative working out of the country. But that 
relative was back in the UK now, and so there was no need for them to take the trip in the 
future.
Our investigator considered this complaint and provided their opinion on the matter. They set 
out the details of the relevant cancellation rights  and how they applied in the 
circumstances of this case. They also explained that it is a fundamental principle of 
insurance law, that if the insurer has started to bear risk  for however short a time  the 
premium paid is not returnable. The investigator said that this meant its not unreasonable 
for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. 
The investigator also explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of 
insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started on 22 January 2020, and 
the policy covered various risks during from that point. And cover would have been available 
under the policy until the date the holiday was cancelled. The investigator noted the date of 
holiday cancellation was 22 June 2020, as this was when Mr and Mrs D contacted Great 
Lakes to cancel the policy, and there wasnt any information to show the holiday had been 
cancelled on a different date. 
However, the investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of 
Covid-19. They thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this 
complaint was for Great Lakes to provide Mr and Mrs L with a pro-rata credit voucher, 
calculated based on the remaining premium when Mr and Mrs Ls holiday was cancelled, 
until the end date of the policy on 14 July 2020.
Our investigator reviewed the calculation that had been completed by Great Lakes. And after 
discussing this with Great Lakes it was agreed that, instead of the refund being £9.40, it 
should in fact be £69.69.
It was also clarified that this voucher being offered was valid for 36 months, from the point of 
policy cancellation. It could be used for a new single trip, or annual multi-trip insurance 
policy. Mr and Mrs D could also transfer this voucher to a friend or a relative as a gift, if they 
would rather do this. And our investigator considered this fair.
Mr and Mrs D didnt think this was fair. They reiterated that they only wanted medical cover, 
and that there was no risk being protected under the policy, as they hadnt paid for flights 
and accommodation. 
Following the above, this service spoke to Great Lakes again. And it agreed, in this set of 
circumstances to provide the £69.69 as a cash refund. This being because Mr and Mrs D didnt have any reason to go on the holiday now their relative had returned from their trip  
and in light of the explanation Mr and Mrs D had provided, that they wouldnt be able to 
afford a trip in the future, given the cost of their insurance, and the fact theyd also have to 
pay for flights and accommodation, when this wasnt the case before.
This offer was passed to Mr and Mrs D, who remained dissatisfied with the outcome.  
Because Mr and Mrs D remained dissatisfied, their complaint has been referred to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sale of the policy
As above, Mr and Mrs D are unhappy they were sold this policy. Theyve said they only 
required cover for medical assistance and didnt require any other cover the policy sold to 
them provided. So, Ive needed to consider the sale of Mr and Mrs Ds policy, and whether 
Great Lakes did anything wrong here.
Having considered information on the sale of this policy, Im satisfied Great Lakes didnt do 
anything wrong.
The sale of this policy was non-advised, meaning that Great Lakes needed to give clear, fair 
and not mis-leading information as to the policy. This being so that Mr and Mrs D could 
make an informed choice as to whether to take out the cover or not. And I think this is what 
Great Lakes did.
Great Lakes has provided me with a telephone call recording between it and Mr and Mrs D. 
This call is when Mr and Mrs D purchased the cover.
During this call I can hear that Mr and Mrs D did explain to Great Lakes that they only 
required cover for medical assistance. So, I dont dispute that was the case. But, Im also 
aware the advisor on the phone did make it clear that to Mr and Mrs D that the travel 
insurance Great Lakes sold was of a standard type. So, the cover would include more than 
medical assistance  but also elements such as cancellation cover. 
Given that the advisor explained the cover provided under the Great Lakes policy, Im 
satisfied that the information given during the call was clear, fair and not misleading. And this 
meant Mr and Mrs D were able to choose whether the policy was suitable for them, and 
therefore whether to purchase the policy or not.
Mr and Mrs D were also provided with clear information after they purchased the policy on 
the phone. Ive seen a copy of the policy document sent to them. These clearly explain the 
type of cover the policy provided. 
It was Mr and Mrs Ds responsibility to check the cover was suitable for their needs and 
contact Great Lakes within 14 days to cancel the policy, should they have changed their 
mind about purchasing it. Mr and Mrs D didnt cancel the policy at this point. So, I dont think 
Great Lakes did anything wrong.
I should also highlight, that whilst I cant rule out that Mr and Mrs D could have got cover for 
medical assistance only, based on my experience and understanding of travel insurance, cover for medical assistance doesnt usually come separately  it is sold as one section of a 
policy instead. Either way though, I dont think the policy was mis-sold, or that Mr and Mrs D 
were mis-led  they were told what cover the policy provided. So, Im not requiring Great 
Lakes to do anything more in this respect.
Request for refund of premium
In addition to the above, Mr and Mrs D have raised concerns with the way Great Lakes 
handled their request for a refund of the policy. So, Ive considered this element of the 
complaint too.
Im partially upholding this element of the complaint. This is because I think a fair resolution 
to this complaint is for Great Lakes to provide Mr and Mrs D with a refund of £69.66 in cash. 
Ive explained why below.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of 
your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund you any premium you have paid, 
less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or made, or intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period no premium will 
be refunded, however in exceptional circumstances such as bereavement or a change to the 
policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical conditions.
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling-off period and so there is no requirement under 
the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer any refund to Mr and Mrs D.
As Ive outlined above the contract of insurance says that it wont provide any refund after 
the cooling-off period, unless in exceptional circumstances. And, it gives examples of what 
would be considered exceptional circumstances. I can appreciate why Mr and Mrs D wanted 
to cancel their insurance policy. They had moved their holiday dates once already, and the 
trip was cancelled for a second time, due to the pandemic.
But I dont think their reasons for cancelling the policy reasonably fall into what would be 
considered exceptional circumstances. I say this because I dont think the global 
coronavirus pandemic, which affected many of Great Lakes policyholders, is one which the 
policy term relating to discretion is intended to cover. The examples of exceptional 
circumstances given in the policy terms relate to bereavement or changes in the 
policyholders health. 
However, Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint, including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-19. 
And in the circumstances of this case, I think Great Lakes offer is now fair and reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs D were covered from the date they purchased their policy, for any cancellation 
claim they needed to make, including the need for Mr and Mrs D to cancel the holiday due to 
ill health. And the premium they paid included this cover. As Great Lakes were on risk for 
any potential claim during this time, Im satisfied its reasonable that Mr and Mrs D pay for 
Great Lakes acceptance of this risk. I do take on board what Mr and Mrs D have said about the fact they only wanted cover for 
medical assistance. But Ive addressed the sale of the policy above, and why I dont think 
Great Lakes did anything wrong in this respect. So, this point doesnt make a difference to 
the outcome of this complaint. Mr and Mrs D selected this cover, and Great Lakes did 
provide it. 
Mr and Mrs D contacted Great Lakes on 22 June 2020, to cancel the policy. This was 
because the policy was no longer needed. The trip wasnt going ahead. Because the trip 
was cancelled, there was nothing for Great Lakes to insure at this point. Including in relation 
to cover for medical assistance. So, I think the right thing to do is for Great Lakes to offer a 
pro-rata refund, from the date the holiday was cancelled, to the original end date of the 
policy. It means that Great Lakes isnt charging when it knows there is nothing at all left to 
cover.  
Its not clear exactly what date Mr and Mrs D were informed their trip was cancelled. But I 
think its fair to note this as 22 June 2020. Mr and Mrs D havent provided any evidence that 
the holiday was cancelled before this date. And it makes sense that Mr and Mrs D would call 
their travel insurance provider, at the time they learnt their holiday was cancelled. 
So, the calculation of the pro-rata refund, should be based on the time period of 22 June 
2020, to 14 July 2020 when the policy was originally due to end. Great Lakes has agreed to 
provide a pro-rata refund on this basis. And it has confirmed that this is £69.69, rather than 
£9.40. 
Ive thought about this figure, and Im satisfied this is fair. Great Lakes has calculated the 
voucher amount from the date Mr and Mrs Ds holiday was cancelled  22 June 2020, to the 
date the policy was due to end, 14 July 2020. This meant there would be 23 days of the 
policy unused, where Great Lakes werent on risk - which equates to £69.69 of the premium 
paid. As this offer reflects the fact Great Lakes was not on risk for the 23 days after the 
policy was cancelled, Im satisfied Great Lakes offer is fair. And so, I wont be requiring it to 
do anything more than this. 
Mr and Mrs D have explained they cant go on the trip they had planned anymore. They now 
have no relatives at the destination to visit and stay with. And, Mr and Mrs D have 
highlighted that given the price of their insurance premium, it would be too expensive for 
them to go away independently of family, with the need to pay for flights and accommodation 
too. Given these unique circumstances, I do think it is reasonable for the refund to be paid to 
Mr and Mrs D in cash. And, Great Lakes has agreed. And so Im satisfied this offer is now 
fair.
  
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that Great Lakes Insurance SE should pay 
Mr and Mrs D £69.69 in cash, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman