DRN-4018067
The complaint
Mr T complains that Scottish Widows Limited trading as Clerical Medical failed to provide, in 
a timely manner, the information he needed in order to withdraw his pension savings.
What happened
Mr T has been assisted in dealing with Clerical Medical, and making this complaint, by his 
wife. But in this decision, for ease, I will simply refer to all communication as if it had been 
with, and from, Mr T himself.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in February 2023. In that decision 
I explained why I thought the complaint should be upheld, and what Clerical Medical needed 
to do in order to put things right. Both parties have received a copy of the provisional 
decision but, for completeness and so those findings form part of this decision, I include 
some extracts from it below. In my decision I said;
Mr T held pension savings with Clerical Medical. In July 2021 Clerical Medical wrote 
to Mr T to remind him that he was approaching the selected retirement date for his 
pension policy of January 2022. It invited him to consider his options, and get in 
touch when he had made his decision.
Mr T says that he spoke with Clerical Medical on a number of occasions in the 
following months. He says that those calls generally failed to provide him with the 
information he was seeking  usually he says that Clerical Medical was unable to find 
his pension plan based on the information he had provided (that he took from the 
letter that Clerical Medical had sent). So, in September 2021 he complained to 
Clerical Medical about the lack of progress in taking his pension benefits.
Clerical Medical says that it failed to act on Mr Ts complaint. But it sent him further 
information about his pension benefits in December 2021, and paid him the full value 
of his pension savings as a lump sum in January 2022. Clerical Medical apologised 
to Mr T for its failure to identify his complaint, and the way it had corresponded with 
him. It paid him a total of £150 in respect of his inconvenience and the cost of the 
phone calls hed needed to make. But Clerical Medical told Mr T that it thought he 
was slightly better off due to the delay in taking his pension benefits.
I think there are two issues that I reasonably need to consider here. When would 
Mr T have taken his pension benefits had Clerical Medical not caused any delays? 
And what was the impact of any delays on the value of Mr Ts pension benefits. I will 
deal with each in turn.
Clerical Medical wrote to Mr T in July 2021 to remind him that his selected retirement 
date was approaching in January 2022. But that selected retirement date didnt 
prevent Mr T from taking his pension benefits earlier. And that is what Mr T says he 
wanted to do. So Mr T says that he started to call Clerical Medical to discuss his 
situation, but that those calls failed to provide him with the information he needed to 
put his benefits into payment. In particular he says he wanted to establish whether 
the value that Clerical Medical quoted to him was inclusive of some benefits he had 
accrued through paying additional voluntary contributions.
It has been difficult to establish whether, or on what basis, those calls took place.
Clerical Medical says that it has searched its telephone records and cannot find any 
calls from the numbers that Mr T says would have been used (his landline, and both 
his and his wifes mobile phones). And Mr Ts telephone records only date back to 
the end of August 2021.
I have no reason to doubt what Mr T tells us about making multiple calls in 
August 2021. And if, as he says, Clerical Medical failed to locate his records using 
the information he supplied it might be understandable that it doesnt hold any 
records of the calls. But the lack of any definitive call records does present me with 
some difficulties in concluding that Mr T would have taken his pension benefits at that 
time.
 
Mr T says that he was asking Clerical Medical for information, in particular in relation 
to the value of his additional contributions. It might have taken some time for that 
information to be provided, and for Mr T to decide how to proceed. And in fact there 
remains a possibility that he might not have chosen to proceed at that time at all.
But what is clear is that by the time Mr T made a call to Clerical Medical on 
17 September he had decided to take his pension benefits. He was still asking for 
information about the value of those benefits, so I think it would be reasonable to 
allow a short period of time, in line with Clerical Medicals normal processing 
timescales, for that information to be provided. But, like our investigator, I currently 
think it would be reasonable to conclude that Mr Ts pension benefits should have 
been paid to him by 1 October at the latest.
I appreciate that Mr T will be very disappointed by that conclusion. I think I should 
reassure him that I have not had any information from Clerical Medical about how the 
value of his pension benefits changed between the letter his was sent in July 2021, 
and the valuation as of 1 October provided in response to our investigators 
assessment. So I am not basing my assessment on any change in the value of his 
pension savings. But I currently have no evidence to provide me with a fair 
conclusion that an alternative date would be more reasonable even though it might 
have provided a higher value to Mr T.
Clerical Medical has told us that, if Mr Ts pension benefits had been paid to him on
1 October 2021, they would have been £39.70 higher than when they were actually 
paid on 31 January 2022. I think it is right that Clerical Medical has offered to pay that 
difference to Mr T. But I think the compensation being paid needs to be increased to 
reflect the time that Mr T was without his money.
In circumstances such as these I generally think it appropriate that a firm should pay 
a consumer simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to reflect a period of time that 
they were denied access to their money. I currently see no reason why those normal 
principles shouldnt be applied here. So I think Clerical Medical should pay interest to 
Mr T for the period of time between 1 October 2021, when his pension benefits 
should have been paid, and the actual date of payment on 31 January 2022.
As I said earlier, Clerical Medical has already paid £150 to Mr T to reflect the 
inconvenience he has been caused, and the cost of his telephone calls. I have 
thought carefully about that payment and concluded that it is a reasonable reflection of the inconvenience that was caused. So I dont currently intend to direct Clerical 
Medical to make any further payment of that nature to Mr T.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Clerical Medical has said that it accepts my provisional findings. And it 
says it has calculated, and paid to Mr T, the additional compensation that I recommended. 
Mr T doesnt accept some aspects of my provisional decision and has provided some further 
comments. Although I am only summarising here what Mr T has said, I want to reassure him 
that I have read, and carefully considered, his entire response.
Mr T says that he started the process of trying to take his pension benefits very shortly after 
receiving Clerical Medicals letter in July 2021. He says that process was difficult with 
Clerical Medical failing to locate his details despite him providing the reference number of 
the letter he had been sent, and him calling the number provided by Clerical Medical. He 
says that he wanted some very simple information at that time about the value of some 
additional contributions he had made to his pension. And he says that on receipt of that 
simple information he would have taken his benefits immediately.
Mr T says that he only started keeping detailed records of his dealings with Clerical Medical 
in September 2021 when his frustration increased, and it became clear there was a big 
problem with Clerical Medicals records. So he says that explains why he is unable to 
provide better evidence of his earlier contact. But he says that from the tone of his 
conversations with Clerical Medical after September 2021 it is clear that the matter had been 
ongoing for some time, and that he had intended to take his pension benefits much earlier.
Mr T says he suffers from some serious medical conditions. So he says that his ability to 
take his retirement benefits came as a significant relief and that is why he started the 
process as soon as he received Clerical Medicals letter in July 2021. He says that the 
extended period of uncertainty and worry surrounding his pension benefits made his medical 
condition worse, as it reacts to stressful situations. So he doesnt consider the award of £150 
for the distress and inconvenience he was caused to be sufficient.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained in my provisional decision, in deciding this complaint Ive taken into account 
the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time. I have also 
carefully considered the submissions that have been made by Mr T and by Clerical Medical. 
Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, I have made my decision based on the 
balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the 
surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have 
happened.
And I repeat my reflections on the role of this service. This service isnt intended to regulate 
or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer and a 
business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the business to 
put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position they would 
have been if the problem hadnt occurred. 
Ive thought carefully about the additional comments that have been made by Mr T. But I am 
sorry to tell him that they havent persuaded me that I should change the findings I reached 
in my provisional decision. But I would like to provide some further explanation.In deciding a complaint I need to take account of all the evidence that it available. Sadly 
here, some of the evidence that might be helpful is unavailable given the time that has 
passed since the problems occurred  Mr and Mrs Ts mobile phone records do not go back 
as far as July 2021. But I am satisfied that Clerical Medical has searched its phone records 
for the telephone numbers that Mr T says would have been used to contact the firm. That 
search failed to identify the calls that Mr T says were made.
I have no reason to doubt the testimony that Mr T has provided. But I need to balance that 
against the lack of phone records, either from his mobile phone provider or from Clerical 
Medical. I think it likely that, even if Clerical Medical had failed to link Mr Ts calls to his 
records as he says, its phone systems would have retained a record of the calls being made. 
So it would be unfair of me to ignore the lack of evidence of calls being made, in preference 
to the testimony of Mr T.
There is a clear indication from Clerical Medicals telephone records that, by 17 September, 
Mr T had clearly told the firm that he wished to take his pension benefits. So my conclusion 
is that is the fair and reasonable date that I should use when considering any losses that 
Mr T might have suffered. But there is naturally a period of time, of around 10 working days, 
that I would think reasonable for a firm such as Clerical Medical to complete its checks and 
processing of an application such as this. So that is why I have concluded that a payment 
date of 1 October for Mr Ts pension benefits would be reasonable.
I was very sorry to hear about the medical problems that are affecting Mr T. And I have no 
doubt that, given his job role and the additional pressures placed on him by the coronavirus 
pandemic, he would have been keen to retire as soon as it was financially viable. But it does 
seem that he understandably wanted to gather, and carefully consider, some additional 
information before he made an irrevocable decision to retire. And I think that might explain 
some of the delay between the letter being received from Clerical Medical in July, and his 
firm decision to retire being recorded in mid-September.
In the light of the additional information that Mr T has provided I have thought some more 
about the compensation I considered reasonable for Clerical Medical to pay for the distress 
and inconvenience it caused to him. But I havent been persuaded that it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to increase the compensation that I thought was warranted in that regard.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr T but I cannot reasonably conclude 
that his benefits should have been paid to him by Clerical Medical before 1 October 2021. 
So that is that date that I think the firm should use when assessing any loss Mr T has 
experienced.
Putting things right
As I explained earlier, Clerical Medical accepted my provisional decision, and paid the 
relevant compensation to Mr T. In this decision I am not making any changes to that 
compensation so I think it likely that Clerical Medical will not need to pay anything further. 
But I am setting out the compensation directions in full should Mr T consider that 
Clerical Medicals payment is insufficient to meet my directions.
So, unless it already has done so, Clerical Medical should;
Calculate the difference between the value Mr T would have received had the 
payment been made on the above date, and the payment that was ultimately made. 
If Mr T would have received a higher value in October 2021 Clerical Medical should 
pay him the difference.Clerical Medical should pay Mr T simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum on the 
net pension payment he should have received, from 1 October 2021 to the date his 
pension benefits were paid to him. HM Revenue & Customs requires Clerical Medical 
to take off tax from this interest. Clerical Medical must give Mr T a certificate showing 
how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ts complaint and direct Scottish Widows Limited trading 
as Clerical Medical to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman