DRN-3042685
The complaint
Mr T has a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) with Suffolk Life and Pensions Limited.  In 
2006 and 2007 he made investments in what were two versions of essentially the same 
investment. He says this is a high-risk unregulated investment and almost 80% of his SIPP 
is invested in that one fund.  Mr T says Suffolk Life should not have allowed the investment.  
Mr T also says Suffolk Life has on-going obligations and so it should have reviewed the 
investments from time to time and taken action which would have caused him to avoid his 
losses.  
Mr T therefore claims compensation from Suffolk Life in respect of both investments.
What happened
Mr T was advised to apply for a SIPP with Suffolk Life in 2006 by an Independent Financial 
Adviser I will call MJ.   The application was in March 2006. The SIPP was set up and funds 
transferred into it in July 2006.  Around £135,000 was transferred in. 
In July 2006 MJ instructed Suffolk Life to invest around £100,000 into the first unit trust.  
During 2006 and 2007 some further funds were transferred into the SIPP.  And in August 
2007 MJ instructed Suffolk Life to invest £50,000 in the second unit trust.
Mr Ts wife also applied for a SIPP in March 2006 and MJ arranged the same investments in 
2006 and 2007 (though not on exactly the same dates or exactly the same amounts).  Mrs T 
has a separate complaint.  The complaints were made at the same time. 
The first investment was promoted to investors as an unregulated collective investment 
scheme in the form of a limited liability partnership.  There was also set up a linked unit trust 
so that pension investments could be made into the fund.  And the fund was set up to 
provide secured bridging or development finance to property projects in the UK, South Africa 
and EU countries.  The intention was that the fund would pay a return as it went along and 
the partnerships and unit trusts would be wound up after five years and the expected profits 
distributed to the investors to provide a further return in addition to the return of capital.   This 
was the expectation but it was not guaranteed.
About a year after the first partnership had been set up the promotor set up a further 
partnership and trust with the same name (except it was numbered two) and purpose as the 
first.  (And as I understand it there were further versions three and four in the following 
years.) 
Mr T has said that he did not know about or consent to the investments.  He says he was not 
advised to make the investments by MJ and that MJ arranged the investments without his 
consent.  He says MJ did advise him (and Mrs T) to make a direct investment into the LLP.  
They each made substantial investments - more than twice their pension investments - in 
late 2006.   
It is not clear when Mr T first realised he had invested in the unit trusts in his SIPP.
Mr Ts SIPP did receive distributions from the investments in 2007, 2008, and 2009.   I 
cannot see that he received further payments after that.  
The first unit trust was expected to run until 2011 and the second until 2012.  Mr T has said 
he was not aware there was a problem with the investments until the end of the life-time of 
each investment.  Mr T says he was told by the adviser that there was no problem with the 
investments when they did not pay out and that he would receive his money in good time.  It 
is not clear whether this comment relates to the direct investment only or the pension 
investments also.   Or put another way, Mr T has not said at what point he first realised he 
had the disputed pension investments and whether this before or after 2011 when the first 
investment was not repaid and the adviser told him that it was not a problem. 
Its Mr Ts understanding that the partnerships, and therefore the unit trusts, are in effect 
frozen while the authorities in South Africa investigate them.  Payments have not been made 
on the loans for many years and it is not possible to enforce the security on the loans as the 
partnerships have no money.
As I understand it, MJ closed in 2012.  And Mr T transferred his SIPP away from Suffolk Life 
to another provider later in 2012 with the investments transferred in specie.  I do not know 
what if any claims have been made to MJ and/or the second SIPP provider and/or the 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
Mr T made a complaint to Suffolk Life in 2018 through his solicitors. In summary Mr Ts 
points were:
Suffolk Life didnt identify that Mr T was significantly exposed to an esoteric 
investment.
Suffolk Life didnt seek clarification from Mr T that he wanted to invest significant 
amounts of his pension into an esoteric investment and simply followed his advisers 
instructions.
Suffolk Life didnt request suitability reports.
Mr Ts adviser was able to instruct investments within his SIPP without Mr Ts 
authority. 
Suffolk Life didnt conduct independent or adequate due diligence. If it had done so it 
would have concluded that the esoteric investment was not appropriate for a SIPP 
due to their high-risk nature and illiquidity. 
Suffolk Life didnt comply with its regulatory obligations.
Suffolk Life didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint.  In summary its points were:
The guidance that Mr Ts solicitors referred to was issued after his investment in the 
unit trusts.
Suffolk Life is not authorised to give investment advice and is not responsible for 
advising on the suitability of investments for its members.
Mr T took advice from a regulated financial adviser. It was for Mr T and the adviser to 
decide whether an investment was suitable for him. 
The investment was of a permitted type and there were no restrictions on the 
proportion of the fund that could be invested in such investments.
Suffolk Life was not required to obtain copies of suitability reports  this was not 
industry practice at the time.Mr T authorised Suffolk Life to accept investment instructions from MJ and Suffolk 
Life was not obliged to check the instructions with Mr T before it followed them. 
Suffolk Life didnt and couldnt know that the adviser was acting without Mr Ts 
authority.  
Mr Ts complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service by his lawyers and 
considered by one of our investigators.  It was the investigators view that Suffolk Life, as the 
SIPP operator, was not responsible for the suitability of the investment for Mr T.  He thought 
Suffolk Life had not treated Mr T unfairly in making the investment as instructed.  MJ was an 
FSA registered IFA. There was no reason not to accept business from it.  Although the 
investment was illiquid, illiquid investments may be held in SIPPs.  The investment was 
expected to be for a term of around five years, with only very limited rights to repayment 
during the term of the Partnership (which the unit trust invested in).  Suffolk Life would have 
been satisfied that it would be possible for Mr T to exit the investment at the end of the term, 
albeit subject to the possibility of the term being extended.  Suffolk Life did not act unfairly to 
Mr T in making the investment.
Mr T did not agree with the investigator and his lawyers made a number of points in 
response including: 
While the first investment was before SIPP operation was a regulated activity there is 
an ongoing duty to carry out due diligence.  That duty covers both investments.
It was only reasonable to accept business from MJ if the business was unremarkable 
and due diligence had been carried out on the investment.   
Its clear, through guidance issued by the regulator, that SIPP operators are not able 
to absolve themselves of responsibility for investments held in SIPPs simply because 
the investor has been advised by another party.  
All the obligations referred to in the guidance existed in 2007.
The 2009 report by the regulator included:
owe agree that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for 
the SIPP advice given by IFAs.  However, we are also clear that SIPP 
operators cannot absolve themselves of responsibility, and we would expect 
them to have procedures and controls, and be gathering and analysing 
management information, enabling them to identify possible instances of 
financial crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable SIPPs
While it was MJs role to advise Mr T on suitable investments, Suffolk Life could not 
just blindly facilitate unacceptable investments.
Suffolk Life should have conducted adequate due diligence before allowing the 
investment.
The assessment of risk is not entirely subjective.  Some types of investments can be 
objectively classified as high risk.  The regulators 2013 guidance includes overseas 
property funds as an example of a high-risk venture.
It is not solely the remit of the adviser to assess the acceptability of high-risk 
investment.  The Dear CEO letter from the regulator notes that a lack of due 
diligence on the part of SIPP operators:
oincreases the risk that a pension scheme may become a vehicle for high risk 
and speculative investments that are not secure assets  It is not acceptable 
for firms to put consumers at risk in this way.
The regulator considers that SIPP operators have an important role to play in 
identifying and conducting diligence of high risk investments and then taking 
appropriate steps to clarify the intentions of investors or advisers or to guard against 
unacceptable investments, for example the 2009 Report notes it is important for SIPP 
operators to be able to:oidentify anomalous investmentsor more esoteric investments this would 
enable the firm to seek clarification if it is concerned about the suitability of 
what was recommended. 
The investment was an unregulated collective investment scheme (UCIS).  It 
invested in property in the UK and in the developing economies of South Africa, 
Bulgaria and Romania.  Such investments have been identified by the regulator as 
archetypal risky investments of which SIPP operators should be aware.
The regulator would have expected Suffolk Life to have assessed the investment and 
recognised it as high risk and not suitable for unsophisticated clients such as Mr T.
There were multiple reasons to have concerns about the investment if it had been 
appropriately assessed:
oThe investigator drew on the information memorandum in making his 
assessment.  While it was an important document, the guidance is clear that 
SIPP operators should not just rely on such information and that they should 
make an independent assessment.  
oThe expected rate of return was conspicuously optimistic and should have 
given Suffolk Life reason for further investigation to ensure this was 
acceptable to Mr T.  
oThere is no evidence that Suffolk Life sought verification of the former loans 
made by fund manager referred to in the marketing information.  
oThe investigator overstated the liquidity of the investment.  There was no 
active secondary market for the investment. And redeeming the investment 
before the end of the term was only a theoretical possibility.  In reality it is 
unlikely the general partner of a fund that makes loans to property developers 
would willingly redeem an investors interest before the end of the term.  It is 
unlikely they would have the funds to do so.  
oThe set term of the investment was not guaranteed.
oWhile illiquid investments are permitted in SIPPs the guidance says SIPP 
operators should give adequate consideration to how the investment could be 
valued or realised.  Suffolk Life did not do so.
Suffolk Life did not treat Mr T fairly and failed to conduct its business with skill, care 
and diligence by failing to pay attention to, and take steps in relation to, the potential 
illiquidity of the investment.  
It is not for Mr T to say what Suffolk Life should have done as such.  The 2009 report 
did give examples of good practice including:
oRequesting copies of the suitability reports provided to clients by the 
intermediary giving advice.  While SIPP operators are not responsible for 
advice, having this information would enhance the firms understanding of its 
clients, making the facilitation of unsuitable SIPP less likely.
In the Berkeley Burke case which was subject to a judicial review the SIPP provider 
issued risk warnings and that did not absolve it.  Suffolk Life did not even reach that 
standard.
Suffolk Life failed to meet the minimum standards of diligence detailed in the 
guidance issued by the regulator.  The requesting of the suitability report, requesting 
clarification from the client or adviser, and other steps are not ones a SIPP provider 
must take but the absence of such procedures demonstrates Suffolk Lifes failings 
under the Principles to treat Mr T fairly and to conduct its business with reasonable 
skill, care and diligence.
The investigator asked Mr Ts lawyers to clarify a point.  He wanted to know, if the 
investment was illiquid and could not be disposed of, what affect would ongoing due 
diligence have had on the pre 2007 investment after 2007?  Mr Ts lawyers say the two points are not mutually exclusive.  Redemption was at the 
discretion of the General Partner and it may have been allowed in the early days for example 
before the money raised had been leant out by fund manager or if the investment had been 
oversubscribed.  The fact redemption depended on the discretion of the General Partner and 
the point that the chance of being able to redeem the 2006 investment was small 
demonstrates the unsuitability of the investment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, Ive 
taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good 
industry practice at the relevant time.
Mr Ts lawyers have referred to the FCAs Principles for Businesses and to the publications 
issued to the regulators which remind SIPP operators of their obligations.  I confirm I have 
considered all these matters. 
Operating a SIPP has been a regulated activity since April 2007.  The Financial Ombudsman 
Service has jurisdiction to consider complaints about that activity since that time but not 
before. Mr T says Suffolk Life had an ongoing obligation to make checks on the 2006 
investment after 2007 and that should be considered. 
It is the case that the regulator had concerns about SIPP operators and made it clear to the 
industry that SIPP operators do have responsibility for the quality of the SIPP business they 
conduct. The regulator is concerned about SIPPs being used to hold taxable investments, or 
for pension liberation or for fraudulent investments or scams.  
The adviser, MJ, was authorised and regulated by the FSA at the time of the investment. 
Mr T had authorised Suffolk Life to accept instructions from MJ.  I see no reason in this case 
why Suffolk Life should have had any concerns about accepting instructions from MJ in 
respect of the 2007 investment.
It is the primary role of the investment adviser to ensure that an investment is suitable for the 
client.  And that suitability is not a straightforward matter.  It calls for judgment relating to the 
clients individual circumstances.  
Once subject to the regulatory obligations imposed by the FSA/FCA, the SIPP operator did 
have to think about what investments to allow in its SIPP  but its duties did not extend to 
considering the suitability of the investment for the individual consumers objectives.
The investment in 2007 was in the second unit trust. The investments were promoted as a 
Limited Liability Partnership for non-pension investors with a tax-exempt unauthorised unit 
trust which invested in the Partnership for pension investments.  This is not an unusual 
arrangement. 
The Partnership was set up to provide secured bridging or development finance to property 
projects in the UK, South Africa and EU countries.  They were not investments in property as 
such.  The lending was however supposed to be secured on property. The Partnerships were supposed to be for a limited amount of time only.  The second 
Partnership was launched in 2007 and was supposed to be concluded in 2012.  It was 
anticipated that the return would be 9.85% per year for five years and then a share of the 
final surplus expected to be a further 12% taking the overall return to 11.76% per year.  
It was clear that it was not possible to cash in the investment during its term and there was 
not expected to be an active secondary market in the investment.  It was for Mr T and his 
adviser to decide if such terms were suitable for him. 
The information memorandum promoting the investment made in clear the investment was 
intended to be for high net worth and sophisticated investors only.  It was not obvious that 
Mr T was not such an investor.  On the first page of the information memorandum there was 
a warning that there was a significant risk that investors could lose all of the money they 
invested.  Significant or entire loss cannot therefore be said to be unforeseeable by Mr T and 
or/his adviser when the decision was made to invest.
Mr Ts position is that the investment was not appropriate for his SIPP for a combination of 
reasons:
the investment is an unregulated collective investment scheme which is a type of 
investment that is not usually suitable for ordinary retail investors.  
because of the high-risk nature of the underlying investments  loans relating to 
property investment predominately outside the UK. 
the investment is illiquid meaning it cannot easily be redeemed or sold  so it is 
difficult to exit the investment.
Broadly Suffolk Lifes responsibility as a non-advisory SIPP operator was to treat Mr T fairly 
and to act in his best interests while performing that role with due skill care and diligence.  
And the FCA has set out its expectations that SIPP operators should have due diligence 
processes for example to: 
understand how the investment would operate; 
ensure that a proposed investment is safe/secure and is not part of a fraud or a scam 
or pensions liberation;
ensure that the investment could be valued and is realisable given the purpose 
behind the investment (i.e. to provide an income in retirement);
ensure that investment is not impaired for example that previous investors have 
received income if expected, or that the investment providers are credit worthy.
I do not consider these are necessarily separate tests the failure of any one of which 
necessarily means the SIPP operator is at fault making it responsible for any losses the 
member subsequently suffers.  Each case must be considered in the round and on its own 
facts.
I cannot see that there is any evidence of a failure by Suffolk Life.  The investment was 
higher risk and supposed to be for sophisticated or high net worth investors.  It is not obvious 
Mr T was not such an investor.  And it was not unreasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ts 
case not to question the point.  Mr T was investing a high proportion of his pension in one 
higher risk fund. This does not look like the kind of strategy most investors would take.  But I 
cannot say that it was so obviously wrong that it could not possibly be suitable and that to 
allow it would inevitably lead to customer detriment.  These were matters of judgment about 
suitability for Mr T individually and that was primarily a matter for Mr T and his adviser. 
I think Suffolk Life was also reasonably satisfied that the investment was of a permitted type 
and was not likely to lead to tax liabilities within the scheme.Suffolk Life published its requirement for investments it would allow in its SIPP at the time of 
the investment.  That included tax exempt unauthorised unit trusts that do not hold 
residential property.  So the investment was of a type Suffolk Life allowed in its SIPPs.  It did 
however have a general condition that investments must be readily realisable which it said 
meant it could assign or transfer the investment without recourse to the manager or 
administrator of the fund.
It is arguable that there are issues in relation to the liquidity of the investment.  Suffolk Life 
said it allowed investment defined as readily realisable.  Generally speaking SIPPs are 
permitted to hold investments that can be difficult to sell such as commercial property or 
investments which might become suspended if there are problems.  In this case the 
investment was not readily realisable in the way Suffolk Life interpreted that term since the 
consent of the trustee of the unit trust was required for any assignment or transfer.  However 
Suffolk Life says in practice that consent would have been forthcoming.  And it does say on 
the information memorandum that consent would be given where the transfer is to a person 
or body who qualifies to be an eligible holder of units in the Trust  so to other pension funds 
in practice. I am not, though, sure that the need for consent even if only a formality, does fit 
in with Suffolk Lifes definition.  However, there is an important point which is that it is not the 
terms relating to consent for assignment or transfer that have caused Mr Ts loss.  
Put another way, if the investment could be transferred without the need to obtain the 
trustees consent, Mr T would still be suffering the same loss.  His investment did not pay-out 
after five years as expected because of investment reasons  because the underlying 
investments made in the fund have not performed in a trouble-free way as hoped.  And 
Mr T has not been repaid his investment since then for the same reasons, not because he 
needs consent from the trustee to assign or transfer the investment.
It is very unfortunate that Mr T has suffered such substantial losses both in and outside his 
pension.  And it does seem that he has been badly served by both the investment manager 
and his financial adviser.  It is however my view that Suffolk Life has not been at fault in 
making the 2007 investment, or, if it was, it is not fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances to require it to compensate Mr T for the investment losses he has suffered.       
Since I make no finding against Suffolk Life in relation to the 2007 investment when it was 
made, I see no basis for saying that it was at fault and should pay compensation in relation 
to either the 2006 or 2007 investments for not, in effect, later changing its view about them.
My final decision
In all the circumstances I do not uphold Mr Ts complaint against Suffolk Life Pensions 
Limited
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Philip Roberts
Ombudsman