DRN-3073829
The complaint
Mr S complains that Saxo Capital Markets UK Limited (Saxo) unfairly closed his share 
dealing account. He says it didnt give him time to transfer his shares somewhere else, 
causing him to sell them for a loss.
What happened
Saxo emailed Mr S on 4 December 2020 to explain that it had decided to close his share 
dealing account. In this email Saxo explained it had made a commercial decision in line with 
the account terms, and that Mr Ss account would be closed a month later on 4 January 
2021.
Mr S says he only saw this email on 25 December and contacted Saxo on 28 December to 
try and keep the account open. Failing that, he asked to delay the closure to give him longer 
to transfer his shares to another firm. Saxo said this wouldnt be possible, and his account 
would still be closed on 4 January. Mr S wasnt able to open a new account and transfer his 
shares, so decided to sell them on 30 December. He got back about £20,000 less than hed 
paid for them.
Mr S complained to Saxo saying he felt it was responsible for his losses and wanted to know 
the reason for the closure. Saxo considered his complaint and told Mr S it wasnt responsible 
for his losses. It said it was entitled to close his account in the manner it did, and his losses 
were caused by him selling his shares and not considering the suggested alternatives.
Saxo also noted that  due to staffing issues caused by the Covid-19 pandemic  Mr Ss 
account closure hadnt been actioned in January 2021, and didnt take place until April of 
that year. It reimbursed some of the account fees it had taken between January and April, 
and offered to repay Mr S the remaining fee of £8.85.
One of our Investigators considered the complaint but didnt think Saxo treated Mr S unfairly. 
She thought Saxo was entitled to choose to close Mr Ss account, and that it had given him 
enough time to make alternative arrangements. 
Mr S didnt agree, saying that it was unfair Saxo sent the notice over the Christmas period 
and that made it more difficult for him to find an alternative broker or try to persuade Saxo to 
keep his account open. He also noted the account remained open until April 2021, implying 
he couldve held his positions longer than he did. As the matter couldnt be resolved its been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms of Mr S account at the time set out at Clause 31 how the account can be closed. 
Under 31.2, notice to terminate can be given by either Saxo or Mr S, but where that notice is 
given by Saxo it will give Mr S at least 10 working days notice. Saxo doesnt need a reason, 
in the same way Mr S wouldnt, to terminate the agreement. But for Saxo, it needed to give 
him at least 10 days notice to do that. 
Saxo sent notice of closure to Mr S on 4 December 2020 giving 4 January 2021 as the date 
the account would close. It also set out to Mr S his options for his existing holdings, including 
that he could transfer them to another provider or close them himself. If any positions 
remained open on 4 January 2021 then Saxo would close those and send the proceeds to 
Mr S. 
Overall I think Saxo acted fairly in the closure of Mr Ss account. The terms provided for 
either party to end the agreement if they chose to do  and I agree its fair that both neither 
the business nor their customer ought to be held to a commercial relationship they no longer 
want to be part of, for whatever reason.
Im pleased to see Saxo gave Mr S time to make alternative arrangements so as to reduce 
the inconvenience its decision put him to. Even with the holiday period Saxo gave Mr S more 
time than contractually required. And in my view, a month is reasonable time for Mr S to 
have arranged to move his holdings somewhere else, or to have opened an account 
somewhere he could send the sale proceeds in order to reinvest them.
Ive considered carefully Mr Ss arguments that as a non-UK resident he found it harder to 
find an alternative broker willing to accept his shares. But I dont think thats Saxos fault, nor 
is it something that I think necessitated Saxo giving him more than a month to sort out.
I also note Mr S didnt see Saxos email until some weeks after it was sent  giving him very 
little time to make alternative arrangements. But given Saxo sent the notification on 4 
December to Mr Ss correct email address, I dont think it would be fair to hold it responsible 
for the fact Mr S didnt see the email straight away.
Because Mr S only had a short period to transfer his shares he tried to call Saxo to delay or 
prevent the closure. The person he spoke to at Saxo said the relevant team were closed due 
to the Christmas period but would see what he can do. In response to this it appears Mr S 
arranged to provide identity information including his passport, proof of residence and bank 
statements. Mr S appears to have provided this information in the hope that would help keep 
his account open or allow another to be opened. 
Ive not seen or heard that Saxo had asked for this information or that it told him if he sent it, 
it would delay or cancel the closure of his account. While I understand why Mr S wanted to 
provide further information, in the circumstances it wasnt likely to delay or prevent the 
closure as Saxo had made its decision to close, and fairly applied its terms to do that.
As Saxo had given the notice required and clearly set out the options for Mr S, it hasnt 
treated Mr S unfairly by closing his account in the manner it did. It is unfortunate the delay in 
Mr S seeing the email limited his time to react, but Saxo sent this notice and gave enough 
time under the terms, and enough time that I think was reasonable for Mr S to have been 
able to move his shares somewhere else in. It follows I cant find that Saxo treated him 
unfairly by acting in the way it did and by not extending the closure period further. 
Accordingly, I also dont find Saxo responsible for any losses Mr S says he has suffered as a 
result of selling his shares at the end of December 2020.
Mr S has also commented on Saxos delay in actually closing his account in early 2021. I 
dont find this has any bearing on whats fair and reasonable here. I say that because Im 
satisfied Saxo gave Mr S reasonable notice of its intent to close his account, and that this 
needed to be done before 4 January 2021. Mr S needed to no longer have shares in his Saxo account by then, and so I dont find that any delay in closing the account after that date 
can have caused any losses in terms of his shareholding.
This delay in closing the account did cause a fee of £8.85 to be charged to Mr S. Saxo has 
already offered to reimburse this once Mr S provides account details for it to be paid to. 
When Mr S provides those details, Saxo should pay this amount to Mr S with simple interest 
to compensate him for the time hes been deprived of this money.
My final decision
Saxo Capital Markets UK Limited has already offered to pay Mr S £8.85 to reimburse the 
fees it incorrectly charged him, and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my 
decision is that Saxo Capital Markets UK Limited should pay Mr S £8.85, along with 8% 
simple interest from the date Mr S paid this fee until the acceptance of my final decision, or if 
already paid, until that date the payment was made.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Luke Gordon
Ombudsman