DRN-3177673
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) who declined 
part of their claim under their home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs Cs home had a leak, which caused damage. They contacted RSA and made a 
claim. RSA appointed an assessor who took photos of the damaged area and work was 
started in their home. 
During the reinstatement works, RSA inspected the property and found that there were 
several issues with the electrics, that were not attributable to the leak. Essentially, RSA told 
Mr and Mrs C that their current electrics hadnt been correctly installed. And were not in line 
with the regulations at the time or presently. So, RSA confirmed that it would cover the costs 
of any damage that had been caused by the leak, but it wouldnt be able to cover the cost of 
the upgrading work, as this wasnt covered by the terms of the policy. 
RSA offered several options to try and resolve the electrics, but none of those options Mr 
and Mrs C felt able to agree to. Ultimately, Mr and Mrs C paid for the electrical work 
themselves as they felt they had no choice. 
Mr and Mrs C raised a complaint with RSA as they felt that RSA should put them back into 
the position they had been in prior to the leak, when all the electrics were working. In its final 
response, it said that the upgrading work to the electrics, wasnt covered under the policy but 
the electrics that had been damaged by the leak, would be covered under the policy. 
Mr and Mrs C remained unhappy and referred their complaint to our service.  One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and ultimately didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said that RSA provided enough evidence to show that the electrics were not significantly 
damaged by the leak. The parts that had been damaged by the leak RSA agreed to fix. He 
said that RSA confirmed that the electrics were still working after the leak but were deemed 
too dangerous to be switched on until the upgrade work that was needed, had been 
completed. So, he didnt think RSA had been unreasonable in declining this part of the claim. 
RSA accepted the view, Mr and Mrs C did not. They said that RSA had a duty to put them 
back into the position they had been in before the leak. That they hadnt been given the 
opportunity to get RSA to appoint a second opinion or independent party and there was no 
evidence to suggest the electrics were faulty. So, they asked for a decision from an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint. My findings are broadly the same as our 
investigator, which I expect Mr and Mrs C will be disappointed with, but I will explain why I 
think this is fair.  
Mr and Mrs C had a home insurance policy with RSA. Like other home insurance policies, 
RSAs policy provided cover to ensure that where an insured peril occurred, the policy 
holders would be put back in the same position they were in before the leak (or peril) had 
occurred. 
Mr and Mrs C confirmed that the electrics in their home had been working perfectly before 
the leak had happened. Where the dispute arises is whether RSA are responsible to carry 
out upgrades to an electrical system under the policy. 
There is no evidence to dispute that the electrics within Mr and Mrs Cs home hadnt been 
working before the leak and I accept what they have said regarding this. But RSA said that it 
tested/inspected the electrics during the reinstatement works. It found several issues 
regarding the installation of the original electrics, not least that the electrics hadnt been 
installed to the correct electrical standards at the time. This meant that the electrics were too 
dangerous to re-connect. In other words, the electrics were exactly the same after the leak 
and so were not faulty but were too dangerous to re-connect following the leak. 
I have considered the policy terms and conditions and I can find no cover for any upgrading 
or maintenance work permissible. Mr and Mrs C were asked to provide any other evidence 
they wished me to consider, including any evidence from an independent expert engineer 
they wished to use. No evidence has been provided. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs C felt that RSA shouldve instructed an independent engineer 
on their behalf. But RSA have provided evidence from their engineer and I dont think its 
reasonable for RSA to instruct another expert. Mr and Mrs C wouldve course been able to 
instruct their own expert if they wished. Consequently, the evidence that is before me (in the 
form of a report) shows that some of the items had peril related damage but many of the 
electrical issues, were not related to the leak. 
RSA accepted that it was responsible for the items damaged by the leak but declined to fix 
the items that were not related to the leak. Having considered all the evidence, including Mr 
and Mrs Cs further comments, I dont think RSA acted unreasonably by declining to 
reimburse their costs. And I am satisfied that the electrics were still working after the leak but 
were deemed too dangerous to reconnect because of the original installation of the electrical 
system.  
Accordingly, whilst I understand the disappointment Mr and Mrs C are likely to have with my 
findings, I wont be asking RSA to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons I explained, I wont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman