DRN-3387465
The complaint
Mr D, Mrs D and Mr D are unhappy that Chaucer Insurance Company Designated Activity 
Company declined a claim they made on their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr D, Mrs D and Mr D booked a holiday to the USA in early 2020. They were due to travel 
on 16 March 2020 and stay for several nights. Theyd booked flights and accommodation 
separately.
They had the benefit of a single trip premierplus travel insurance policy underwritten by 
Chaucer (the policy). 
On 15 March 2020 the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but 
essential international travel to the USA following the announcement of the USA government 
imposing restrictions on travel from the UK (and Ireland) effective from midnight on 16 March 
2020 EST (the FCO advice). This was due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. 
As a result, Mr D, Mrs D and Mr Ds trip didnt go ahead.
They were able to get a refund for the costs of the flights from the airline. But Mr D, Mrs D 
and Mr D made a claim on the policy for the cost of the accommodation which theyd paid for 
 costing just over £1,000.
On their claim form they listed the cancellation reasons as: FCO advice not to travel. 
Chaucer declined the claim on the basis that this wasnt listed as an insured event under the 
cancellation section of the policy.
Unhappy, Mr D complained to Chaucer. Chaucer maintained that it had fairly declined the 
claim but offered £100 compensation to acknowledge the delay in handling Mr Ds 
complaint. 
Mr D, Mrs D and Mr D then complained to our service. Our investigator recommended that 
Chaucer should reassess the claim outside of a strict interpretation of the policy terms and 
conditions. This was on the basis that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for Mr D, Mrs D and 
Mr D to be left in a position where they had no cover for cancelling the trip due to FCO 
advice but to also have no cover if theyd gone ahead and travelled. Chaucer disagreed and 
raised several points in reply. 
This complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that our investigator identified, and set out, the relevant industry rules and 
guidance which apply to the specific circumstances of this case in his view dated March 
2022. 
The investigator also highlighted, and referred to, the key documents which are relevant to 
this complaint. 
The policy documentation 
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) summarises the cover available. 
On page one it says: This Insurance Product Information Document is only intended to 
provide a summary of the main coverage and exclusions, it does not replace the policy terms 
and conditions. Complete pre-contractual and contractual information on the product is 
provided in your policy documentation.
Under the what is not insured? section (also on page 1) it says: Travelling to a country or 
to an area where, prior to your trip commencing, the FCO have advised against all (but 
essential) travel. 
Pages 11 and 12 of the policy sets out the general exclusions applying to the policy. It 
excludes on page 11 (clause 18): Any claim arising as a direct result of a situation 
highlighted by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office where you have travelled to a specific 
country or to an area where, prior to your trip commencing, the Foreign and Commonwealth 
Office have advised against all (but essential) travel. Ill refer to this as the FCO exclusion.
Page 20 of the policy sets out the circumstances under which Chaucer provides cover for 
cancellation (or curtailment) charges. These are: 
- The death, bodily injury, illness, disease, or complications of pregnancy of: a) You b) 
any person who you are travelling with c) any person who you have arranged to stay 
with d) your close relative e) your close business associate. 
- You or any person who you are travelling with being quarantined on the orders of a 
treating doctor, called as a witness at a Court of Law or for jury service attendance. 
- Redundancy of you or any person who you are travelling with (which qualifies for 
payment under current UK redundancy payment legislation, and at the time of 
booking the trip there was no reason to believe anyone would be made redundant). 
- You or any person who you are travelling with, are a member of the Armed Forces, 
Territorial Army, Police, Fire, Nursing or Ambulance Services or employees of a 
Government Department and have your/their authorised leave cancelled or are called 
up for operational reasons, provided that the cancellation or curtailment could not 
reasonably have been expected at the time when you purchased this insurance or at 
the time of booking any trip, which occurred or became apparent within 5 days prior 
to the commencement of your trip or during the course of your trip. 
- The Police or other authorities requesting you to stay at or return to your home due to 
serious damage to your home caused by fire, aircraft, explosion, storm, flood, 
subsidence, fallen trees, collision by road vehicles, malicious people or theft. 
Was it unreasonable for Chaucer to decline the claim? 
Chaucer has an obligation to consider claims promptly and fairly. And it mustnt 
unreasonably decline an insurance claim. In this particular case, Im satisfied that its fair and reasonable for Chaucer to treat the claim 
as covered under the cancellation and curtailment section of the policy. Thats because: 
Im satisfied that the main reason why the trip was cancelled was due to the FCO 
advising against all but essential travel to the USA. Had Mr D, Mrs D and Mr D 
decided to travel against FCO advice, there wouldve been limited cover under the 
policy. 
I accept that under the cancellation and curtailment section of the policy having to 
cancel a trip abroad due to the outbreak of a pandemic or changes in FCO advice 
arent listed as specific insured perils. However, considering the relevant law and 
industry guidelines, I dont think that leads to a fair and reasonable outcome in the 
circumstances of this case for the reasons Ill go on to explain. 
The FCO exclusion means that had Mr D, Mrs D and Mr D travelled abroad theyd 
have not followed FCO advice. So, as Ive stated above, cover under the policy 
wouldve been limited. But, under the terms and conditions of the policy, changes in 
FCO guidance which led to the cancellation of a trip also isnt covered by the policy 
as it isnt listed as an insured event. I dont think that was made sufficiently clear to 
Mr D, Mrs D and Mr D in this case.
The IPID is designed to make sure customers have essential information about the 
policy in a way thats easy to understand. I dont think it was made prominent in the 
IPID that cancellation claims due to FCO advice against all but essential travel to a 
particular destination isnt included in the What is not insured section of the IPID. 
The IPID only contains the general exclusion that policyholders wont be covered if 
they travel against FCO advice. 
Mr D, Mrs D and Mr D wouldve needed to read the full policy terms and conditions 
and cross reference different sections of the policy  in conjunction with the IPID - to 
understand that this set of circumstances wasnt covered. So, I dont think this 
information was brought to their attention in a prominent and transparent way. Im 
satisfied the combined effect of the policy terms and IPID means it wasnt made 
reasonably clear or obvious to a reasonable policyholder that theyd have no cover 
under the policy if they travelled against FCO advice. But there would also be no 
cover in place if their travel plans were cancelled on the basis of FCO advice 
changing in between buying the policy and their intended departure date, as is what 
happened here. 
The section of the policy explaining what will be covered if they had to cancel the 
holiday, on page 20, is in plain English. But the FCO exclusion isnt presented in the 
same place or specifically mentioned in the cancellation exclusions  although the 
general exclusions are referred to. However, the general exclusions are earlier in the 
policy document at pages 11 and 12. And the consumer would need to cross refer 
these sections of the policy to understand how these terms all interrelated to one 
another, and to understand the effect of the FCO exclusion. 
I think this created a significant imbalance in the rights and interests of Mr D, Mrs D, 
Mr D and Chaucer which is unfair in this case. I dont think they wouldve bought the 
policy had they realised that there was no cover under the policy if the FCO advice 
changed after theyd bought it and needed to cancel their trip because of this. And 
Im aware that there were other travel insurance policies available at the time of them 
buying the policy which wouldve covered such circumstances.
I accept that its not feasible for the terms and conditions of a policy  or an IPID  to 
list every possible insured peril and/or every possible exclusion. Ive also considered 
that its common for the cancellation section of travel insurance policies to list the 
specific insured perils that are covered. However, Ive considered whether it was clearly signposted to Mr D, Mrs D and Mr D that there would be limited cover under 
the policy if they travelled against FCO advice but theyd also not be covered if they 
had to cancel their trip because of FCO advice changing between taking out the 
policy and the intended dates of travel, based on the policy documentation. And, for 
the reasons set out above, I dont think it was. 
Other issues
Chaucer accepts that it couldve dealt with things more promptly and its offered £100 to 
acknowledge this. I understand the delays wouldve been somewhat frustrating for Mr D and 
he was put to the inconvenience of chasing for updates. I think £100 fairly reflects the 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
Putting things right
Chaucer should treat Mr D, Mrs D and Mr Ds claim as covered under the cancellation and 
curtailment section of the policy. And Chaucer should assess the claim under the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy  including (but not limited to) the financial limits of the 
policy, and any applicable excess.
I also direct Chaucer to pay Mr D, Mrs D and Mr D £100 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience (if this hasnt been paid already).
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I direct Chaucer Insurance Company Designated Activity Company 
to put things right in the way Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D, Mr D and 
Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman