DRN-2809454
The complaint
Mr K complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc has accused him of benefitting from fraud 
and has closed his account and registered a marker at CIFAS, the national fraud database.
What happened
Mr K contacted The Co-op on 19 March 2020 to say that he had received fraudulent funds of 
£2,255 into his account because his partners account had been compromised. He had 
transferred the money net of his overdraft - an amount of £1,960 - to his account at a 
different bank to protect this. He was asked to transfer this back and he moved back £1,890 
(and so £70 less) the next day. He complains that he didnt have access to his account and 
had to phone to ask how much he could transfer net of the fraudulent money. He was 
unhappy to be told that he had benefitted from these funds and that his account would be 
closed. And later that The Co-op had added a fraud marker and closed his account 
permanently.
The Co-op said in its final response that it wouldnt have moved the money back to the 
sender on an ad hoc request whilst the matter was under investigation. It said that each 
time the bank reporting the fraud had requested the money back it didnt pass them the 
credit, since not all funds remained as [Mr K] had utilised the funds. As this had happened it 
had decided not to continue to provide him with banking services and this decision was 
confirmed to him by its call handler on 22 June 2020. It didnt consider it had dealt with this 
poorly as Mr K and his representative claimed. On 25 August 2020 it wrote to Mr K and told 
him that there was a CIFAS marker on his account and referred him back to the findings in 
its final response.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld in part and the CIFAS marker 
removed. He considered that Mr Ks use of these funds was inadvertent and not with 
fraudulent intent. So, the high bar for adding the marker hadnt been met. Mr K had probably 
complicated things by moving the money in the first place, but he had addressed this and the 
shortfall of £70 in the funds he had initially returned compared to what hed removed when 
he spoke to The Co-op on 21 March 2021. The Co-op should probably have returned the 
funds at this point. After that Mr K didnt have access to what was happening on his account 
and he relied on his calls with The Co-op about this. Our investigator said that it was though 
a matter for The Co-op to decide who it wanted to offer an account to and in light if its 
concerns closed the account in line with its terms and conditions. It didnt seem now that    
Mr K wanted to continue banking with it either.
Mr Ks representative said that what he did was a common sense approach and that he 
was completely innocent and didnt intentionally benefit from this. And if The Co-op had 
acted more quickly and given him guidance this would have been sorted out.
The Co-op said it couldnt comment on the opinion of the investigator until more information 
had been obtained. It wanted to see Mr Ks bank statements at his other bank showing why 
he only sent £1,890 rather than £1,960 back. It wanted to see whether his salary was now 
paid into that account. And it wanted to know if it should now explain to this service whether 
it had reported the matter to police and more about the CIFAS marker. Our investigator said 
that he wouldnt be asking Mr K or his other bank for any more information as he thought he 
had what was required to make a decision. So, he told The Co-op that the matter would be 
referred to an ombudsman and gave it the opportunity to make any further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think The Co-op has had a reasonable opportunity to respond to the view of our 
investigator. It is a matter for this service to decide on what information we require to assess 
a complaint. I will be considering the way The Co-op dealt with this report of fraud and 
whether it acted reasonably. I also need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made 
fairly. On this point, The Co-op needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to 
show it had reasonable grounds to believe that a fraud or financial crime had been 
committed or attempted and that the evidence would support this being reported to the 
authorities. 
I have to say that this is a complex sequence of events but that The Co-op was the expert 
here and that Mr K believed he like his partner had been the victim of fraud. Ive reviewed 
the record of calls he had with The Co-op about this and  listened to the available recordings 
I note in particular the following:
- On 19 March 2020 Mr K reported this credit as fraudulent. He explained what he had 
done with £1,960 of the money and the person he spoke to told him not to pay it 
back, that it was safe and thanked him for doing that. He was told his account is 
under investigation.
- On 20 March 2020 when Mr K called again he was asked to transfer the money back 
and he did send £1,890 back. Had The Co-op later wanted to know why this wasnt 
the full £1,960 it could have asked him and for any evidence.
- On 21 March 2020 Mr K asked about when his account will be up and running. He 
was told that the money had to be sent back to the other bank. He asked specifically 
how much of the balance is his money taking this into account and is told that he can 
have £230 and which is transferred for him. To me that resolves any implication that 
he had tried to use any of this money by that point. He also asked if this meant any of 
his overdraft would be used and he was told not.
- On 28 March 2020 he asked about his account and was told that there is no money 
and that the fraud team will be in touch. 
- On 17 April 2020 he called and said he wants to transfer some money. He asked 
what is available and the person he spoke to checked that in detail with the fraud 
team. Hes told he can have the full balance of just over £1,358. He said he doesnt 
know where he is with the account and that he got dragged into this. He said that the 
issue with his partners account at a different bank is resolved. I note he has since 
provided a copy of her statement showing this and that he transferred £1,400 to her 
account that day.
- In subsequent calls he accepted that direct debits and withdrawals from his account 
have effectively meant that the other element of the money  some £900 has been 
spent by him. He was also unhappy to find that his account is in overdraft by nearly 
£200 and was expected to pay this back.
Frankly having listened to these calls it is clear to me that Mr K isnt attempting to be 
dishonest. He is confused about what is happening, doesnt have a clear understanding of 
what is happening on his account, at one point thought all entries had been blocked and in 
my view was relying on The Co-op to sort out this fraud that he had clearly reported.I can see from its notes that it reported to the other bank that no funds remained and didnt 
recognise that on 21 March 2020 Mr K had ensured that there were sufficient funds available 
as set out above. It treated the money going in and out of his account as different elements 
even though Mr K had clearly explained what had happened and expected the fraud to be 
sorted out with the other bank. The money that later went out from his account included 
direct debits that were paid by The Co-op.
Im not satisfied that it was fair to add the marker because I dont believe Mr K was 
attempting to carry out fraud  in fact quite the opposite. Having said that I can see why The 
Co-op no longer wanted him to offer him a bank account having suspected fraud and 
because he did access those funds.
Putting things right
I agree that the CIFAS marker should be removed. As I say The Co-op had grounds to close 
his account.
Mr K through his representative originally asked for compensation for the inconvenience 
caused, the time the account was restricted and the impact of the marker and didnt think he 
should have to pay back the overdraft. Im afraid that I dont agree that this is all warranted. 
The person responsible for a significant part of the inconvenience was the fraudster. And it 
isnt in question that Mr K has for the reasons explained received at least part of this money 
despite his intentions. The overdraft balance on the account reflects how it was used and 
again he is fairly responsible for repaying that. He has mentioned his financial circumstances 
have changed and I would expect The Co-op to take this into account in discussing 
repayment with him.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part, and I require The Co-operative Bank Plc to 
remove the CIFAS marker.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman