DRN-4000281
The complaint
Mr O complains that the car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement with Oodle 
Financial Services Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In December 2021, Mr O acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement with Oodle 
FS. He paid a deposit of £2,300 and was required to make 60 monthly repayments of around 
£329. With the total amount payable under the agreement being just over £21,100.
Mr O says that the engine blew after nine months and that when he returned the car to a 
local garage, he was told that the catalytic convertor had been removed. He said the car was 
illegal and wouldnt pass an MOT. Mr O says he needed to buy another car to get to work.
Oodle FS issued a final response letter dated 16 September 2022. It says that Mr O 
contacted it on 18 August 2022 and explained he had been experiencing issues with the car. 
It says that as Mr O had been in possession of the car for over nine months, he would need 
to provide evidence of the issues being present at the point of supply. Because it hadnt 
received this it didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr O wasnt happy with Oodle FS response and referred his complaint to this service. He 
didnt think he should be liable for repairs when he had only had the car for nine months and 
reiterated that the catalytic convertor had been removed before supply (decat).
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She thought that noting the cars age and 
mileage the issues identified were more likely than not wear and tear. Given the mileage 
Mr O was able to drive before the issues arose, she didnt think she could say the faults now 
present with the car were present or developing at the point of supply. Regarding the decat 
issues she said that it was difficult in the absence of evidence to say the catalytic convertor 
was removed, particularly as the car passed an MOT shortly before the car was supplied to 
Mr O. Because of this she didnt uphold Mr Os complaint.
Mr O didnt agree with our investigators view. He sent photographs of where he thought the 
catalytic convertor should be and said the dealership wouldnt admit to it knowing this was 
missing. He said he hadnt been able to drive the car since the issues arose.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement. Under the regulations, 
specifically the Consumer Rights Act 2015, Oodle FS can, in certain circumstances, be held 
liable if the car Mr O was supplied with wasnt of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality 
takes into account factors such as the age and mileage of the car. In this case the car was 
almost eight years old and had been driven over 66,800 miles at acquisition.
Mr O entered the hire purchase agreement on 29 December 2021. On 18 August 2022 he 
contacted Oodle FS about issues with the car. The contact notes show he was advised to 
discuss the issue with the dealership. Mr O did this the next day and contacted Oodle FS 
again. He said he noticed the faults around a week before and the dealership wasnt 
assisting him. Mr O has provided a copy of information from a garage listing various issues 
with the car. These include:
Intake pipe to the turbo and the battery terminal both being loose (there is then a 
note saying tightened)
Front brake discs are cracking from the holes
Gas leak in engine bay
Gasket has blown out
Engine oil leak 
Bulge on inside of a tyre
The report says the car shouldnt be driven and Mr O has provided the current mileage of 
71,568 miles and says it was 71,565 miles when the car was inspected. Based on the 
information provided, I accept that there are issues with the car and that these were 
identified in August 2022. 
Noting that the car was over eight years old and had been driven over 71,000 miles in 
August 2022, it isnt unreasonable to accept that issues will arise that need repair. The list of 
issues provided could be the result of wear and tear and without further information about 
when the issues first arose, I cannot say that these problems were the result of faults 
present at supply. I understand Mr Os comment that he feels he shouldnt have to pay for 
repairs when he has only driven the car for nine months, but I can only hold Oodle FS liable 
for the cost of repairs in the event I am satisfied that the faults now present were caused by 
issues that were present and developing at the point of supply. In this case, I do not find that 
I have enough evidence to say that the issues were present at the point of supply noting that 
Mr O was able to drive over 4,700 miles before he noticed the problems. Because of this, I 
do not find that I can say Oodle FS is liable for the issues Mr O has raised.
As well as the issues listed above, Mr O says that the garage noticed the catalytic convertor 
had been removed. The dealership has said the catalytic converter was present at sale. 
Where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory  as it is here  I have made my decision 
based on the balance of probabilities. In this case, the car supplied to Mr O had an MOT on 
30 November 2021 on which the mileage was recorded as 66,827. Mr O signed the hire 
purchase agreement on 29 December 2021 and the mileage on the sale invoice is noted as 
66,830. The car passed the MOT with no issues raised or advisories, and this wouldnt have 
happened had the catalytic convertor not been present. Given the short time between the 
MOT and the car being provided to Mr O, I find it unlikely the catalytic convertor would have 
been removed in this time. Therefore, on balance, I do not find based on the evidence I have 
that I can uphold this part of his complaint.
While I understand my decision will be disappointing to Mr O, I do not find I have enough 
evidence to uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman