DRN-2968915
The complaint
This complaint is that the late Mr B was treated unfairly by Phoenix Life Limited (Phoenix) 
when he took out his annuity. The option he selected meant he got less from his annuity 
than he paid in.
What happened
In 2011 Mr B applied for his annuity. He took the maximum 25% tax free lump sum which left 
a pension of £1,266.36 which was used to buy an annuity. The annuity paid £55.38 each 
year.
Mr B received nine annual payments totalling £498.42 before he passed away in January 
2020. Mr Bs representative has complained that Phoenix made a substantial profit from his 
annuity and that considering his lifestyle he should have received more.
Our Investigator considered the complaint but didnt think Phoenix had done anything wrong. 
He said Mr B had been given the option at the time he took the annuity to look at the rest of 
the market. It was also explained that Mr B could seek financial advice before making his 
decision.
Our Investigator also explained that the way annuities worked was that those that lived 
longer would benefit from a higher financial benefit than those that didnt live as long. 
Mr Bs representative didnt agree with our Investigators findings, so this complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While it is disappointing that Mr B paid more into his pension than he received from the 
annuity he signed up to, this isnt unusual. As our Investigator explained Mr B took the 
maximum tax-free amount he could before buying an annuity, he then used the remaining 
pension to purchase the annuity. 
Mr B was not obligated to take the annuity he signed up to, and while he may have been 
able to find a better option elsewhere Phoenix was not required to give Mr B information 
about its competitors options.
As a service we are not able to tell a business how it should calculate benefit payments as 
we are not the regulator.
I have not seen that Phoenix has acted unfairly, so I am not asking it to do anything to 
resolve this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr B 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman