DRN-4324676
The complaint
Mr L complains about Santander UK Plcs decision to not give him a refund in respect of a 
hotel booking he made which had to be cancelled.
What happened
In January 2020 Mr L booked accommodation with a supplier Ill call T. He paid £220.96 
using his Santander debit card. Mr L was due to use the accommodation in July 2020. 
Mr L said that due to the Covid-19 pandemic he was unable to go ahead with the booking as 
planned. He said T issued him with a credit note to be used on a future booking. The credit 
note had an expiry date of 31 December 2021.
Mr L said the credit note expired before he was able to use it as he has long term health 
issues and felt he couldnt book within the time he was given on the credit note. Mr L said he 
tried to book new accommodation with T after the credit note had expired but it wouldnt let 
him use it. 
Mr L asked Santander to help him get his money back.
Santander said that the process it could have used to get Mr Ls money back from T (known 
as chargeback) had rules set by the relevant card scheme which it had to follow. It said 
those rules set out time limits within which a chargeback could be raised and one of those 
limits was 540 days from the date Mr L paid T. It said Mr L didnt contact it about his dispute 
until after this time expired. So, it didnt think it could have recovered Mr Ls money through 
the chargeback process and told him it couldnt help. 
Dissatisfied, Mr L referred his complaint to this service. 
An investigator didnt think Santander had treated Mr L unfairly. She said the time limit 
provisions in the card scheme rules did indeed mean that a chargeback would not likely 
have succeeded, so she didnt think Santander had acted unreasonably by not raising one. 
Mr L disagreed with the investigator and asked an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Covid-19 pandemic brought with it many issues relating to travel which could not go 
ahead as planned, with lots of trips being cancelled.
But the right to a refund when a holiday or flight hasnt happened as expected because of 
Covid-19 isnt automatic. It is dependent on the individual circumstances of each case and 
the legal position, which can be complicated. 
Here, I am looking at the actions of Santander and whether it has acted fairly and reasonably 
in the way it handled Mr Ls request for help in getting his money back. This will take into 
account the circumstances of the failed trip and how the supplier has acted, but there are 
also other considerations, such as the relevant card scheme rules a bank has to follow and 
its own obligations. 
Mr L paid for the accommodation using his Santander debit card. Realistically this meant the 
only way he could have got his money back through Santander in this case was through the 
chargeback process. 
In certain circumstances the chargeback process provides a way for a bank to ask for a 
payment Mr L made to be refunded. Where applicable, the bank raises a dispute with the 
supplier and effectively asks for the payment to be returned to the customer. While it is good 
practice for a bank to attempt a chargeback where the right exists and there is some 
prospect of success, the circumstances of a dispute means it wont always be appropriate 
for the bank to raise a chargeback. There are grounds or dispute conditions set by the 
relevant card scheme and if these are not met a chargeback is unlikely to succeed.
When a chargeback is raised, the scheme allows a given period of time - usually around a 
month - for the supplier to reply to say whether or not they agree to the refund. And when a 
supplier does defend a chargeback, this can lead to further representations by the 
cardholders bank, if it considers the supplier has raised a weak or invalid defence. The 
process then allows for further representations to be made if the parties still not agree, and 
for the card scheme to decide who gets to keep the money.
This means for me to conclude Santander did something wrong in Mr Ls case, and should 
do something to put things right, I think Id need to find that it didnt raise a chargeback in 
circumstances when it should have. This could be, for example, because Mr Ls dispute 
looked to have fit within the card scheme rules. Also, Id need to find that Mr L lost out as a 
result, for example, because its likely the chargeback would have been successful and he 
would have recovered his money. 
As the investigator explained, the relevant rules for the kind of dispute Mr L was raising set 
out that a chargeback had to be raised within 120 days of the last date he expected to 
receive the service from T, provided this did not exceed 540 days from the date he paid it. 
Even if I were to take the date the credit note expired on 31 December 2021 as the last date 
Mr L might have expected to receive a service from T (which isnt necessarily how the card 
scheme might have viewed it), he didnt get in touch with Santander until November 2022. 
So, the chargeback wouldnt have been initiated until later than 120 days after this. And 
irrespective of this, it was also later than 540 days from when he paid T in January 2020. 
Santander could have attempted to raise a chargeback still, but it was very unlikely to have 
succeeded. Its likely it would have been defended by T or its bank on the basis Mr L had not 
complied with the necessary conditions for the dispute he was raising (i.e. he hadnt met the 
necessary conditions about time limits). 
The investigator also pointed out additional guidance to the rules (produced by the card 
scheme to assist with Covid-19 related disputes) which set out that time limits were not 
being extended for Covid-19 related disputes. So, regardless of what happened in respect of 
the credit note Mr L was given, he still had to have initiated a chargeback within 540 days of 
when he paid T. 
I know Mr L finds this unfair and I do sympathise with him. But Santander did not set the 
chargeback rules, the card scheme did, and Santander could only get Mr Ls money back if 
his dispute fit within those rules. Unfortunately for Mr L, in this case it didnt. On this basis, Santander didnt treat Mr L unfairly by not raising a chargeback. And as there 
were no other ways it could realistically have recovered the money he paid to T, I dont think 
it treated him unfairly by not giving his money back either.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman