DRN-4366137
The complaint
Mrs F complains BUPA Insurance Limited unfairly turned down her claim for knee 
replacement surgery.
What happened
Mrs F holds a private medical insurance policy, underwritten by BUPA. She had been a 
customer for many years and in 2022, changed over to a different BUPA policy.
In 2023, Mrs Fs GP referred her to see a consultant due to her having severe pain in her 
right knee. And the consultant recommended that she needed to have knee replacement 
surgery. So, Mrs F contacted BUPA for authorisation of the procedure. 
BUPA requested information from Mrs Fs GP. And after reviewing this, it said it thought the 
problems she had with her right knee were pre-existing and it declined the claim.  
Mrs F says that when she took out the new policy, she understood that medical conditions 
she had in the prior 7 years would not be covered. But she said shed had no symptoms, 
treatment or investigations related to her right knee in that time. 
Mrs F complained to BUPA. It said Mrs Fs GP completed a medical questionnaire and 
within this, stated she had been diagnosed with moderate osteoarthritis in her right knee in 
2009. BUPA said although it accepted Mrs F hadnt had any issues with that knee within the 
7 years prior to taking the new policy, it thought this was a chronic condition. And it said this 
was not covered under the policy. 
The policy terms include the following exclusion 
We do not pay for Treatment of Chronic Conditions. However, we will pay for Eligible 
Treatment for an unexpected fare-up of acute symptoms of a Chronic Condition if the 
Treatment is likely to lead quickly to a complete recovery rather than prolonged 
Treatment. We do not pay for Treatment required due to the expected deterioration 
or fare up of a Chronic Condition. This includes conditions which have a relapsing-
remitting nature and require management of recurrent fare-ups, for example, 
inflammatory bowel disease. In such cases, the flare-ups are an expected part of the 
normal course of the illness and therefore we do not consider them as acute 
complications of the disease.
Also, the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) which provides a summary of Mrs 
Fs cover, included the following under the section headed What is not insured. 
Restrictions apply to treatment of the following 
Chronic conditions (we pay for treatment of unexpected acute symptoms resulting 
from a flare-up)
And the policy provides the following definition of a chronic condition. 
A disease, illness or injury which has one or more of the following characteristics:
- it needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations, 
check-ups
and/or tests
- it needs ongoing or long-term control or relief of symptoms
- it requires your rehabilitation or for you to be specially trained to cope with it
- it continues indefinitely
- it has no known cure
- it comes back or is likely to come back.
Unhappy with the response from BUPA, Mrs F brought her complaint to this service. An 
investigator here looked into what had happened and said they thought BUPA had declined 
the claim fairly. 
BUPA made no comments on the investigators view. However, Mrs F disagreed. In 
summary she said she was aware an exclusion was added to her policy for her left knee, 
however no such exclusion was in place for her right knee. She said shed had no problems 
with her right knee for 14 years and queried whether her requirement for knee surgery was 
an unexpected flare-up of a chronic condition. 
The investigator put this question to BUPA who supplied a response from its Chief Medical 
Officer (CMO). In summary the CMO said osteoarthritis is a generalised degenerative 
condition which is not prone to acute flare ups. And as this was diagnosed in 2009, an 
expected decline in the knee was known prior to Mrs F taking out her policy. 
Mrs F still disagreed and said she thought the claim should have been covered as the policy 
was fully medically under-written and no exclusion was added for the right knee. She asked 
for a decision from an ombudsman and so, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say an insurer must 
handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
Having done so, I dont think BUPA has acted unfairly, and Ill explain why. 
Mrs Fs GP noted on the medical questionnaire First entry I can see re R knee is a 
letter from ortho  moderate OA  03/09/2009. So Im satisfied Mrs F had been 
diagnosed with osteoarthritis in her right knee at that time. 
I think BUPA has fairly assessed Mrs Fs osteoarthritis to be a chronic condition 
within the definition of BUPAs policy terms. The policy includes a list of characteristics of a chronic condition, and Im satisfied osteoarthritis can fairly be said 
to be a condition which continues indefinitely and has no known cure.
And Im persuaded by BUPAs CMOs explanation that osteoarthritis is a 
degenerative condition, so it would be expected to decline or get worse from the 
point of diagnosis. And as such, I think its fair that BUPA concluded Mrs Fs knee 
pain leading to her needing knee replacement surgery is not an acute flare-up of a 
chronic condition. 
Although I appreciate Mrs F didnt have any symptoms or treatment related to her 
right knee in the seven years prior to taking the new policy, the exclusion for pre-
existing conditions is not the only condition BUPA needs to consider when assessing 
her claim. As shown above, the terms also state that BUPA will not pay for treatment 
of chronic conditions. And Im satisfied that the right knee surgery Mrs F required, 
was treatment for a chronic condition, due to her existing osteoarthritis in that knee 
since 2009. 
I appreciate Mrs F will be disappointed with my decision. However, in this case Ive not found 
that BUPA has done anything wrong, so I cant fairly say Mrs Fs claim should be accepted. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against BUPA Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman