DRN-2839960
The complaint
Mr K complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Vauxhall Finance plc (Vauxhall Finance).    
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Vauxhall Finance, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please 
let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr K acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Vauxhall Finance, who are also the supplier of the 
car, are responsible. The relevant law says when we consider whether a car is of 
satisfactory quality we should think about whether it has been durable and it explains that 
the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the 
other relevant circumstances. 
This car was new when supplied and I dont think a reasonable person would expect a new 
car to need a new engine after theyd covered only about 35,000 miles in four years.
I can see that Mr K has ensured the car is serviced in accordance with the manufacturers 
guidelines, so I dont think there is evidence Mr Ks actions contributed to the premature 
failure of the engine.
From the repairing garages comments, it appears the problem may have been caused by 
defective materials as they refer to material defects, in the piston rings and the pipes, in their 
report.
Im also persuaded that the heater hasnt proven to be suitably durable on this car. Mr K had 
it fixed on a couple of occasions, the first in 2018. I think a reasonable person would expect 
the heater on a car to last more than two years.
So, Ive thought about what Vauxhall Finance need to do to put things right for Mr K.
Putting things right
Ive considered whether rejection of the car is the most appropriate action here, but as the 
car is now working Im persuaded the best remedy would be for Vauxhall Finance to cover 
the costs Mr K has incurred getting the car repaired and compensate him for his lack of 
enjoyment and the distress and inconvenience hes experienced.
Mr K paid £1,738.16 to have the engine replaced and he funded that through a 0% interest 
loan that hes now paid off. Vauxhall Finance should therefore refund that cost and as Mr K 
has been deprived of the money they should add 8% interest from the date he made his 
payments to the date of settlement.
Theyll also need to refund the £478.07 Mr K paid for the heater repairs and, again, as hes 
been deprived of the money they should add interest to the refund from the date he made 
payments to the date of settlement.
Mr K didnt have access to the car he was financing whilst it was being repaired. Ive seen 
that the car broke down around October 23 2020 and Mr K has explained that the repair 
commenced on 4 December 2020. The exact date of repair will need to be clarified with the 
dealership. Vauxhall Finance should therefore provide a pro rata refund of the finance 
instalments Mr K has paid for the days his car was being repaired; adding interest as Mr K 
has been deprived of that money too.
Mr K has clearly been inconvenienced by these matters. Hes had to take the car for repairs 
on several occasions and hes had to escalate his complaint to this service when I think it 
could have been resolved earlier. His enjoyment of the vehicle would also have been spoilt 
as hes explained he had to regularly top up the oil and drive the car whilst it was misfiring. In 
those circumstances I think Vauxhall Finance should pay him £200 to compensate him for 
the distress, inconvenience and loss of enjoyment hes experienced.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Vauxhall Finance plc to:
refund the £1,738.16 Mr K paid to have the engine replaced and add 8% simple 
interest per year to this refund from the date he made payments to the date of 
settlement;
refund the cost of the heater repair of £478.07 and add 8% simple interest per year to 
this refund from the date he made payments to the date of settlement;
provide a pro rata refund of finance instalments for the period Mr Ks engine was 
being repaired and add 8% simple interest per year to this refund from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mr K £200 to compensate him for the distress, inconvenience and loss of 
enjoyment hes experienced.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman