DRN-2966054
The complaint
Mr J complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wouldnt agree to any further 
forbearance on his loan account.
What happened
In April 2018 Mr J took out a personal loan with NatWest. 
On 26 March 2020, Mr J called NatWest to let it know he was struggling to make his loan 
repayments as a job due to start in April 2020 was cancelled due to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
On 3 April 2020, Mr J completed an income and expenditure form and on 11 April 2020 a 
loan deferral period of three months was agreed. After a separate complaint, this covered 
April, May and June 2020.
When the initial payment deferral period ended, NatWest agreed to extend the loan deferral 
period by a further three months. This covered payments up to September 2020.
In early September 2020, NatWest agreed a forbearance plan of £1 a month for three 
months. Mr J had various conversations with NatWest in October and November and, at the 
end of November, he extended his loan term.
In early December, NatWest extended the forbearance plan by a further three months. This 
would mean that, on 1 April 2021, after 12 months of support in the form of deferred periods 
and forbearance plans, Mr Js loan repayments would return to normal.
In January 2021, Mr J complained that further forbearance measures werent being made 
available to him. NatWest didnt uphold his complaint. Since then and while the complaint 
has been with our service, NatWest are continuing Mr Js forbearance plan and hes been 
paying £1 per month towards the loan.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Js complaint should be upheld as he thought the bank had 
followed the FCA guidance and shown appropriate forbearance. Mr J disagreed and this 
matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of matters and points have been raised, this decision focuses on what I 
think are the main issues. However, Ive given careful consideration to all of the submissions 
made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr J that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. So I dont uphold his complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I wanted to say Im sorry to hear Mr J, like many others, has had a difficult time 
during the coronavirus pandemic. 
When the pandemic first hit, the FCA had to quickly put in place guidance for lenders in 
order to alleviate pressure on borrowers whose income had been affected by the covid-19 
pandemic. In the end, this allowed six months worth of deferred payments to be agreed. 
As more than six months of payment deferral wasnt considered to be in the best interests of 
most borrowers  because the deferred payments would still need to be repaid  six months 
was the most lenders were required to offer under the FCA guidance. Instead, in instances 
where borrowers were still experiencing covid-19 related financial difficulty after the deferred 
period of six months, lenders were expected to offer tailored support. So, Id expect to see 
that NatWest considered this when Mr J told it of his continued financial difficulty. And this is 
what I think it did. Having agreed a deferred payment period of six months, it also agreed a 
forbearance plan for a further six months. Overall, this is a total of 12 months of assistance 
and significantly beyond what was required of it under FCA guidance. In fact, the current 
situation is that NatWest has given Mr J assistance with his loan repayments for a total 
period of 18 months. I consider this to be fair and beyond what I wouldve likely asked of it if 
this matter had come to me sooner than it has. I say this particularly as I havent seen any 
evidence of Mr Js circumstances necessitating forbearance nor the continuation of it.
To offer tailored support to a borrower, a lender would need to understand the borrowers 
circumstances. Thats because it needs to make sure the support it offers isnt detrimental to 
the borrower. To gain an understanding of a borrowers circumstances, I think its reasonable 
for the lender to expect the borrower to engage with it and provide relevant information so 
that those circumstances can be assessed. This is something which can only be done near 
to the time the deferral or other form of forbearance is needed because the support is based 
on the circumstances which exist at the time. So, I think NatWest agreeing to the measures 
it did for three months at a time was reasonable. I also consider it was reasonable for it to 
ask Mr J to get in touch at the end of each period to discuss his circumstances rather than 
agreeing longer periods of forbearance. After all, the money is owed to the bank by Mr J and 
circumstances can change.   
I havent seen any evidence to suggest that NatWest has gone back on any agreement it 
made with Mr J. In a conversation in September, NatWest talked about the fact a standing 
order of £1 could be set up for six months in total but it was also clear - Mr J would need to 
call back in December after the initial three-month forbearance plan had expired before a 
further three month forbearance plan would be considered.
I consider that throughout the communications Mr J has had with NatWest, it has been 
broadly clear when setting out the likely next steps and possible implications of what might 
happen when any forbearance comes to an end. In particular, I note during a conversation in 
September that NatWest told Mr J if he couldnt make his usual payments when the 
forbearance plan came to an end, itd likely need to agree to a token payment arrangement 
which would lead to Mr Js account defaulting  with a default being placed on his credit file 
for six years - and account facilities being withdrawn. This was discussed at length and 
NatWest explained all other accounts with it would be closed and hed lose his overdraft 
facility although hed likely be able to have a basic account in that situation. 
I note Mr J has expressed some concerns to the bank about his savings and the right of 
NatWest to use his savings to reduce what is owed to it. As our investigator explained, we 
generally take the view that its reasonable for banks to use the right of set-off as long as it 
does so fairly, following the terms of the account and industry guidance. And, having given Mr J at least 18 months of forbearance, I can see why NatWest would look to exercise set off 
against any savings Mr J has with it.
Finally, I understand Mr J is unhappy that NatWest is closing his account. However, as the 
forbearance plan has continued while the matter has been with this service, these steps 
havent been taken by the bank. Its not possible for me to say, in advance, what would be a 
reasonable future step for the bank to take in relation to Mr Js account if he says hes still 
unable to make his payments when the forbearance comes to an end as this may depend on 
the content of that conversation. However, upon receipt of this decision, NatWest is 
reasonably able to bring the current forbearance plan to an end and take appropriate steps 
to recover the amount due to it. So, whilst I can see why Mr J wants to delay matters as long 
as possible, Id encourage him to liaise with NatWest in relation to his loan repayments in 
anticipation of the ending of NatWests assistance.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman