DRN-3111895
The complaint
Miss A complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) wont deal with her claim for flood 
damage to her garden or for storm damage to her tents. The insurance policy is a branded 
one from her bank, though as it is the underwriter, I shall for convenience refer to UKI 
throughout.
What happened
In March 2020 Miss A made a claim to UKI for flood damage to her garden and for storm 
damage to tents in the garden. UKI appointed a drainage specialist (A) to inspect the drains. 
In March 2020 A reported no problem with the existing drains. Its survey upstream to the foul 
gully found some debris present which was resulting in it becoming blocked. A cleared this 
and found that some debris had entered the drainage system as no proper cover was in 
place over the gully. Some loose wire mesh was being used and this was allowing the debris 
to enter and block the system.
A revisited in August 2020. It again confirmed there were no problems with the drains. 
Miss A said she thought the neighbours tree was causing problems but A said this wasnt 
likely, there being no evidence the roots were affecting the garden.
UKI also appointed loss adjusters. They found that Miss A had made claims with her 
previous insurers in 2017 and 2019 for drainage problems. 
UKI referred the matter to its claim validation team. They discovered that Miss A had had 
three claims with her previous insurer (C). The first claim was in 2017 for a problem with the 
drains. A had been appointed for the 2017 claim and the drain issue was resolved. It said the 
gully pot needed replacing but this wasnt covered as it wasnt connected to the drainage 
and was located above ground. Damage to rabbit hutches in the garden were cash settled, 
and payments were also issued for garden soil, and plants.
Miss A had made another drainage claim to C in June 2019. This was linked to issues with 
standing water being present in the garden in the same area as previously reported. This 
was investigated by another contractor and they reported it was not linked to any drainage 
issues. This claim was rejected.
UKI contacted Miss A to ask about these claims. She said shed paid a contractor to replace 
the gully pot but she couldnt give their name or provide a receipt. UKI advised that the gully 
pot hadnt been replaced. It also queried whether Miss A had actually replaced the hutches 
after receiving the settlement. Although she couldnt produce evidence of payment, UKI 
contacted C and was told the damaged hutches had been taken away. It was satisfied that 
the present claim wasnt the same as that previously reported. However UKI was also 
satisfied following As report that there wasnt an insurable loss concerning the drains. It said 
it was likely a land drain issue or a problem being caused by the number of tents filling the 
garden blocking the sun and not allowing the land to dry out.
With regard to the possible flood damage, UKI checked the weather records around the time 
of Miss As claim and found no record of flood conditions or heavy rainfall for that period. It 
said the issue with the gully pot had previously been advised to her and that the damage to 
the garden had likely occurred gradually, and was therefore excluded under the terms of the 
policy. As regards the tents, the policy doesnt cover camping equipment while it is set up or 
in use.
On referral to this service our investigator said that UKI had acted reasonably.
Miss A didnt agree and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision concerns only Miss As claim concerning her garden. Im aware that Miss A 
has issues concerning her house, which are currently being dealt with as a separate 
complaint. I have noted Miss As response of 16 November.
drains
I fully understand that Miss A still has problems with her garden, but not all damage a home 
sustains is covered by a home insurance policy. Only damage thats caused by one of the 
insured perils (events) listed in the policy is covered. Policy perils include damage caused to 
the home by fire, theft, flood, storm etc. It is generally the responsibility of the policyholder to 
demonstrate the damage they are claiming for has been caused by one of the perils in the 
policy. 
Miss A made the claim as she was concerned her garden was flooding due to the drains. As 
Ive set out above UKI appointed both loss adjusters and A to investigate the claim. A visited 
the property twice. It identified that there was a blockage caused by debris falling into the 
gully where there was no cover in place save for some loose wire mesh. After surveying the 
system A found no problem with the drains. The loss adjusters also inspected and again 
didnt think there was a problem with the drains. Miss A says there is cover over the gully 
and that no debris could have entered because the holes were very small. She says that the 
neighbouring house had work done to the gully and this is how the bricks got into it. 
Nevertheless A did find debris in the gully and cleared it.
UKI found there was no record of flood conditions or heavy rainfall for that period, so the 
issue with the garden was more likely to be with land drains, or the fact that there was a 
large expanse of tents over the garden which was preventing the soil drying out. None of 
these issues would be covered under the policy.
Miss A says she paid a contractor to fix the gully pot and assumed it had been done. 
However A confirmed that it hadnt. I dont know if that is contributing to the problem, but 
Miss A should get this, and the cover to the gully, dealt with. 
I appreciate that Miss A would like UKI to carry out further investigations. However as far as I 
can see within the terms of the policy it has satisfied itself that theres no insurance cover for 
the garden issues. It sent out A twice and on both occasions could find no problems with 
drains. So its difficult to see what else it could have done. I dont doubt that Miss A does 
have problems with the garden but on present evidence I cant see that theres cover under 
her policy for them. UKIs also pointed out that Miss A has been having issues with the 
garden since 2017 and that Any damage caused gradually is excluded under the policy.tents
The terms of the policy say:
We dont pay for loss or damage to:
camping equipment while it is set up or in use.
So as the tents are clearly camping equipment and were in use they arent covered.
fraud
I can understand Miss As unhappiness as she feels she was accused of fraud. I understand 
that UKI was concerned that Miss A had made claims under a previous policy which werent 
declared to it when she took the policy out. I think UKI was entitled to raise issues 
concerning previous claims as it had to satisfy itself the same issue wasnt being claimed for 
again. 
It also asked Miss A questions about the rabbit hutches which shed previously received a 
cash settlement for. She didnt have receipts for them and said shed paid cash to a supplier 
that was no longer in business. I fully understand that Miss A was being truthful about this 
but again I think UKI was entitled to raise it if it had concerns.
overall
With regret for the upset I know this will cause Miss A, my view is that UKI have acted 
reasonably in declining her claim. I understand that this is distressing for her but, concerning 
the garden claim, I cant reasonably ask UKI to do anything more.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman