DRN-3246071
Complaint
Mr R says that Clydesdale Bank Plc (Clydesdale) treated him unfairly when he ran into 
difficulty repaying an unarranged overdraft. He was unhappy that his account was defaulted.
Background
One of our investigators looked into Mr Rs concerns. She didnt think that Clydesdale had 
treated Mr R fairly and reasonably and so recommended the complaint be upheld. 
Clydesdale disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr R got in contact with Clydesdale once he had difficulty repaying his balance. 
And once a lender is told that a borrower is experiencing financial difficulties we would 
expect it to exercise forbearance and due consideration, in line with its regulatory 
obligations. Ultimately, wed expect a lender to listen to a borrower, get an understanding of 
their circumstances and the assess the most appropriate way to move forward. 
As a result of his inability to pay his debts, Mr R entered into a debt management plan. 
Clydesdale will be aware the regulators guidance on financial difficulties (set out in CONC 
1.3) indicates a customer having discussions with a debt management company is in itself 
an indication they may be experiencing financial difficulty. In this instance, Clydesdale not 
only knew Mr R was having discussions, it began accepting £5 a month payments under a 
debt management plan, from early 2017. 
So by this stage Clydesdale knew Mr R wasnt in a position to repay what he owed within a 
reasonable period. Indeed, it would have taken Mr R almost 13 years to repay this balance, 
under this arrangement if Clydesdale hadnt added any interest. So I simply dont agree 
there was a realistic arrangement which ensured Mr R would pay this debt and Clydesdale 
could and should have taken action at this point. So I dont think it was unfair for Clydesdale 
to sell Mr Rs debt, but it wasnt fair and reasonable for it to add further unarranged overdraft 
charges significantly increasing what Mr R owed before, in any event, taking this action. 
Clydesdales actions here, in (as our investigator explained) egregiously increased the 
amount owed and this resulted in Mr R defaulting on a much larger debt. And a significant 
proportion of this much larger debt was made up of interest, fees and charges. 
So I think Clydesdale acted unfairly towards Mr R when it continued applying unarranged 
overdraft charges to his account, in circumstances where it instead ought to have taken 
steps to impose a corrective solution on the debt. Mr R ended up paying additional interest, 
fees and charges because of Clydesdales delay in taking action. So Im satisfied that Mr R 
lost out because of what Clydesdale did wrong and that it should put things right.
  
Fair compensation  what Clydesdale needs to do to put things right for Mr R
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Rs complaint for Clydesdale to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Rs account balance, at the time it closed, so that all interest, fees 
and charges applied to it from January 2017 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made, Clydesdale should work with the third-party it sold the Mr Rs debt to, 
to ensure Mr Rs credit file is amended to reflect what would have been recorded 
had Clydesdale started the process of taking corrective action on the account in 
January 2017.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, as a result of what Mr R paid to Clydesdale or the 
third-party debt purchaser, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr R along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then 
Clydesdale should work with the third-party it sold the Mr Rs debt to, to remove 
any adverse information from his credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Clydesdale to take off tax from this interest. Clydesdale 
must give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Rs complaint. Clydesdale Bank Plc should put things right in the way Ive 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman