DRN-3603053
The complaint
Mr R complains that Vanguard Asset Management Ltd (Vanguard) caused a significant 
delay in transferring his ISA to a new provider.
What happened
Mr R held an ISA with Vanguard and gave transfer instructions in January 2021, received by 
Vanguard on 25 January 2021. Funds settled with the new provider on 21 September 2021. 
Mr R says the transfer process should have taken around 30 working days. He sent chasers 
to Vanguard and matters did not progress. Mr R says that he was unable to trade during the 
transfer process and that he has lost out financially.
Vanguard accepts that there were delays in the transfer process for which they have 
apologised. They have offered £300 to compensate for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by the delays and offered to compensate Mr R for any financial loss, subject to proof. 
As no evidence was provided to show that Mr R sustained financial loss, no further offer of 
compensation was made.
Our investigator considered the complaint. There was no dispute that Vanguard caused 
delays in the transfer process. On balance, our investigator thought the offer for trouble and 
upset was fair and reasonable. As Mr R had not sought to trade within the transfer period, as 
some funds had been transferred in specie (remaining invested) and as Mr R hadnt taken 
any steps to trade until over two months after the funds settled, our investigator was not 
satisfied that Mr R had established any financial loss.
Mr R disagrees with the outcome and maintains that Vanguard should provide an indemnity.
As the parties do not agree, the matter has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Vanguard accept that they missed emails sent from the new provider and accept that due to 
the volume of transfer requests they were receiving, their response times were slower than 
they should have been. It isnt disputed that this led to delays in the transfer process and 
Vanguard acknowledge that Mr R did request updates and made requests for the transfer to 
be expedited due to urgent personal circumstances. On balance, I consider that Vanguard 
were responsible for delays in the transfer process and Ive seen that Vanguard have 
apologised for these shortcomings.
The issue in this complaint is whether fair and reasonable compensation has been provided. 
Mr R has consistently explained that he was facing difficult personal circumstances at the 
time, due to health of a relative. And I have seen that reference was made to his difficult 
personal circumstances when Mr R chased Vanguard for updates. On balance, Im 
persuaded that Mr R was put to the inconvenience of having to chase up for updates and I 
consider it is likely this caused distress at a difficult time. In my view it is fair and reasonable 
to compensate for the distress and inconvenience caused and I find that the offer of £300 is 
fair in the circumstances. I understand that this sum has already been paid to Mr R.
As to financial loss, Mr R says that the delay meant he was prevented from investing in 
some shares and the price had increased by the time the transfer completed. He seeks 
compensation for the difference in the number of units he could have purchased if the 
transfer had completed in time and compensation for any tax implications.
Ive thought carefully about this, but on balance, I am not persuaded that Mr R has shown it 
was more likely than not that he would have purchased the shares earlier. Whilst Mr R did 
buy shares after his funds had transferred, he did not do so until 19 November 2021, almost 
two months after the transfer date. I understand Mr R has said this was due to his personal 
circumstances, but theres also nothing to show that Mr R gave an earlier request to the new 
provider. Further, having read the messages sent during the transfer process there was no 
mention by Mr R that he was being prevented from purchasing these shares and no 
complaint was raised at the time that he was losing out because he was unable to trade. So, 
in light of the information provided, I am not persuaded that it is fair and reasonable for 
Vanguard compensate Mr R further.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr R, but I wont be asking Vanguard to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman