DRN-3301822
The complaint
Mr S complains that Standard Life Assurance Limited failed to keep him updated about the 
deferment of the fund his capital bond is invested in  and this has resulted in him suffering a 
financial loss. 
What happened
Mr S holds a Standard Life capital investment bond. He was taking regular monthly 
withdrawals from the investment. 
On 18 March 2020, one of the funds (a property fund) Mr S invested in was deferred, so 
suspended from trading. In May 2020, Standard Life wrote to Mr S to explain the changes to 
the fund. The fund was reinstated on 16 November 2020 and became tradeable again from 
this point. 
In September 2020, Mr S called Standard Life to change the withdrawal amount he was 
taking from the investment. During this call the fund deferment was discussed. He raised a 
complaint that he wasnt informed about deferral. Standard Life responded and explained the 
deferment was a decision made by the external fund manager and said it informed him in 
May 2020 about this. 
On 18 December 2020, Mr S contacted Standard Life for a valuation and was informed the 
fund was now tradeable. Standard Life wrote to Mr S confirming this on 6 January 2021.
Mr S raised a complaint about not being informed of the fund reinstatement. He said he 
would have surrendered the investment sooner had he been informed on time.  
Standard Life responded to the complaint  it said:
- Although Mr S knew on 18 December 2020, it agreed taking till 6 January 2021 to 
notify him that the fund was tradable wasnt acceptable. 
- It felt that two weeks from the date the fund was tradable would have been a more 
appropriate timescale for Mr S to have received notice. As a result, it offered to 
backdate a surrender to 3 December 2020 for Mr S and pay him any loss compared 
to the current value  and said this offer was valid until 12 February 2021. 
- It offered to pay him compensation for its failings. 
Mr S didnt accept the offer. He referred his complaint to this service for an independent 
review. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She didnt think Standard Life needed to 
do anything further. Mr S didnt agree with the investigators findings. He remains of the view 
that he has lost out because of Standard Lifes mistakes. He question whether Standard Life 
did actually send him the notice of the deferment as the letter was only produced when his 
complaint was referred to this service. He said he didn't withdraw the funds because he was 
dealing with the complaint. 
I issued a provisional decision in January 2022. This is what I said:
 
The crux of Mr Ss complaint is around how Standard Life kept him informed about the 
deferral and reinstatement of the property fund his bond is invested in. Firstly, Ive 
considered the concerns Mr S has raised about how he was informed about the deferment. 
From the information available, I can see the decision to defer the fund was made by the 
fund managers on 18 March 2020. Standard Life has explained the external fund managers 
made this decision in light of market conditions caused by the impact of the global pandemic. 
So not something it had influence over. 
There appears to be some confusion around the date Mr S was told about the deferment. 
Having reviewed the evidence, Im satisfied Standard Life first informed Mr S of the 
deferment when it sent him a letter on 11 May 2020. While, I note our investigator explained 
that there was an earlier letter sent in March 2020  Ive seen nothing to suggest this to be 
the case. The contents of the May 2020 letter indicates this was the first time Standard Life 
was discussing the deferment with its customers. While the letter was sent around seven 
weeks after the decision by the fund manager, I dont think this has caused Mr S any 
detriment. It was always likely Standard Life would inform customers at some point after the 
fund manager had deferred the fund. And, I dont think earlier notice would have allowed Mr 
S to make changes to his investment. The nature of the deferment meant Mr S couldnt 
withdraw his funds, so the fact there wasnt an immediate announcement didnt put him at a 
disadvantage.   
Mr S doesnt recall receiving the May 2020 letter, but I understand he has now been 
provided with a copy. And I can see that he discussed the deferment when discussing his 
bond with Standard Life in September 2020. While I cant be certain Mr S received the letter, 
I can see from the copy provided, it was addressed correctly. So, on balance I think, it was 
likely received by Mr S. Im satisfied Standard Life has provided sufficient evidence to show 
it informed Mr S about the deferment. And for the same reasons described above, I dont 
think Mr S has lost out due to the timings of when he found out about the fund deferment.  
Moving to the circumstances of how Mr S was informed about the reinstatement of the fund. 
The fund became tradable again on 16 November 2020. Mr S found this out during a 
telephone call on 18 December 2020 when he requested a valuation of his investment. And 
he received written notice in a letter dated 6 January 2021. Standard Life has admitted that it 
should have informed Mr S sooner. During the December 2020 call Mr S said if he had been 
informed sooner about the reinstatement, he would have surrendered his investment. 
Standard Life did make Mr S an offer to compare his position in February 2021 (when it 
responded to his complaint) with that of when it believed it should have informed him (two 
weeks after the reinstatement). It said it would pay him the difference in the surrender values 
between these two dates, taking into account the monthly withdrawals hed made in that 
time. But Mr S didnt accept this offer.
Ive considered the initial offer and I think it was reasonable in the circumstances. It provided 
Mr S with the opportunity to take the action he said he would have taken had he been given 
adequate notice of the reinstatement. Although Standard Life said the offer was only 
available to accept for a short period of time, I think it should still honour the principle of the 
offer. Since then Mr Ss bond has remained invested.  The information available to me 
shows that he has continued to take regular withdrawals from the bond and also the unit 
price has increased since he made his complaint - and by October 2021 it was higher than it 
was when the fund was reinstated. 
While Standard Life has admitted some failings, I still need to consider whether Mr S has 
suffered a financial loss as a result.  Its not possible to know for certain what action Mr S 
would have taken had Standard Life given him notice earlier. Mr S says he would have surrendered his bond sooner. The earliest this could have happened is 16 November 2020  
the unit price on this day was 130.790916p. Standard Life say 3 December is more realistic 
as it would have taken them around 10 days for it to inform customers of the reinstatement  
the unit price was 125.170344p on this day. Standard Life explained, at the point Mr S made 
his complaint he was worse off because the unit price was lower. But as Mr S didnt 
surrender his investment at this time, the loss wasnt crystallised, and the funds remained 
invested  and subject to further unit price fluctuations. 
Our investigator established from Standard Life that the unit price had risen to nearly 132p in 
October 2021. She wrote to Mr S to inform of this and explained that the fund was now 
trading higher than it was both at the time the fund was reinstated, and the date Standard 
Life suggested it should have informed him. She felt this indicated that Mr S had no longer 
suffered as a loss as he had an opportunity to surrender his investment at a unit price higher 
than he would have if he received had the correct notice of the reinstatement been given. I 
agree with the investigator that this information supports that Mr S hasnt suffered a loss due 
to the late notice of the reinstatement. I think Mr S was given an opportunity to mitigate any 
future loss when he was informed of the increase in unit price in October 2021. But as far as 
Im aware he hasnt taken this opportunity. 
I do acknowledge that the overall value of the investment is lower than when Standard Life 
responded to the complaint in February 2021. But in my view, this is predominately driven by 
the fact that Mr S has continued to take regular monthly withdrawals from the investment 
since he made his complaint  rather than because the fund performance has declined 
further. The impact of withdrawing funds regularly, clearly means the value will decrease as 
money is being taken from the investment. I think it is fair to take into account the 
withdrawals Mr S has made where deciding whether he has suffered a loss. It follows that I 
dont think it would be fair to ask Standard Life to honour the financial loss it calculated when 
it made its offer in February 2021. The fact the bond has remained invested means, it is fair 
to take into account the current value rather than assess loss at a historical point. If the unit 
price had declined further, I would likely be asking Standard Life to cover any losses this had 
caused. But the fact unit price has actually risen doesnt mean Standard Life didnt do 
anything wrong, it is just there isnt evidence of a financial loss. 
Standard Life did make a compensation payment to recognise the service it provided to Mr 
S. I can consider the emotional and practical impact of Standard Lifes failure to inform Mr S 
sooner about the fund reinstatement. I understand the compensation has already been paid 
to Mr S. Ive considered the offer it made in light of the circumstances. I acknowledge the 
distress of finding out the fund had been reinstated and initial worry about the fall in value of 
the investment. I think the offer made is fair and I havent found justification to ask Standard 
Life to pay any further compensation to Mr S. 
Mr S responded to acknowledge the provisional decision but didnt provide any further 
information or evidence. 
Standard Life responded and accepted the provisional decision. It also said Mr Ss plan is 
still active, and the unit prices have continued to increase each month since the October 
2021 valuation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party as provided any further evidence or arguments for me to consider, I see no 
reason to change the findings from those set out in my provisional findings. For the reasons Ive explained above in my provisional findings, I havent found the late 
notice of the fund reinstatement by Standard Life caused Mr S to suffer a financial loss  and 
the compensation it paid him for the distress it caused was fair. So, I dont think Standard 
Life needs to do anything further. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Ombudsman