DRN-1282541
The complaint
Mr S complains that when he went to get some money from Barclays Bank UK PLC, he was 
given about half the sum hed asked for. Mr S was worried about what wouldve happened if 
he hadnt noticed right away. And he complained about how Barclays handled the issue. 
What happened
Mr S pre-ordered a cash withdrawal of £6,000. He went back the next day to collect the 
money from a branch of Barclays, but he said the bag felt light. He said staff didnt want him 
to count it, but he did. There was only £3,500 in the bag.
Mr S said he was treated badly by Barclays staff when he was sorting this out. And he was 
very worried about what couldve happened if hed left without counting the money. He said 
he was almost robbed. He said the till next to the one that served him was short, which 
made him suspicious. He uses a different branch of Barclays now.  
Mr S told he suffers from mental and physical health conditions. He told us this had affected 
his health, and left him mentally and physically weak.
Barclays investigated, and there had been a mistake. Someone had put a bundle of £2,500 
back into the till, instead of into the bag for Mr S to collect. Barclays told Mr S this mistake 
would have been found, even if hed left the branch without checking the money. 
Barclays wrote to Mr S and said it was very sorry about what had happened. It paid him 
£100 in compensation to say sorry. And it said it would arrange for him to meet with the 
manager of the branch, to rebuild his relationship with the branch. Barclays knew Mr S 
turned that offer down, but it said it could still arrange that if he would like. 
Our investigator thought this was a mistake by Barclays. He didnt think any shortfall on the 
next till was likely to be related. And he said Barclays had told us, and Mr S, that the mistake 
wouldve been realised and corrected even if Mr S had left without checking his money. 
Our investigator noted that Mr Ss health was affected by the length of time he was in the 
branch. But he didnt think that Mr S had been there for an unreasonable length of time. So 
he didnt think the consequences were Barclays fault. 
Our investigator understood how this had made Mr S feel. But he said what Barclays had 
done already to put things right was fair. And it had reviewed Mr Ss complaint and 
responded to it quickly. He didnt ask Barclays to do any more. 
Mr S didnt agree. He didnt think that things had been taken seriously enough. He told us 
about the impact this had on his health. He repeated that he now uses a different branch. 
Because Mr S didnt agree with our investigator, the case was passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays accepts that it made a mistake. Its said sorry about that. 
Mr S is worried about what could have happened. He thinks if he hadnt checked his money 
before he left, then Barclays wouldnt have believed him later. 
But Barclays says thats not right. It has told him it wouldve spotted this mistake, even if he 
hadnt counted the money right away. I think thats right. I dont think Mr S wouldve lost out. 
And I also need to look at what actually happened here. Mr S did count his money in the 
branch. He did notice the mistake. So he didnt lose any money.
Mr S says his health was affected by the length of time he waited in the branch. But, like our 
investigator, I dont think this was an excessive wait. And I havent seen anything to suggest 
to me that Mr S told Barclays about this problem at the time. So I dont think Barclays needs 
to pay Mr S compensation for this. 
Mr S also said hes been caused a lot of worry since then. Barclays has paid Mr S £100 to 
say sorry. But he doesnt think Barclays has taken this seriously enough. I do think its taken 
this seriously. It said sorry. It paid £100 in compensation. And it tried to reassure Mr S by 
offering a meeting with the branch manager. I know Mr S has turned that offer down, and he 
now uses another branch further away. But I think that Barclays has made a good attempt to 
make things up to Mr S. So I dont think it has to do any more. 
Mr S has told us about the impact this has had on his health since the complaint. Im very 
sorry to hear that hes been having a difficult time. But I dont think that I can hold Barclays 
responsible for that, so I wont ask it to pay more because of this.  
I know Mr S will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman