DRN-3922402
The complaint
Mr P complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont reimburse him the money he lost after 
he fell victim to an authorised push payment (APP) scam. 
In bringing his complaint to this service, Mr P is being represented. For ease, I will refer to 
Mr P throughout my decision, even when the submissions have been made on his behalf. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all here. 
But briefly, and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as follows.
Mr P says a friend introduced him to an employment opportunity with a company, Ill refer to 
as PT. He says this friend had been using PT for weeks and told him it was a good way of 
making extra money. 
Mr P said he saw lots of positive reviews online  across social media platforms and that the 
PT app was convincing and professional in appearance. He added that it had the relevant 
functionality youd expect from a professional app of its type. Mr P told us the app had a 
customer service and withdrawal helpline. He says he used the customer service helpline 
when carrying out some tasks. 
Mr P told us he was also added to a PT messaging group which connected him to hundreds 
of other members and, that other members had said theyd received money back.
I understand, the premise of the opportunity was that Mr P needed to deposit a certain 
amount of money, to receive social media tasks each day for him to complete and, in return 
he says he was promised a commission of £59. 
 
Believing all to be legitimate, Mr P proceeded to make the following payments as part of the 
scam.
 Date Payee Amount
12/12/21 Payee 1 £500
17/12/21 Payee 2 £500
27/12/21 Payee 3 £500
27/12/21 Payee 3 £500
07/01/22 Payee 4 £500
21/01/22 Payee 5 £1,000
02/02/22 Payee 6 £500
Total loss: £4,000
Mr P says he was able to withdraw a small amount of earnings, although he cannot recall 
how much this was, which he said he reinvested back into the app. Mr P commented that 
every day the company gave what was £59 commission in the app (according to what he 
told Monzo at the time he reported the matter). 
I understand the PT app server went down on 14 February 2022 and remained down. Mr P 
told us that hed expressed his intention to withdraw funds a few days prior to this, however, 
he didnt receive a response to his messages. When it became clear PT was uncontactable 
Mr P reported the matter to Monzo.
Mr P initially contacted Monzo by email on 23 February 2022. Following a reply from Monzo 
Mr P then raised the claim via its in-app chat function on 25 February 2022.  
Monzo is not a signatory to the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (the CRM Code) but has agreed to adhere to its provisions. This means Monzo has 
made a commitment to reimburse customers who are victims of authorised push payment 
scams except in limited circumstances. Monzo investigated Mr Ps fraud claim but didnt 
uphold it. In summary, this was because it said it had acted in line with its regulatory 
requirements and it didnt feel Mr P had taken enough steps to check who he was paying 
and what for. Monzo did try to recover Mr Ps money from the receiving banks (the banks to 
whom the money was sent), but no funds remained. 
Mr P didnt agree with Monzos findings and so brought his complaint to our service. One of 
our Investigators looked into things, but she didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
In summary, she didnt think Mr P had a reasonable basis of belief when he made the 
payments. This was because: 
She thought Mr P ought to have questioned its legitimacy. Adding that Mr P was 
drawn into something that required him to pay for tasks to complete in order to then 
get paid. 
Mr P said hed checked Companies House before going ahead with the payments 
but, having checked, our Investigator explained that there were no registered 
businesses under PT until 10 February 2022 which was after Mr P made his last 
payment. She thought Mr P ought to have been concerned that he was making 
payments to a company that wasnt registered when he sent the funds. 
She also thought he ought to have been concerns that he was making payments to 
multiple different accounts, all of which were not in the name of PT. 
Our investigator also thought about the payments Mr P made. However, she didnt think the 
payments were particularly high in value. She said the payments werent made in quick 
succession and so she didnt think Monzo ought to have identified a scam risk. She 
acknowledged what Mr P said about the account balance after each payment but she said 
Mr Ps account balance prior to the scam was often very low and so she didnt think the 
account balance after the scam payments should have been considered unusual or ought to 
have caused Monzo concern. It followed, that she didnt think Monzo needed to provide an 
effective warning or that it ought to have intervened before allowing the payments to be 
processed. She was also satisfied Monzo did what it could to recover Mr Ps funds once it 
was aware of the scam. 
Mr P didnt agree with our Investigators view. In summary but not limited to, he said: 
The scam was convincing and well planned. He reiterated that the app was 
extremely professional, and that the companys set up was high level  with a 
customer service helpline and withdrawal helpline. The company was highly reviewed across social media platforms and members of 
the PT messaging group, which he was added to, verified how it worked.
The logo/branding of the company looked similar to a well-known image sharing 
social media site, which led many to believe that the company was affiliated with this 
genuine platform.
The company had convincing Companies House documentation.
The premise for making money through social media and liking posts is a growing 
area for making money.
He withdrew a small amount which built confidence in the process. Whilst Mr P 
doesnt recall the amount he withdrew and he hadnt withdrawn anything since then, 
he said he believe it was legitimate and so, he continued to make payments. 
Our Investigators position, having considered Mr Ps further comments, remained 
unchanged. She added that whilst she appreciated Mr P saw good reviews and was added 
to a PT messaging group, she didnt think these factors outweighed the other red flags which 
she thought ought to have caused him concern. She also commented that PT wasnt 
incorporated on Companies House until 10 February 2022, which was after Mr P made his 
last payment. She added that as the company wasnt on Companies House at the point Mr P 
was looking to go ahead with the payments, she thought this ought to have caused him 
concerns. 
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has now been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will now explain why.  
Im aware Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts. 
In reaching this decision, Ive taken into account the evidence provided by both sides as well 
as the relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time. 
Of particular relevance here, the CRM Code says that the victim of an APP scam such as 
this should be reimbursed unless the bank is able to establish that one (or more) of the 
limited exceptions to reimbursement can be applied. 
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that*: 
The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by failing to take appropriate action in response to such an effective warning 
The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate 
*Further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code do not apply to this case.
I satisfied Monzo has been able to establish that it may choose not to reimburse Mr P under 
the terms of the CRM Code. Im persuaded one of the listed exceptions to reimbursement 
under the provisions of the CRM Code applies.
Did Mr P have a reasonable basis of belief?
Im persuaded Monzo has been able to show that Mr P made these payments without having 
a reasonable basis for believing he was making payments for legitimate reasons or that he 
was paying the person he was expecting to pay. Ill now explain why:
Ive taken into consideration what Mr P has said about the app and the online 
reviews. However, Im not persuaded that these were credible enough for him to 
have accepted that the employer was a legitimate one. From what Ive seen and 
been told, it appears Mr P took at face value what he was being told by those he was 
speaking with in connection to the company. Ive not seen anything that indicates 
Mr P took any steps to satisfy himself that those he was in touch with were genuine 
or that what he was being told by them was legitimate. Further, while Mr P says his 
friend recommended PT and the opportunity as a way to make extra money, Ive not 
been provided with any information that show the profits his friend or other members 
made. It follows that I cant be certain of what was relied on by Mr P before he 
decided to make these payments. 
Mr P made seven payments totalling £4,000 between 12 December 2021 and 
2 February 2022 to six different payees - none of which were in the name of the 
company Mr P believed he was working with. Ive not seen anything that indicates 
Mr P questioned this. I think this ought reasonably to have caused Mr P some 
concern and led him to proceed more cautiously. In the particular circumstances of 
this case, Mr P believed he was making payments on the premise that they were 
deposits required to receive the daily task he was to complete, which would in turn 
earn him commission. Given that this job opportunity was with PT, I think Mr P being 
asked to make payments to multiple payees ought to have prompted him to question 
what he was being asked to do and who he was paying.
Mr P says he carried out research on the company and PT was registered on 
Companies House. I note the employers registration with Companies House wasnt 
filed until 10 February 2022, which was after Mr P made all of the payments. Taking 
this into account, I cant find that Mr P had seen PT registered as he said he did. In 
turn, Im not persuaded Mr P did rely on this to believe the employer was legitimate 
as it simply didnt exist before then.
Ive also thought carefully about what Mr P says he was told about the opportunity of 
making money through social media platforms. To some degree, I can accept what 
Mr P has said about opportunities through social media platforms becoming a 
growing area for people to make money. However, I do think Mr P ought to have 
been concerned about the amount he deposited so that he could complete tasks and earn a commission of £59. I think Mr P ought to have had some concerns that he 
was being asked to make these payments in advance for a job opportunity where he 
ultimately thought hed be making money and, where hed withdrawn only a small 
amount initially (although he doesnt recall the amount), before reinvesting this back 
into the app. I can accept it is possible that legitimate opportunities exist that might 
have similarities to this one. But on balance, Im persuaded the specific factors in this 
case, ought to have prompted Mr P to act with greater caution than he did.
As Ive said above, Mr P says he made an initial small withdrawal, although he cant 
recall how much this was and, from the statements Ive seen, it doesnt appear that 
this was received back into his Monzo account but somewhere else. He said he 
reinvested this amount back into the app. While I can accept receiving some money 
can provide some assurance, I dont think the small amount hes said he withdrew, in 
the absence of any further successful withdrawals outweighs the other flags Ive 
mentioned. 
As I explained above, there are other points provided by Mr P that I havent specifically 
commented on within this decision, but Id like to assure him that I have considered 
everything thats been given to us. Ive simply commented on what I find to be most relevant 
and influential to the outcome.
Im mindful that any of the individual factors above in isolation may not have been enough to 
prevent Mr P from proceeding. But considering the specific circumstances of this case and 
the factors in the round, on balance, I think that there was enough going on and sufficient 
red flags that Mr P ought reasonably to have taken further steps to protect himself. 
Did Monzo need to provide effective warnings?
I dont think Monzo was required to give effective warnings under the CRM Code, in these 
particular circumstances. I say this because, I dont find the payment values were so 
remarkable or suspicious that they presented a clear APP scam risk. While Mr P made 
numerous payments and to new payees, I have to keep in mind that the payments werent 
made in such quick succession that I think this ought to fairly and reasonably have 
presented itself as a pattern indicative of fraud to Monzo. And Im also in agreement with our 
Investigator when considering the balance on the account. I accept the scam payments used 
the majority of the account balance. But in this particular case, I can see Mr Ps account 
balance was maintained at a low amount prior to the scam payments. So I dont think this 
factor, in and of itself, ought to have caused Monzo concern that Mr P might be at risk of 
financial harm from fraud. 
Overall, when considering the individual circumstances of this case, Im persuaded that 
Monzo was entitled to consider there were no apparent APP scam risks here. So, I dont 
think it needed to provide effective warnings.
Ive also considered whether Monzo did all it could to try and recover the money Mr P lost, 
once he had reported the scam to it. From the evidence Ive seen, Mr P initially contacted 
Monzo to report the scam by email on 23 February 2022, but in its response to him on 
25 February 2022, it enquired about the app and directed Mr P to the in-app chat function. 
He then reported the scam via the in-app chat function the evening of 25 February 2022. 
Monzo then contacted the receiving banks on 26 February 2022. With this in mind, I think 
Monzo could have acted quicker than it did in contacting the receiving banks. This said, I 
dont find any possible delay made a difference in this case. Monzo unfortunately received 
responses from the receiving banks who reported that no funds remained. Our investigator also reached out to the receiving banks. One responded to confirm that for 
four of the accounts Mr P sent payments, the funds had already left the accounts prior to him 
reporting the scam. She didnt receive a response about the funds from the other receiving 
banks but given that Mr P reported the matter around three weeks after his last payment, I 
think it is unlikely any funds wouldve remained to be recovered. I say this as fraudsters 
typically move funds on quickly to prevent this type of recovery. So overall, I dont think any 
delay made a difference here.  
I am sorry that Mr P has lost money in this way, but in the circumstances, for the reasons 
Ive explained, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to order Monzo to repay him the 
money he sadly lost.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman