DRN-2759430
The complaint
Mr J complains that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc, trading as McLaren Financial Services 
supplied him with a car that wasnt of satisfactory quality under a conditional sale agreement. 
 
What happened
In March 2019, Mr J acquired a used car from a dealership. The car was around six months 
old and had travelled around 700 miles. The cash price of the car was £134,900. Mr J part 
exchanged his existing car giving him a deposit of £5,000 and the remainder was financed 
by a conditional sale agreement from Santander. Mr J was required to make 48 monthly 
repayments of around £1,400 followed by a final payment of around £94,000.
Mr J says that as soon as he acquired the car there was a wobbling sensation in the wheels 
and some loose trim on the car. The dealership arranged for these issues to be looked into. 
He says when he went to collect the car a few days later the wheel wobble hadnt been 
resolved so he left the car at the dealership for them to attempt a further repair.
The dealership had the car for around two weeks in total. When Mr J collected it a few days 
later he had an accident on a roundabout and the car needed to be taken back to the 
dealership for repairs. This included replacing two tyres and having a full geometry 
completed. The dealership also recommended the wheels be replaced as they were 
damaged, but it says Mr J opted to only replace the tyres and have the geometry completed.
While the car was in for repair Mr J contacted Santander to say he wanted to reject the car. 
He said the wheel wobble still hadnt been rectified and the dealership had now had several 
attempts at fixing it. Santander didnt agree to the rejection of the car. It said that the current 
issues had been caused by the accident and the dealership had since repaired the car. It 
said there was no longer any wheel wobble, so the car was of satisfactory quality.
Soon after, Mr J raised a complaint with the dealership about the safety of the car. He said 
hed driven it at over 180mph on a private road and a warning had come up telling him to 
stop the car. He said this demonstrated that the car was a death trap and an accident 
waiting to happen. He asked to have the car replaced as he said it wasnt fit for purpose. 
Mr J also raised a new complaint with Santander at around this time. He said as well as the 
warning that came up at high speed, he had an issue with the electrics on the car which 
included the SatNav, reverse camera and windows.
Santander arranged for an independent inspection of the car in August 2019. The 
independent inspector said it wasnt possible for them to test drive the car at excessive 
speeds so it wasnt possible for them to inspect or comment on that particular fault. The 
report noted that the manufacturer had recently carried out a software update on the car 
which had resolved all the electrical problems. It said that the car appeared to be fault free 
and of satisfactory quality.
Santander approached the dealership about the high speed issue. It said that the warning 
had likely come up because the tyre pressure hadnt been set correctly. It didnt think there 
was anything wrong with the car. It said it was a safety feature built into the car to ensure the 
driver slowed down if the optimum conditions for driving at that speed werent present. On 
this basis Santander didnt agree to rejection of the car. It said that the car was fault free and 
that the electrical issues had been remedied.
Mr J referred his complaint to our service to consider. While the complaint has been with us, 
two further issues have arisen with the car. The first is that the car was subject to a safety 
recall. The recall related to a potential fire hazard of one component. This part was replaced 
free of charge. However, Mr J said it made him feel very unsafe until the issue had been 
resolved. The second issue was that the electric windows opened on their own causing 
water ingress in the car. This issue has also now been fixed by the dealership.
I sent Mr J and Santander my provisional decision on 18 March 2021. I explained why 
I thought the complaint should be upheld. A copy of my provisional findings are copied 
below:
Santander supplied Mr J with a car that I would consider to be nearly new, in that it had only 
travelled around 700 miles and was only around six months old. The cash price of the car 
was £134,900 and it seems the car was in a good overall condition. My starting point 
therefore is that a reasonable person would expect the quality of the car to be of a higher 
standard than a more road worn, cheaper car. This was also a very expensive, prestige car 
and I think it would be reasonable to expect it to be free from defects for a considerable 
period of time.
Mr J has reported a number of problems with the car to outline why he should be entitled to 
reject it. Ill address each of these issues in turn. 
Wheel wobble and loose trim
The CRA sets out that Mr J has a short term right to reject the car within the first 30 days if it 
is of unsatisfactory quality. However, he would need to ask for rejection within that time 
period. He cant retrospectively exercise his short term right of rejection at a later date. 
Further, if within the first 30 days Mr J agrees to a repair instead of seeking rejection and 
that repair remedies any issues that made the car of unsatisfactory quality, he cant seek 
rejection instead, unless the repairs have failed, or further issues arise which make the car of 
unsatisfactory quality.
Mr J says that as soon as he collected the car there was a wheel wobble present and an 
issue with some loose trim. He says the dealership attempted to fix the wheel wobble on two 
occasions but was unsuccessful. The dealership doesnt appear to agree that it had previous 
attempts at fixing the wheel wobble. It says the first time the car was brought into them was 
after Mr J had the accident on the roundabout  which was around three weeks after 
acquiring the car.
However, Mr J has provided copies of emails between him and the dealership which shows 
its more likely the car had been taken into the dealership for inspection of the wheel wobble 
issue and loose trim prior to Mr Js accident. Further, these emails support that Mr J went to 
collect the car after the first inspection and left it there as he said the wheel wobble issue 
hadnt been resolved.
After this second inspection it isnt clear if the wheel wobble issue was resolved. Mr J says it 
wasnt, but Ive not seen anything else to support that. For clarity, Im not suggesting I dont 
believe Mr J, just that from everything Ive seen its equally possible it was fixed. Mr J had 
the accident on the roundabout within a couple of days of collecting the car. And in any event the repairs following the accident appear to have resolved the problem with the wheel 
wobble. So that is no longer an issue with the car.
However, Mr J says he should have been allowed to reject the car when he raised his 
concern about the wheel wobble. But I dont agree. I say this because from everything Ive 
seen, it doesnt appear Mr J expressed his wish to reject the car when he had a right to do 
so within the first 30 days. 
While Mr J did complain about a wheel wobble, Ive not seen anything other than what hes 
told us (and the dealership at the time) that shows there definitely was a problem with the 
car that made it of unsatisfactory quality. However, based on everything Ive seen, on 
balance, Im persuaded there was more likely than not an issue with the wheels and trim 
which likely made the car of unsatisfactory quality.
But even if I accept there was a fault(s) which made the car of unsatisfactory quality, Mr J
could only reject it within the first 30 days if he expressed his wish to do so. However, it 
appears Mr J only did so after he had already authorised repairs to be carried out by the 
dealership. Santanders contact notes show that Mr J had told Santander he wanted to give 
the dealership the opportunity to repair the wobble first before deciding what to do next.
It seems that Mr J first asked Santander to reject the car around 3 or 4 days after hed had 
the accident on the roundabout. At that stage it would have been impossible to determine 
whether the wheel wobble had been present before the accident. This is because the nature 
of the accident meant that it could very easily have caused a wheel wobble to be present. 
So, I dont think he could have adequately demonstrated that any previous repair by the 
dealership had failed and therefore given him the right to reject the car.
Ive also noted that Mr J has demonstrated that he complained to the dealership about its 
failure to repair the wheel wobble as soon as he went to collect the car following the first 
attempted repair. Given he wasnt satisfied with the initial repair, I would have expected him 
to have raised any concerns about the second repair equally quickly. Yet he doesnt appear 
to have done so until after hed had his accident a few days later. Im therefore not 
persuaded, on balance, that the dealership failed to repair the wheel wobble prior to Mr Js 
accident.
Speed warning and electrics
Ive already set out why I consider there to have been a fault present with the car which 
made it of unsatisfactory quality. However, Im persuaded that the loose trim and wheel 
wobble were fixed by the dealership before Mr J exercised his short term right of rejection. 
The CRA sets out that Mr R can exercise his final right of rejection if there had already been 
one repair carried out and the car continues to be of unsatisfactory quality. For clarity, the 
CRA doesnt say that any further issues are required to be linked in any way to the previous 
repair.
Mr J said that a warning came up when he was travelling in excess of 180mph on a private 
road in May 2019. He said the warning told him to slow down. He says the car has been 
designed to be driven at high speeds and therefore is clearly unfit for purpose if it is warning 
him that its unsafe to drive at those speeds.
The dealership has provided a plausible explanation for why the warning light may have 
shown up while Mr J was driving. I dont doubt seeing the warning come up would have been 
alarming for him, however, Im satisfied with the explanation the dealership has given and 
dont consider there is likely to be a fault in relation to this. Further, Mr J hasnt been able to provide any evidence of a fault with the car when being driven at high speeds. I therefore 
dont think this is something which would make the car of unsatisfactory quality.
Mr J also reported some problems with the electrics, however it seems these were remedied 
by a software update from the manufacturer before the car could be inspected. While I cant 
say with certainty whether there was a problem with the electrics, the fact that the 
manufacturer completed a software update would suggest it was likely some problems were 
present.
Further, one of the electrical faults Mr J had complained about were the windows not 
operating correctly. Most recently at the end of 2020, the windows on the car automatically 
opened and allowed water to ingress into the car. The dealership had to carry out a further 
repair on the window mechanism to remedy the problem. So it seems that the issues Mr J 
was experiencing with the windows werent properly remedied by the software update. On 
balance, Im therefore satisfied that there was a problem with the electrics when he first 
reported them in around June 2019.
I dont think it would be reasonable to expect that number of electrical problems with a nearly 
new car, particularly one as expensive and prestige as this one. So, Im satisfied these 
electrical faults made the car of unsatisfactory quality. Therefore, the car was still of 
unsatisfactory quality despite there being earlier attempts at repairing other faults with the 
car (the wheel wobble and trim).
I can see Mr J was still seeking rejection of the car at this time. While I dont think the speed 
warning issue would have given him a right to reject, I do think the problems with the 
electrics did. Notwithstanding that the remedy for most of those problems was relatively 
straightforward (the software update).
I accept Mr J did have the faults rectified by the manufacturer, but this appears to only be so 
that he could continue to use the car while he still sought rejection from the dealership and 
Santander. I dont think that was unreasonable, given the amount Mr J was paying each 
month towards the hire of the car.
I therefore think Mr J ought to have been entitled to reject the car when he reported the 
problems with the electrics to Santander and asked to reject it. I say this because there had 
already been issues previously with the car that had made it of unsatisfactory quality. As 
hed already accepted a previous repair and the car still didnt conform to the contract, he 
was entitled to exercise his final right of rejection.
Safety recall
The car was subject to a safety recall due to concerns that a certain component within the 
car was a potential fire hazard. Mr J was understandably very distressed by this and hes 
provided a detailed account of why this was particularly worrying for him. Ive taken on board 
everything Mr J has said on this throughout the course of the complaint and its clear it had a 
huge impact on him.
I can understand why between the time he became aware of the safety recall and when it 
was remedied, he didnt wish to drive the car (a period of around two months) and Ive 
factored this in when thinking about what fair redress should be.
I dont think the safety recall however would have given rise to a right to reject the car. I say 
this because the recall stated that not all cars would necessarily be affected and there had 
so far only been a small number of reported instances of the issue. The recall was a 
precautionary measure and Ive not seen anything to demonstrate that the components in Mr Js car were faulty or of unsatisfactory quality. In any event, as Ive said above, I think 
Santander ought to have allowed Mr J to reject the car around a year before the safety recall 
issue was even highlighted.
Putting things right
As Ive set out above, I think Santander ought to have allowed Mr J to reject the car in 
around June 2019. This was after he expressed his wish to do so following the issues he 
reported concerning the electrics of the car. I therefore think Santander should now end the 
finance agreement with nothing further to pay and collect the car at no cost to Mr J.
If all had gone as it should, Mr J wouldnt have made any further monthly repayments from 
around June 2019. However, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to say that Mr J gets 
back everything hes paid since that date as he has still had use of and access to the car. 
Albeit, I understand hes been reluctant to use it as much as he would have due to the 
number and nature of issues hes experienced.
It appears Mr J has driven around 3,000 miles in the car since acquiring it 24 months ago. 
From reviewing the service records, his usage has dropped significantly in the last year, 
particularly around the time he became aware of the safety recall. I can also understand that 
throughout the agreement Mr Js enjoyment of the car has been impaired by the number of 
issues hes experienced and it has meant hes lost faith in the car.
While the mileage is relatively low, Im also mindful that the car isnt necessarily designed for 
or intended for every day driving journeys, although it can of course be used for that 
purpose. It appears that also isnt what Mr J acquired it for, so I dont think his overall usage 
would have been substantially higher but for the problems he encountered with the car, but 
I accept it will have been impacted.
Taking all the circumstances into consideration, I think it would be fair for Santander to 
refund two full monthly repayments to Mr J, this being the June and July 2020 payments 
which concerned the time period he wasnt using the car at all due to the safety recall issue. 
While that issue didnt make the car of unsatisfactory quality, Mr J should have already been 
allowed to reject the car at that stage. I dont think him choosing not to drive the car during 
those two months was unreasonable.
Santander should also refund him a further 20% of each of the remaining monthly 
repayments he has made to reflect the impaired usage and lack of enjoyment he has had of 
the car. It should also refund his deposit of £5,000, adding 8% simple interest per year to all 
of the refunds from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
Finally, Mr J has been caused inconvenience by the number of problems he experienced 
and the repeated visits he made to the dealership to try and remedy those issues. In the 
circumstances I think Santander ought to pay him a further £250 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience this caused.
Santander didnt respond to the provisional decision. Mr J accepted it but wanted to ensure 
his credit file wouldnt be impacted if he stopped paying Santander. He also said that he 
shouldnt have to make further payments given the car had been SORN and wasnt being 
used. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Santander hasnt responded to my provisional decision, Ive seen no reason to change 
the outcome I reached previously. However, I understand Mr J hasnt made any further 
payments towards the car since the provisional decision. So, Ive considered how this 
impacts the redress Id recommended in my provisional decision. 
Ive seen that Mr J has registered the car as SORN, so Im satisfied he hasnt driven it since 
I issued my provisional decision. I therefore dont think it would be reasonable for Santander 
to hold Mr J liable for any monthly repayments after (and including) March 2021. If Mr J has 
made his March and/or April 2021 repayment, Santander should refund these in full to Mr J, 
adding 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Santander Consumer (UK) 
Plc, trading as McLaren Financial Services to:
End the conditional sale agreement with nothing further to pay, refunding any 
payments Mr J has made after February 2021. 
Take back the car at no cost to Mr J.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Js credit file.
Refund the £5,000 deposit Mr J paid.
Refund the June and July 2020 monthly repayments in full.
Refund 20% of all the other monthly repayments Mr J has paid.
Add 8% simple interest per year on each of the above refunds from the date of each 
payment to the date of settlement.
Pay £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
If Santander considers tax should be deducted from the interest element of my award, it 
should provide Mr J with a certificate showing how much tax its taken off so that he can 
reclaim that amount, should he be eligible to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman