DRN-2823807
The complaint
Mr R complains that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) decided he was at fault when his car 
and another car collided.
What happened
Mr R had motor insurance with Ageas. He was involved in a collision with another car. Both 
drivers said the other was to blame. Ageas and the other insurer couldnt agree on how to 
settle the claim, so it looked as though the case would have to go to court for a decision. 
Ageas and the other drivers insurer both appointed solicitors. Ageas thought from the 
beginning that Mr R was likely to be at least partly at fault for the accident, because of the 
position of his car at the time of the collision. 
Both drivers had taken details of independent witnesses at the scene of the accident. The 
other drivers witness completed a questionnaire form saying Mr R was to blame. Mr Rs 
witness had apparently stepped forward and offered to help as he felt Mr R was not to 
blame. However he later said he did not want to give a statement to Ageas solicitors.
Ageas says its solicitors made a number of attempts to contact Mr R to get his comments on 
the witness questionnaire form. However Mr R says he never had any letters or phone calls. 
Ageas solicitors advised it that if the case went to court it was likely Ageas would lose. So 
Ageas agreed to accept fault on behalf of Mr R.
Mr R wasnt happy about this and complained to Ageas. Ageas didnt uphold his complaint, 
saying it had followed its solicitors advice and decided to settle the claim.
Mr R wasnt happy with Ageas response and complained to this service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. He said he thought Ageas had dealt with Mr Rs claim fairly 
and reasonably and in line with his insurance policy. He said Ageas was entitled to settle if it 
didnt think it could successfully defend the claim in court.
Mr R wasnt happy with what the investigator said and so his complaint has been passed to 
me for a final decision. Mr R says he didnt get the letters Ageas say their solicitors sent, or 
receive any phone calls. He says when asked he did say he was willing to go to court. Mr R 
feels it was his right to have the court make a decision, which he thinks would have gone in 
his favour. He says he had a witness who supported his version of events, and he questions 
what the other drivers witness said. Mr R says he has been affected financially by an 
increase in his insurance premiums. He wants Ageas to accept that the other driver was at 
fault.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain why. 
It isnt my role to establish who was at fault in the collision. That is better settled by a court. 
My role is to decide whether Ageas acted fairly and reasonably and in accordance with Mr 
Rs policy.
Mr R says that the accident happened when he was turning right at a junction from a side 
road, had pulled out into the main road and was waiting for a gap in the line of traffic he 
wanted to join. He said the other driver came along the main road at speed, swerved to 
avoid hitting him but still caught the front of his car. The other driver and the independent 
witness said Mr R pulled out of the side road and hit the other drivers car. Ageas was 
concerned than even if Mr Rs version of events was accepted, it was likely he would be 
considered partly at fault as his car had stopped across the other drivers lane.
Ive seen the completed questionnaire form from the witness, obtained by the other drivers 
insurer. The witness is clear that the collision was Mr Rs fault. Ive seen a letter from the 
investigation company who looked into the case on behalf of Ageas saying that the witness 
who said the collision was the other drivers fault had stopped communicating.
Ive seen Mr Rs policy wording from Ageas. Under the heading Conditions that apply to all 
of this policy it says
We may, in your name, take over and deal with a claim.
Ive seen Ageas case notes where it is recorded that Ageas spoke to a member of Mr Rs 
family several times about the claim. The call handler asked for Mr R to call back. Ive also 
seen copies of letters from Ageas to Mr R asking him to get in touch. There is no record of 
Mr R contacting Ageas as requested.
Ive seen several letters from Ageas solicitors and a record of a voicemail being left, all 
asking Mr R to get in touch. The letters are addressed correctly. I cant say why Mr R didnt 
get the letters, but I think it was reasonable of Ageas to think that he had.
Ive seen the witness statement Mr R made about the accident at the beginning of his claim. 
He did say then he was willing to attend court. However later on when he didnt reply to the 
solicitors letters or return phone calls Ageas didnt know if he had changed his mind. 
Ageas discussed the matter with its solicitors. Ageas wasnt sure if Mr R would attend court. 
The solicitors advised that the other drivers witness was independent and credible and gave 
the same version of events as the other driver. Ageas also took into account that as the 
matter would have gone to a civil court, it would have been decided on the balance of 
probability. 
In these circumstances, Ageas solicitors advised it that if the case went to court it was likely 
Ageas would lose. So Ageas decided to accept Mr R being at fault and settle the other 
drivers claim.
 
Mr R says he wanted to go to court and he feels the court would have decided in his favour. 
However in all the circumstances I dont think it was unreasonable of Ageas to be concerned 
as to whether Mr R would attend court. Mr R says he had a witness who supported what he 
said happened. But the witness stopped communicating with Ageas investigator, and did not 
give his version of events. 
Under the terms of Mr Rs policy, Ageas is entitled to deal with the claim on his behalf. This 
is what it has done. I think it was fair and reasonable for Ageas to have settled the claim as it 
did, taking into account all the available evidence.So I wont be asking Ageas to change its decision about who was at fault.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman