DRN-4076157
The complaint
Mr T complains that the car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement in May 2022 
wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr T acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement with BMFL. He says he 
needed to return to the dealer on several occasions for repairs to be completed. He raised a 
complaint with Blue Motor Finance in October 2022 about the issues with the car.
BMFL issued a final response letter dated 24 November 2022. It noted the issues Mr T had 
raised and contacted the dealership about these. It said the dealership confirmed it was 
happy to assist with repairs and that it then spoke to Mr T who accepted the offer of repair. It 
therefore upheld Mr Ts complaint in regard to there being issues with the car and said the 
offer of repair had been accepted. Mr T contacted BMFL to say the issues were ongoing and 
the dealership hadnt been able to provide a courtesy car. 
In December 2022, the car failed its MOT due to the Nearside Front Anti-roll bar linkage pin 
or bush likely to become detached drop link has detached. Mr T arranged for a vehicle 
health check, and this confirmed the anti-roll bar linkage that had been fitted was not a part 
provided by the cars manufacturer and wasnt right for the car. This information was sent to 
BMFL which said the parts didnt need to be manufacturer parts and as this part was a wear 
and tear item it didnt accept the request for rejection of the car. 
Mr T wasnt satisfied with the response form BMFL and raised his complaint with this 
service. Our investigator upheld this complaint. He said the anti-roll bar linkage that had 
been fitted on the car wasnt correct and couldnt perform its task. Given this he thought the 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied. He noted the repairs that had happened to 
the car and thought it fair that Mr T be allowed to reject the car, have his deposit refunded 
and have any payments made from 30 December 2022 refunded. 
BMFL didnt accept our investigators view. It said while the engineer confirmed that non-
manufacturer parts were fitted it didnt say this was dangerous. It said it hadnt been 
established when the replacement part was fitted and said the dealership didnt undertake 
the replacement. It said that it should have the right to repair and offered to replace both 
drop links with parts supplied by the manufacturer. It noted that there was also the 
outstanding issue with the seat belt that Mr T had decided not to proceed with pending the 
outcome on this services investigation.
Following this response, Mr T said he would be paying for repairs (at a cost of £150) and 
intended to keep the car. Given this our investigator updated his recommendation to:
Refund any payments from 30 December 2022 until when the vehicle is repaired
Refund the £142.01 cost of having the fault diagnosed
Refund the cost of the repair
Pay 8% simple interest on the above refunded amounts
Remove any adverse information from Mr Ts credit file
Pay Mr T £150 compensation.
BMFL didnt accept our investigators view and requested a decision be issued.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement. Under the regulations, 
specifically the Consumer Rights Act 2015, BMFL can be held liable if the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Satisfactory quality takes into account factors such 
as the age and mileage of the car. In this case the car was over seven years old and had 
been driven over 52,000 miles. Given this it would be expected that the car would have 
suffered some wear and tear and it is also possible with used cars that issues can arise 
shortly after acquisition even if they werent present at supply.
Mr T has explained that he returned the car to the dealership on several occasions due to 
issues with the car. Repairs were attempted on more than one occasion, but issues 
remained. I can appreciate how frustrating this must have been and I note Mr Ts comments 
about issues with trying to get repairs when no courtesy car was available. This complaint is 
about BMFL and I cannot hold BMFL responsible for any issues arising from the service 
provided by the dealership. 
Mr T raised several concerns with BMFL in October 2022 and it was agreed that the 
dealership would undertake repairs. I find this a fair remedy. However, in December 2022, 
the car failed its MOT with the following being reported nearside front anti-roll bar linkage 
pin or bush likely to become detached drop link has detached. The MOT noted this as a 
dangerous defect and said the car shouldnt be driven until this was repaired. There were 
also comments about the registration plates needing replacing but this was a matter for Mr T 
to resolve.
Mr T took the car for a vehicle check. I have listened to the report, and it is stated that the 
anti-roll bar linkages were non manufacturer parts. While I accept the comment from BMFL 
that parts didnt always need to be supplied by the manufacturer, the engineer carrying out 
the assessment says the parts that have been fitted arent suitable for their intended purpose 
which was why one had become detached. Given when Mr T acquired the car and the 
nature of this issue, I find it reasonable to accept the anti-roll bar linkages were installed 
before he acquired the car. I also note the comment from the inspecting engineer that this 
issue could have been the cause for other concerns that Mr T had explained in regard to 
how the car was driving. These concerns had previously been inspected by the dealership 
but the issue with the anti-roll bar linkages not identified. Based on this I find it more likely 
than not that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply as anti-roll bar 
linkages had been fitted that werent fit for purpose. Therefore, I am upholding this 
complaint. In the inspection one of the tyres is noted as needing replacement and I can see 
this was noted in the failed MOT in March 2023. As Mr T acquired a used car and was able 
to drive it around 11,000 miles before the March 2023 MOT, I find it reasonable to accept 
this issue was due to reasonable wear and tear rather than being present at supply.  
I have considered what is the appropriate remedy. Mr T initially asked to reject the car but 
has since decided to pay for the required repair and keep the car. I can see the car passed its MOT at end March 2023 following the repair. BMFL had previously offered to cover the 
cost of the repair to the anti-roll bar linkages and as Mr T has now paid for the repair, I find it 
reasonable that BMFL refunds him this cost. As the car wasnt driveable from end December 
2022 until the repair at end March 2023, I think Mr T should be refunded any payments he 
made during this period (or these should be waived). I think it reasonable he is then 
responsible for all payments since end March (when the car passed the MOT). Mr T also 
incurred the cost of the inspection which I find should be refunded. Mr T has suffered stress 
an inconvenience because of the issues with the car and I think it reasonable that he is paid 
compensation because of this. In this case I agree with our investigators recommendation of 
£150. 
Putting things right
Refund any payments from 30 December 2022 until 28 March 2023 (when the 
vehicle was repaired, and MOT passed).
Refund the £142.01 cost of having the fault diagnosed
Refund the cost of the repair (invoice provided)
Pay 8% simple interest on the above refunded amounts
Remove any adverse information from Mr Ts credit file
Pay Mr T £150 for the distress and inconvenience he has been caused.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Blue Motor Finance Limited should take the 
actions set out above in resolution of this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman