DRN-4441093
The complaint
Mrs R complains about BUPA Insurance Limiteds service when she made claims under her 
private medical insurance. 
What happened
Mrs R is a member of a group private medical insurance policy insured by BUPA. 
Mrs R complains about BUPAs service when she made claims for treatment. In summary 
she said:
BUPA made it very challenging to communicate with it about claims as it didnt 
respond to her emails, when she tried to call it she had to wait on hold for a long time 
and she wasnt able to use BUPAs live chat site. 
Shed been very frustrated in trying to get BUPA to communicate and it never 
answered her.
Now she was financially out of pocket because she understood she was covered to 
have her eyes tested and for new glasses but BUPA then told her the policy didnt 
cover those items. 
She wants BUPA to always speak to a consumer within 10 minutes when called. If 
that cant happen she wants to know BUPA will respond to her emails. She also 
wants BUPAs live chat site to function as it should and for BUPA to respond to 
complaints. 
BUPA said it had responded to Mrs Rs emails and claims in a reasonable timescale but it 
accepted it didnt call her back as she requested. It said it had fed back to the relevant 
advisers manager and it paid Mrs R £50 compensation for her distress and inconvenience.
Our investigator said BUPA had responded to Mrs Rs claims for ear wax removal and knee 
treatment in a reasonable timescale and its £50 compensation offer was fair.
Mrs R disagrees and wants an ombudmans decision. She said shed provided lots of 
evidence of BUPAs poor service. Also she had a recent issue of BUPA not being clear 
about cover for her osteopath sessions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. 
Ive considered all the points Mrs R has made but I wont address all her points in my 
findings. Ill focus on the reasons why Ive made my decision and the key points which I think 
are relevant to the outcome of this complaint.
From the evidence Ive seen the complaint Mrs R made to BUPA was around her claims for 
ear wax removal and knee treatment. My decision is about BUPAs service around those 
claims. 
Mrs R has now also raised problems shes had with BUPA about her claims for an eye test, 
glasses and osteopath sessions. If she wishes to pursue those matters shell need to make a 
complaint to BUPA first and if agreement cant be reached she can ultimately make a 
separate complaint to us. 
From the evidence Ive seen the timeline of relevant events is as follows. 
On 23 January 2023 Mrs R emailed BUPA her retrospective claim for costs for ear wax 
removal. 
On 24 January 2023 BUPA sent her an auto-acknowledgement email which said it was 
experiencing a very high demand for its services, vulnerable consumers were being 
prioritised, so it may not be able to respond as quickly as usual. 
On 25 January 2023 Mrs R emailed BUPA her retrospective claim for knee treatment.
On 27 January 2023 Mrs R emailed BUPA saying shed received no response to her claim 
and shed been on the phone to it on hold for 15 minutes. She asked BUPA to get back to 
her.
Mrs R sent us a screen shot from her computer showing that on 27 January 2023 BUPAs 
live chat site wasnt available at 16.56 (time taken from her computer screen) when it should 
have been open until 17.00.
On 30 January 2023 BUPA sent Mrs R a claim advice letter for her ear wax removal claim.
On 1 February 2023 BUPA sent Mrs R a claim advice letter for her knee treatment claim.
Also on 1 February 2023 BUPA emailed Mrs R in response to her chasing email of 
27 January apologising that shed received no reply and saying it would call her. BUPA says 
a task was raised to call back Mrs R but the call didnt happen.
On 3 February 2023 Mrs R raised her complaint to BUPA as she hadnt received a call.
On 6 February 2023 BUPA acknowledged Mrs Rs complaint. On 13 February 2023 BUPA 
sent Mrs R its final response letter to her complaint. 
The above evidence doesnt support Mrs Rs suggestions that BUPA never responded to her 
claims and complaint. I understand Mrs R was frustrated when she called BUPA and had to 
wait on hold and when BUPAs live chat site wasnt available when she tried to access it. But 
Im satisfied that the timeline above shows BUPA responded to Mrs Rs emails and actioned 
both claims in a reasonable timescale. It issued claim advice letters on 30 January 2023 for 
the claim Mrs R submitted on 24 January 2023 and on 1 February 2023 for the claim she 
submitted on 25 January 2023. So there was no unreasonable delay by BUPA.
BUPA responded to Mrs Rs complaint within 10 days of her making her complaint. Under 
the regulators relevant rules it has eight weeks to respond to a complaint so BUPA acted 
promptly and within a reasonable timescale.BUPA accepts it didnt call back Mrs R as she requested. Im satisfied that the £50 
compensation it offered Mrs R for her distress and inconvenience that caused was a fair and 
reasonable amount.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman