DRN-4223225
The complaint
Mr B complains that Metro Bank PLC unfairly blocked and closed his bank account. 
What happened
The detailed background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
In November 2022, Metro blocked and reviewed Mr Bs account after his account was 
accessed from overseas. Following this, Metro contacted Mr B and asked him some 
questions about whether he was in Russia, and if he was how long he intended to stay and 
the reasons for his visit. In response, Mr B told Metro that his wife was in Russia and had 
probably accessed the banks mobile banking app on her phone. And he said that the 
reason for his wifes visit was none of Metros business.
Following this, Metro asked Mr B to visit his local branch and told him that his account would 
remain blocked. Mr B visited a local branch but said when he did the staff said they couldnt 
help him or remove the block from his account. Mr B then sent several emails to Metro over 
a period of just over a month asking what he needed to do to remove the blocks. 
In December 2022, Metro told Mr B he needed to visit a branch with his wife. In response 
Mr B said he had visited a branch on four occasions both on his own and with his wife, but 
each time he did he was told the branch couldnt help him.
In February 2023, Metro decided to close Mr Bs account. Metro wrote to Mr B, giving him 
two months notice that he needed to make alternative banking arrangements. Following this 
Mr B opened a new bank account and Metro released his closing balance in March 2023.
Mr B complained to Metro about the block and closure of his account. He said Metro hadnt 
been clear with him when telling him what he needed to do to unblock his account. He said 
he had gone to a branch on more than one occasion but each time he did he was told by 
staff that they couldnt help remove the block on his account. So, hed wasted time visiting 
the branch and then had to spend time going back and forth writing emails to Metro trying to 
sort things out. 
In response, Metro said it had noticed that Mr B may have recently accessed his account 
from a country which the bank deemed to be outside of its risk appetite  namely Russia. 
The bank said it hadnt done anything wrong and had acted in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account, and its legal and regulatory obligations when it had reviewed,  
blocked and then closed Mr Bs account.
Mr B wasnt happy with the banks response and brought his complaint to this service. He 
said Metro hadnt treated him fairly when it blocked his account and hadnt been clear in its 
communications with him about what he needed to do to get the block lifted. He also said 
Metro havent provided a proper explanation why it blocked his account. Mr B said Metros 
actions caused him inconvenience and upset because he had to go to the trouble of opening 
a new bank account so that he could receive his salary, and manually move his direct debits, 
all of which had a knock on effect on his finances causing him to fall behind with his bill 
payments. So, he wants Metro to pay him compensation.
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint. She said that Metro hadnt done anything 
wrong when it had blocked Mr Bs account and said it had closed it in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account. However, she thought Metro should have told Mr B that he 
needed to go into branch with his wife, much sooner than it did. She said if it had done so its 
likely Mr B wouldnt have made wasted trips to branch. So, she said Metro should pay Mr B 
£75 for the trouble and upset this caused him.
Metro agreed. Mr B also said £75 compensation was reasonable for Metros lack of clarity in 
its communications. But he didnt think Metro had treated him fairly when it had blocked his 
account and denied him access to his funds. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B was happy to accept £75 compensation, recommend by the investigator to resolve one 
aspect of his complaint  namely Metros poor communication. So, I dont need to address 
this any further.
Ill start by setting out some context for why Metro blocked and reviewed Mr Bs account.  
Banks and other financial businesses are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in 
order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations they must meet when providing account 
services to customers. They can broadly be summarised as a responsibility to protect 
persons from financial harm, and to prevent and detect financial crime.
As the investigator has already explained, Metro has a wide variety of obligations it must 
follow when providing accounts to customers. These obligations are ongoing and are not 
only relevant to when an account is opened. In Mr Bs case, Metro reviewed his account in 
line with its risk policy  this was prompted when Mr Bs wife accessed his account from 
Russia, which at the time was subject to UK sanctions.
Sanctions can be broad and relate to countries, individuals, trade, and transactions. Metro is 
expected to take measures to comply with current sanctions, which means it has extensive 
things it needs to be aware of and monitor as part of its legal and regulatory obligations. 
Metro was notified that Mr Bs account had been accessed from Russia. Given the need to 
comply with its obligations, Metro blocked Mr Bs account and contacted him to provide 
information about the activity. I dont find it unreasonable that the bank did so. Metro has 
explained that this was its standard procedure and I accept that it was. Thats in line with 
what most banks would do in the same situation. 
I can see that Mr B answered only one of the questions Metro asked him. Its clear from Mr Bs 
response to some of the questions that Mr B may have found some of the questions Metro 
asked him were intrusive. But Metro was entitled to ask Mr B for information in order to meet 
their legal and regulatory obligations  its entitled and obliged to carry out such checks to help 
safeguard both the bank and its customers accounts. So, I cant reasonably say that Metro 
was acting unfairly or unreasonably in asking Mr B for the information that it did. As Mr B didnt provide Metro with all the information it wanted, the bank continued to block his 
account. Metro is obliged by the Financial Crime Authority to carry out ongoing checks to 
comply with its legal and regulatory obligations. So, if they dont receive the necessary 
information that they request to ensure it is complying with these obligations, I do not consider 
continuing to block Mr Bs account is a disproportionate measure for Metro to take. So, 
although I appreciate this caused Mr B inconvenience, I dont consider Metro treated Mr B 
unfairly in doing so.
Following a review, banks sometimes decide to close an account. Banks are entitled to 
decide for themselves whether to do business or continue doing business with a customer. 
Each financial institution has its own criteria and risk assessment for deciding whether to 
continue providing accounts and providing an account to a customer is a commercial 
decision that a financial institution is entitled to take. Thats because it has the commercial 
freedom to decide who it wants as a customer. And unless theres a good reason to do so, 
this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a customer. But they shouldnt decline 
to open an account without proper reason, for instance of unfair bias or unlawful 
discrimination. And they must treat new and existing customers fairly.
Metro have relied on the terms and conditions of Mr Bs account when closing it. The terms 
and conditions outline that Metro can close a customers account with two months notice, 
and in certain circumstances they can close an account immediately. In this case, Metro 
blocked Mr Bs account, and then closed it. So, I consider Metro closed Mr Bs account 
immediately, since he wasnt able to use the account following the block. For Metro to act 
fairly here they needed to meet the criteria to apply their terms for immediate closure  and 
having looked at these terms and all the evidence Im satisfied that Metro did. So, it was 
entitled to close the account as its already done and end its relationship with Mr B. 
Finally, Metro has agreed with the investigators recommendation to pay Mr B £75 
compensation for its poor communication. I note Mr B has also accepted this. But I will make 
an award in that sum, of £75.00, so that Mr B can enforce it should he need to do so.
In summary, I understand Mr B will be unhappy with my decision but having reviewed all the 
evidence and circumstances of this complaint, I wont be asking Metro to do anything more 
to resolve Mr Bs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold this complaint. To put things right Metro Bank 
PLC should pay Mr B £75.00 compensation for its poor communication.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman