DRN-3514572
The complaint
The estate of Mr N K complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd mis-sold a reviewable whole of 
life policy in 1991. And that subsequent advice to use the policy to protect a mortgage was 
unsuitable.
What happened
Mr K took out a whole of life policy in 1991 with an initial sum assured of £27,083 and he 
paid £25.00 per month. The sum assured and premium were indexed to average earnings. 
The policy was sold to Mr K by a provider that has since been acquired by Zurich. Any 
reference to Zurich can be taken as a reference to the provider that sold the policy.
In 1998 Mr K converted the mortgage he held in joint names with his wife from interest only 
to a repayment mortgage. At this time Mr K increased the life cover on the policy to £63,946 
and the monthly premium was £51.76. The sum assured and the premium remained index 
linked. Mr K surrendered the policy in 2015. 
Mr K, represented by a claims management company (CMC), complained to Zurich that 
when the policy was sold, he had little or no understanding how investments worked, that his 
low income hadnt been taken into account, and when the policy was sold it was unsuitable 
for him. The CMC complained Zurich hadnt considered whether a joint life policy with Mr Ks 
wife would have been more suitable. The CMC said the level of cover was increased in 1998 
to protect Mr Ks mortgage, and that this was unsuitable advice.
Zurich thought Mr K had a need for family life cover when the whole of life policy was 
recommended. They said Mr K was provided with a full explanation of how the policy worked 
and his wife was also present at the time of the sale. Zurich said the main purpose of the 
policy was family protection and it wasnt taken out for investment purposes. They felt the 
policy was affordable and noted Mr K continued the policy for over 20 years. With regards to 
the policy being used to protect a repayment mortgage, Zurich said when Mr K changed the 
mortgage, an existing endowment remained in place for a further five years and, in any case, 
its reasonable the whole of life policy remained in place for family protection.
The CMC brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service where one of our 
Investigators looked into things. Unfortunately, during the time the complaint has been with 
the Financial Ombudsman Service Mr K has passed. The complaint has been taken on by 
the trustees of Mr Ks estate who remain represented by the CMC. The Investigator thought 
the policy hadnt been mis-sold as the limited information available from Zurich supported 
there was a need for family protection at the time, and that a whole of life policy wasnt an 
unsuitable recommendation. When the sum assured was increased in 1988, the Investigator 
thought the existing endowment policy continued to provide life cover for the mortgage and 
the whole of life policy was being used for family protection. The Investigator didnt consider 
Zurich had done anything significantly wrong as the whole of life policy addressed more than 
one objective.
The CMC, on behalf of the estate of Mr N K, didnt agree with the Investigator and asked that 
an Ombudsman decides the complaint. Its therefore been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand the estate of Mr N K will be disappointed, but for very much the same reasons 
as the Investigator, Ive decided Zurich havent done anything significantly wrong. I will now 
explain why, and address comments provided by the CMC.
Initial sale of the policy
The policy was sold in 1991. Zurich have only been able to supply limited documentation 
from the time of the sale. The CMC is disappointed this is the case, but Im satisfied the 
documents are sufficient for me to make a decision based on what I think is likely to have 
happened.
Mr K first met with Zurich in 1990 and it seems the primary objective was to arrange a 
mortgage. Along with his wife, Mr K took out an interest only mortgage supported by an 
endowment policy that matched the mortgage terms. The fact-find dated 1990 shows Mr K 
had an income of £18,300 per year. There was additional household income from his wife of 
£9,200 per year. Mr K and his wife had three dependent children at this time. 
In February 1991, Mr K and his wife met with Zurich again. The document Ive referred to 
above is annotated to this effect and the whole of life policy started shortly after this meeting. 
Although there is no fact-find or recommendation letter from the meeting in February 1991, 
there was no requirement for one to be provided. I cant fairly establish why the level of 
cover was recommended, nor whether a joint life policy had been considered. However, it 
seems more likely than not Zurich highlighted a need for life cover as Mr K had three 
dependent children at the time. I dont find this unreasonable.
Although the CMC say a joint life policy would have been cheaper, I dont consider this 
would make it any more suitable. It may or may not have been cheaper, but regardless of 
whether the policy sold to Mr K was unsuitable based on cost, Mr K continued to make 
payments. And he accepted the indexed cover premiums throughout the policy life. Ive 
decided its unlikely cost was the key factor in Mr K taking out a single policy. Instead, I 
consider its more likely Mr K wanted cover in addition to that of his wife so that their 
dependents received a higher payment should both parents die.
Ive noted the CMC says Mr K had little or no understanding how investments worked. I dont 
consider this is a reason to say this particular policy was unsuitable. The primary reason for 
the policy was to provide life cover if Mr K died. I agree theres an investment element to this 
policy, but it didnt need Mr Ks day-to-day involvement in investment decisions. Mr K and his 
wife approached Zurich to obtain financial advice, so although he may not have had a great 
deal of investment experience, I consider it more likely than not Mr K wanted to maximise 
the life cover over his lifetime. Zurichs recommendation of a whole of life policy with an 
investment element is not wholly unsuitable in these circumstances.
The 1998 increase in cover
An updated short-form fact-find from 1998 supports Mr K and his wife were switching their 
mortgage to capital and interest. The notes record Mr K wanted to increase the life cover on 
his policy but intended to keep the existing endowment policy until he and his wife had 
decided whether to surrender it. Mr Ks income had increased to about £19,000 a year and 
the additional income from his wife was £13,000 a year.I understand the CMCs concerns that a whole of life is not normally suitable to protect a 
mortgage, but there are other important considerations in this case.
When Mr K met with Zurich in 1998, he and his wife hadnt decided whether to surrender the 
endowment. Zurich say the endowment policy was in place until 2003. This supports they 
still had full protection for the mortgage until 2003. Ive noted at least two of Mr Ks children 
were still likely dependent at this time, so there was likely still a need for family protection. 
In 1998, Mr K increased the level of cover on his whole of life and continued with the 
indexation option. I considered whether this was affordable at the time, but Mr K and his wife 
indicated they had sufficient available income to meet the increase in premium. The CMC 
suggest a decreasing term assurance was more suitable at this time, but Im not persuaded 
this is the case. The needs of Mr K were made more complex by his decision to change the 
mortgage repayment type. It seems fair and reasonable for me to conclude the existing 
endowment policy provided the protection required to pay off the mortgage. An additional 
decreasing term cover policy would not have been suitable when the advice was provided in 
1998 as Mr K would have more cover than he needed to pay off the mortgage. 
Ive decided the increase in cover for the whole of life policy at this time wasnt an unsuitable 
option in the circumstances of this case. At the time of the advice in 1998, Mr Ks mortgage 
was fully covered if he died. He still had dependents who would benefit from the life cover 
the whole of life policy provided and, if he did surrender the endowment policy in the future, 
he could do so without worrying about there being a significant shortfall of life cover for the 
mortgage. Mr K continued to increase the sum assured on a regular basis even after the 
endowment policy was surrendered, so it seems likely it was still his primary objective to use 
the policy for family protection. But the increased level of cover would likely have paid off the 
mortgage and provided benefits to his estate even when he surrendered the endowment 
policy, until cashed-in the whole of life policy in 2015. 
My final decision
Ive decided that Zurich Assurance Ltd didnt do anything significantly wrong and I dont 
uphold the complaint made by the estate of Mr NK.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr N 
K to accept or reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman