DRN-3470328
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy with the settlement amount AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) offered for her 
escape of water claim under her buildings insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs M had buildings insurance for a property she let to tenants. After her tenants notified her 
of damage to the bathroom, she claimed under her policy with AXA. Due to national 
restrictions, AXA arranged to assess the claim by video call, but Mrs M wanted to wait until 
her own plumber was available to identify the source of the leak and stop it.
Because of the unusual circumstances, the claim didnt progress until around six months 
later, when Mrs M presented AXA with her repair bill and alternative accommodation (AA) 
costs.
AXA offered a reduced settlement based on what it wouldve cost it to complete the repairs. 
Mrs M was unhappy with its offer and complained.
Our investigator upheld Mrs Ms complaint. She thought AXA didnt have a reasonable 
explanation for covering just some of the AA costs, although she agreed that its offer to 
cover the cost of repairs was fair. Our investigator recommended that AXA should cover the 
full cost of AA and pay Mrs M 8% simple interest from the bill date to the date of payment.
AXA agreed, but Mrs M didnt think the exceptional circumstances had been taken into 
consideration. She asked for a further review, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ms complaint, but Im not asking AXA to do any more than our 
investigator recommended. Ill explain why.
The issue of complaint, here, is the amount AXA offered Mrs M to settle her complaint. 
There are two parts to her claim  the cost of repairs to the water damaged parts of her 
property and the cost of AA for her tenants.
Water damage repair costs
After some delay, which Ill comment on later, Mrs M arranged for her preferred plumber to 
complete the repairs to the bathroom. She asked AXA to reimburse the full amount, which 
came to over £9,000. AXA offered around half that, which was the amount it said it couldve 
done the work for.
The policy says AXA can settle the claim by carrying out the repairs or settling in cash. Here, 
Mrs Ms plumber completed the repairs before AXA had an opportunity to see what was 
needed and before it approved the plumbers work. Therefore, it didnt have the opportunity 
to decide how to settle the claim. AXA asked Mrs M to provide evidence of the work needed, 
which she did, and AXA decided it wouldve cost it much less to complete. So, because the 
decision of how to settle the claim was taken away from AXA, I think its reasonable that 
AXA settles it based on the policy terms and conditions for cash settling when it couldve 
completed the work for less. 
AXA is only obliged to pay what it would reasonably have cost its own contractors to do the 
work. AXA made an offer to settle at its own estimate of costs based on the plumbers 
description of works. AXA shouldnt have to pay more than it wouldve done by completing 
the necessary work itself to put Mrs Ms bathroom back in the position it was in before the 
escape of water. So, I see no reason to ask AXA to pay any more than it has already 
offered.
Delay
Going back to the issue of the delays before Mrs Ms plumber could complete the work, I see 
that AXA tried to arrange an assessment of the damage by video call. AXA said Mrs M was 
responsible for the delays and lack of availability. Mrs M said AXA only tried to contact her 
while she was at work and, as the claim was during lockdown, she didnt want strangers in 
her home.
While I understand that Mrs M might not have wanted AXAs contractors to complete the 
work due to lockdown restrictions, it wouldnt be fair for me to say AXA was responsible for 
the delays resulting from her preference of plumber. AXA arranged video calls which I note 
Mrs M cancelled on numerous occasions, mainly because her plumber was unwell. The 
escape of water happened in early November and from then until March, AXA chased 
updates from Mrs M. I note it either called and left voice messages, spoke to her when she 
returned calls, or communicated by email.  Looking at the evidence, its clear that AXA was 
waiting for Mrs Ms plumber to become available to detect the leak so a video call could be 
arranged  this was at Mrs Ms request. When the plumber was able to work again some 
months after the escape of water, Mrs M went ahead with the repairs.
At this point, AXA was still waiting to assess the repairs needed so it didnt have an 
opportunity to cost the repair work, as explained in my earlier point.
So, given that AXA was simply responding to Mrs Ms request to wait for a video call, and for 
her plumbers availability to assess repairs needed, I cant reasonably say AXA caused a 
delay which wouldve warranted Mrs M going ahead with repairs without prior authorisation. 
Therefore, Im satisfied that it was fair for AXA to settle the claim based on its own costs to 
repair.Alternative Accommodation
Mrs M arranged for her tenant to live elsewhere while repairs were carried out. She claimed 
under her policy for those costs. AXA offered to cover three of the four weeks she claimed 
for.
Following our investigators recommendation, AXA agreed to pay the full four weeks of AA 
costs. Having considered the evidence, and the fact that AXA hasnt explained why it felt a 
reduction in this part of the settlement was necessary, I see no reason why AXA shouldnt 
pay for the full claim for four weeks AA.  As Mrs M has been without the benefit of that 
payment, I also think its reasonable to ask AXA to pay 8% simple interest on the 
accommodation costs from the date Mrs M presented the costs to the date AXA settles the 
claim.
Summary
In summary, AXA didnt have the opportunity to assess the damage and make a settlement 
offer until Mrs M had already had the work done. As the delays were due to availability of 
Mrs Ms preferred plumber rather than anything caused by AXA, I cant fairly say that there 
was any reason for her to go ahead with the work before AXA approved it. Therefore, I see 
no reason to ask AXA to settle the claim for any more than it wouldve cost using its own 
contractors. 
That said, AXA hasnt provided a reasonable explanation for limiting its offer for the 
alternative accommodation costs, so Im satisfied it should settle that part of the claim in full, 
along with 8% simple interest.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and AXA 
Insurance UK Plc must:
settle Mrs Ms claim for the alternative accommodation costs in full, and
pay 8% simple interest* on the alternative accommodation costs from the date Mrs M 
presented those costs to AXA until the date it makes the payment. 
*If AXA Insurance UK Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs M how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mrs M a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if 
appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman