DRN-3477755
The complaint
Mr O complains about the support he has received from RCI Financial Services Limited
trading as Nissan Finance (RCI), in relation to a hire purchase agreement with it.
What happened
I set out the background to Mr Os complaint in my provisional decision which I issued earlier 
this year. However, Ill set that background out again here.
In March 2017 Mr O entered into a hire purchase agreement with RCI for the supply of a car.
Under the terms of that agreement Mr O agreed that if he wanted to purchase the car at the
end of the agreement, he would make a final payment of £11,621.92. This final payment is
known as a balloon payment.
In May 2020 the agreement was coming to an end and as a result, the balloon payment was
due. However, Mr O was experiencing financial difficulties due to the Covid-19 Pandemic. As
a result, Mr O contacted RCI looking for assistance. In particular, Mr O tells us that he had 
no source of income due to the Covid-19 pandemic, although he was seeking help from a 
government scheme. In the meantime, he indicates that he let RCI know that he wanted to 
make the balloon payment but was unable to do so on the contractual payment date. Rather 
he would have to wait until he got help from the government, at which point hed make the 
balloon payment.
Mr O wanted to explore with RCI what options he might have available to help in the interim
whilst he got his finances sorted. Ideally, he was hoping it would agree to a payment 
deferral. However, he was apparently dismayed that initially the only option that he was 
offered was refinancing. Mr O objected to refinancing on two grounds, namely that this would 
involve him having to pay extra interest, in any event he had no income, so no means of 
paying for the refinancing.
In addition, despite Mr O telling RCI he could not pay it yet but was applying for help from 
the government, it pursued him for the debt. Mr O suggested that he should not have been 
chased for the debt and the way RCI went about this was inappropriate. For example, at 
points it called daily and twice it tried to take the full balloon payment from his bank account.
Mr O complains that it was only when he got through to a manager that RCI accepted he
should have been offered a payment deferral. He suggests the manager apologised and
indicated shed look into compensating him for the level of customer service he had received
which was below the standard he was entitled to expect, especially during such a worrying
time. According to Mr O, the manager indicated the compensation would take the form of a 
reduction in the outstanding balance on his account. Mr O was expecting financially 
significant compensation given his conversation with the manager. Therefore, Mr O was 
seemingly bemused and disappointed when the offer of compensation came, and it was an 
offer to take £25 off the balance of his account. Mr O does not consider £25 off the balance 
to be fair compensation and he declined the offer.
RCIs position is set out in its final response to Mr O issued in October 2020. In its final
response RCI indicated that it had written to Mr O several months before the agreement
was due to end asking him how he wanted to proceed at the end of the agreement, but it
had received no response. Nonetheless it accepted that initially it did not tell Mr O he could
have a payment deferral it suggests that it should have done. It described this as a 
miscommunication and offered Mr O £25 in compensation to make up for this.
Further RCI pointed out that as at the date of its final response letter Mr O had already had a 
five-month payment holiday and consequently he had used its vehicle free of charge too for 
this period. It asked Mr O to confirm what he wanted to do now in terms of ending the
agreement. It gave Mr O until 31 October 2020 to let it know how he wanted to proceed. 
Moreover, RCI said Mr O had asked it to reduce the balloon payment by £500 and it had
declined this request. It did not agree it had to do anything further.
Mr O responded to this by indicating he had told RCI in July/August 2020 he had the money
to make the balloon payment. However, he wanted his complaint escalated to management
prior to doing so. He suggested therefore it was unfair to him to suggest he had a five
month payment deferral due to the largesse of RCI, when in fact, in his estimation, the five
month delay was caused solely by RCIs mistaken handling of his complaint.
Moreover, Mr O reiterated that he had been caused upset during the period when he had
not been offered a payment deferral. Specifically, rather than having the reassurance that
his payment could be deferred while he tried to sort out his finances, he had had the
worry of thinking the car might be repossessed and he was chased for payment.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Os complaint. He did not recommend that it should
be upheld.
It appears that RCI accepted this recommendation, but Mr O did not. In brief, Mr O
expressed disappointment with the recommendation. He suggested that we had got some
facts wrong - we were wrong about when he had responded to RCI to let it know
he could not pay the balloon payment. Further, Mr O reiterated his position that the way RCI 
treated him was wrong and ought to be acknowledged. 
In addition, Mr O suggested that it had been unfair to mention how long he had the car 
without paying either monthly payments or the balloon payment. This was because he had 
only kept the car and not paid because he had been under the impression that he had to 
wait for a decision from us before making the payment.
Mr O indicated he had only mentioned rounding the balloon payment down by £500 when he
had been offered £25 off. He only talked about £500 to give RCI an indication of what he
thought would be a more appropriate figure when it came to compensation.
Mr O asked that an ombudsman take a fresh look at his complaint.
I issued a provisional decision in which I said I did not intend to uphold Mr Os complaint. I 
set out why Id come to this conclusion this is what I said.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what
I think are the key issues here.
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a 
free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to 
be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Both parties agree it seems that RCI wrote to Mr O in January, March and April 2020 asking 
him about what option he wanted to go with when his agreement ended on 1 May 2020. In 
these letters RCI asked Mr O to call it. In its April 2020 letter RCI told Mr O that it intended to 
collect the balloon payment from him on 1 May 2020.
RCI records show it received no response from Mr O until 1 May 2020 when they had a 
phone call. Mr O says that is not correct he tells us I had made RCI finance aware of our 
financial difficulties in multiple emails the first of which was the 29/4/20. I have a copy of 
the email of 29 April 2020, it is addressed to what looks like a general email address for 
RCI. It was sent at 16.24 hrs. The content of the email indicates that this email was not the 
first email Mr O had sent about experiencing financial difficulties, rather it says:
I emailed some time ago, as we were nearing the lockdown period, with regard to nearing 
the end of the following agreement [agreement number], yet I received no response.
Regardless of whether the email of 29 April 2020 was Mr Os first email or not. I think RCI 
had made it clear enough that the way to contact it to discuss the end of agreement 
arrangements was by phone. It is clear that Mr O was able to phone it. That being so, in the 
circumstances, I dont think RCI acted unreasonably in trying to take the balloon payment 
on 1 May.
In April 2020, The Financial Conduct Authority issued guidance for motor finance firms about 
motor finance agreements and coronavirus. This guidance deals with the situation Mr O tells 
us he found himself in, specifically it says:
Where a customer wishes to retain the vehicle but does not have funds to cover the balloon 
payment due to coronavirus related financial difficulties, firms should work with the customer 
to find an appropriate solution.
In May 2020 RCI should have worked with Mr O to find an appropriate solution. Instead it 
appears that it just offered him the chance to refinance which as Mr O correctly points out 
was unlikely to be an appropriate solution given at that point he had he tells us he had no 
means of making any repayments.
However, the guidance does not say Mr O had to be automatically offered a three-month 
payment deferral. As I have mentioned it just talks about finding an appropriate solution. So, 
I dont agree that RCI acted incorrectly in not offering an automatic three-month payment 
deferral, provided this was in his best interests.
In any event, even if I am wrong, and the guidance does mean that Mr O was entitled to an 
automatic three month payment deferral provided it was in his best interests, Mr O has now 
had a payment deferral which has lasted many months. I will talk about this more later.
That said in either case I recognise Mr O had to wait until August 2020 before it seems the 
parties had a constructive discussion to explore the options. I dont doubt that caused Mr O 
additional distress and inconvenience at what was a difficult time for him already. That 
distress and inconvenience could only have been compounded by being chased for 
payment, even though RCI ought reasonably to have known, Mr O could not pay it yet. I 
think it is fair and reasonable that RCI take responsibility for this. The question is what
redress should Mr O get?
Mr O suggests that the way to put this right is to reduce the balloon payment by £500. I note
Mr O tells us he only mentioned the £500 at the point he was offered the £25 discount. But Isee from RCIs records whose accuracy I have no reason to doubt that RCI offered the £25
discount in August 2020, whereas Mr O first asked for the balloon payment to be rounded
down by £500 on 15 July 2020.
Mr O also suggests that given the size of the balloon payment the offer RCI made that is to
reduce the balloon payment by £25 does not go far enough. But the size of the balloon
payment is not the yardstick for measuring what compensation is fair and reasonable for the
distress and inconvenience, he experienced. Rather I have to look at the impact of RCIs
actions on him. I also have to take account of the wider situation.
The agreement ended in May 2020. RCI tell us the last payment it received from Mr O was
in April 2020. Mr O has not said that is incorrect. Mr O still has the car and he has let us
know he is using it. RCI tells us that Mr O has not paid it the balloon payment. That means
Mr O has had the use of the car for around 24 months without making any monthly
repayments or making the balloon payment.
On the face of it Mr O has already benefitted by £5,319.12 (= 24 months x monthly fee for
hire of the car £221.63). I recognise Mr O may not see it like this, but the reality is that he
has had the use of RCIs car without paying for it for this amount of time.
Mr O has also had the benefit of not paying the balloon payment for 24 months. I take on
board he tells us he felt this was appropriate because initially he wanted to talk to
management at RCI before he paid the balloon payment. Later he tells us he was under the
impression he did not have to pay while his complaint was ongoing. However, we told him
that this was incorrect.
Mr O made the choice to withhold payment until he spoke to a manager at RCI. And I find
nothing RCI did reasonably indicated that Mr Os contractual obligation to pay the balloon
payment was suspended while his complaint was live.
In the circumstances, I dont think it is fair and reasonable to say Mr O only derived these
benefits because of something RCI did wrong.
Further, Mr O entered freely into the contract. I think it is reasonable to assume, as a starting
point, that when a person reads and signs an agreement  they understand the terms of the
agreement and they are agreeing to be bound by them. And under the contract he is obliged
to pay the full balloon price without deduction.
For all of these reasons, I dont find that I have any fair or reasonable basis for requiring RCI
to reduce the size of the balloon payment or to take any further action.
If on reflection Mr O wishes to accept the £25 reduction of his balloon payment he would
need to speak directly to RCI.
Both Mr O and RCI now have till the due date set out above to send in any further
information, should they wish to do so. All I would add is that any final submissions should 
be materially new. Neither party needs to repeat what its said to us before.
My provisional decision was that I did not intend to uphold Mr Os complaint.
I invited Mr O and RCI to respond to my provisional decision should they wish to do so. As 
far as I am aware, we have received no response from either Mr O or RCI.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the complete file again and revisited my provisional decision.
As I have already mentioned, Ive received no new information in response to my provisional 
decision. It follows that I have reached the same conclusions for the same reasons as I did 
in my provisional decision the details of which I have set out above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman