DRN-3101786
The complaint
Mr S, on behalf of H, complains about the decision of Hiscox Insurance Company Limited to 
decline Hs business interruption insurance claim made as a result of the COVID-19 
pandemic. Mr S also complains about information on coverage provided prior to the claim.
What happened
H operates as an estate agent. They held a business insurance policy underwritten by 
Hiscox. In March 2020, H contacted Hiscox to claim under the business interruption section 
of this policy. But Hiscox declined the claim. It said the core cover under this section related 
to interruption caused by damage to property and that neither the pandemic nor COVID-19 
itself had caused such damage. Hiscox also said that two extensions to this cover did not 
require such damage. But the Non-Damage Denial of Access (NDDA) extension related to 
local incidents, rather than the wide-ranging measures taken by the Government in response 
to the pandemic. And that the Public Authority extension required the relevant event, which 
included the occurrence of a notifiable disease, to have happened either in the vicinity or at 
the insured premises  but the Governments response was due to the national situation. 
H was unhappy with this and complained. They also complained that they had spoken to 
Hiscox on 10 March 2020 and had been told that they would be covered by the policy if the 
Government shut them down. 
Hiscox did not change its decision. But it did clarify that the Government had not imposed 
the decision to close on H. It said that H was not a business that was required to close as 
part of the Governments March 2020 regulations. Hiscox did say that the information 
provided to Mr S on 10 March 2020 was incorrect and offered H £500 to apologise for this.
Mr S remained unhappy so referred Hs complaint to this service. But our Investigator didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. He said that whilst H may have suffered some 
disruption to the normal service they were able to provide, they were not a type of business 
that had been required to close by the Government. So, they had not been caused an 
inability to use their premises. He also said that the NDDA extension only related to 
localised events. The Investigator also felt Hiscox did not need to increase its offer of £500 
for the information issues.
As Mr S remained unsatisfied, Hs complaint was passed to me for a decision. I initially 
contacted Mr S to ask whether he had any evidence of any direction issued to estate agents 
requiring them to close in March 2020. Mr S was unable to provide this though. 
I also explained that I did not consider the information provided by Hiscox on 10 March 2020 
to have been incorrect. At the time of responding to Hs complaint, Hiscox believed the policy 
would only respond where the restriction imposed was specific to the claimant business. So, 
it considered that it had provided incorrect information when indicating to Mr S on 10 March 
that the policy would provide cover if there was a widespread closure of businesses. 
However, I explained that I did not consider Hiscox had been incorrect. And that I thought 
the policy would respond, in certain situations, if the Government had required a claimant 
business to close as part of nationwide measures. This meant that Hiscox had, apparently 
by chance rather than good judgement, actually provided correct information. Given this, I 
did not think compensation in excess of the £500 offered by Hiscox was warranted. 
I explained that as a result of these points, I was not minded to uphold Hs complaint. Mr S 
responded, maintaining that people were told to stay at home and businesses were told to 
shut. So, he considered the complaint should be upheld.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact the 
COVID-19 pandemic has had on H, I wont be upholding their complaint. Ill explain why.
The type of cover Hs looking to claim under is business interruption insurance. There are a 
range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering different risks. For 
example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, whilst others provide 
cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional add-ons. The starting 
point is to consider the specific policy H took out.
The standard cover provided by the business interruption section of Hs policy, as well as a 
number of the extensions to this cover, is based on an interruption to the business of the 
insured which has been caused by damage to property. Whilst I appreciate the pandemic 
has caused substantial financial loss, I dont think COVID-19 caused damage to property 
which has led to an interruption of Hs business.
So, I dont think either the standard business interruption cover, or the extensions that rely 
on there having been damage, provide cover in the circumstances of Hs claim. And I think 
Hiscox acted fairly and reasonably in not meeting Hs claim under this area of cover.
There are two extensions to this cover that do not require there to have been damage and 
that might be relevant to a claim similar to Hs. I will deal with each in turn. 
Public Authority extension
This extension provides cover for losses caused by:
your inability to use the insured premises due to restrictions imposed by a public 
authority during the period of insurance following;

b. an occurrence of any human infectious or human contagious disease, an 
outbreak of which must be notified to the local authority;
There were restrictions imposed by a public authority following an occurrence of COVID-19. 
COVID-19 is an infectious disease the outbreak of which must be notified to the local 
authority. I dont consider that this occurrence needed to have been either at or in the vicinity 
of the premises. And I dont consider that the restrictions needed to have specifically 
targeted the claimant business alone. As such, this extension would provide cover to a 
business that had been caused an inability to use their insured premises. 
However, the question is whether or not H suffered an inability to use its premises. 
I agree to an extent with Mr S that it is not just the Health Protection (Coronavirus,
Restrictions) (England) Regulations 2020 that are relevant to considering this question. 
However, these regulations, along with the Health Protection (Coronavirus, Business 
Closure) (England) Regulations 2020 previously introduced, were important in setting out 
which businesses were required to close. They included a list of the businesses that had to 
close. And, significantly, estate agents were not on this list. 
These regulations did impose other restrictions on people that would likely have had an 
impact on businesses that were able to remain open. For example, the restrictions on 
movement that required people to remain at home without a reasonable excuse. But the 
reasonable excuses included both to travel to work and to move house. I also note that 
estate agents were able to offer online viewings of properties. 
I also agree that the restrictions imposed dont always have to have the force of law. But I do 
consider that there must be a mandatory instruction that is given by a public authority. And I 
am not aware of any such instruction, other that those contained in the regulations 
mentioned above, that imposed a relevant restriction on H.
Additionally, the extension requires there to have been an inability to use the premises. The 
term inability to use in relation to policies with the same wording as Hs was considered as 
part of the Financial Conduct Authority & Ors v Arch Insurance (UK) Ltd & Ors [2021] UKSC 
1 and the related judgment in the court at first instance (the FCA test case). 
The judgment of the Supreme Court in the FCA test case said, at paragraph 129:
The public authority clauses in Hiscox 1-4 (set out at para 111 above) do not cover 
all business interruption due to restrictions imposed by a public authority following 
an occurrence of a notifiable disease. They apply only where the interruption is 
caused by the policyholders inability to use the business premises due to such 
restrictions.
The court went on to say, at paragraph 136:
 an inability of use has to be established; not an impairment or hindrance in use.
The court did also make it clear that it may be possible for a business to claim for losses that 
arose out an inability to use its premises for a discrete part of its business activities. But I 
dont consider H has shown they were unable to use their premises for a discrete part of 
their business. 
So, whilst I do not doubt H would have suffered a disruption to the normal operation of their 
business, the policy requires that there be an inability to use their premises. And I do not 
consider H suffered such an inability to use their premises.
As such, I do not consider Hiscox acted inappropriately in declining Hs claim under this 
section. NDDA extension
The second relevant extension to Hs policy provides cover for losses caused by:
an incident occurring during the period of insurance within a one mile radius of the 
insured premises which results in a denial of access or hindrance in access to the 
insured premises, imposed by any civil or statutory authority or by order of the 
government or any public authority, for more than 24 consecutive hours;
The court of the first instance in the FCA test case considered clauses such as this. The 
judgment from that court says, at paragraphs 406 and 407:
We consider that this is a narrow, localised cover intended to insure events or 
incidents which occur within the one mile radius. The localised nature of the cover is 
even more marked in the case of the alternative wording requiring the incident to 
occur in the vicinity of the insured premises.

It follows that there is no cover under the NDDA clause in respect of business 
interruption losses caused by the restrictions imposed by the government in 
response to the national pandemic.
This part of the judgment was not appealed to the Supreme Court and so is relevant case 
law. As part of considering all of the circumstance of this complaint, I am obliged to take into 
account relevant case law. And I see no reason at this time to depart from the findings of this 
judgment. As such, I do not consider this extension would provide any cover in relation to 
Hs claim. And I consider Hiscox acted appropriately when declining Hs claim under this 
extension. 
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means Hiscox should have met Hs claim. I know this decision will be 
disappointing for Mr S, but I hope Ive provided him with a thorough explanation of why this 
policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
For the reasons set out above, I also do not consider Hiscox should be required to 
compensate H in excess of the £500 already offered. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman