DRN-3210040
The complaint
Mr R says that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS), trading as Audi 
Financial Services, were unreasonable when they terminated his finance agreement.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr R, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr R acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
There was no contractual obligation on VWFS to refinance the optional final payment on this 
higher purchase agreement, but they were prepared to consider that option when Mr R 
contacted them in February 2020 shortly before his agreement was due to end.
The refinancing documentation was first sent in February 2020, but Mr R couldnt sign it 
electronically and a physical copy was sent in April 2020. I understand that, thereafter, there 
were several issues that delayed the signing of that agreement. For instance, I can see that 
VWFS wanted to run new affordability checks; Mr R was out of the country and wanted to 
pay a lump sum that VWFS struggled to get details of. And I can also see that Mr R was ill 
during this period.
Overall, I am not persuaded that VWFS were unreasonable when terminating the account. 
Theyd not received a payment for seven months and it was six months since the option to 
purchase had become due. Theyd also not heard from Mr R for over a month and as the 
default notice theyd sent to Mr R in May 2020 had warned him of the consequences of not 
paying, I think hed have understood the importance of arranging payment. Whilst I 
understand that illness may have made communication a little more difficult for Mr R I dont 
think it would be fair to suggest it prevented him from arranging refinancing during those six 
months. I note, for instance, that whilst he hadnt contacted them since the end of July 2020, 
when VWFS terminated his agreement he was able to call them only a day or so later.
Whilst I understand that the agent Mr R spoke to in September 2020 had expressed a view 
that hed rescind the termination if it was up to him, hed also explained that decision wasnt 
his to make. So, I dont think VWFS needed to honour the agents view.
I understand that Mr R is concerned that emails, meant for him, were sent to the wrong 
person. Having reviewed those emails, I dont think any sensitive information was revealed. 
Whilst I can understand that it may have been worrying I dont think the mistakes led to 
delays in the refinancing and Im persuaded that VWFSs offer of £50 to compensate Mr R 
for those issues is reasonable. 
Mr R has suggested that VWFS should take the car back and remove the default record, but 
I dont think theres any obligation on them to do that. Im not persuaded VWFS need to take 
any further action other than to ensure the £50 payment they have offered, and that Ive 
referred to above, is paid.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman