DRN-4449941
The complaint
Mr Ps complained that Dignity Funerals Limited have refused to refund him the full amount 
hes paid towards the pre-paid funeral plan he bought from a previous provider.  And he says 
Dignity pressured him to decide to transfer to them, as well as failing to respond to his 
complaint. 
What happened
In 2019, Mr P bought a pre-paid funeral plan from a provider Ill call B.  He agreed to pay for 
the plan in instalments spread over five years.  He selected a funeral director he trusted to 
deal with the funeral when the need arose.
From 29 July 2022, all providers of pre-paid funeral plans had to be regulated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).  This meant providers who had sold plans before this 
had to apply to the FCA for authorisation, or withdraw from the market and transfer its plans 
to an authorised provider or refund its customers.
B wasnt authorised by the FCA.  So it had until 31 October 2022 to transfer its plans and 
wind down its business.  B negotiated with Dignity for Dignity to offer its plan holders an 
alternative.
Dignity wrote to Mr P on 17 October 2022, offering him a plan which matched as closely as 
possible the plan hed bought from B.  Dignity said transferring was 
the only way to ensure that the full value of the payments you have made to your [B] plan 
is maintained.  
And they said Mr P would still make the outstanding payments, but to Dignity, rather than B.
Mr Ps plan was transferred in early November.  In early January 2023, Dignity confirmed the 
amount of the direct debit they would collect, and that theyd start doing so in late February. 
When he received his welcome pack, Mr P found out he couldnt use the funeral director 
hed previously chosen.  So he wrote to Dignity, requesting they cancel his plan and refund 
him everything hed paid.  Dignity replied, telling Mr P theyd not received any monies from 
B, or confirmation of what hed paid them for the plan.  Mr P contacted Dignity again in May, 
after Bs administrators had told him the position of the trust into which B had paid his 
instalments should have been finalised in April.   
When Dignity said they still werent able to provide a refund, Mr P complained.  And when 
Dignity didnt respond, Mr P brought his complaint to our service.  When we requested their 
file, Dignity said theyd not received Mr Ps complaint, so a copy was provided.  Once Dignity 
had sent Mr P their final response, the complaint was considered by one of our investigators.
The investigator concluded Dignity didnt need to do anything more to resolve the complaint.  
She was satisfied Dignity hadnt received any funds from B, so couldnt provide the full 
refund Mr P wanted.  And, while she noted Mr P hadnt had long to make his decision, the 
investigator said it was Mr Ps choice to transfer.
Mr P didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint.  I know hell be disappointed by that 
decision.  I hope it will help if I explain the reasons Ive made it.
I understand Mr Ps frustrated.  He took steps to plan for his funeral.  Those plans can no 
longer be carried out.  And he feels he was rushed into accepting an alternative with Dignity 
which doesnt provide all that he wants.  Nor can he get back what hes paid.
None of this is Mr Ps fault.  But I can only say Dignity should do more to resolve his 
complaint if I think some or all of what has happened is their responsibility.  Unfortunately for 
Mr P, I dont think thats the case.
As Ive set out above, B is no longer permitted to administer pre-paid funeral plans, because 
it isnt authorised by the FCA.  For the same reason, our service has no jurisdiction over B.    
The deadline of 31 October 2022 for businesses leaving the market to transfer or close their 
plans was set by the FCA.  It was for B to make those arrangements.  Mr P has suggested 
that they would have been worked on very soon after 29 July.  While I understand why hed 
suggest that, Ive no evidence that was the case.  And Im satisfied it was reasonable for 
Dignity only to write to Bs customers after B itself had done so.
So, while I acknowledge the time was short, I cant say that was because Dignity imposed an 
unreasonable deadline.  Mr P has said their letter caused him to be anxious that responding 
outside the deadline and/or not agreeing to the transfer would result in him losing the money 
hed paid.  While I can see why he says that, I think the information in the letter was 
accurate.  The alternative  not transferring his plan  would have left Mr P trying to recover 
the money hed paid from Bs administrators, which would also have been worrying.  As 
things stand, Dignity are giving him credit for the payments he made to B, even though that 
money hasnt been transferred to them.
And, because Dignity havent received any funds from B, its not fair for me to say Dignity 
should refund Mr P everything hes paid towards his plan.  If Mr P wants to cancel his plan, 
Id expect Dignity to refund what hes paid them, in line with their own terms and conditions.  
And Id expect them to pass on any money they receive from B.  But I wouldnt expect them 
to do more.
Mr P also complained to our service that Dignity didnt respond when he sent them a 
complaint letter by recorded delivery.  Hes provided a copy of the confirmation of delivery.
I accept Mr Ps evidence shows the letter reached Dignitys office.  But he didnt chase 
Dignity for a response  rather, he directed his concerns to the FCA.  And when the eight 
weeks allowed for Dignity to respond had passed, he contacted our service. 
Mr P was entitled to deal with the matter in that way.  But, when a business does something 
wrong, part of what I look at is what they did to put things right.  When our service contacted 
Dignity, they told us theyd never received the complaint.  And they addressed Mr Ps 
concerns in a final response letter.I accept the letter was lost by Dignity.  But Im satisfied they addressed Mr Ps concerns 
promptly when they were made aware of them.  So I dont think they need to do anything 
more here.
Finally, Ive noticed Mr P has expressed concerns about the safety of money he pays to 
Dignity.  Given his experience with B, thats entirely understandable.  But bringing pre-paid 
funeral plans into regulation means that, in the event that an FCA authorised business fails, 
customers who are owed money can make a claim to the Financial Services Compensation 
Scheme.  While I accept that doesnt change Mr Ps situation with B, I hope it provides him 
with some reassurance that anything he pays to Dignity in future would benefit from this 
protection. 
Overall, I can see that the introduction of the regulation of pre-paid funeral plans left Mr P 
with options, none of which he would have chosen.  While thats completely understandable, 
I cant say that was Dignitys fault.  And for that reason, I cant say they should do more to 
resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint about Dignity Funerals 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 January 2024.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman