DRN-3582589
The complaint
Mr M complains, through his representative, about First Equity Limited. Hes unhappy with 
the losses suffered on his portfolio and thinks that hes been given unsuitable advice and 
hasnt been treated fairly. 
What happened
Mr M became an advisory client of First Equity in 2018. Hed followed his adviser there after 
he joined from another firm (Firm A). He complained to First Equity in 2020 and said, in 
summary, that the adviser hadnt correctly assessed his attitude to risk (ATR), hadnt kept 
him updated, had invested in unsuitable shares and traded excessively in order to earn 
higher commission. First Equity didnt uphold the complaint, so Mr M asked us to look into 
the matter. 
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators who upheld it. He noted that Mr M 
had disputed most of the information the adviser had noted in the know your client (KYC) 
documents. He thought that Mr M wasnt in a position to take the level of risk that the adviser 
had recorded and pointed to a previous fact find stating he was a low-risk investor. 
He didnt think Mr Ms circumstances at the time - not many liquid assets outside of his 
portfolio and wanting to retire in a few years - left much time to recoup any major losses. He 
considered the calls Mr M had with the adviser about potential trades and didnt think hed 
been given a chance to fully consider the risks associated with each trade.
First Equity didnt agree with his findings and said, in summary:
If there had been a switch from lower risk investments to higher risk investments, 
then this happened before Mr M before their client and referred to the lack of 
information about what his ATR was in 2017 just before he became their client. 
Mr M had argued that the information in the KYCs was inaccurate. However, the risk 
profile had been completed in person and was signed by Mr M as being accurate. 
Theyd had regular calls, meetings and emails with Mr M which would have given 
ample opportunity for him to consider his position and ask for the risk levels to be 
corrected. However, he did not raise any issues regarding his risk profile at any point.
They didnt agree that the recommendations were unsuitable for Mr M. They 
highlighted that the section of the Fact Find where he answered no when asked if he 
would face financial hardship if he lost the money hed invested. 
They thought that Mr M understood what was being dealt with across his accounts. 
Hed dealt in the stock market for over 25 years and was a reasonably experienced 
investor. The KYC report hed completed stated (regarding trades per month) that he 
had "dealt daily if appropriate", and therefore he would have known that the 
investments being proposed were not low risk investments. 
Mr M had access to an online system which would have confirmed the value of his 
investments, in addition to receiving statements twice yearly. 
They had regular calls with Mr M, some of which were quite long in duration, where 
matters were discussed at length and showed that the adviser gave options when 
presenting trades. 
Mr M had brought a large portfolio when he became a client of First Equity which 
included a sizeable equity portfolio, not just investment/unit trusts and other lower 
risk investments. Mr Ms portfolio continued to be dealt with in a consistent manner 
which did not indicate any change to his overall risk profile. If he was unhappy with 
the portfolio and the information provided in the KYCs, then any concerns or queries 
should have been raised at the time but they were not.
KYCs were completed in 2018 and 2019 and Mr M signed to say that they were an 
accurate record of his financial situation, investment objectives and attitude to risk. 
Theyd developed the KYC in accordance with COBS 9  Suitability, and in doing so 
theyd paid due consideration to Mr Ms knowledge and experience of the designated 
investments and/or services to be provided, his financial situation and investments 
objectives and attitude to risk. They were entitled to rely on the information and the 
KYCs stated that Mr M understood that the quality of their advice may be affected if 
he did not provide complete information. Therefore, it was reasonable for First Equity 
to rely on the KYC's contents.
Their position was that Mr M's trading was suitable and in line with his risk profile. 
Any decision otherwise would not be fair or reasonable as all of the 
contemporaneous documentation indicated that Mr M classified himself as a high risk 
investor, or at the very least knew that hed been so classified, and yet despite this 
(and despite being aware that the adviser was recommending higher risk 
investments) he didnt raise any concerns. 
If, despite their submissions, the complaint was still upheld, it would not be fair and 
reasonable for them to be held responsible for redress in respect of investments that 
were taken out on Firm A's advice. As such, they should only have to pay redress in 
respect of investments taken out by Mr M on their advice. Further, if Mr M really was 
a lower risk investor, at most redress should be based on a 50/50 split of the Income 
Total Return Index and the one-year fixed rate bond index.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id firstly think it may be helpful to point out that this decision doesnt address any of the 
concerns raised about the advisers actions while he was employed by Firm A - it solely 
relates to his actions while at First Equity.
At the heart of this complaint is the issue of whether or not Mr M should have been advised 
to embark upon the advisers chosen strategy. In order to determine this, I must consider his 
circumstances at the time. In addition to Mr Ms testimony, Ive also reviewed the 
documentation that was completed when he became a client of First Equity.
The KYC that Mr M completed said that he was aged 57, in full-time employment with a 
monthly disposable income of £6,150 and was looking to retire in seven years time. He 
jointly owned properties valued at around £1,300,000 with an outstanding mortgage of £151,000. He had 25 years investment experience and typically completed 20 trades per 
month with an average trade size of £20,000. 
It noted that he had medium risk investments valued at £370,000, £330,000 with First Equity 
and the balance elsewhere. He had a medium risk portfolio with an asset allocation of 70% 
medium risk and 30% high risk. Regarding his attitude to risk and goals, it was noted that he:
Wanted the best long-term returns he could get and expected periods where the 
value of the investments might suffer extended falls
Wasnt concerned by falls in value and would expect to recover any falls by the time 
he sold his investments
Wouldnt suffer severe financial hardship if he lost the money hed invested
I note what Mr M has said regarding how the KYCs were completed. Hes said, in summary, 
that the forms were completed by the adviser when he and his wife met him in a pub at short 
notice. The adviser filled in all the information whilst coaching the answers and had no 
interest in having an in-depth conversation about his financial plans or his true financial 
position. 
I have no reason to doubt what hes said but I must also give weight to the written evidence. 
Mr M signed the KYC document to confirm, amongst other things, that the information was 
an accurate record of his circumstances and that the quality of the advice may be affected if 
he hadnt provided complete information. 
That being said, I have taken into account the fact find he completed with Firm A in 2017 
which recorded that his ATR was low. The 2018 KYC completed by First Equity said that his 
existing ATR was medium but didnt state which risk profile would be applied to his account. 
The 2019 KYC said his existing ATR was medium and his portfolio was made up of mostly 
FTSE Allshare stock with some Alternative Investment Market (AIM) stock, it also didnt state 
which risk profile would be applied to his account.
An adviser has certain obligations under the regulators Conduct of Business Rules (COBS) 
rules and Principles for Businesses (PRIN). Some of the key rules Ive considered in 
determining if the advice was suitable are:
COBS 9.2.1: which says, in summary, that a firm must ensure that a recommendation, or a 
decision to trade, is suitable for its client. And when doing so, they must obtain sufficient 
information about the client's knowledge, experience, financial situation and objectives
COBS 9.2.2: which broadly says, among other things, that a firm needs to get enough 
information from the customer to be able to make sure the recommendation meets their 
objectives, theyre able to bear any related investment risk and they understand the risks 
involved. 
COBS 9.3.1: 1) A transaction may be unsuitable for a client because of the risks of the 
designated investments involved, the type of transaction, the characteristics of the order or 
the frequency of the trading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading. 
The strategy that the adviser recommended was to invest his entire portfolio with First Equity 
- nearly 90% of his available capital - in company shares, some of which were traded on the 
AIM. This had the impact of exposing Mr Ms portfolio to a high level of volatility with the 
potential to make large losses very quickly. I dont think this was appropriate for his 
circumstances at the time, despite what was recorded in the KYCs completed by First 
Equity. He clearly had some investment experience and was recorded as a medium risk 
investor, but I think the strategy represented a significant increase in risk and I havent seen 
where he was made aware of its potential impact. 
Ive also taken into consideration the impact of the charges generated by frequency of the 
advisers trading activity - in 2019 alone there were around 426 trades resulting in charges of 
around £73,000 on a portfolio which was valued at £330,000 when it was transferred to First 
Equity. This was clearly significant and I havent seen where the adviser made Mr M aware 
of the impact of his chosen strategy, which meant that there was potential for loss if the 
growth on the portfolio didnt exceed the cost of the charges. 
Taking everything into account, Im not persuaded that Mr M was in a fully informed position 
and I think the advisers strategy exposed him to too much risk. I think he could have taken 
some risk but exposing his entire First Equity portfolio, which was the majority of his liquid 
assets to the risks created by direct equity trading - including AIM shares - wasnt suitable for 
his circumstances at the time, especially with the impact of the charges generated by the 
advisers strategy and therefore First Equity must do something to put things right.
I note the points First Equity have made regarding any potential redress. But I dont see any 
reason to depart from the redress methodology the investigator proposed. I think its fair to 
compare the return on Mr Ms portfolio with a medium risk benchmark to try and fairly 
determine the return he would have received if hed been suitably advised.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr 
M as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been given 
unsuitable advice.
I take the view that Mr M would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is 
fair and reasonable given Mr M's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must First Equity do?
To compensate Mr M fairly, First Equity must:
Compare the performance of Mr M's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
First Equity should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
Mr M First 
Equity 
PortfolioNo longer in 
forceFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return IndexDate 
transferred 
inDate 
transferred 
out8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the First Equity should be deducted from the fair value calculation at 
the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that 
point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill 
accept if First Equity totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to 
determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr M wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified 
indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government 
bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk 
to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr M's circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to 
pay compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider 
appropriate. If I consider that fair compensation exceeds £160,000, I may recommend the 
business to pay the balance.
First Equity Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr M in a clear, simple 
format.Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation 
exceeds £160,000, I recommend that First Equity Limited pays Mr M the balance plus any 
interest on that amount as set out above.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. It does not bind First Equity 
Limited. It is unlikely that Mr M can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the 
balance. Mr M may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding 
whether to accept this decision.
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation 
should be calculated as set out above. My decision is that First Equity Limited should pay 
Mr M the amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £160,000 plus any 
interest set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman