DRN-4223175
The complaint
Mr S complains that Scottish Widows Limited (SW) stopped collecting his monthly pension 
payments by direct debit. He also complained about SW failing to provide him with the 
information he needed to complete his tax return in 2021/2022.
What happened
Mr S began making payment into his personal pension plan around 2001. He was paying 
these contributions by direct debit.
In March 2022 SW wrote to Mr S about his benefit options as according to its records he was 
nearing retirement age. Mr S told SW he was unsure what he wanted to do about his 
pension and was taking advice. By 28 April 2022, not having heard back from Mr S, SW 
deferred his retirement date until age 75 and switched his fund into a building society fund.
Mr S telephoned SW in May 2022 and said his April 2022 direct debit payment had not been 
collected. SW told Mr S it would arrange for his direct debit to be re-instated and the missing 
payment to be collected. 
By July 2022, although Mr S contacted SW several times, SW had still not re-instated the 
direct debit or collected the missing payments, despite assuring Mr S they would.
In August 2022, Mr S asked SW to provide him with his premium history for the 2021/2022 
tax year. On 6 September 2022 SW sent Mr S his transaction history spanning from April 
2001 to March 2022.
On 29 September 2022, SW sent Mr S confirmation that his direct debit would recommence 
with a payment of £692.28 on 1 November 2022 and return to its normal monthly amount in 
December 2022.
On 6 October 2022, SW wrote to Mr S saying it had not received the September 2022 
contribution and advised him how to make up the missed contributions. SW said if these 
payments werent made up the plan may become paid up.
Mr S complained to SW and they issued a final response on Mr Ss complaint on 17 October 
2023, upholding it. SW said the direct debit was to be re-instated that day with the total 
missing contributions of £1,153.80 also taken that day and regular monthly contributions 
resuming the following month. SW agreed to compensate Mr S for the trouble and upset he 
had been caused by their failings and paid him £200.
In November 2022, Mr S contacted SW again because he considered that he had not been 
provided with what he had asked for, which was the £ figure for tax year 21/22 inland 
revenue return.
SW said theyd look into things, but noted that a premium history for 2021/2022 had already 
been sent. They asked Mr S exactly what information he needed for his tax return.
On 24 November 22 Mr S pointed out that he had not received the total amounts (gross & 
net) paid into his pension between 6 April 2021 and 5 April 2022. 
Mr S contacted SW again on 11 January 2023 saying he needed a response as his tax 
return had to be filed by 31 January 2023. He brought his complaint to our service on 12 
January 2023.
On 17 January 2023 SW issued a further final response letter. They didnt uphold Mr Ss
complaint about a failure to provide details of Mr Ss total contributions paid into his pension. 
They said the information was sent and that Mr S just needed to add up the individual 
contributions to obtain a total contributions figure. SW did, however, accept that  Mr S had 
been put to some further trouble having to chase them and so paid Mr S a further £50 (£250 
in total) for the trouble and upset caused. On 23 January 2023 SW also provided Mr S with 
the figures totalled up.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint and concluded that SW did not need to do 
anything further to resolve Mr Ss complaint. She concluded that SW had responded fairly 
and reasonably and that the £250 paid by way of compensation to put matters right was 
reasonable in the circumstances, and in line with awards made by this service in similar 
circumstances. 
She noted that the missed payments had been paid into his plan and that Mr Ss fund 
remained invested in a building society cash fund, with Mr S not asking for this to be 
changed. She noted that there was therefore no investment loss and that Mr S had access 
to the missed payment amounts, which remained in his possession, until the direct debit was 
reinstated. She recommended therefore that no interest was payable. She further noted that 
Mr Ss tax position had not been affected as a result of the delay in paying over the 
contributions, as they were still received in the same tax year.
 
Mr S didnt accept our investigators view, he considered that £400 was a fairer amount 
taking into account the amount of time and trouble he had been put to trying to get SW to put 
matters right. SW reconsidered its position and maintained its view that £250 in total was an 
appropriate amount to compensate Mr S for the trouble and upset caused.
As agreement could not be reached, Mr Ss complaint comes to me for a final decision..
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that SWs errors and omissions have caused Mr S trouble and upset.  SW  
accepts this. 
Our investigator concluded that Mr S had not suffered any financial loss. Mr S has not 
disputed this. My view also is that Mr S has not suffered any investment, interest or other 
financial loss arising from SWs errors and omissions.
So, what I need to consider, is whether the amount paid by SW to Mr S for the trouble and 
upset he has been caused is fair in all the circumstances.
I acknowledge that it must have been very frustrating for Mr S to have to contact SW a 
number of times to get things put right, with reassurances being given about re-instating his 
direct debit that were not then kept. As our investigator explained, SWs role was not to advise Mr S on what information to 
include in his tax return, it was to furnish him with relevant information. I consider that it 
furnished him with the relevant information he needed, and in a timely way, upon request. 
SW gave him the individual gross and net figures, all he was left to do was add these up. 
Looked at as a whole, I still consider that the £250 already paid to Mr S as compensation is 
fair and reasonable. The amount paid is in line with other awards made by this service. 
Further information is available on our website about how we calculate compensation for 
distress or inconvenience  see https;//www.financial-
ombudsman.org.uk/consumers/expect/compensation-for-distress-or-inconveneince
My final decision
In all the circumstances, Scottish Widows Limited need not do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2023.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman