DRN-2010057
The complaint
Ms K says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy in 2001. Its been agreed in this case that AXA, as the insurer, should take 
responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA as the seller in my 
decision.
What happened
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Ms K took out in 2001.She said PPI was not 
mentioned and it was added without her knowledge or consent. She said she had good 
employee benefits and savings at the time, so she didnt need PPI.
Our adjudicator thought that Ms Ks complaint should be upheld. AXA disagreed, so 
her complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision in July 2020 where I decided the complaint should not be 
upheld. We sent a copy of my provisional decision to both parties and invited them to 
produce new evidence or comments. AXA had nothing further to add. Ms K restated that she 
didnt receive any telephone calls about PPI, she had a good salary, she could not recall the 
precise amount of savings she had at the time of the sale and she said she could rely on her 
partner to pay her store card repayments.
Ive looked again at all the points Ms K raised, but I have not seen any new evidence or 
comments that make me change my mind. So I see no reason to change the conclusions I 
reached in my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive 
taken this into account when deciding this case.
I am not going to uphold Ms Ks complaint. I know this will be a disappointing result for her, 
so Ill explain why.
Ms K says she was unaware the policy had been added. She assumes PPI was added at 
the meeting when she applied for the store card. But AXA says the policy was sold to Ms K 
during a telephone call and after she had obtained the store card  although Ms K does not 
accept that. So I cant be sure how the policy was sold to Ms K, but I am persuaded when 
looking at this information that the sale was more likely conducted through a telephone call 
at some point after her meeting in the store. I will proceed on that basis. 
AXA hasnt been able to provide a recording of the telephone call or any call notes taken at 
the time  this isnt surprising considering the sale took place many years ago. So I dont 
know how PPI was presented to Ms K or what was said to her.Ive thought carefully about everything Ms K has told us  particularly that she did not know 
the policy had been added to her account. But I also have to consider that because the sale 
took place so long ago, memories can fade over time. Ive also taken in to account what we 
know about how AXA sold these policies around this time and everything weve seen in the 
past.
So I think, on balance, its likely the AXA representative would have followed a sale script 
and made it clear that the PPI was optional, and Ms K would have been asked for her 
consent to the cover - Ive not seen enough to conclude otherwise. I think its also likely that 
PPI would have appeared on Ms Ks store card statements and I think Ms K could have 
questioned why she was paying for PPI if it was something she hadnt agreed to buy. She 
told us she thought it was the norm at the time for PPI to be added to all store card accounts 
although she also said she didnt know it had been added. But it seems Ms K continued to 
pay PPI for some years after the PPI was added to her account. So I think its more likely 
she was probably aware PPI had been added at the time of the sale and had consented to it.
So based on what Ive seen, I think AXA made it clear the policy was optional and Ms K 
chose to take it out.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI policy to Ms K. So it didnt have to take steps to make sure 
the policy was suitable for her. But it had to give Ms K enough information about the policy to 
decide if she wanted it or not.
Its likely the information AXA gave Ms K about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been  including the costs and benefits of the policy. But based on what I know about Ms Ks 
circumstances it looks like PPI could still have been useful to her. And I dont think more 
detailed information would have stopped her buying it.
I say this because Ms K says she had savings and would have received sick pay if she was 
off work. We asked Ms K for more information about her savings, but she couldnt tell us or 
show proof of exactly how much she had in savings at the time. I noted the PPI policy would 
have paid 15% of the outstanding monthly balance for up to 12 months for unemployment, 
accident or sickness. So it probably would have paid out in addition to any provisions she 
had and for longer. So I think Ms K could have found this policy useful if she was unable to 
work or was unemployed. Theres nothing to show me Ms K couldnt afford the policy. And if 
she no longer wanted it she could have cancelled it at any time. 
I also dont think she would have been affected by any of the main things that might have 
made it more difficult for her to make a successful claim  such as any medical condition of 
which she was already aware. So I dont think better information about the exclusions would 
have stopped Ms K from buying the PPI. 
Ms K also said she could have relied on her family and partner for help. I do understand her 
point, but there was no guarantee she could rely on this help at some unknown point in the 
future, so I think the policy could still have been useful for her. 
Ive taken into account all Ms Ks comments about the PPI sale, but these points dont 
change my conclusion. So taking everything into account, I am not going to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or reject my decision before 21 August 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman