DRN-4038306
The complaint
Mr S complains that Oakbrook Finance Limited, trading as Likely Loans, (Likely Loans) has 
not made a fair and reasonable offer in settlement of his complaint.
What happened
In 2019 Likely Loans provided Mr S with a loan of £1,000. In 2022 Mr S complained that it 
had lent to him irresponsibly as he was unable to sustainably afford the repayments. Likely 
Loans accepted that it shouldnt have lent to him, and offered to refund all the interest 
charged and to remove any negative information about the loan from his credit file. This offer 
left him with a balance of just under £500 to repay to clear the debt, now owned by a third 
party after Likely Loans sold it on.
Mr S was unhappy with that offer as he believes the debt should be written off entirely. So he 
brought a complaint to this service. An investigator looked at the evidence and thought that 
what Likely Loans had already offered to do was fair and in line with our approach to 
resolving these sorts of complaints. So he didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Mr S asked for an Ombudsman to look at his case, reiterating that he believed writing off the 
debt was the fair resolution.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This case only requires me to consider whether Likely Loans existing offer to put things right 
is fair and reasonable. And I think it is, so I wont be directing it to do anything substantially 
further. Ill explain why.
Our well-established approach to such cases is to direct the business to refund the interest 
and charges to Mr S, as the best way of putting him back in the position he would have 
been in. This is because Mr S has had and spent the £1,000 he borrowed, so the fairest 
approach in cases such as this is to ensure that the business who made a mistake doesnt 
profit from that mistake. Where there is still a balance outstanding, typically any refund can 
be used to reduce the balance that the customer still owes the business.
There could be circumstances under which I would direct the full balance of the debt to be 
written off to restore fairness. But those circumstances would be rare and exceptional. Mr S 
has offered no reason as to why that would be fair in this instance, although he has 
suggested that a different business, against whom he raised a similar complaint, has 
apparently offered to write off the debt. I can make no comment on that case or its 
circumstances, as they are unknown to me. And the evidence in this case leads me to 
conclude that there is no reason to depart from our usual approach to redress in this 
instance. However, I will provide a little more specificity in confirming how Likely Loans 
should resolve this.
In line with our standard approach to such cases, Likely Loans should buy the debt back if it 
is able to do so and then take the following steps. If it is not able to buy the debt back, then it 
should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
It must remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the outstanding 
loan, and treat any repayments made by Mr S made towards the loan as though 
they had been repayments of the principal loan amount of £1,000.
If that means that Mr S would have made overpayments, then it must refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the 
date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled.
Alternatively, if there is still an outstanding balance following the account 
restructure, then Likely Loans should try to agree an affordable repayment plan 
with Mr S.
It must remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ss credit file in relation 
to this loan, once it has been repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Likely Loans to deduct tax from this interest. It should 
give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not directing Likely Loans to do any more than it has 
already offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2023.
 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman