DRN-4431268
The complaint
Ms G has complained that she was mis-informed by Ark Insurance Group trading as Sigma
Law Insurance at the time (Ark) that an insurance policy she took out to protect her against a
potential tax liability, had Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) protection.
What happened
In December 2012, Ms G was given tax mitigation advice, from a third party, regarding an
impending residential property purchase. Ms G says that as part of the advice, she was
recommended an insurance product that would protect her against any liability that arises.
She says that the cost of the policy brokered by Ark including fees, was approximately
£16,000.
Ms G says that the property purchase completed in January 2013, but that she was
subsequently informed by HM Revenue and Customs (HMRC) that she had a tax liability of
nearly £40,000. Ms G, through her advisors, appealed this decision.
In January 2015, Ms G says she was told that the original insurer had gone into
administration, but that a new insurer had taken over the policy on the same terms of cover.
Following years of dispute with HMRC, Ms G says that her advisers informed her in
November 2020 that they would no longer be contesting the HMRC decision. An insurance
claim is made after this.
It was after this that Ms G says that she was told that the new insurance underwriter was in
administration. A claim was made for FSCS protection but in May 2022 she was told that her
claim for protection wasnt successful.
Ms G complained to Ark in October 2022, that she had been given policy documentation
from them in December 2012, informing her that FSCS cover applied to her policy. Ark
responded to say that Ms G wasnt their customer, nor was she the policy holder. They said
she therefore wasnt an eligible complainant of theirs.
Ms G wasnt happy and so she brought her complaint to our service for an independent
review. Our investigator looked into it. He agreed with Ark. He said that whilst Ark were an
authorised intermediary, their customer was Ms Gs advisor.
Ms G remained unhappy. She said that as a beneficiary of the policy, she had a right to
complain. She pointed to third party rights under contract law. As no agreement was
reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 12 October 2023, an extract is below and forms part of this 
decision.
My provisional decision
Why I think we can consider this complaint
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I am 
currently of the opinion that the complaint is one we can consider, but isnt one 
that should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Our rules which set out which complaints we can and cant consider are set out 
in the Financial Conduct Authoritys Dispute Resolution Handbook (DISP). 
They state within DISP 2.3.1R that:
The Ombudsman can consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction
if it relates to an act or omission by a firm in carrying on one or more of the
following activities:(1) regulated activities or any ancillary activities, including
advice, carried on by the firm in connection with them.
DISP 2.7.6R also says that:
To be an eligible complainant, a person must also have a complaint which arises
from matters relevant to one of more of the following relationships with the
respondent:
So, this complaint must arise from matters relevant to one of the listed 
relationships, with Ark. One of the relationships is that of a person for whose 
benefit a contract of insurance was taken out with or through the respondent. 
The policy in question here was undoubtedly taken out through Ark. They 
arranged it and administered it. I dont believe that is contentious or being 
contested. Therefore, a regulated activity occurred with Ark setting up the policy.
Ms G complaint is that the information they gave her regarding FSCS coverage 
was misleading. She had been sent, directly, policy schedules, summaries and 
wordings. I believe that was part of the arrangement of the policy. Even though 
that arranging was of a policy for the advisory firm, it was ultimately for Ms Gs 
benefit. Ark dealt with her directly, and that is what she is complaining about.
So, it seems to me that Ms G complains about Arks carrying out of a regulated 
activity, and the things she complains about are relevant to the fact she stands to 
benefit from a contract of insurance taken out through Ark. So, we can consider 
this complaint.
I recognise that Ark might argue that the documentation being complained about 
wasnt produced by them and they are not responsible for the content. However, 
they sent it to Ms G, and so I think a question over their responsibility for its 
content, is a matter for the merits of this complaint and not the jurisdiction.
I would also like to note that Ms G has made arguments about third-party rights 
she has under the contract. However, I dont believe they apply here in the way 
she has suggested. The insurance contract itself was between the advisory firm 
as policyholder and the insurer. She does have rights to claim and complain 
there  but only to the insurer who she alleges failed to perform the contract. 
However, that doesnt alter her position in regard to Ark, who merely arranged 
the contract.
Why I dont think this complaint should be upheld
I am mindful of how long this issue has been going on for Ms G and also how 
long she has been waiting for an answer from our service. Because of this, I want to communicate my outcome on the merits of her complaint against Ark, as 
soon as I can.
For me to uphold the complaint, I would need to be satisfied that Ark made an 
error with the information it gave Ms G. I appreciate that Ark have said that they 
werent responsible for the policy information and that it is the insurer. However, 
the policy docs we have been provided with from the time, clearly state Sigma 
Law Insurance at the top. They also include  Sigma Law Insurance - SDLT 
Mitigation Planning Insurance _ Policy Wording in the footer. Further it was 
Ark/Sigma who sent the documentation to Ms G. It is they who need to ensure
communications are fair, clear and not misleading. I am therefore satisfied that 
Sigma and now Ark, would be responsible if they didnt do so.
Ms G has argued that the documentation contains misinformation that the policy 
she purchased provided cover from the FSCS. However, from whats been 
provided to us, I dont think thats the case. It states that the original insurer are 
members of the FSCS and that Ms G may be entitled to cover under that 
scheme. It goes on to say non-compulsory insurance such as this is covered for 
90% of the claim, with no upper limit.
I'm not persuaded the document guaranteed the FSCS would pay out. The 
FSCS considers cases on an individual basis and I don't think any such 
guarantees could be made. I don't think Ark ought to have been able to foresee 
that the FSCS would decline Ms G's claim - and so I don't think it would be fair 
and reasonable to hold it responsible for not informing her this would happen.
In summary, whilst I think this is a complaint we can look at, I dont believe it is 
one we can uphold. I sympathise with Ms G that this has been going on for many 
years and the impact she has said it has had on her health. However, I dont find 
the documents to be mis-leading and I do think scheme protection had the 
potential to have applied but ultimately the claim was rejected after 
consideration.
Ark didnt respond to my provisional decision. I therefore had nothing further to consider from 
them and went on to consider Ms Gs response regarding the merits of the case. 
Ms G responded with several points, including:
The documentation states that FSCS coverage is applicable,
It is irrelevant whether ARK could have foreseen that cover may not be given,
She has given several examples where it doesnt state that cover may apply and 
that I have been selective in my wording. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I understand Ms Gs comments that some of the wording regarding FSCS coverage 
was unclear, I am referring specifically to the policy summary and policy wording that were provided to her by Ark. 
The policy summary states, If we are unable to meet our liabilities you may be entitled to 
compensation under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). Clearly stating 
she only may be entitled. 
The policy wording states Guarantee Protection Insurance Ltd & Millburn Insurance 
Company Limited are members of the Financial Services Compensation Scheme. You may 
be entitled to compensation from the scheme if Guarantee Protection Insurance Ltd &/or 
Millburn Insurance Company Limited is unable to meet its obligations. This depends on the 
type of business and the circumstances of the claim. I think this also made it clear that there 
was no guarantee of coverage. 
Other documents might not have been as clear, but I believe these were enough to show 
that there was no guarantee. Further, regarding my point on foreseeability. I dont believe 
that Ark were misleading Ms G, as I dont believe they were aware FSCS coverage didnt 
apply. This is supported by their long dispute with FSCS regarding the coverage decision. 
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that whilst this complaint is one that this 
service can consider, it isnt one that should be upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman