DRN-2799141
The complaint
Mr B complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax Building Society (Halifax) incorrectly 
carried out hard searches on his credit record that havent yet been removed.
What happened
In 2019 Mr B was looking to take out a joint mortgage and gave Halifax permission to carry 
out a hard search on his credit record in October 2019. But Mr B says he didnt give Halifax 
permission for two further hard credit searches it carried out in April 2020 and October 2020. 
On 9 November 2020 Mr B contacted Halifax about that. Halifax said it would ask the credit 
reference agencies (CRAs) to remove these two searches from Mr Bs credit record and 
offered Mr B £25 compensation for his distress and inconvenience, plus £9 for his call costs. 
In January 2021, Mr B complained to Halifax because the two searches were still on his 
credit record. Halifax said an administration error meant it hadnt asked the CRAs to remove 
them as it should have. Halifax sent the request to the CRAs and offered Mr B a further £150 
compensation for this. But Halifax didnt offer Mr B any compensation to reflect his belief that 
the two searches had lowered his credit score and prevented him getting credit. 
Unhappy with this, Mr B brought his complaint to our service. He said Halifax had caused his 
credit record to be negatively affected for a year, that hed been turned down for a £10,000 
loan and needed to ask his partner to take out credit because he didnt want any further 
searches on his own credit record.
Our investigator ultimately said Halifaxs contact notes showed Mr B first complained to 
Halifax about the two searches on 9 November 2020, and that Halifax accepted it shouldnt 
have recorded them. She said Halifax hadnt then sent the removal request to the CRAs as it 
said it would, but that the total of £184 compensation Halifax had offered Mr B was fair. 
However, our investigator didnt think the two searches were the only reason Mr B might not 
have got the credit he wanted.
Mr B disagreed with our investigator, so his complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax doesnt dispute these two searches shouldnt be on Mr Bs credit record or that it 
caused a delay in asking the CRAs to remove them. Whats in dispute here is what would be 
fair and reasonable compensation for those errors. So, Ive considered the impact those 
errors had on Mr B. 
Mr B would have been distressed to find Halifax made two searches Halifax itself accepts it 
shouldnt have carried out. And Halifaxs system records show Mr B first complained to 
Halifax about them on 9 November 2020 but that it didnt ask the CRAs to remove them until 
19 January 2021  other than Mr Bs testimony, Ive not seen any evidence that Mr B 
contacted Halifax about the incorrect searches earlier, and Halifax says its not been able to 
find any earlier calls. Therefore, I think Halifax caused a delay of about ten weeks in asking 
the CRAs to remove the searches. And this caused Mr B further frustration as well as further 
inconvenience by having to chase Halifax. Given this, I think the £175 (£25 plus a further 
£150) Halifax has already offered Mr B is fair compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience this error caused him. 
Mr B says he couldnt get the credit he wanted because the two Halifax searches reduced 
his credit score. But while I realise this isnt the answer Mr B wanted, Im not awarding 
further compensation for this. Im mindful that lenders take many factors into account 
including the consumers credit record and employment, as well as their own lending criteria. 
And their own lending criteria will be based on many factors including the lenders own 
appetite for risk and wider economic conditions at a given time. The credit record information 
Mr B has provided shows that, apart from the two incorrect Halifax searches, he had four 
other hard searches on his credit record in the same year. And Mr B told us he was 
furloughed during the pandemic. Its reasonable to think these things may have had a 
bearing on Mr Bs ability to get credit, so I cant fairly say the two Halifax searches were the 
only reason Mr B didnt get the credit he wanted. 
I note Halifax has offered Mr B a further £9 compensation for his call costs. Ive not been 
provided with any evidence to suggest Mr Bs calls to Halifax cost more than this, so Im 
satisfied this is a reasonable amount for Halifax to offer.
Mr B has told us the two searches are still showing on his credit record. Halifax says the 
CRAs are experiencing backlogs at the moment. Thats unfortunate, but I cant hold Halifax 
responsible for the CRAs backlogs since they are separate businesses. What Halifax is 
responsible for is asking the CRAs to remove the searches, and Ive seen it did this in 
January 2021. Mr B has the option to complain to the CRAs about the delay in carrying out 
Halifaxs request Halifax. And if hes unhappy with the CRAs response, he can bring that 
complaint to our service for an impartial investigation. 
Taking everything into account, I think the total of £184 compensation Halifax has offered 
Mr B is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So Im not asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax Building Society 
should pay Mr B the total of £184 compensation its already offered him, if it hasnt already.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2021. 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman