DRN-4162386
The complaint
Mr B and the estate of Mrs B complain that it was wrong of Shawbrook Bank Limited to 
provide a loan so they could purchase a holiday club membership (the product) and then 
refuse to accept their claims under Sections 75 and 140 Consumer Credit Act (CCA). Sadly 
Mrs B passed away after this complaint was raised and in this decision I will refer to Mr B 
throughout as the sole purchaser, but I recognise the purchase was made jointly. Mr B is 
represented by a professional representative (PR) but I will refer (generally) to everything 
thats been said on his behalf as if Mr B had said it himself, to keep things simple.
What happened
Mr B first became involved with the holiday company which I will call (C) in 2006 when he 
purchased a Trial Membership. In December 2006 he traded in the Trial Membership for a 
Vacation Club membership, however then decided to cancel this purchase within the 
statutory fourteen day rescission period.
In April 2008 he purchased a Vacation Club membership, for which he went on to purchase 
additional points in June 2009.
In December 2010 Mr B traded in part of the points towards the purchase of a Freehold 
property whilst at the same time, and independently to this purchase, he opted to purchase 
additional points for their existing membership to increase their membership level.
In June 2012 Mr B traded in the membership for the Fractional Points Ownership (FPOC) 
membership, which is the subject of this complaint, which increased their Membership level 
even further. This was funded by a loan from Shawbrook for £10,924.
In August 2013 Mr B traded in one of the fractions towards a further property purchase with 
C. Mr B then surrendered his remaining five fractions in August 2019 for health reasons. C 
has said that Mr B had 13 holiday weeks between 2012 and 2016.
In the complaint made to Shawbrook PR said:
Shawbrooks agent wasnt authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority.
Mr B was finding it more difficult to secure holidays
Management charges increased each year
Mr B had been told the product would be sold in 19 years but there was no duty of
care that required to C or its partner to actively market and sell the property. Until it 
was sold they would incur management charges.
Mr B was not told C could postpone the sale by up to two years.
Mr B was not told that his beneficiaries would inherit the management liability.
The product was an Unregulated Collective Investment Scheme (UCIS) which was 
promoted by C without proper care.
Shawbrook rejected the claim saying Mr B had been given the appropriate documentation 
including a right of withdrawal. It said there was no forced inheritance and the trustee which 
held the property was under a fiduciary duty to sell the property after19 years. The two year 
extension would only apply if all the Fractional holders agreed unanimously.
It added that at no time was Mr B told he was purchasing a specific property. Rather they 
purchased from [the] Sales Company the exclusive rights of use (Fractional Rights) for the 
number of Weekly Periods equivalent to Fractional Points. Shawbrook said Mr B had not 
been misled about the potential sale.
He had been sold the right to holidays and not a particular property. He had also been made 
aware of the management charges and that these could increase. No investment advice had 
been given as this was not an investment.
It confirmed that C, under its trading name was permitted to act as a credit broker until 31 
March 2015. It rebutted the claims made by PR in some detail and set out the relevant parts 
of the Financial Services Management Act.
PR brought a complaint to this service on behalf of Mr B. It said that C wasnt authorised to 
give investment advice and reiterated the points it had made in the claim to Shawbrook. It 
didnt submit any detail from Mr B about his purchase or use of the product other than he 
had been coerced into making the purchase and he had found it difficult to source holidays.
The complaint weas considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend the 
complaint be upheld. She considered that the claims under s. 75 and 140 CCA had been 
made out of time.
PR didnt agree. It said that in the case of Patel v Patel a claim for relief under s.140B could 
be made with an action under a speciality more than 12 years after the relationship ended. It 
said the relationship with C continued after the loan was repaid and so this meant the claim 
was in date. It argued that the CCA deemed any negotiation carried on by C was done on 
Shawbrooks behalf and so an ongoing connection with C also applied to Shawbrook.
It also said that it had proved the product was a UCIS and so it had been misrepresented to 
Mr B. It argued that C through unfair and misleading sales tactics had created an unfair 
relationship. It referred to a sales presentation used by C without providing any evidence that 
it was used when the sale was made. However, I have no reason to doubt it is a document 
which comes from C.
It says this shows that C made comparisons between three options, renting a holiday home, 
buying one and becoming a member of FPOC. Two slides in this deck of some 40 slides 
reference investment. The first states that owning your own holiday home can be an 
investment. The second says FPOC allows you to enjoy both the benefits renting and 
owning by becoming a FPOC member. PR argues that this shows that FPOC membership 
was marketed as an investment. It goes on to say Mr B believed he was buying an 
investment. However, the product was being sold as both an investment and a right to 
access holiday accommodation. It concluded that C provided incomplete, misleading and 
inconsistent information.
It also added a point which had not been raised with Shawbrook, that it had not carried out 
an appropriate income and affordability assessment.PR made further submissions to the effect that C had not complied with the Timeshare 
Regulations 2010. It said that there had been a breach of s. 27 FSMA as it believed the 
selling of the FPOC was a regulated activity. It said that the legislation covered two activities, 
advising on investments and arranging investments.
I issued a first provisional decision as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach 
my decision about the merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence 
and the wider circumstances.
PR has made very detailed submissions which include reference to various regulations, 
legislation and caselaw (amongst other things). I have to take account of the law and 
regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice and good 
industry practice, when I make my decision. And I want to assure Mr B that I have 
considered everything thats been said and sent to us. If I dont address every single point 
thats been raised thats because Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is 
relevant and material to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome. The rules of our service  
which provides a free alternative to the courts - allow me to do this.
Mr B brings claims against Shawbrook pursuant to s. 241 and 138D of FSMA and s. 56, 75 
and 140A of the CCA (amongst other things). Our investigator considers any right he has to 
do so is probably out of time under the LA. If thats right, I think its something Shawbrook 
could reasonably take into account when considering Mr Bs claims. But I want to make it 
clear at the outset that Im not deciding if any right that Mr B may have to bring a claim has 
expired under the LA - thats a matter for the courts. In this decision, Im considering whether 
Shawbrook should reasonably have accepted liability for the claims.
Was the product an unregulated credit agreement?
If the product was a UCIS, that could mean the credit agreement between Mr B and 
Shawbrook (taken alongside the product it was used to finance) led to an unfair 
debtor/creditor relationship between Mr B and Shawbrook. Although Ive gone on to consider 
whether Mr B is able to bring a claim under section 140A CCA for an unfair debtor/creditor 
relationship, I think it is useful to set out whether I think the product could amount to a UCIS 
That is because it has been alleged Shawbrook may have breached certain legal provisions 
by financing a UCIS.
In order to be a UCIS, I think this product would have to not only fall within the definition of a 
collective investment scheme (CIS) under FSMA (section 235) but outside of the definition of 
arrangements which do not amount to a collective investment scheme set out in the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Collective Investment Schemes) Order 2001 (the 
CIS order).
If the Purchase Agreement qualified as a timeshare contract, it cant have given rise to a 
CIS because the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Collective Investment Schemes) 
Order 2001 (the 2001 CIS Order) provides in Schedule 1 (Paragraph 13) that arrangements 
dont amount to a CIS if ...the rights or interests of the participants are rights under a 
timeshare contract....
Regulation 7 of the Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts and Regulations 2010 (the Timeshare Regulations) define a timeshare contract as a contract 
between a trader and a consumer under which the consumer, for consideration, acquires the 
right to use overnight accommodation for more than one period of occupation and which has 
a duration of more than one year .
An important phrase in this definition, in the context of this complaint, is the 
consumer...acquires (the relevant rights to use accommodation). To acquire seems to 
me to have its normal meaning of gaining something or coming into possession of it. And, if 
the agreement was a timeshare contract, I think it must have caused Mr B to have gained or 
come into possession of rights to use overnight accommodation.
Looking at the documentation, Im satisfied Mr B paid for the right to use overnight 
accommodation for more than one period of occupation (including accommodation from a 
pool of accommodation) under an agreement that had a duration of more than one year.
That was a right he acquired for the first time when he bought the product in question. And, 
with that being the case, I see no reason why the Purchase Agreement wasnt a timeshare 
contract (such that it wasnt excluded from being a CIS). For the reasons set out, Im minded 
to find the product is a timeshare contract and it is therefore excluded from being a CIS 
which means it cant, by definition, be a UCIS.
Sections 56 and 75 CCA
Broadly speaking section 56 provides that any pre-sale negotiations conducted by the 
supplier in relation to the product purchase financed by the loan Shawbrook provided were 
conducted by the supplier as Shawbrooks agent. And, under s. 75, a borrower has an equal 
right to claim against a credit provider and a supplier if theres been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier, in certain circumstances.
Amongst other things, s. 75 requires a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement to be present. I 
havent considered if this relationship is in place here because Im not minded to uphold the 
complaint for other reasons  as Ill explain below.
PR says the supplier made a number of misrepresentations when he agreed to buy the 
product and take out the loan and I think s. 2, and 9 of the LA are relevant. Section 2 applies 
to a claim (founded in tort) for damages under s. 2(1) of the Misrepresentation Act 1967 and 
s. 9 applies to causes of action for sums recoverable under statute. Im satisfied that both 
sections impose a limitation period of six years from the date that a cause of action accrues. 
I think the date on which the cause of action accrued in this case will be the same as the 
date upon which the misrepresentations alleged became actionable  that is the date 
damage is suffered. I say this because Im satisfied that any relevant damage would have 
been incurred when Mr B purchased the product and took out the loan - in June 2012.
Amongst other things, it was then he paid for the benefits which he says were 
misrepresented and incurred liability for management fees.
In light of the above, I think Mr B would have needed to bring any misrepresentation claim 
within six years of the date he purchased the product. Im satisfied that more than six years 
had passed since that date before Mr B contacted Shawbrook, in October 2019. I think the 
period within which Mr B had to bring an action for misrepresentation had likely run out by 
this point. And I cant reasonably conclude that Shawbrook should accept responsibility for 
such claims.
Section 140A CCAUnder this section a court may make an order under s. 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it decides that the relationship between the lender and the creditor arising out 
of the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make such a determination but I 
think this is relevant law and I have taken it into account.
Im satisfied that the time limit within which Mr B had to bring such a claim is six years from 
the date the debtor-creditor relationship ended. That is because the claim Mr B brought is an 
action for sums recoverable under statute to which s. 9 of the Limitation Act applies, not s. 8. 
The loan was repaid in April 2013. And Im not persuaded the fact they paid any 
management fees beyond that date means their relationship with Shawbrook continued. I 
think this means Mr B needed to bring any claim under s. 140A no later than April 2019. Im 
satisfied he didnt raise his claim with Shawbrook until October 2019. Thats more than six 
years after time started running and Im minded to find any right Mr B had to bring a claim 
under s. 140A had probably expired at that stage.
So Im not persuaded its unreasonable for Shawbrook to decline the s. 140A claim.
Was the time Mr B had to bring his claims extended?
I have considered s. 32 of the LA  which relates to the extension of time for starting an 
action if fraud, mistake or concealment are found or could with reasonable diligence have 
been discovered.
Im not persuaded that this assists Mr B in the circumstances here for the reasons Ive 
explained below.
As far as I can see, Mr B was making full use of the membership. PR has not supplied any 
evidence to show that Mr B had any grounds for dissatisfaction with the product. On 
balance, I think Mr B probably had enough information to realise that misrepresentations 
might have been made, and start the clock running, not long after he purchased the product 
in June 2012. He would have been aware of the alleged difficulty in obtaining access to 
accommodation and the increase in the management charges. I consider this information 
would likely have been sufficient to enable Mr B to bring his claims and I dont think its 
unreasonable to expect him to have done so within the relevant time limits.
PR argues that an unfair relationship with the timeshare provider continued beyond April 
2013, so the time to bring a claim against Shawbrook did not start to run until later. But, s. 
140A looks at the fairness of the relationship between a debtor and creditor arising out of the 
credit agreement (taken together with any related agreement).
Once Mr B repaid the loan in full, the agreement between them and Shawbrook ended. And, 
as it was only the relationship between them and Shawbrook that could be found unfair, 
limitation started to run when the credit agreement ended.
FSMA and S.14 A Claim
PR has argued that the product was marketed as an investment therefore s. 14 A has effect. 
S. 14A of the LA provides a Special time limit for negligence actions where facts relevant to 
cause of action are not known at date of accrual. PR says that this provision applies to Mr 
Bs claims. But I disagree.
S. 14A provides for a second period in which a claim for negligence can be made. But 
having looked at what happened at the time of the 2012 purchase, C wasnt acting as agent 
of Mr B but as the supplier of contractual rights they obtained under the relevant purchase 
agreement. And, in relation to the loan, based on what Ive seen, I dont think it was Cs role to make an impartial or disinterested recommendation or to give Mr B advice or information 
on that basis.
So, while there might have been an obligation on C to provide the right information and 
enough of it in good time so that Mr B could make an informed choice, Im not persuaded 
that there was a duty of care that could give rise to a claim to which s. 14A of the LA could 
be applied.
Unaffordable lending
In its response to our investigators view, PR says Shawbrook failed to undertake any proper 
affordability checks before providing this loan. Its not clear to me if this has been raised 
previously with Shawbrook  so Im not certain that Shawbrook has had a chance to 
consider the issue and respond. I think its reasonable to deal with it now however  in light 
of my findings below - and its open to Shawbrook to let me know if it has any objections.
I accept Shawbrook was required to undertake checks to satisfy itself that Mr B was likely to 
be able to afford to repay what he borrowed without too much difficulty. And I think some sort 
of affordability assessment was probably carried out. However, I dont have much 
information about what checks were undertaken exactly. Even if I were to accept however 
that Shawbrook didnt do all that it should have before lending, Id still need to be satisfied 
that this loan was actually unaffordable for Mr B in order to reasonably uphold this part of the 
complaint.
I have not seen much evidence about his financial situation at the relevant time. But he 
hasnt suggested that he was struggling financially when he took the loan out  or indicated 
that he had any difficulties meeting repayments. Im satisfied that Mr B was able to pay off 
the loan about 10 months after he took it out  which doesnt suggest he was having 
financial issues at that time. And, on the information I have at the moment, I dont think 
theres enough evidence to reasonably conclude that this loan was unaffordable for Mr B.
So, Im unable to reasonably uphold this part of his complaint.
Conclusion
Its for the courts to decide if any claims that Mr B may have against the supplier or 
Shawbrook have expired under the LA. For the reasons Ive given above, I think the claims 
that Mr B might have against Shawbrook have most likely exceeded the time limits set out in 
the LA. I think it is reasonable to take this into account in these particular circumstances.
And, Im not presently persuaded that there are sufficient fair and reasonable grounds to 
uphold this complaint. I dont think Shawbrook has treated Mr B unfairly or acted 
unreasonably and I cant properly require Shawbrook to compensate Mr B or do anything 
else.
PR did not agree with my provisional and made a lengthy submission. This made four 
arguments:
The timeshare product may not be an Unregulated Collection Investment Scheme 
(UCIS) but it is an investment. It said this has already been confirmed by another 
decision by this service.
C breached the FSMA (Financial Services and Markets Act) regulations by promoting 
the product as an investment.Under the Consumer Credit Act (CCA), the Bank loan agreement is a linked 
agreement with the timeshare agreement. Therefore, under CCA, C is an agent of 
the Bank and the Bank is responsible for the actions of the agent. The breaches of 
the FSMA regulations and the 2010 Timeshare Regulations by CLC and the Bank, 
means the Bank was negligent and breached its duty of care to Mr B. Under the CCA 
s140A, the relationship between the Bank and CLC was unfair.
Due to the Bank negligence, S14A of the Limitation Act allows the time to be 
extended to three years from the date Mr B was made aware of the Banks breaches 
 this was when he engaged PR and so the claim is not time barred.
I issued a second provisional decision as follows:
I have noted the points PR has made about the product and whether it is, or was an 
investment. However, the complaint was not upheld because the claim was made out of 
time. Therefore I consider I need to address the grounds put forward for the time limit being 
extended.
Grounds to Extend Time
Section 14A of the LA provides claimants with a Special time limit for negligence actions [in 
which] facts relevant to cause of action are not known at date of accrual. And PR says that 
this provision gives Mr B more time to make his claims. In its view, Shawbrook acted 
negligently when it paid the Supplier in June 2012 because it owed Mr B a duty of care to 
ensure that the 1992 Act and FSMA were complied with by the Supplier.
It isnt entirely clear whether PR is saying that both types of CCA claim made by Mr B (i.e., 
his Section 75 and Section 140A claims) were made in time because of Section 14A of the 
LA or one over the other. But either way, I dont think Section 14A gave Mr B more time to 
make any of his claims.
A claim for negligence is a cause of action in tort. And as noted in paragraph 32.35 of 
Goode: Consumer Credit Law and Practice, Section 75 of the CCA cant found a claim in tort 
against the creditor except on the basis of a fraudulent or negligent misrepresentation. But 
on my reading of this complaint, Mr Bs allegations of misrepresentation dont set out in any 
detail the representations that are said to have been made by the Supplier  let alone assert, 
with that detail in mind, that the Supplier owed him a relevant duty of care when making such 
representations. So, to the extent that there were s. 75 claims for misrepresentation, s. 14A 
of the LA doesnt help Mr Bs cause.
As for Mr Bs s. 140A claims, when they were made to Shawbrook and referred to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, they related to PRs allegation that the Credit Agreement 
was null and void because the purchase agreements Mr B entered into didnt provide 
certain information as required under the 1992 Act and were sold as a UCIS. In my view, 
therefore, his Section 140A claims were only concerned with breaches of a statutory duty by 
the Supplier rather than Shawbrooks negligence. And as Section 14A of the LA doesnt 
apply to such breaches, I dont think it helps Mr Bs cause here either.
However, even if Im wrong about the nature of Mr Bs Section 140A claims, Im not 
persuaded that Mr B could be said to have a cause of action in negligence against 
Shawbrook anyway.
Mr Bs alleged loss isnt related to damage to property or to him personally, which must 
mean its purely financial. And that type of loss isnt usually recoverable in a claim of 
negligence unless there was some responsibility on the allegedly negligent party to protect a claimant against that type of harm.
Yet Ive seen little to nothing to persuade me that Shawbrook assumed such responsibility  
whether willingly or unwillingly  over and above ensuring that Mr B could afford to repay 
what he was borrowing.
PR seems to suggest that, because the Supplier was Shawbrooks statutory agent under 
Section 56 of the CCA, Shawbrook owed Mr B a duty of care to ensure that the Supplier 
complied with the 1992 Act and FSMA. And PR says that Shawbrook breached that duty by 
failing to carry out  before granting Mr B credit and paying the Supplier  the due diligence 
necessary to ensure that the products purchased by Mr B werent sold by the Supplier in 
breach of the 1992 Act or as a UCIS.
However, English law recognises that there cant be a duty of care owed to everyone, in 
every situation and against all forms of harm. And there are legal tests to ascertain whether 
a duty of care is owed to someone in a given situation. They are:
1. A three-stage test set down in Caparo Industries v Dickman [1990]  which asks whether:
i. The damage was foreseeable.
ii. There was a sufficiently proximate relationship between the parties.
iii. Its fair, just and reasonable in all the circumstances to impose a duty of care.
2. The assumption of responsibility test in Henderson v Merrett Syndicates Ltd [1995], 
which was concerned with whether the defendant had taken on the responsibility of 
exercising reasonable care and skill towards the claimant.
3. Situations in which a duty of care was owed to the claimant by the defendant because 
such a duty had already been established by the courts.
Yet despite PRs lengthy submissions, it hasnt persuaded me with reference to any of these 
tests or relevant authorities that a lender owed a debtor and the purchaser of a timeshare a 
duty of care to ensure that the product they were purchasing wasnt sold by the supplier in 
breach of a relevant regulation  particularly one that imposed a criminal sanction.
As things stand, therefore, I cant see why any of Mr Bs claims were likely to have been 
made in time under the LA.
PR disagreed and raised new points and responded to those made in my provisional 
decision. It referenced the judgment in a recent judicial review of two decisions on 
complaints about finance provided for the purchase of timeshare products. It argued that this 
said that the court had concluded that s.56 CCA allowed s.140A and s.140B to have effect. 
This meant that this service could consider that the breaches by C led to an unfair 
relationship.
It said that s.14 LA meant the time limit being extended to three years from the date Mr B 
became aware of Shawbrooks alleged negligence. It took this view as it considered s.14A 
applied to breaches by C. 
It also said that the claim under s.140A was a result of C selling a fractional as an 
investment. This meant it was property loss and so the loss was recoverable in a claim of 
negligence from the bank. The breach of the 2010 Regulations created an unfair 
relationship. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I would like to address what PR has said about the findings of the High Court 
following the recent judicial review of the Financial Ombudsman Service and the approach 
PR thinks it should take to this complaint, which in simple terms is that I should take an 
identical approach.
As I set out in my provisional decision I consider that Mr Bs claims under s.75 and s.140A 
were made out of time and as the question of limitation wasnt part of the judicial review it 
isnt directly relevant to this complaint. The High Court did affirm that my fellow 
ombudsmans findings on s.56 CCA and the extent to which it creates a statutory agency 
relationship between a creditor and a supplier when there is a debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement in place  such that any negotiations between Mr B and C before his purchase 
are deemed to have been conducted by C as an agent of Shawbrook. PR argued this 
complaint should be treated in the same way, but I do not agree.
Quite simply, the issue for this complaint is whether the claims were made in time and the 
judgement in the High Court does not assist in establishing whether the time limits could be 
extended as PR suggests. In essence PR suggests that the judgement supports the claim 
that the relationship between the bank and Mr B was unfair. I do not agree for the reasons 
given below.
S.140 A claim for an Unfair Relationship and s.14 LA
PR has argued that breaches in the 2010 Regulations made the relationship unfair and so it 
should be unwound. However, I think PR is conflating and confusing the part played by s.56 
CCA in an assessment of unfairness under s.140A with limitation and whether Mr Bs claims 
were made in time under the LA.
Mr Bs claims under s.140A werent made under a provision of the CCA intended to 
reproduce, against a creditor, the relevant damages claim which a complainant enjoys 
against a supplier (like s.75 does). However, claims under s.140A are only concerned with 
whether there was an unfair debtor-creditor relationship. And while Cs alleged breaches of 
the 2010 Regulations (and alleged negligence) would undoubtedly be relevant to an 
assessment of unfairness because of the statutory relationship created by s.56 between C 
and Shawbrook, PR hasnt pointed me to any relevant authorities to demonstrate that a 
claim under s.140A that happens to involve allegations of negligence by a timeshare 
provider changes that claim, for the purpose of limitation, from an action to recover any sum 
recoverable by virtue of any enactment governed by s.9 of the LA, to a claim for negligence 
governed by s.14A. In short, I have followed PRs line of argument which attempts to link 
s.14 to s.140A but as pointed out above it does not do so.
As such I am not persuaded that s.14A LA gave Mr B more time to make his s.140A claims.
In conclusion I remain unpersuaded that this complaint should be upheld or that Shawbrook 
should respond differently to the claim made by Mr B.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and the estate of Mrs B to accept or reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman