DRN-4159029
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Scottish Equitable Plc, trading as Aegon, declined their claim 
under their life insurance policy. They also complain about poor customer service from a 
claims handler.
What happened
To summarise, in April 2014, Mr and Mrs C took out a joint life insurance policy with Scottish 
Equitable. The policy runs for 10 years, so expires in April 2024. It includes a terminal illness 
benefit.
In January 2022, Mr C was diagnosed with prostate cancer. In January 2023, Mr C made a 
claim for terminal illness benefit. This was declined by Scottish Equitable on the grounds that 
the policy definition of terminal illness had not been met.  Mr and Mrs C complained, so 
Scottish Equitable reviewed its decision but maintained its position. Scottish Equitable also 
reviewed the claims handlers call to Mrs C to tell her about the claim review decision. 
Scottish Equitable didnt think the call handler had been rude or nasty, but appreciated that 
the call was of a sensitive nature and apologised that the service didnt meet Mrs Cs 
expectations.
Mr and Mrs C were unhappy about this decision and came to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. An investigator looked into things for them, but didnt uphold their complaint. She 
was satisfied Scottish Equitable was reasonably entitled to decline the claim based on the 
medical evidence. She also considered Mr and Mrs Cs complaint about poor customer 
service. She didnt think the claims handler intended to be rude or upset Mrs C, but 
recognised that he couldve been a little more compassionate. She thought the action 
Scottish Equitable had taken  feeding back to the claims handlers manager to review the 
call and address any training issues  was sufficient. 
Mr and Mrs C disagreed, so their complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I know this will be extremely unwelcome 
news for Mr and Mrs C and Im very sorry about that. Ill explain the reasons for my decision.
Declined claim
Mr and Mrs Cs policy includes the following relevant definitions: 
Terminal illness  life expectancy less than 12 months
Definition: A definite diagnosis by the attending consultant of an illness that satisfies 
both of the following:
The illness either has no known cure or has progressed to the point where it cannot 
be cured
In the opinion of the attending Consultant, the illness is expected to lead to death 
within 12 months
For Life only benefits our Chief Medical Officer will also need to agree that the illness 
is expected to lead to death within 12 months.
Theres no dispute that Mr C has an incurable illness. The issue in dispute is prognosis. In 
February 2023, his treating consultant oncologist, Dr G, estimated Mr Cs then current life 
expectancy as between 2-3 years. In a follow-up letter in mid-March 2023, Dr G stated:
[Mr Cs] condition is terminal as we cannot cure and therefore the treatment is 
palliative. It is difficult to predict accurately a patients cancer survival as this will 
depend on treatment response and tolerance. I hope that this helps clarify things.  
Another opinion was sought from a consultant in clinical oncology, Dr R, who met Mr and 
Mrs C in late March 2023. Dr R supported Mr Cs claim for terminal illness benefit with the 
following comments on prognosis:
Mr C has castration resistant metastatic carcinoma of the prostate and understands 
that he has a limited life expectancy. Of course it is always very difficult to be exact in 
this situation, but average survival is somewhere between 6 and 18 months when 
people have developed castration resistant disease and not infrequently the 
prognosis is likely to be less than a year.  
The policy definition places emphasis on the opinion of the attending consultant  that is, Dr 
G. And I can see that Dr Gs follow-up opinion didnt make any alteration to his initial 
prognosis of 2-3 years in February 2023. But I note that Dr Rs opinion, whilst differing from 
Dr Gs, similarly doesnt confirm that Mr Cs illness is expected to lead to death within 12 
months.
Scottish Equitable also referred the medical evidence to of their own oncologists for review, 
who concluded that on the basis of that evidence, the policy definition wasnt met. 
Im aware Mrs C has provided additional evidence regarding Mr Cs benefits status and a 
letter of support from his hospice welfare advisor. Again, theres no dispute that Mr Cs 
illness is terminal, and that that may entitle him to other levels of support. But eligibility for 
such support doesnt alter the medical evidence regarding his prognosis, which is whats 
central to satisfying the policy condition for terminal illness benefit.  
I appreciate that the timing of this claim, coming relatively close to the end of the policy, is 
particularly distressing for Mr and Mrs C. But having reviewed the medical evidence and 
claims decisions against the policy terms, I dont think Scottish Equitable has acted unfairly 
in declining Mr Cs claim. The attending consultant did not support a prognosis of less than 
12 months and neither did the alternative oncology opinion. Scottish Equitable is entitled to 
rely on the medical opinions. 
Customer Service
Mr and Mrs C have also complained about the conduct of a claims handler. I can understand 
Mrs Cs frustration about the call. Having listened to it, I dont think it was the handlers intention to cause upset or offence. But it was a difficult message to give and I do think that 
at times, he struggled for words and didnt always phrase things in the most sensitive 
manner. Scottish Equitable apologised for not meeting expectations and referred the matter 
back to the handlers manager to pick up. In the circumstances, I think thats a reasonable 
response.
Once again, Im sorry to have to write in terms that will be very disappointing for Mr and Mrs 
C. But in the circumstances I cannot conclude that Scottish Equitable treated them unfairly in 
relation to Mr Cs terminal illness claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman