DRN-2624503
The complaint
Miss S complained that TM Advances Limited lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss S took out a single loan from TM Advances in May 2018. She borrowed £1,500 and 
she agreed to pay the loan by making 30 monthly instalments of £159. With interest added 
on, the total cost of this loan was £4,770. 
The loan was repaid in August 2020.
Miss S brought her complaint to us when she wasnt able to resolve it with TM Advances. 
In summary, Miss S complained that the affordability checks done by TM Advances hadnt 
been robust enough. And also, having seen the search results, that TM Advances ignored 
information showing that she was struggling to manage her money and borrowing more.   
One of our adjudicators looked at what had happened. 
Our adjudicator thought that information TM Advances gathered about Miss Ss financial 
situation, which included a credit report, showed that Miss S was having problems managing 
her money. So our adjudicator thought it was unlikely she would be able to sustainably repay 
this loan.
Our adjudicator set out detailed directions indicating what TM Advances needed to do to put 
things right. 
TM Advances disagreed with our adjudicators view. In summary, it said:
the loan was provided to help Miss S consolidate other loans and pay for car repairs
the loan it provided enabled her to do this and probably kept her away from further 
high cost short term borrowing. Miss S needed to do car repairs and, given her 
situation, she didnt have access to funds needed to do this 
Miss S made all her payments on time and never missed a loan repayment  which 
suggests the loan was affordable and sustainable for her.
TM Advances asked an ombudsman to review the complaint and so it comes to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Miss Ss complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. 
A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can sustainably repay 
the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. 
For example, when thinking about what a borrower has left to spend on a new loan after 
paying other expenses, as well as taking into account things like the loan amount, the cost of 
the repayments and how long the loan is for, a proportionate check might mean a lender 
should also find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify the 
borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done.
If proportionate checks were done and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think 
about whether theres any other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. 
For example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
Ive kept all these things in mind and Ive thought carefully about the information TM 
Advances relied on when it decided to lend to Miss S. 
what checks did TM Advances do before agreeing to lend to Miss S?
TM Advances asked Miss S about her income and expenses and carried out credit checks -
and it sent this information to us. So Ive been able to see information that TM Advances 
relied on when it agreed to provide this loan to Miss S. 
TM Advances recorded Miss Ss income as £2,750 per month. When looking at what she 
could afford, TM Advances included an amount for her rent and other main living costs and 
allowed for Miss S spending £608 on other credit  reducing to £438 after using this loan to 
clear other loans. 
Overall, TM Advances calculated Miss S shouldve had around £392 still available. 
So TM Advances felt her loan repayment of £159 for this loan looked like it should be 
comfortably affordable for Miss S  and that it appeared that she would be better off as a 
result of using the loan to pay off other debt. 
what did the checks show? Like our adjudicator, I dont think that TM Advances properly took into account the 
information it was able to see on the credit checks it carried out when thinking about whether 
Miss S would be able to repay this loan in a way that was sustainable. 
I think that TM Advances could see from its credit check that Miss S had five credit cards 
which were all at or very close to the credit limit set for the card  our adjudicator worked out 
that this meant Miss S was using over 97% of her available running credit. TM Advances 
hasnt disputed this and that figure seems about right to me. 
As well as this, TM Advances could see information that showed Miss S was just £2 off her 
overdraft limit of £1200 in addition to owing £585 on a mail order account. 
I think all this information painted a picture of someone struggling to manage money 
problems effectively and it included clear warning signs that Miss S was likely experiencing 
financial difficulty. 
I've taken into account that Miss S said the purpose of the TM Advances loan was to 
consolidate other loans  in other words, to pay off other debt in order to help reduce her 
monthly outgoings. 
But after using this loan to settle two others Miss S was still going to have a number of active 
loans and a significant amount of other debt outstanding. 
And it looks like the loans being settled only had a few repayments remaining. So whilst its 
fair to say the repayment for this new loan was less than the combined repayments she had 
been making on the loans she would clear, and so her monthly outgoings would be reduced 
as a result, Miss S was signing up to pay her new TM Advances loan for 30 months. 
Looking at the loan amount and the term over which she had committed to repay it, in real 
terms taking out this loan put Miss S into a worse position overall. 
TM Advances loan meant Miss S had to repay expensive credit over the next two and a half 
years  long after she expected the loans she would repay using this money still to be 
running. And taking out this loan put her in the position of borrowing high cost credit to pay 
other high cost credit. 
So she wouldnt only be paying interest on the principal amount she had borrowed in the first 
place  she would effectively be paying interest on interest shed already been charged.
I appreciate that Miss S made timely repayments on this loan. But successfully repaying the 
loan doesnt mean she managed to do so in a sustainable way. 
TM Advances could see from the credit checks it carried out that Miss S was using credit in 
a way that suggested she was at a point where her debt looked like it would be 
unmanageable as her various lines of credit were all reaching their limit.  
Looked at overall, I dont think TM Advances had sufficient reason to think this loan would 
improve her position sufficiently to achieve a significant and sustainable improvement in her 
overall financial situation  given her outstanding indebtedness overall. 
And based on all the information TM Advances had gathered, I dont think it was in a position 
reasonably to say that the loan was likely to be sustainably affordable for Miss S. I think TM Advances shouldve realised that this loan wasnt likely to be sustainably 
affordable for Miss S  and so, based on the information it could see, TM Advances 
shouldnt have lent to her. 
For these reasons, Im upholding this complaint.  
I've set out below what TM Advances should now do to put things right for Miss S.
Putting things right
TM Advances should take the following steps: 
A) refund everything Miss S paid over the principal loan amount and repay this to 
Miss S with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled
B) remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ss credit file in relation to the 
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TM Advances to deduct tax from this interest. TM 
Advances should give Miss S a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if she 
asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct TM Advances Limited to take the steps set out above to 
put things right for Miss S. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman