DRN-2666186
The complaint and background
Ms S complains Telefonica Insurance S.A. sent her a faulty phone. She first made a claim 
when the camera on her phone shattered. Telefonica sent her a replacement phone, but 
later agreed to send a further replacement.  
Ms S says the second replacement was in good condition when it arrived, but that it cracked 
shortly afterwards. She maintains there was no impact that could have caused this, and says 
the crack is underneath the phones outer casing. 
The manufacturer told Ms S the phone had been repaired before. And an employee of the 
network provider wasnt able to identify a point of impact. They also said phones can crack 
when they overheat. Ms S feels the phone cracked because it hadnt been repaired properly. 
But Telefonica thought it more likely the crack had developed as a result of a new event, and 
that it was therefore entitled to deal with it under a new claim, and charge another excess. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to decide whether Telefonica handled Ms Ss claim fairly based on the 
evidence that was available to it at the time. 
The policy terms allow for claims to be settled with repaired phones. 
Telefonica has said all such phones are quality checked. And Ive seen evidence 
from its agents suggesting thats the case. So, the phone should have been in a good 
condition when it was sent to Ms S. 
I accept its possible though that, in this case, a defect went unnoticed which only 
later manifested itself as a crack. So, Ive thought about whether thats likely.
The glass on Ms Ss phone could have cracked for a number of reasons. 
Ms S thinks its because the phone had a defect, so the crack should be dealt with 
free of charge. But she hasnt provided a report in support of this or identified a 
particular defect that could conceivably have caused a crack. She also accepts the 
phone arrived in good condition and had been in use when the crack materialised. 
Ms S says she spoke to an employee of the network provider, but it seems that the 
employee wasnt prepared to put their comments in writing. 
From what Ms S has said, the employee just said they couldnt identify a point of 
impact, and that phones can crack for other reasons, like when they overheat. 
I dont find that the employees remarks show that the crack was caused by a defect 
with Ms Ss phone specifically (as opposed to a feature of smart phones generally). 
Also, while shes reflected that it got particularly warm during a data transfer, as I 
understand it the crack materialised after that, once the phone had been in use.
On balance, I think Telefonica acted fairly in charging a second excess on the basis 
that the damage likely arose from something new rather than a pre-existing defect.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Ms S to accept or reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Mike Walker
Ombudsman