DRN-2044645
The complaint
Mr H complains that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited unfairly declined a 
claim under his legal expenses policy.
What happened
Mr H said hed entered into a contract with his local council to build an extension on his 
home and carry out some alterations, to accommodate a disabled relative. Due to problems 
he experienced with the work, Mr H made a claim on his policy to pursue action for 
negligence against the council.
DAS declined the claim. It said the relevant section of cover applicable would be contract 
disputes. But this section specifically excludes claims relating to building/extending a 
property. So, DAS wouldnt cover Mr Hs intended action.
Mr H disagreed saying some parts of the contract were for internal adaptions which wouldnt 
be caught by the exclusion. He also asked to be covered under the personal injury section of 
the policy as he feels the council has caused him psychological injuries. DAS continued to 
decline cover on the basis that the personal injury section covered sudden and specific 
injuries, which it didnt believe this was. As Mr H was unhappy, he brought a complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint and we didnt have a copy of the contract in 
question. She explained the building exclusion applied because when pursuing a breach of 
contract, the contract needed to be considered as a whole. And as it was clearly about the 
building / extending a property, she felt the exclusion would apply here. She didnt think 
there were any other sections of cover the claim could fall under. She also agreed with DAS 
that the personal injury claim would also be excluded. 
As Mr H didnt agree, his complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Hs policy covers him for contract disputes defined as a contractual dispute arising from 
an agreement or an alleged agreement which you have entered into forthe buying or hiring 
of any goods or services or the selling of any goods. This cover is not unconditional and is 
subject to some specific exclusions. 
DAS has relied on an exclusion which states there is no cover under this section for 
anything relating to the building, converting, extending, altering, renovating or demolishing 
of your home (this does not apply to common home improvements, such as installing double 
glazing or replacement kitchens).
In his words, Mr Hs agreement with the council was to build an extension to his home and 
internal adaptions to meet the needs of a relatives disability. Mr Hs dispute with the council 
relates primarily to an allegation that the extension to the home had to be knocked down 
twice as it failed to comply with building regulations. I appreciate this must be a very stressful 
time for Mr H and his family. And Im sympathetic to Mr Hs predicament. But from what Ive 
seen, I agree the policy exclusion does apply. 
The main purpose of the works was seemingly to extend and adapt Mr Hs home. And the 
policy exclusion is clear that it wont cover contracts relating to extending or altering a home 
unless they are common home improvements. Im mindful that a contract isnt always in 
writing, and on what Ive seen from the information provided, I am satisfied the contract was 
for the extension and adaption of Mr Hs home. It may have had elements of home 
improvements but the policy excludes anything relating to building, converting, extending 
and altering the home. So, Im satisfied the policy specifically excludes cover for this claim. 
Having considered the policy in its entirety, I agree with our investigator that there isnt 
another section relevant to the claim. 
Mr Hs policy also covers personal injury claims defined as a specific and sudden accident 
that causes death or bodily injury. This section specifically excludes any illness or bodily 
injury that happens gradually and psychological injury or mental illness unless the condition 
follows a specific or sudden accident that has caused physical bodily injury.
Ive not seen anything that persuades me that Mr Hs apparent psychological injuries arise 
from a sudden or specific accident that also caused him bodily injury. I appreciate the 
situation may have caused Mr H stress, but it hasnt been caused in a manner consistent 
with the cover that he benefits from under the policy. So, Im not persuaded that his personal 
injury claim is covered under the policy terms. 
From everything Ive seen, Im satisfied DAS decision to decline cover was fair and in 
accordance with the policys terms and conditions. Im not asking it to anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman