DRN-3032305
The complaint
Mr H complains about the quality of a car he was financing through an agreement with 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn).
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr H, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr H acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Moneybarn, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr H. The car here was about 
six years and had already completed about 89,000 miles so I think a reasonable person 
would expect quite a bit of wear and tear to be present and for some components to be 
coming to the end of their serviceable life.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when Moneybarn were responsible for the cars 
quality.
Mr H has provided a job card from November 2019, four months into his agreement. That job 
card shows that an exhaust sensor was replaced by the dealership. It seems likely given the 
fact that the car had only been in Mr Hs possession for a few months, that this was a fault 
that was present or developing when Mr H took receipt of the car but I dont think its 
unreasonable to suggest the fault was an example of wear and tear on a vehicle of this age 
and mileage, and I dont therefore think Moneybarn needed to resolve the problem for Mr H 
or provide a refund for the repair that was carried out.
Mr H says there were other faults at that time. He says there was a wiring issue and a side 
panel was loose and he also suspected some gearbox issues. I think the loose panel is an 
example of what would be considered fair wear and tear and Ive not been provided with 
enough evidence to suggest there was a wiring problem at the point of supply or that there 
were gearbox issues.
A fault with the gearbox Intermediate Reduction Drive (IRD) was reported to Moneybarn in 
June 2020, eleven months after the car was supplied to Mr H. As that fault was reported so 
late the law puts the onus on Mr H to demonstrate it was present or developing at the point 
of supply. I dont think Mr H has been able to do that. I think its more likely that this is an 
issue that has developed more latterly, as I think the problem would have been noticeable 
earlier otherwise. I dont therefore think it would be fair to hold Moneybarn responsible for its 
rectification.
So, Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence this car was not of satisfactory quality and 
Im therefore not asking Moneybarn to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman