DRN-2861874
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Charles Stanley & Co Ltd didnt advise her to transfer the uninvested 
cash within her stocks and shares individual savings account (ISA) into a cash ISA after she 
sold her holdings in 2011.  
What happened
Mrs G held a stocks and shares ISA with Charles Stanley. In 2011, Mrs G instructed Charles 
Stanley to accept a recommended cash offer for shares held in her ISA. The funds were 
credited to the account in October 2011. Then, in September 2012, Charles Stanley wrote to 
Mrs G to remind her they needed details of her financial circumstances if they were to advise 
on her investments. Charles Stanley say they didnt receive any contact from Mrs G and the 
account was switched to execution-only in October 2012. 
Mr G, who is Mrs Gs son and is acting as her representative, complained to Charles 
Stanley. He said they shouldve advised his mother to move her funds into a cash ISA to 
achieve better returns. Charles Stanley continued to take charges from the uninvested cash 
balance in the ISA account. Mr G says Mrs G received no contact or advice on her 
investments and has lost out financially.
Charles Stanley provided a final response to Mrs Gs complaint. They said theyd changed 
the account to an execution only account when Mrs G didnt respond to their September 
2012 letter. Charles Stanley confirmed theyd written to Mrs G regularly with portfolio 
valuations and gave her notice when their charges or charging dates changed. They didnt 
uphold the complaint. As a gesture of goodwill, they waived the charges applied to the 
account between 1 April and 30 September 2019 as the account was closed within this 
period.
Mrs G didnt agree with Charles Stanley and brought her complaint to our service. One of 
our investigators looked into things for Mrs G. He thought Charles Stanley hadnt acted 
unfairly and had charged in line with the letters theyd sent Mrs G. Our investigator thought 
Charles Stanley had provided regular portfolio valuations. Theyd made it clear to Mrs G in 
October 2012 that the account was now execution-only because she hadnt provided the 
financial information they required to offer advice. Our investigator thought Charles Stanleys 
goodwill gesture to refund the charges in the quarter she closed her account was 
reasonable.
Mr G responded on behalf of Mrs G. He said our investigator had only considered matters 
from October 2012. He said Charles Stanley had allowed Mrs G to hold significant cash 
funds in the account from October 2011. Mr G said Charles Stanley shouldve suggested to 
Mrs G she move the cash to a UK cash ISA account. Mr G said the account Mrs G held was 
an advisory account and Charles Stanley had a duty of care to suggest the balance be 
transferred.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Your I understand Mrs G will be disappointed with my decision, but for very much the same 
reasons as our investigator I dont consider Charles Stanley treated Mrs G unfairly. I will now 
explain why.
The crux of this complaint is that Mrs G held more than £30,000 in cash within her stocks 
and shares ISA between October 2011 and 2019. She believes Charles Stanley shouldve 
suggested she move the funds to a cash ISA as she held an advisory dealing account. Im 
satisfied that Mrs G held an advisory dealing a stocks and shares ISA from 2003 until 
October 2012. The application form and subsequent portfolio valuations confirmed this. 
Charles Stanley havent been able to provide a copy of their 2011 terms and conditions. 
However, the terms and conditions from August 2013 explain the difference between the 
account types Mrs G couldve applied for; Advisory, Discretionary and Managed. As the 
terms referred to in the 2013 terms and conditions are also referred to on the application 
form from 2003, Im satisfied I can rely on the terms of business from 2013 to explain what 
an advisory dealing account is.
The terms and conditions say an advisory dealing account offers recommendations on 
individual investments as and when a customer wishes to receive them. It differs from an 
investment management service, in that the portfolio isnt being managed. Charles Stanley 
dont provide ongoing management within an advisory dealing portfolio, and responsibility for 
its continuing suitability remains with the customer.
Charles Stanley wrote to Mrs G on 28 September 2012 to tell her they hadnt received 
information requested by the investment manager. The letter was correctly addressed. I 
consider it more likely it was sent, but its possible Mrs G didnt receive it. Charles Stanley 
told Mrs G that if they didnt receive the information by 28 October 2012 theyd be unable to 
give advice. If this was the case, they said the account would be switched to an execution-
only account. Ive not seen the earlier letter Charles Stanley sent, but Im satisfied the 28 
September letter was sent and placed Mrs G on notice she needed to provide information, 
and the consequences of not providing it. 
Ive also seen that Charles Stanley wrote to Mrs G on 7 October 2012. They included a 
portfolio valuation detailing the £30,000 plus uninvested cash holding. The same letter 
included important information about uninvested cash. 
So, although Mrs G feels Charles Stanley shouldve provided ongoing management of her 
portfolio, I dont consider this is the case. The letter Ive seen from 2012 persuades me 
Charles Stanley took reasonable steps to contact Mrs G and make her aware they required 
her to provide information if she wanted advice. When she didnt respond, I dont consider it 
was unreasonable for Charles Stanley to switch the account to execution-only.
Ive noted the comment from Mr G that Mrs G paid tax on the interest added to the 
uninvested cash. However, prior to 1 July 2014, dividends paid within an ISA were free of 
income tax, but any interest earned on uninvested cash held within an ISA was subject to a 
20 per cent tax charge. The Charles Stanley ISA statements accurately reflect this position. 
Ive reviewed the ongoing charges applied to the account from October 2011 through to 
when the account closed on 2019. These are aligned to the charges Charles Stanley told 
Mrs G they would charge. I note there was one payment of £90.00 (part of the annual 
service charge) that wasnt taken in January 2015, but this was corrected by a payment of 
£180.00 the following charging period. And, in December 2018 Charles Stanley wrote to Mrs 
G to advise they would be charging a £200 per annum custody fee and a £36 ISA 
administration charge from 1 January 2019.In summary, I dont consider Charles Stanley did anything wrong as they didnt receive a 
request for advice from Mrs G between October 2001 and 2019. They kept Mrs G up to date 
with her investment portfolio, told her of any change to their charges, moved the account to 
an execution-only account within a reasonable time and applied the correct charges where 
appropriate.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I wont be asking Charles Stanley & 
Co Ltd to do anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman