DRN-3137128
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) provided her 
with a car that was not of satisfactory quality. She wants to be able to return the car and 
receive refunds and compensation. 
What happened
In March 2019 Mrs H took a new car from MBFS under a three-year hire purchase 
agreement. She paid a deposit of £9,268.79 and was then to make 36 monthly payments of 
£200 and an optional final repayment of £14,325 if she wanted to keep the car. The cash 
price of the car was just under £27,750.
Mrs H has explained that she had a number of problems with the car, most notably that the 
dashboard lights would go off without warning  leaving the car with no speedometer, 
amongst other things. The dealership and other branches sought to rectify the problem, but it 
returned on a number of occasions. Initially MBFS would not accept Mrs Hs rejection of the 
car. By December 2020 however it agreed to do so. Mrs H could return the car and would 
have nothing further to pay under the hire purchase agreement. In addition, MBFS would 
refund £3,604.52 of the deposit Mrs H had paid, refund 15% of the monthly payments for six 
months and pay Mrs H £150 in recognition of the distress she had been caused and the 
inconvenience to which she had been put.
The proposed refund of £3,604.52, MBFS said, represented the unused part of the deposit. 
Mrs H had had the car for 22 of the 36 months of the hire purchase agreement, so had 14 
months remaining. It was, it said, fair to apportion the refund in line with those figures. The 
proposed partial refund of some of the hire payments was to compensate Mrs H for loss of 
enjoyment of the car while it was not functioning correctly.
Mrs H did not think that the offer went far enough. In particular, she thought that she should 
receive a full refund of the deposit. She referred the matter to this service, where one of our 
investigators considered what had happened. She issued a preliminary assessment in which 
she recommended that the deposit be refunded in full, along with the other sums that MBFS 
had offered. MBFS did not accept the investigators view; by requiring a full refund of the 
deposit, it said, the investigator was denying MBFS its statutory right to make deductions for 
fair usage of the car.
Because it had not been possible to reach agreement on the terms on which Mrs H could 
reject the car, the case was passed to me for further consideration. I issued a provisional 
decision in which I said that I thought a refund of the unused part of the deposit was fair. 
However, rather than receiving a reduction of a percentage of the monthly payments and a 
further £150, I thought Mrs H should receive rather more to compensate her for the 
inconvenience to which she had been put; I proposed a figure of £750 in total. 
MBFS did not respond to my provisional decision, but Mrs H did. She said, in summary:
I discussed the rights of MBFS in my provisional decision, but not her own rights.
She had been trying to deal with the issue since about March 2020 but was not told until 
it was too late that she could reject the car. 
The calculation of the partial refund of the deposit was unclear; the deposit she paid 
was much higher than what was required.
She had intended to buy the car at the end of the hire purchase agreement, but the 
remedy suggested does not put her in a position where she can afford an equivalent 
car.
MBFS will still be able to sell the car and make a profit of over £5,000.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill deal first with Mrs Hs comments on my discussion of the parties rights and obligations 
here. In response to the investigators view, MBFS said that her proposal did not recognise 
its own rights under the Consumer Rights Act 2015. I explained that the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 and our rules require me to determine this complaint by reference to 
what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances; in doing that, I must have 
regard to any relevant law  including the rights and obligations of the parties set out in the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015. I explained that am not obliged to follow that statute in the same 
way as, for example, a court might do. I was satisfied therefore that the investigators 
recommendation was one she was entitled to make.
So, in discussing the rights of MBFS, I was addressing a specific point which it had made in 
response to the investigators view. I was also explaining why I did not agree with its 
submissions on that point. To be clear, however, I have given careful consideration to Mrs 
Hs rights, as well as those of MBFS  and in particular her right to be supplied with a car 
that was of satisfactory quality and to reject it when it did not meet that requirement. 
It is unfortunate that is has taken as long as it has for the parties to agree to the return of the 
car. I have no doubt that it would have been easier to resolve this case if that had been 
agreed at the outset. I believe however that my award will reflect the time that has now 
passed, both in working out the financial position and in compensation for Mrs Hs 
inconvenience.   
MBFSs offer in respect of the deposit was intended to reflect the fact that Mrs H had had the 
car for 22 of the 36 months of the finance agreement before it was agreed that she could 
reject it. Refunding the deposit in full would have the effect of providing her with a car for that 
period for only the cost of the monthly payments; that was very much less than what was 
agreed. The monthly payments were lower than they would have been if Mrs H had paid a 
lower deposit, so it was fair that only a part of the deposit be refunded.
I note that Mrs H says she will not be able to buy a replacement car if she accepts MBFSs 
offer. I must consider however what a fair and reasonable resolution would be, which is not 
the same as putting Mrs H in a position to buy a replacement car. I note that, had the finance 
agreement run its course, she would not receive any refund of the deposit but would have to 
pay more than at the end of the agreement £14,000 to complete the purchase of the car. I 
note too that Mrs H says that MBFS will still make a profit. I am not sure thats necessarily 
true, since the car cannot, I assume, be sold in its current condition. In any event, whether 
MBFS will make an overall profit on the hire purchase agreement is not a major factor in 
deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case.   
Finally, I have considered whether MBFSs offer remains fair, given the time that has passed since it was first made. Mrs H has made further monthly payments in that time. Against that, 
the unused part of the deposit has reduced and the interest element on any refund has 
increased. Overall, however, I think that the award I suggested in my provisional decision 
does remain a fair and reasonable way of resolving the dispute. I will make an award in 
those terms, so that Mrs H can enforce it, should she need to do so. 
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that, to resolve this complaint, Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited should:
collect the car at no further cost to Mrs H (if that has not happened already);
end the hire purchase agreement with nothing further to pay;
refund £3,604.52 of the deposit that Mrs H paid, together with interest at 8% simple 
from the date of payment until the date of the refund; and
pay Mrs H a further £750 in recognition of the distress she has suffered and the 
inconvenience to which she has been put.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman