DRN-4074383
The complaint
Mr S complains through a representative that Valour Finance Limited trading as Savvy.co.uk 
(Valour) provided him with a loan without carrying out appropriate affordability checks. 
What happened
Mr S took one loan from Valour for £600 on 3 December 2021. Mr S was due to make eight 
monthly repayments of £150. Valour hasnt said whether the loan has been repaid, but the 
final response letter issued in May 2022 explained that all payments up to that point had 
been successful. 
  
Valour considered Mr Ss complaint and concluded it had made a reasonable decision to 
lend based on the checks it carried out which included asking Mr S about his income and 
expenditure and carrying out a credit check. The results of these checks showed Valour that 
Mr S could afford the loan repayments. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr Ss representative referred the complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator. She concluded Valour made a reasonable 
decision to provide the loan because it had carried out a proportionate check which showed 
the loan repayments to be affordable. She didnt uphold the complaint. 
Valour hasnt acknowledged or responded to the adjudicators assessment. 
Mr Ss representative didnt agree with the outcome and instead asked for a final decision. 
As no agreement could be reached the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Valour had to assess the lending to check if Mr S could afford to pay back the amount hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. Valours checks could have taken into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ss income 
and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Valour should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr S. 
These factors include:
Mr S having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr S having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr S coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr S. As there was only one loan, the 
adjudicator didnt think this applied in Mr Ss case. 
Valour was required to establish whether Mr S could sustainably repay the loan  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr S was able to repay his loan 
sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ss complaint.
Before this loan was approved, Valour asked Mr S for details of his income, which he 
declared to be £1,500 per month. However, following checks Valour was able to conclude 
that Mr S earned around £1,900 per month but around £400 of that income had come from a 
zero-hour contract job. Valour says this extra income wasnt used as part of its income 
calculation as it wasnt guaranteed. This doesnt seem to be an unreasonable course of 
action to have taken. 
As part of his application Mr S provided Valour with details of his living costs, this was then 
discussed with Mr S on a telephone call with an agent as well as the information that Valour 
gathered from a credit search it carried out. As a result of these checks, Valour believed 
Mr Ss monthly expenditure came to £1,035. 
Valour therefore reasonably believed Mr S had £465 per month of disposable income to be 
able to afford the payments of £150  the loan therefore looked affordable. 
Before this loan was approved Valour also carried out a credit search and it has provided the 
results it received from the credit reference agency. It is worth saying here that although 
Valour carried out a credit search there isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone 
one to a specific standard. Therefore, its entirely possible that the information Valour 
received may not entirely reflect the information Mr S may be able to view in his credit report. 
There could be for several reasons for this, such as Valour only asking for certain pieces of 
information. But what Valour couldnt do is carry out a credit search and then not react to the to the 
information it received  if necessary. Valour was also entitled to rely on the results it was 
given as it didnt have anything to suggest the results were in anyway inaccurate. 
The credit check results gave an overview of all the active credit accounts that Mr S had, it 
was aware of four active credit accounts. Two loans Mr S was paying £400 per month 
towards. These loans were up to date. He also had a current account that was being 
manged without any missed payment or over limit charges and he had a credit card which 
had a balance of £1,115 against a limit of £1,320. There were no missed payments on this 
account. 
Valour calculated from Mr Ss credit file that he had around £435 per month of existing credit 
commitments and that does appear to have been about right  based on the information it 
received from the credit reference agency. 
Valour was on notice that a mail order account which was closed had been in arrears at the 
end of 2020 but the account was up to date when it was closed in April 2021. In addition, on 
the verification call, Valour also asked Mr S about a default on a mail order account  which 
was reflected in the credit file check. Mr S provided details as to why this account was 
defaulted and that he was making repayments. The explanation provided by Mr S was 
plausible, and it was reasonable for Valour to have accepted what he said.
Taking everything into account, there wasnt, in my view, anything solely from the credit file 
which wouldve led to Valour to decline Mr Ss application or prompt it to carry out further 
checks. 
There was also nothing else in the information that Ive seen that wouldve led Valour to 
believe that it needed to go further with its checks  such as verifying the information 
Mr S had provided. So, while Mr Ss representatives have provided his bank statements, in 
this case, it wouldve been disproportionate for Valour to have considered them. 
Given it was early on in the lending relationship, it was reasonable for Valour to have relied 
on its checks which showed sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments he was 
committed to making. So, Im concluding the checks carried out were proportionate. There 
also wasnt anything else to suggest that Mr S was having financial difficulties or that the 
loan repayments would be unsustainable for him. 
Im therefore not upholding Mr Ss complaint. 
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman