DRN-2841476
The complaint
Mrs P (by way of a representative) complains Short Term Finance Limited (STF) gave her 
loans she couldnt afford to repay because she was in a debt spiral. 
  
What happened
Mrs P was given nine home collected loans between January 2015 and August 2016. Ive 
included some of the information weve received about the loans in the table below. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment date term (weeks)
1 £150.00 21/01/2015 27/03/2015 16
2 £200.00 25/03/2015 08/07/2015 16
3 £200.00 08/07/2015 21/10/2015 16
4 £200.00 21/10/2015 06/01/2016 16
5 £250.00 06/01/2016 02/03/2016 16
6 £350.00 02/03/2016 01/06/2016 16
7 £350.00 01/06/2016 31/08/2016 16
8 £350.00 31/08/2016 11/02/2019 16
9 £150.00 31/08/2016 04/01/2018 25
The adjudicator then reviewed the merits of the complaint. She didnt think STF had made 
an error when loans 1 - 4 were granted. She also thought that for loan 5 STF needed to have 
carried out further checks into Mrs Ps circumstances. But due to a lack of information, the 
adjudicator wasnt able to say that STF had made an error when it approved loans 1  5. 
However, she concluded that by loan 6 STF ought to have realised the pattern of lending 
was harmful to Mrs P. So, loans 6 - 9 shouldnt have given. 
Mrs P appears to have accepted the adjudicators findings. 
STF didnt respond to the adjudicators assessment. So, this Service doesnt know what it 
thinks about the outcome reached in this case. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
STF needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs P could
repay her loans in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was
being lent, the repayment amounts, and the consumers income and expenditure. With this
in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be
reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might suggest STF should have done more to establish that any lending 
was sustainable for Mrs P. These factors include: 
Mrs P having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); 
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Mrs P having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of 
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mrs P coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mrs P. The loan payments being 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case.
At the time these loans were lent, STF was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. 
The FCAs Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) explained that payments are sustainable 
if they are made without undue difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments and without having to borrow to make them. If a lender 
realised, or ought reasonably to have realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments without borrowing further, then it follows that it should conclude those 
repayments are unsustainable. 
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and 
thought about what this means for Mrs Ps complaint.
Mrs P (or her representative) doesnt appear to disagree with our adjudicators findings 
about loans 1  5. So, I think there is no longer a dispute about these loans. And like the 
adjudicator, I would also agree, based on what Ive seen, that there isnt enough to be able 
to uphold the complaint about those loans.  So instead, this decision will focus on whether 
STF did anything wrong when it lent loans 6 to 9.  I havent looked in any detail about whether the checks for loans 6 - 9 were proportionate 
and Ill explain why below. STF has provided this service with the copies of the application 
forms it completed with Mrs P. It seems that it asked about her living arrangements, income 
and her expenditure. And it wouldve seen, based on what Mrs P declared that she would 
likely have been able to afford the loan repayments she was committed to making.
But as Ive explained above, that is only part of what STF needed to do.  The loan being 
pound and pence affordable is only part of the consideration. So, I havent felt he need to 
recreate individual, proportionate affordability checks for these loans because I didnt 
consider it necessary to do so. 
So, in addition to assessing the circumstances behind each individual loan provided to 
Mrs P, STF also needed to consider the overall pattern of lending and what unfolded during 
the course of its lending relationship with Mrs P. Having looked at the overall pattern of 
STFs lending history with Mrs P, I agree with our adjudicator that STF should reasonably 
have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful, at the time it 
provided loan 6. I say this because;
At this point STF ought to have realised Mrs P was not managing to repay her loans 
sustainably. Mrs P had taken out 6 loans in just over a year and she had been 
indebted to STF for the entire time. So STF ought to have realised it was more likely 
than not Mrs P was having to borrow further to cover an ongoing need and that 
Mrs Ps indebtedness was increasing unsustainably and her underlying financial 
situation didnt seem to be improving. 
By loan 6, Mrs Ps weekly repayments wouldve increased significantly since her first 
loan. She started with a loan for £150 and loan 6 was the largest to date at £300. So, 
Mrs Ps repayments were increasing which suggests that the loans werent 
sustainable for her as she had to borrow similar or larger loans on the same day 
previous loans were repaid.  
Mrs P took new loans on the same day as previous loans were repaid, for example, 
loans 2 - 5. STF ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mrs P, on these 
occasions, was having to borrow further to effectively cover a long-term financial 
need. To me, this is indicative of her indebtedness not being sustainable;
Mrs P wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed STF. Loan 9 was 
taken out 20 months after Mrs Ps first loan and it was for the same amount. Mrs P 
had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to STF over an 
extended period.
I think that Mrs P lost out when STF provided loans 6 - 9 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Ps indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit over an extended period and;
the sheer number of loans was likely to have had negative implications on Mrs Ps 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these high-cost 
loans.
So, overall, Im upholding the complaint about loans 6 - 9 and Ill go on to set out
what STF should do to put things right.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress STF should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might
have happened had it stopped lending to Mrs P from loan 6 as Im satisfied it ought to have. 
Clearly there are several possibilities, and all hypothetical answers to that question.For example, having been declined this lending Mrs P may have simply left matters there 
and not tried to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and STF which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt a viable option, 
she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even 
possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that,
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and 
substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mrs P in a compliant 
way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Mrs P would more likely than not have taken up any one of
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce STFs liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
STF shouldnt have given Mrs P loans 6  9;
a) STF should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs P towards interest, 
fees and charges on loans 6  9. 
b) STF should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs P 
which were considered as part of a), calculated from the date Mrs P originally made 
the payments, to the date the complaint is settled. 
c) The overall pattern of Mrs Ps borrowing about loan 6 - 9 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from 
Mrs Ps credit file.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires STF to deduct tax from this interest. STF should
give Mrs P a certificate showing how much tax STF has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ps complaint in part.
Short Term Finance Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman