DRN-4025278
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) didnt credit her account with the correct 
amount following a cash deposit she made.
What happened
Mrs K told us that In August 2022 she went into branch to deposit £18,000 cash. 
She says she felt uncomfortable having the cash counted at the tills as she felt vulnerable, 
so requested a private room or secured area for the count to take place. Lloyds agreed to 
count the cash in a secured area and arranged for two members of staff to dual count the 
cash. 
When the staff members returned, Mrs K was told there had only been £17,340, not the 
£18,000 Mrs K had thought. Mrs K was understandably concerned. She said she had 
counted the cash herself the night before and there had definitely been £18,000 there. 
She complained to Lloyds about the missing cash and said she was also unhappy with the 
customer service provided at the time. Lloyds investigated but did not uphold her complaint. 
It said that the funds had been dual counted by the Branch Manager and the Senior Branch 
Manager and that no excess funds had been found in the secure area when checked by a 
third colleague. 
Mrs K was still unhappy so brought the complaint to us. One of our investigators reviewed 
the complaint but didnt think that Lloyds had done anything wrong. Mrs K replied to the 
investigators view, saying that she is certain the full amount was taken into branch. She 
explained that the issue was causing her a great deal of stress and that she was having 
trouble sleeping and eating as a result. 
The investigator subsequently asked Lloyds if it would be prepared to refund the money as a 
good will gesture due to the anxiety the situation was causing. It agreed to offer half of the 
amount if that would resolve the complaint. However, Mrs K refused its offer and therefore 
the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand how strongly Mrs K feels about this complaint. She has raised a number of 
points and although I may not mention every point raised, Ive considered everything she 
has said but limited my findings to the areas which impact on the outcome of the case. No 
discourtesy is intended by this, it just reflects the informal nature of our service.
When evidence is incomplete or contradictory, I base my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, what I consider most likely to have happened, given the 
available evidence and wider circumstances.
My review of the evidence and circumstances has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator, for broadly the same reasons. 
From what Ive seen, I think its reasonable for Lloyds to come to the conclusions it has. I say 
this because:
The cash was counted in a secured area, only accessible by authorised members of 
staff. 
The cash was dual counted by the Branch Manager and Senior Branch Manager. 
Dual counting is put in place to prevent fraud by members of staff. In this case both 
wouldve had to be complicit and willing to risk both their careers and legal 
proceedings. 
Lloyds have told us a third member of staff checked the area for the missing cash 
and was unable to find the missing funds. It also said that no surplus cash was 
located anywhere in the branch on the date that Mrs K visited. 
Mrs K has stated that the cash was previously stored in her home and that she did 
use the money for various reasons but kept a record of the cashflow. However, 
Lloyds have said the handwritten record with the cash was also incorrect. While I 
understand Mrs K has suggested that these were personal papers, intended for 
herself only, it is possible that errors may have occurred while Mrs K was updating 
the cashflow amounts or checking the amounts before going into branch.
Mrs K has also said that she felt the customer service was poor, that she had felt rushed and 
hadnt been given full information about what had happened. While I understand that Mrs K 
would have been unhappy and frustrated with what had happened, I havent seen any 
evidence of poor customer service. 
Mrs K has very strong views about what happened and I understand there is a lot at stake 
for her. And so, I know Im going to disappoint her when I say, I dont consider the most likely 
explanation here is that Lloyds has made a mistake or stolen from her. 
In the circumstances, I think its unlikely the staff members stole the cash from Mrs K. So, 
the only conclusion I can make on a fair and reasonable basis  which is what our rules ask 
us to do  is that Mrs K may have miscounted the cash before she took it into branch.
If Mrs K doesnt accept my decision, she is free to pursue this further in court or with the 
relevant authorities, subject to any time limits.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2023.
 
Sarah Green
Ombudsman