DRN-3716089
The complaint
Mr W complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his deferred defined benefit 
(DB) British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a type of personal pension plan, in 2018.
Mather & Murray Financial Ltd is responsible for answering this complaint and so to keep 
things consistent, Ill refer mainly to MMF.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ws employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation 
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which 
included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined 
benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their 
benefits to a personal pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ws employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In around October 2017, members of the BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter 
which gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to 
BSPS2 or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
Mr W was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do and was referred to MMF 
which is responsible for providing the pension advice. Information gathered about his 
circumstances and objectives at the time of the recommendation were broadly as follows:
Mr W was 44 years old, married and with two dependent children. Mr and Mrs W 
owned a home with the outstanding mortgage due to be paid down by 2022.
Mr W earned around £36,000 per year. Mrs W had a career with her own pension 
arrangements. 
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Ws BSPS was approximately 
£404,747. The normal retirement age (NRA) was 65.
Mr W had recently joined the new TATA defined contribution (DC) scheme as a result 
of the BSPS closing. This DC pension isnt the subject of any complaint.
MMF set out its advice in a suitability report on 10 January 2018. In this it advised Mr W to 
transfer out of the BSPS and invest the funds in a type of personal pension plan, managed 
by a discretionary fund manager (DFM). MMF said this would allow Mr W to achieve his 
objectives. Mr W accepted this advice and so transferred out later in 2018. In 2021 Mr W 
complained to MMF about its advice, saying he shouldnt have been advised to transfer out 
to a personal pension. 
Mr W referred his complaint to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the 
complaint and said it should be upheld. In response, MMF said it hadnt done anything 
wrong and was acting on the financial objectives Mr W had at the time. However, Ive been 
made aware that MMF has made an offer to Mr W to settle the complaint but Mr W has 
rejected this. So, as the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its come to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of MMF's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, MMF should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Ws best interests. 
Ive used all the information we have to consider whether transferring away from the BSPS 
to a personal pension was in Mr Ws best interests. I have also carefully considered the final 
response letter from MMF. Ive carefully considered too, the various other responses made 
to the points contained within our investigators view.
Having done all this, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint. 
Introductory issuesId like to start by referring to the timeline of events. Ive already described above how 
members of the BSPS were given until 22 December 2017 to decide whether or not to join 
the BSPS2. Ive seen that on 22 December 2017 he completed a client agreement with 
MMF. But Ive also seen that the transfer analysis, the fact-find and the suitability report 
were all completed in January 2018. On the face of it, what this means is that all of the 
dealings MMF had with Mr W were in 2018 and so after the hard deadline of 22 December 
2017. And the fact he signed a client agreement on the same day as the deadline expired 
means he was already too late to be advised by MMF ahead of the deadline. 
However, there is documentation which Ive seen showing Mr W had already made a choice 
in the Time to Choose exercise. This takes the form of a letter from the BSPS trustees to 
Mr W confirming he had elected to join the BSPS2 (if only as a precautionary measure).
I should say that none of this matters to the actual suitability of the advice. As Ill explain 
below, it was still unsuitable. But because we know Mr W had opted to join the BSPS2, when 
MMF was advising him to transfer away, this was preventing him from entering his already 
chosen course of action, which was to join the BSPS2. Redress is therefore due to Mr W as 
if hed remained in the BSPS2 option, rather than the PPF.
Financial viability 
MMF referred in its transfer analysis and suitability report to critical yield rates. The critical 
yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required on the 
transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity benefits 
as the DB scheme. In this case, MMF used the existing scheme (BSPS) for the critical yield 
comparisons, rather than the new BSPS2. I think the yields for BSPS2 would have been 
between those for the BSPS and PPF (although probably much nearer to the BSPS).
The critical yield comparison was a requirement from the regulator at the time when advising 
clients on DB transfers. Its also important to point out that the critical yield comparison is 
only one of a number of different metrics Ive used to compare the different schemes. Ive 
noted the adviser themselves said that the critical yields shown in the transfer analysis might 
not be achievable, but they said he would not be accessing his pension fund in this way, for 
example, through an annuity. The critical yield required to match the benefits at the age of 
65 in the existing scheme, was described as 5.8%. It was on this rate that the suitability 
report focussed on. 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor. MMFs risk assessment placed Mr W as a 
cautious risk investor or 4/10. The adviser said this could be increased to 5/10 given the 
length of time Mr W still had until his retirement.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period and was only 4.5% per year 
for 20 years to retirement (age 65). This was below the critical yield figure for the BSPS. 
However, Id need also to include the limitation effect of growth caused by the charges and 
fees associated with a personal pension. These were significant in Mr Ws case because he 
was also recommended to invest with a DFM which added more costs. So I think these 
would have dragged future growth down.In my view, there would be little point from a purely financial comparison perspective, in 
transferring away from a DB scheme only to achieve similar financial benefits in the longer 
term. But I think there was no case for transferring because there was no real case made out 
for Mr Ws pension growing by enough to make transferring worthwhile. Taking account of 
the costs and risks, I think its fair to say that from a financial comparison perspective, there 
was a material chance that transferring to a personal pension plan would mean Mr W would 
likely receive lower pension benefits in the longer term. 
Ive also noted that using the age of 65, even in order to purchase an annuity to provide 
benefits of equal value to the estimated benefits provided by the existing scheme, assuming 
no spouse's pension, no increases in payment and no guarantee at retirement the estimated 
fund required was £576,126. To reiterate, these figures are found in MMFs own analysis 
based on data the regulator required businesses to refer to at the time. And because these 
figures are far above Mr Ws CETV, they represent, in my view, a revealing window into the 
value of the guaranteed pension he could be giving up by transferring away to a personal 
plan, rather than a similar DB scheme that was on offer here.
Ive also considered some projections MMF used to help show that if he transferred out to a 
personal plan, the funds could last Mr W well into retirement. I think most of these were 
based on growth projections which were based on past performance. Its also fair to say 
these were not comparing like-with-like. What MMF was showing Mr W were comparisons 
with plans which lacked the guarantees and benefits of a DB scheme. 
Of course, according to MMF, its recommendation that he should transfer out to a personal 
pension was not based on the financial comparisons with his current scheme alone. Rather, 
MMF said Mr W also had other reasons to transfer away, so Ive thought about all the other 
considerations which might have meant a transfer was suitable for him, despite providing the 
overall lower benefits mentioned earlier. Ive considered these below. 
Other reasons to transfer
Ive used all the information from the advice sessions to draw out the main themes on which 
MMFs recommendation to transfer was based. At the outset of the suitability report MMF 
said Mr Ws stated objectives were that he wanted to retire at the age of 65.
Upon recommending the type of pension (and funds) he should transfer into MMF listed the 
rationale for transferring as follows: 
MMF said Mr W wanted flexibility in the way benefits could be taken, namely front-
loading his retirement income to take more in the early years.
It said he wanted to be able to take ad-hoc income from his pension as well as 
regular income.
MMF implied the death benefits were better in a personal pension. 
I have therefore considered all these themes. 
Flexibility
I think the adviser focused heavily on transferring away, rather than starting by assessing 
whether the BSPS2 or PPF could meet Mr Ws retirement needs and objectives. I think the 
adviser just promoted the more so-called flexible arrangements which Mr W would find with 
a personal pension plan. However, I think its important for a moment to focus on Mr Ws age. He was only 
approaching his 45th birthday and was still in good health. So, when Mr W said hed need 
around £30,000 per year in todays money when he eventually did retire aged 65, I think 
this could be no more than an educated guess at that point in his life. The adviser should 
have known there were still many permutations his life could follow. I think the £30,000 figure 
was arbitrary and it wasnt properly costed. Given his and Mrs Ws spending habits as of 
early 2018, I make the assumption that this was an aspirational joint annual pension amount 
he was talking about. It also wasnt clear if the discretionary spending hed mentioned 
(holidays etc) was included in this figure. The adviser had noted that Mr and Mrs Ws joint 
expenditure is very modest and this will further be reduced in less than six years, when your 
mortgage is cleared and you will be debt free. So I think there was every indication that this 
assumed retirement income was joint and would have easily catered for their modest 
spending lifestyle.
I therefore think MMF should have assessed the possibility of achieving reasonable 
retirement goals for Mr W whilst being a member of his DB scheme and moving with it to the 
BSPS2 as hed already opted for. Retirement under the BSPS2, for example, would still 
have probably been a realistic option for Mr W given his stated objectives and the adviser 
should have used the annual pension details of the BSPS2, which were readily available at 
the time. However, I think MMFs analysis fell short on this front. It only said that if retiring at 
65, Mr W could expect an annual pension of around £25,595 per year. But it didnt show 
figures for a reduced pension if he were to take a tax-free lump sum at the same time. Nor 
did it set out what the PPF annual pension would be. 
However, we know Mr W had started a new DC pension scheme with TATA and that this 
was being significantly contributed towards by both Mr W and his employer. MMF didnt go 
into many details about this secondary pension provision, but given his notable disposable / 
spare monthly income in 2018, Mr W could have been advised to contribute more to this new 
DC scheme, thereby making this new DC fund a much more relevant part of his overall 
pension savings in the years ahead. It certainly isnt unreasonable to say that by retirement, 
which was still a long way off for him, Mr W could have built up a meaningful DC fund. In my 
view, the adviser should have comprehensively researched these opportunities and then 
incorporated them into their overall advice. 
I cant see that Mr W required flexibility in retirement in the way MMF suggested. Taking 
more money at the beginning of retirement might have sounded good, but it wasnt based on 
anything specific. Ive seen nothing that showed Mr W required changing how his retirement 
benefits ought to be paid or that he had a need to spend certain sums upon retiring. And so 
this means Ive seen nothing explaining why Mr W wouldnt want to continue membership of 
a DB scheme and to use that scheme in exactly the way it was originally intended. 
I therefore dont think theres anything showing Mr Ws forecasted DB pension entitlements 
wouldnt have easily met his retirement income requirements, without any need to transfer 
from his DB scheme. We know his income needs were modest, we know he still had time to 
add more pension provision in a DC scheme, and ultimately it seems Mrs W also had her 
own DB pension. So, I dont think MMF adequately explained these things to Mr W as its 
advice simply assumed him transferring to a type of personal pension scheme to obtain 
flexibility which was poorly defined and which he didnt appear to need.
I think Mr Ws circumstances here were much more aligned to him transferring to the BSPS2 
and retiring from that when he felt he was ready to do so. I think that by retirement, 
whenever it eventually came, Mr W could have been in an agreeable position. On one hand 
hed have an existing deferred DB scheme of considerable value. This would contain all the 
guarantees and benefits that such schemes normally bring which tend to include a promise 
to pay a known pension for life. Significant indexation guarantees also existed within the BSPS2 and PPF. On the other hand, hed have also built up a DC scheme over a 
reasonable period of time  anything up to 20 years. So, if Mr W ever found he needed 
flexibility, then hed be able to use the latter, rather than transferring away from the former.
Ive also seen no evidence that Mr W had either the capacity or desire to exercise control 
over his funds. With his DB scheme, Mr W was being offered the opportunity to move with 
his DB scheme to the BSPS2. Its true there were some differences in this scheme when 
compared to the original BSPS, but it remained a DB scheme nonetheless and was run for 
him by trustees. Mr W himself had no experience of money market investments and I think 
he would have found the complexity, scale and responsibility of managing over £404,000 of 
transferred funds to be onerous in the years ahead. What Ive seen tends to show Mr W 
would have required ongoing financial advice and support, all of which would cost him 
money which his DB scheme didnt require from him.
Death benefits 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The BSPS2 contained certain benefits 
payable to a spouse if Mr W died. Mr W was married and although it seems Mrs W had a 
pension of her own, I still think its more likely the benefits found in the BSPS2 would have 
been of reassurance to Mrs W if Mr W died. 
Looking at the documents we have from the advice sessions, I think the adviser probably 
told Mr W that hed be able to pass on the whole value of a personal pension, potentially tax-
free, to anyone he nominated. I think there was clearly a discussion about this, so the lump 
sum death benefits on offer through a personal pension was probably made to look like an 
attractive feature to Mr W. Within the BSPS2, Mrs W would receive a significant percentage 
of Mr Ws pension if he died in retirement. 
But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr W might have 
thought it was a good idea to transfer the BSPS to a personal pension because of this, the 
priority here was to advise him about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension 
is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think MMF explored to what 
extent Mr W was prepared to accept a different retirement income in exchange for different 
death benefits.
There were significant death benefits for a remaining spouse in the BSPS2 both pre and 
post retirement. Mr W was only 44 and so an obvious drawback with a personal plans death 
benefits is that the amount left to pass on  to anyone  may be substantially reduced as the 
pensioner starts to withdraw his or her retirement income. To this end, if Mr W had lived a 
long life there could be nothing left at all in his personal pension plan. 
I cant say the extent to which life insurance was discussed in this case. But again, the 
adviser failed to present all the relevant options about insurance to Mr W, because they were 
wholly focussed on transferring him away from a DB scheme and into a personal pension 
plan. I dont think this was good advice or advice that was in Mr Ws best interests. At 44 
years old, a term life insurance policy may have still been a reasonably affordable product 
for Mr W if he really did insist on leaving a lump-sum (rather than an annual pension) legacy 
for Mrs W, or indeed anyone else. Mr W could also have nominated a beneficiary of any 
funds remaining in his other DC scheme. So, to this end, Mr W already had options ensuring 
part of his pension wouldnt die with him.
Overall, in this case I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a 
personal pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr W. I think this objective, listed as it was in the suitability report, was no more than a generic comment and 
not meaningful to Mr Ws situation. 
Concerns over the financial stability of the DB scheme 
Its clear that Mr W, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His former employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme 
and MMF said he lacked trust in the company. Hed heard negative things about the PPF 
and MMF said he could have more control over his pension fund. 
So, its quite possible that Mr W was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer. However, it was MMFs obligation to give Mr W an 
objective picture and recommend what was in his best interests. By the point of the advice 
being delivered details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely it was going ahead. 
However, I think that MMF should have also reassured Mr W that the old scheme moving to 
the PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought. The income available to Mr W through the PPF 
would have still provided a significant portion of the income he would have needed at 
retirement, and he was still unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring out, given his 
attitude to risk and the effect of pension charges and fees. And although the increases in 
payment in the PPF were lower, the income was still guaranteed and was not subject to any 
investment risk. So, I dont think that these concerns should have led to MMFs 
recommendation to Mr W to transfer out of the DB scheme altogether.
Suitability of investments 
MMF recommended that Mr W invest his funds in a personal pension and have these 
managed by a DFM. As Im upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the 
DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr W and I dont think he would have insisted on transferring 
out of the scheme if clear advice had been given to him, it follows that I dont need to 
consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is because he should have 
been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the investment in the new funds wouldnt 
have arisen if suitable advice had been given. 
Summary
I dont think the advice given to Mr W was suitable. 
He was giving up an opportunity of a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the 
BSPS2. By transferring to a personal pension, the evidence shows Mr W was likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits. And I dont think there were any other particular reasons which 
would justify the transfer and outweigh this. I think MMF ought to have advised him against 
transferring out of his DB scheme for this reason, particularly as it meant hed be worse off in 
retirement.
Mr W still had many more years before he intended to retire. So, I dont think it was in his 
best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension when he had the 
opportunity of moving into the BSPS2. On this basis, I think MMF should have advised Mr W 
to remain in BSPS and then move with to the BSPS2. 
I have considered, given the circumstances of the time, whether Mr W would have 
transferred to a personal pension in any event. I accept that MMF disclosed some of the 
risks of transferring to Mr W, and provided him with a certain amount of information. But 
ultimately it advised Mr W to transfer out, and I think Mr W relied on that advice.Im not persuaded that Mr W would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, 
against MMFs advice. I say this because Mr W was also an inexperienced investor and this 
pension accounted for most of his retirement provision at the time. So, if MMF had provided 
him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in 
his best interests, I think he would have accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think MMF should compensate Mr W for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr W, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for MMFs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr W would 
have most likely remained in the BSPS and moved with it to the BSPS2, rather than transfer 
to the personal pension if he'd been given suitable advice. I know he had already told the 
trustees he was electing the BSPS2 as his preferred choice.
To be clear, compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance. MMF should use the benefits offered by the 
BSPS2 for comparison purposes.
MMF must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
MMF should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr W and our Service upon completion 
of the calculation.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ws 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, MMF should:
calculate and offer Mr W redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr W before starting the redress calculation that:
- the redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr W receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr W accepts MMFs offer to calculate how much of the redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr W for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of the redress augmented, and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ws end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr W as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, MMF may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Ws likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I am upholding this complaint and I now direct Mather & 
Murray Financial Ltd to pay Mr W the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Mather & Murray Financial Ltd pays Mr W the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr W.
If Mr W accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Mather & Murray 
Financial Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr W can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr W may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman