DRN-3827006
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) declined a claim for her horses treatment 
under an exclusion to her policy in respect of all issues related to the digestive tract.
What happened
Mrs S had a Horse and Pony insurance policy for her horse with Lloyds. Sadly her horse 
had to be put to sleep on 5 March 2022 as a result of a large colon volvulus. 
Mrs S submitted a claim to Lloyds for her horse which was declined under the policy 
exclusion relating to the horses digestive tract. Mrs S was unhappy that her claim had been 
declined and raised a complaint. She sent Lloyds a letter from her vet, dated 22 March 
2022, which said that the policy exclusion appeared to be based on two entries in the 
horses clinical records dated 26 October 2015 and 15 January 2019. 
The vet said the horse was examined on 26 October 2015 and a bill sent for a colic exam 
and rectal, and that a routine examination doesnt indicate that a diagnosis of colic was 
made. The vet also said that on 15 January 2019 theyd noted that Mrs S reported the horse 
had previously suffered from collicky episodes which theyd managed with phenylbutazone. 
But colic had never been confirmed by a vet, and even if the horse had suffered from colic 
before, this wasnt related to the large colon volvulus, which was an acute strangulating 
lesion. 
Lloyds considered the vets letter but didnt uphold Mrs Ss complaint. They said the 
exclusion was added to her policy after a review of the horses clinical history carried out by 
her previous insurers. They were satisfied that the exclusion was fair as shed reported the 
horse had suffered from collicky episodes, even if thered been no diagnosis of colic made 
by a vet. And as the large colon was part of the digestive tract, the claim had been correctly 
declined based on the exclusion.
But Lloyds did accept that the reason for the exclusion being added to her policy and the 
claim being declined could have been explained more clearly. They offered Mrs S £50 
compensation for any confusion that had arisen.
Mrs S has told us that at the time the exclusion was added to her policy her husband was 
recovering from a brain haemorrhage. Because of this they were just allowing essential 
policies they had to renew, and she wasnt aware of digestive tract exclusion. And shes said 
that Lloyds had accepted that the exclusions could have been made clearer.
She raised this with Lloyds who said they appreciated the difficult circumstances she was 
going through, but shed been provided with her updated policy documents outlining the 
exclusions added to her policy on 31 May 2019. And they were satisfied the exclusion had 
been correctly applied to her claim. 
Mrs S was unhappy with Lloyds response and complained to our service. Our investigator 
considered the case and upheld her complaint. He said that there was no evidence that the 
horse had even been diagnosed with colic, that the exclusion added to policy was too wide, 
and Mrs Ss vet had confirmed that the condition which led to the horse being put to sleep 
wasnt related to colic. So our investigator said the claim should be paid, subject to the policy 
limit, but ignoring the exclusion relating to claims about issues with the digestive tract.
Mrs S accepted our investigators opinion, but Lloyds didnt. Lloyds responded saying that 
large colon volvulus is colic and asked our investigator to review his opinion. He considered 
what Lloyds had said but remained of the view that the horse had never been diagnosed 
with colic, so the exclusion added to Mrs Ss policy was unfair and Lloyds should pay the 
claim.
The case has now come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ss policy for her horse provided cover in the event of the horses death up to lesser of 
the sum insured, in this case £4000, or the horses market value. Mrs S has told us that her 
horse was worth far more than £4000, but this was the maximum cover she could get 
because of his breed. 
The policy contains a number of exclusions. The one relevant to this complaint is Excluding 
all claims in connection with or relating to:- THE DIGESTIVE TRACT (INCLUDING THE 
STOMACH AND INTESTINES). This exclusion has been in place since Mrs S took out her 
cover with Lloyds.
Mrs S has said that she wasnt aware of the exclusion, but Im satisfied that she should have 
been as its clearly set in her policy documents. While I appreciate the difficult circumstances 
she was dealing with in 2019, shes had time since then review the exclusion.
So I need to consider whether Lloyds acted fairly in adding the exclusion to Mrs Ss policy 
and whether the exclusion itself was fair.
Lloyds have told us that Mrs Ss previous insurers added an exclusion, in respect of the 
horses digestive tract, when they considered the horses clinical notes. Mrs S was billed for 
a colic exam and rectal on 26 October 2015. Her vet has said this was a routine 
examination with no diagnosis of colic being made, and I accept this. So based simply on 
this entry I dont think it was fair to add an exclusion to the policy.
The entry in the clinical records on 15 January 2019 isnt so clear cut. The vet who wrote the 
letter dated 22 March 2022, was the vet who saw the horse on this date, and shes 
confirmed that she wrote the note in the records. Shes said that Mrs S reported that the 
horse had previously suffered from collicky episodes which shed managed with 
phenylbutazone. But no diagnosis of colic was made by a vet.
Phenylbutazone is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug generally used for the short-term 
treatment of pain and fever in animals. Mrs S has told us that she gave this drug to her horse
for pain in his hocks, not for colic. And her vet has confirmed in a letter dated 10 March 2022 
that she dispensed phenylbutazone to treat mild swelling in the horses hocks, not to treat 
colic. Mrs S has also said that on 15 January 2019 she discussed colic, and its prevention, 
with the vet as shes an overprotective owner, but there was no diagnosis of colic.
I dont know exactly what Mrs S discussed with the vet, but on balance I accept that she may just have been having a general conversation about her horses health. But I have to 
consider that the vet recorded reference to collicky symptoms. 
So what did Mrs S mean by this? Shes told us that the horse sometimes seemed down and 
other horse owners had suggested this could be due colic. This could explain the reference 
to collicky symptoms. And simply because theres reference to symptoms of a condition, 
this doesnt mean that the condition was present. 
We know that the horse was never diagnosed as suffering from colic by a vet, and I think 
Mrs S would have called her vet and had him examined if she thought he had colic. So on 
balance I dont think theres any clear evidence that Mrs Ss horse had suffered from colic, 
so the exclusion added to her policy in respect of claims relating to the digestive tract wasnt 
fair or reasonable.
And even if this wasnt the case, I think the exclusion is too wide. A horse can suffer from 
many conditions related to the stomach and digestive tract that arent related to colic, and to 
include such a wide exclusion wasnt fair.
Mrs Ss vet has said that even if the horse had a history of colic, this wasnt related in any 
way to the large colon volvulus which led to him being put to sleep. Lloyds have said that 
the horse was put down due to colic, as a strangulated gut is colic. So the horse had colic on 
5 March 2022 and was put to sleep because of this. 
Colic is a term generally used to describe abdominal pain. While large colon volvulus can be 
described as a painful and potentially fatal form of colic, Ive said that I dont think the 
exclusion added to Mrs Ss policy was fair, as there was no clear evidence that the horse 
had previously suffered from colic. So I dont think it was fair or reasonable for Lloyds to 
decline Mrs Ss claim.
Ive considered whether the £50 Lloyds have offered Mrs S as compensation for any 
confusion about the exclusion and the reason her claim was declined, and I think it is. I say 
this because the exclusion is clearly set out in her policy and while her husband had health 
issue in 2019, shes had time to review the policy since then.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ss complaint about 
Society of Lloyds.
And to put things right I require them to pay her claim relating to her horse up to the policy 
limit, but ignoring the exclusion in relation to the digestive tract (including stomach and 
intestines).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman