DRN-4481296
Complaint
Mr M complains that MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo) unfairly entered into a hire-
purchase agreement with him. Hes said the payments to his agreement were unaffordable. 
Background
In October 2019, MotoNovo provided Mr M with finance for a used car. The cash price of the 
vehicle was £6,495.00. Mr M paid a deposit of £495 and applied for a loan to cover the 
remaining £6,000.00. The loan had interest, fees and total charges of £1,914.70 (comprising 
of interest of £1,534.70, an admin fee of £379 and an option to purchase fee of £1), and the 
total amount to be repaid of £7,914.70 (not including Mr Ms deposit) was due to be repaid in 
53 monthly instalments of £146.55 and one final payment of £147.55. 
Mr Ms complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She didnt think that MotoNovo 
had done anything wrong or treated Mr M unfairly. So she didnt recommend that Mr Ms 
complaint should be upheld. Mr M disagreed with our investigator and the complaint was 
passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ms complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding           
Mr Ms complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
MotoNovo needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is that MotoNovo needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether 
Mr M could make him payments in a sustainable manner before agreeing to lend to him. And 
if the checks MotoNovo carried out werent sufficient, I then need to consider what 
reasonable and proportionate checks are likely to have shown.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the 
amount lent was high, or the information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired 
credit history  suggested the lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers 
ability to repay. 
MotoNovo says it agreed to this application after it completed an income and expenditure 
assessment on Mr M. During this assessment, Mr M provided details of his monthly income. 
MotoNovo says it also carried out credit searches on Mr M which showed up some existing 
credit but that this was being relatively well maintained.  
Furthermore, MotoNovo says that Mr M would have enough left over to meet his regular 
living costs once his payments to his creditors was deducted from his income. On the other 
hand, Mr M says that he couldnt have afforded this and has referred to being in an 
arrangement to pay on an account.
Ive thought about what Mr M and MotoNovo have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that I dont know if MotoNovo was aware of Mr M being in 
arrangement to pay on an account as I cant see this on its searches. Although I do accept 
that it may have only sent me the results on some of Mr Ms accounts. In any event, given 
the circumstances, much like our investigator, I dont think that the checks MotoNovo carried 
out did go far enough. In my view, bearing in mind the overall circumstances, MotoNovo 
needed to take further steps to ascertain Mr Ms actual living costs in order for its checks to 
have been proportionate. 
As MotoNovo didnt carry out sufficient checks, Ive gone on to decide what I think MotoNovo 
is more likely than not to have seen had it obtained further information from Mr M. Bearing in 
mind, the length of time of the agreement and the amount of the monthly payment, I would 
have expected MotoNovo to have had a reasonable understanding about Mr Ms regular 
living expenses as well as his income and existing credit commitments. 
To be clear Im not going to carry out a forensic analysis of whether the loan payments were 
affordable. Im simply going to consider what MotoNovo is likely to have done if it obtained 
the missing information I think it should have done here. I say this because this information 
provided does appear to show that when Mr Ms committed regular living expenses are 
deducted from his credit commitments, MotoNovo is likely to conclude that Mr M could 
sustainably make the repayments due under this agreement. 
I accept its possible that Mr Ms actual circumstances at the time might have been worse 
than what the information hes provided shows. I know he says that his income was 
increased by received milage benefits that this was guaranteed and increased his income. I 
also realised that this is likely to have drastically changed in the following months as the 
global situation altered and Mr M simply wouldnt have done as much travelling. But 
MotoNovo wont have known any of this. All it could do was make a decision based on what 
it had, or is likely to have had, had it done proportionate checks.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied that the available information indicates that 
MotoNovo is likely to conclude that Mr M did have sufficient funds left over, once his regular 
living expenses and discernible committed expenditure was deducted from his monthly 
income, to make his monthly payments in a sustainable manner. As this is the case, while I 
do sympathise with the tough time Mr M has said hes gone through, Im not persuaded that 
MotoNovo doing more checks here would have resulted in a different outcome here.
  
So overall and having carefully considered everything, while I dont think that MotoNovos 
checks before entering into this hire purchase agreement with Mr M did go far enough, Im 
satisfied that carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks wont have prevented 
MotoNovo from providing these funds, or entering into this hire-purchase agreement with 
him. 
Im therefore satisfied that MotoNovo didnt act unfairly towards Mr M when it agreed to 
provide the funds and Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr M. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell 
at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman