DRN-4397486
The complaint
Mr F complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a type of personal pension plan, in 2017.
PrisWM Limited is responsible for answering this complaint and so to keep things consistent, 
Ill refer mainly to PrisWM.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Fs former employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation 
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which 
included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined 
benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their 
benefits to a personal pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Fs employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
Mr F was concerned about what some of the early announcements by his employer meant 
for the security of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do and was 
referred to PrisWM which is responsible for providing the pension advice. Information 
gathered about his circumstances and objectives at the time of the recommendation were 
broadly as follows:
Mr F had accrued around 31 years of pension benefits with the BSPS. He was 51 
years old. Although single, he was due to marry his fiance shortly. 
He owned a home worth £160,000 mortgage free. He also had £108,000 in savings 
and investments. He had no debts.
Mr F earned around up to £39,000 per year in the steel industry. After all his monthly 
household expenses were used, he had a reasonable disposable income left over. 
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Fs BSPS was approximately 
£471,644. The normal retirement age (NRA) was 65. Mr F had told the adviser hed 
like to semi-retire earlier than this, if possible, around the age of 55.
Mr F had joined the new defined contribution (DC) TATA Steel pension as a 
consequence of the BSPS closing to ongoing contributions.
PrisWM set out its advice in a suitability report on 30 November 2017. In this it advised Mr F 
to transfer out of the BSPS and invest the funds in a type of personal pension plan. Mr F 
accepted this advice and so transferred out. In 2021 Mr F complained to PrisWM about its 
advice, saying he shouldnt have been advised to transfer out to a personal pension but 
PrisWM didnt uphold his complaint. 
Mr F then referred his complaint to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the 
complaint and said it should be upheld. PrisWM still didnt agree. And as the complaint 
couldnt be resolved informally, it came to me for a final decision. 
However, PrisWM has since agreed to accept the investigators view. It has also agreed to 
carry out a loss calculation in line with the approach weve been asking businesses to use 
when complaints of this nature are being upheld. This involves the use of a specific FCA 
calculator to determine whether or not there has been any loss incurred by Mr F - and if so, 
how much. So, a few weeks ago we asked Mr F to provide details of his current pension 
value and some associated information so that PrisWM can go ahead and do this 
calculation. At the time of writing, Ive seen nothing showing that Mr F or his representative 
have provided this information.
Ive considered all the circumstances with care and come to the view that the parties have 
had sufficient time to attempt to resolve the complaint. Im therefore going to issue a final 
decision, but because PrisWM has accepted the investigators uphold view, I dont see the 
need to address the suitability of PrisWMs advice to Mr F in the same extensive and close 
detail as I would normally. However, to be clear, I fully agree with the investigators view that 
the advice to transfer was unsuitable, and I do so broadly using the same rationale.. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of PrisWM's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, PrisWM should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Fs best interests. 
Having considered all the information in this case, Im upholding Mr Fs complaint. 
PrisWMs transfer advice was unsuitable for the following reasons:
For the age of 65 which in this case was the NRA, the critical yield, which is the 
investment return required to replicate the benefits available to him through the 
BSPS2, was 5.4% (if taking a pension with a tax-free lump sum). For an early 
retirement at the age of 55 the respective critical yield was demonstrably higher, at 
24.6%. Conversely, the discount rates for the above scenarios were only 4.1% and 
2.8% respectively (for just over 13 years or 3 years to retirement). So, I think this was 
already showing that by transferring away from the DB scheme, Mr F was unlikely to 
be able to grow his pension to a degree which made transferring financially viable.
Ive kept in mind that the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the 
middle projection rate was 5%, and the lower projection rate was 2%. But Ive also 
considered the higher costs associated with a personal pension and that Mr F 
probably required on-going support and management from a professional adviser. 
Everything Ive seen shows  that when viewed from the time of advice in 2017 - he 
would likely receive lower pension benefits in the longer term as a result of 
transferring away from the DB scheme.
Ive noted too, that PrisWMs own transfer analysis said that in order to purchase an 
annuity to provide benefits of equal value to the estimated benefits provided by the 
existing scheme, the estimated fund required at Mr Fs NRA was £764,886. At the 
age of 55 it was even higher, at £822,091. Because these are far above Mr Fs 
CETV, they represent, in my view, a revealing window into the real value of the 
guaranteed pension Mr F could be giving up by transferring away to a personal plan, 
rather than the similar DB scheme (BSPS2) that was on offer here.
Elsewhere in its transfer analysis, PrisWM also made mention of the PPF, which it 
described as a compensation scheme providing a safety net for pension schemes 
when the sponsoring employer becomes insolvent. The critical yields to match the 
benefits available through the PPF were lower. But these yields related to the 
reduced benefits available with the PPF and PrisWM itself says Mr F wouldnt have 
wanted to transfer to this scheme.
PrisWM said part of the reasons for transferring to a personal pension plan was that 
Mr F wanted to access the tax-free element of his pension to buy a property. But I 
agree with our investigator that there was no evidence this was anything other than 
aspirational thinking as there was no real mature plan. He was still only 51 and below 
the age at which he could access these funds. No property had been identified and 
there were no specific details discussed about the overall cost or how it could be 
funded. Ive also noted that Mr F already had significant financial resources 
comprising of 100% property equity in his existing home and a six-figure amount of 
savings invested in various products. There also seemed plenty of capacity to fund a 
future purchase of a home in the normal way, particularly given interest rates at the 
time were historically low, and had been low for some time.
I think PrisWM also implied that the tax-free element would be higher in a personal 
pension. Its usually the case that more tax-free cash can be accessed from a 
personal pension when compared against a DB scheme; this is because the values and benefits of the two schemes are calculated differently. But PrisWM should have 
been telling Mr F at the time that extra tax-free lump sums being removed from a 
personal pension, potentially in his mid-50s in his case, also came with 
consequences in that the amount left for his later retirement years would obviously 
decrease.
Ive seen nothing that showed Mr F required changing how his retirement benefits 
ought to be paid. Hed said he was only thinking about semi-retirement at 55, rather 
than full retirement. And this was still a few years away. In any event, he appeared to 
have a very significant amount of disposable income, so even if he semi-retired in a 
few years I think his resources would have easily met the requirements he said he 
had for a retirement income of £21,000 per year, without giving up his DB scheme. 
His fiance was also 14 years younger than Mr F and so her financial resources 
would have contributed significantly to this goal.  
Mr F also already had a new and more flexible DC pension with his existing job as a 
consequence of the old BSPS scheme being closed to new contributions. I think its 
easy to completely discount this pension in the light of his BSPS amount being quite 
large. But there was already £10,000 in here and this DC pension was being 
significantly contributed towards by both Mr F and also his employer. And as Ive 
said, Mr F did seem to have the capacity to raise his contribution levels over the next 
3  13 years depending on when he eventually stopped working completely. Theres 
no real evidence this would have stopped at 55. So, theres no reason why by 
retirement this DC pension couldnt have contained a meaningful sum. It would have 
significantly contributed towards any flexibility he might have needed in the years 
ahead.
Ive also seen no evidence that Mr F had the true desire to exercise control over his 
funds. He had some degree of financial knowledge, but I think he would have found 
the complexity, scale and responsibility of managing over £471,000 of transferred 
funds to be onerous in the years ahead. What Ive seen tends to show Mr F would 
have required ongoing financial advice and support, all of which would cost him 
money which his DB scheme option in BSPS2 didnt require from him.
Death benefits - the BSPS2 contained certain benefits payable to a spouse if Mr F 
died. Mr F was due to be married soon, so I think the value of these benefits were 
most likely underplayed because the spouses pension provided by the BSPS2 would 
have been useful to his current fiance if he predeceased her after their marriage. I 
dont think PrisWM made the value of this benefit clear enough. This was guaranteed 
and it escalated  it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas the 
sum remaining on death in a personal pension was.
I think the adviser told Mr F that hed be able to pass on the whole value of a 
personal pension, potentially tax-free, to anyone that he nominated. So the lump sum 
death benefits on offer through a personal pension were probably made to look like 
an attractive feature to Mr F. But this needed carefully explaining. Whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr F might have thought it was a 
good idea to transfer the BSPS to a personal pension because of this, the priority 
here was to advise him about what was best for his retirement provisions. Mr F was 
still only 51 and was in good health. An obvious drawback with a personal plans 
death benefits is that the amount left to pass on  to anyone  may be substantially 
reduced as the pensioner starts to withdraw his or her retirement income. To this 
end, if Mr F had lived a long life there could be nothing left at all in his personal 
pension plan. It also doesnt appear that PrisWM took into account the fact that Mr F 
could have nominated a beneficiary of any funds remaining in his other (TATA) DC scheme. So, to this end, Mr F already had options ensuring part of his pension 
wouldnt die with him.
Its clear that Mr F, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his 
pension. However, even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think 
that PrisWM should have reassured Mr F that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt 
as concerning as he thought. The income available to Mr F through the PPF would 
have still probably provided a significant portion of the income he would have needed 
at retirement, and he was still unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring out. 
Although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the income was still 
guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. So, I dont think that these 
concerns should have led to PrisWMs recommendation to Mr F to transfer out of the 
DB scheme altogether.
Summary
I dont think the advice given to Mr F was suitable. 
He was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS2. By 
transferring to a personal pension, the evidence shows Mr F was likely to obtain lower 
retirement benefits. And I dont think there were any other particular reasons which would 
justify the transfer and outweigh this. I think PrisWM ought to have advised him against 
transferring out of his DB scheme for this reason, particularly as it meant hed be worse off in 
retirement.
So, I dont think it was in Mr Fs best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a 
personal pension when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2. On this basis, I 
think PrisWM should have advised Mr F to opt into the BSPS2.
In light of the above, I think PrisWM should compensate Mr F for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr F, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for PrisWMs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr F would 
have most likely opted to join the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the personal pension if he'd 
been given suitable advice and compensation should be based on his normal retirement age 
of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance. PrisWM should use the benefits 
offered by BSPS2 for comparison purposes.
PrisWM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
PrisWM should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr F and our Service upon completion 
of the calculation.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Fs 
acceptance of my final decision.If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, PrisWM should:
calculate and offer Mr F redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr F before starting the redress calculation that:
- the redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
the DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr F receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr F accepts PrisWMs offer to calculate how much of the redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr F for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of the redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Fs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr F as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, PrisWM may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments 
to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Fs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Our investigator recommended that PrisWM should pay Mr F for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the unsuitable advice. I have considered the impact this would 
likely have had on Mr F in his particular circumstances. This pension at the time represented 
most of his retirement provision and it was a large amount. In his situation I think the thought 
of losing material benefits would have impacted upon Mr F. So I agree the recommended 
payment of £200 for distress and inconvenience. PrisWM should pay Mr F this amount in 
addition to the redress Ive set out above.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I am upholding this complaint and I now direct PrisWM 
Limited to pay Mr F the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
PrisWM Limited pays Mr F the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr F.
If Mr F accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on PrisWM Limited.My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr F can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr F may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman