DRN-3226188
The complaint
Mr S complains that Startline Motor Finance Limited (SMFL) irresponsibly granted him a hire 
purchase agreement he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In May 2016, Mr S acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement from SMFL. 
Mr S paid a £600 deposit and was then required to make 60 monthly repayments of £138. 
The total repayable under the agreement was £8,869. Mr S terminated the agreement in July 
2017.
Mr S says that SMFL didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. SMFL didnt agree. It said that it was able 
to establish sufficient affordability from Mr S credit file and so further proof of affordability 
wasnt requested. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. He thought SMFL ought to have 
realised the agreement wasnt affordable to Mr S.
SMFL didnt respond to our adjudicators view and so the case has been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
SMFL will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
SFML has said that it carried out a credit check and this information combined with Mr S 
cash deposit meant he met its affordability criteria. SMFL hasnt provided a copy of the credit 
check it completed. Mr S has provided a copy of a recent credit report but this contains 
limited information from the when the agreement was provided.
The agreement had a term of 60 months and while I note SMFLs comments about not 
requiring further checks, a credit check wont have indicated what Mr S regular income and 
living expenses were. Without knowing this, SMFL wouldnt have got a reasonable 
understanding of whether the agreement was affordable or not. It therefore didnt complete 
proportionate checks. 
I think it would have been proportionate for SMFL to have found out more about Mr S 
income and committed expenditure, such as his living costs. I cant be sure exactly what 
SMFL would have found out if it had asked. In the absence of anything else, I think it would 
be reasonable to place significant weight on the information contained in Mr S bank 
statements as to what would most likely have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed three months of bank statements leading up to the lending decision. Mr S has 
provided copies of his statements from his sole account and his joint account. Mr S bank 
statements show he had an income of around £1,100. Mr S transferred around £600 to the 
joint account each month for payments of bills and had further committed expenditure for 
items such as petrol, food and other credit commitments of around £400. This demonstrates 
that taking Mr S income and expenses into account Mr S didnt have enough disposable 
income to afford the additional borrowing. 
Putting things right
As I dont think SMFL ought to have approved the lending, I dont think its fair for it to be 
able to charge any interest or charges under the agreement. But Mr S did have use of the 
vehicle for around 14 months, so I think its fair he pays for that use. But Im not persuaded 
that monthly repayments of £137.80 a month are a fair reflection of what fair usage would 
be. This is because a significant proportion of those repayments went towards repaying 
interest.
There isnt an exact formula for working out what a fair monthly repayment would be to 
reflect Mr S usage. But in deciding whats fair and reasonable Ive thought about the amount 
of interest charged on the agreement, Mr S likely overall usage of the car and what his costs 
to stay mobile would likely have been if he didnt have this car. In doing so I think a fair 
amount Mr S should pay is £75 for each month he had use of the car. This means SMFL can 
only ask him to repay a total of £1,050.
To settle Mr S complaint SMFL should do the following:
Refund all the payments Mr S has made (including the deposit), less £1,050 for fair 
usage. 
oIf Mr S has paid more than the fair usage figure, SMFL should refund any 
overpayments, adding 8% simple interest per year* from the date of each 
overpayment to the date of settlement. Or;
oIf Mr S has paid less than the fair usage figure, SMFL should arrange an 
affordable and sustainable repayment plan for the outstanding balance. 
Once SMFL has received the fair usage amount, it should remove any adverse 
information recorded on Mr S credit file regarding the agreement.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Startline Motor Finance Limited to put things right in the 
manner set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman