DRN-2279915
The complaint
Mr U complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund disputed transactions he says he didnt 
make or authorise.
What happened
Mr U says that seven transactions totalling just over £2,400 were made from his account 
using his bank card without his consent. 
I wont be listing all the disputed transactions as both parties are aware of which transactions 
are in dispute. But in summary Mr U is disputing one branch withdrawal, three cash machine 
withdrawals and three chip and PIN transactions. 
Mr U says on 4 May 2020, he went to a cash machine to withdraw £30 from his account. He 
put his bank card in the machine, but he said the screen went blank and the machine 
retained his card  although Mr U says he did receive a receipt despite the ATM machine 
being blank. Mr U checked his online banking and noticed the money wasnt missing from 
his account. Because of that, he assumed the machine was faulty and decided to go into 
branch the next day to get a new card. Mr U says he couldnt freeze his card using his 
banking application, and as it was out of hours, he thought it was best to visit branch the 
next day.
The next day, Mr U received a text message from Santander advising him that hed gone 
into an unauthorised overdraft. Mr U said this panicked him and he called Santander straight 
away. Mr U says this is the first time he became aware of the disputed transactions.
Santander investigated Mr Us fraud claim and decided not to refund the disputed 
transactions. The bank said they were holding Mr U liable as the genuine card and PIN were 
used to make each transaction and there was no evidence of any third-party compromise.
Mr U was unhappy with this and brought the complaint to our service. 
The investigator who reviewed Mr Us complaint didnt uphold it. In summary she said;
She was satisfied the genuine chip in the card was used and the correct PIN entered.
She didnt think a Lebanese Loop as Mr U had described was likely in the 
circumstances.
The branch withdrawal was allowed without identification because Santanders 
processes allow up to £2,500 to be withdrawn using the chip and PIN.
There were no incorrect PIN attempts.
Mr U didnt report the card lost or stolen when the machine retained it despite it being 
in the terms of the account that he should do.
The card wasnt used until around 10.11am the day after Mr U says the machine 
retained it.
So, in summary, the investigator thought it was likely Mr U who carried out the transactions 
himself or a third-party who hed given permission to.
Mr U didnt agree. He thinks there are discrepancies in the investigators view and asked for 
an ombudsman to review things. So, its been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out the full facts, the transactions, and the 
evidence. Mr U and Santander have read the investigators view so, I wont repeat every 
detail here, only those which form the basis of my decision. However, I can assure Mr U that 
Ive read the file, including his comments and evidence following the investigators view. 
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint Mr U, but Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. Ill explain why. 
Generally speaking, if the evidence suggests its more likely than not that Mr U authorised 
the payments, Santander is entitled to hold him liable. The relevant regulations, to this effect, 
are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 2017). Mr U says he didnt make the 
disputed transactions, so my primary concern is to come to a view about whether or not I 
think Mr U authorised the transactions by either making them himself or allowing a third party 
to do so. 
Having reviewed Santanders technical evidence, Im satisfied that Mr Us genuine card 
details were used to make the disputed transactions and that they were authenticated using 
the correct PIN. But, the regulations relevant to this case, say that this is not on its own 
enough to enable Santander to hold Mr U liable for them. So, I also need to think about 
whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr U consented to the 
transactions being made or whether he is the victim of fraud as hes alleged.
The Lebanese Loop
Theres no dispute that the disputed transactions were made using Mr Us genuine card and 
PIN. So I have to think how they were made. Mr U is clear he didnt make or authorise them. 
And he didnt tell anyone else his PIN. He thinks that he has been the victim of the 
Lebanese Loop - a home-made device which retains a card in a cash machine so it can be 
removed later. 
Mr U has provided sufficient detail around why he believes the cash machine where he 
attempted to withdraw his own cash had been tampered with. He says hes spoken to Action 
Fraud and theyve also told him this is most likely what happened. Im also aware Mr U has 
carried out his own research on Lebanese Loops in the surrounding area where the cash 
machine was located.
If this was how Mr Us card was taken, a third party must have seen Mr U enter his PIN 
when he made the attempt to withdraw cash. That person must have then used the device to 
take Mr Us card and use his PIN. 
I can see how thats possible. But Im afraid the evidence doesnt point to it being the most 
likely explanation for what happened. I say that because the disputed transactions started in 
the morning of 5 May 2020  over 12 hours after Mr U says he used his card to attempt to 
withdraw cash. And although Mr U says the cash machine was in a busy area  near an 
underground station, he hasnt told us that anyone was particularly close to him, or acting 
suspiciously when he used the machine. I think a third party would have had to be close to him to see the PIN he entered. So I think its likely that he would have noticed something. 
And I think such a person would have acted quickly to use the PIN rather than waiting until 
the next day when its likely Mr U could have reported the card lost and therefore blocked 
any subsequent usage.
Branch withdrawal
I appreciate Mr Us comments regarding the branch withdrawal. The branch advisors 
statement confirmed the individual withdrawing the money confirmed he had access to 
online banking. Mr U has made a sensible argument by asking what that means in reality. 
Mr U has correctly identified that anybody could say they have access to online banking  
but unless theyre required to log in at branch, there isnt any proof. I dont dispute this but I 
dont think its entirely relevant to whats happened here. I say that because Santanders 
processes allow up to £2,500 to be withdrawn in branch without the need for further security 
checks or identification. 
So, while I agree with some of Mr Us points, I cant fairly uphold his complaint on this point. 
Ultimately, the individual withdrawing the money had access to Mr Us card and knew his 
PIN. And thats all that was required to make the withdrawal in branch so I cant fairly say 
Santander did anything wrong by allowing this to happen.
Mr Us debit card
The debit card transactions which were all made within around ten minutes of each other 
and no incorrect PIN attempts were made. This also leads me to believe that the person 
using Mr Us card was aware of his PIN.
Its also Mr Us responsibility, under the terms and conditions of his account, to report his 
card lost or stolen as soon as possible. I appreciate Mr U says because the machine 
swallowed his card, and it happened outside of normal banking hours, he planned to go into 
branch the next morning to report it. Mr U has also said he wasnt able to block his card 
using his mobile banking application as Santander have suggested he would be able to. 
While Im unable to say for certain whether Mr U had the access on his mobile banking 
application or not, I dont think it makes an overall difference. I say that because Mr U would 
have been able to phone Santander, despite it being outside of normal banking hours. I cant 
fairly hold Santander responsible for Mr U not reporting his card going missing. If he had 
have reported it, and they failed to block it for continued use, I would of course be able to 
hold them responsible. But ultimately Mr Us card continued to be able to be used because 
he didnt report it.
Overall
Overall, Im satisfied, based on the evidence Ive seen, that Mr Us genuine card and PIN 
were used to make all of the disputed transactions. Im unable to fairly conclude how Mr Us 
card was taken  and how his PIN was known. And I think Mr U should have done more to 
protect his account by reporting his card lost or stolen as soon as he realised. Because of 
that, it leaves me in the difficult position to conclude that Mr U, or somebody he knew, 
carried out the disputed transactions.
I appreciate Mr Us strong feeling about this, and Im sorry I cant uphold his complaint in the 
way hed like me to. But based on the circumstances of this complaint, and the evidence Ive 
received, I cant fairly ask Santander to do anything differently. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman