DRN-4381137
The complaint
Mr M complains Zurich Insurance Plc (Zurich) hasnt dealt with his claim fairly on his 
buildings insurance policy. In particular, he says Zurich:
Didnt instruct a surveyor recognised by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors
(RICS) as agreed.
Has unfairly stopped payments for alternative accommodation and his other expenses.
Caused further damage to his property during a site visit.
Hasnt agreed to cover all damage caused by the insured event.
Mr M is the leaseholder of the property so the freeholder is the policyholder. For ease of 
reference, I will refer to Mr M only. Any reference to Zurich includes its agents.
Mr Ms raised a number of complaints dating back several years. In September 2023, I 
issued a decision on what our service can and cant look into. I decided we can only 
consider Mr Ms complaints about the points investigated in Zurichs final response letters of 
11 November 2022 and 19 May 2023. So thats what this Final Decision is about only.
What happened
A lot has happened in this case over a number of years so, whilst Ive considered everything, 
Ill detail the key parts only.
Around September 2019, Mr M made a claim on the policy for an escape of water. He said 
water had come through his ceiling in the utility cupboard and, his electric and gas meters 
were damaged. Zurich says it sent a surveyor to assess the damage in October 2019 and 
ultimately, it offered around £2,200 to settle the claim plus £1,000 to replace his doors. 
Zurich said, following an inspection of Mr Ms electrics, it found no leak related issues and 
didnt offer Mr M accommodation. He says he was left homeless as a result of this decision.
In February 2021, Mr M made a second claim on the policy for another escape of water 
which he said had come through the kitchen ceiling and damaged his whole property. He 
said his property was uninhabitable because his consumer unit was damaged by the first 
leak and his internal doors still werent fitted.
Zurich agreed to fit Mr Ms doors as part of the scope of works for the second claim. And 
whilst it initially didnt agree to give Mr M alternative accommodation, it eventually agreed to 
this  and to cover his out-of-pocket expenses, including the cost of storing his belongings.
A number of reports and surveys were carried out on Mr Ms property. A first visit report 
from December 2021 said there were no high moisture readings, and a second visit report 
said, in summary, the areas Mr M had said were damaged suffered from poor workmanship.
As a schedule of works hadnt been agreed, in November 2022, Zurich agreed to instruct a 
RICS surveyor to inspect Mr Ms property. Unfortunately, this wasnt done and instead 
Mr Ms claim was passed to the major loss team who carried out a visit in January 2023. 
During this visit, Mr M says Zurich damaged his property.
Following the visit, Zurich offered Mr M £1,500 to repair the kitchen ceiling only as it found 
no evidence of water damage elsewhere. Mr M was unhappy with the offer.
In March 2023, Zurich told Mr M it thought his property was habitable so his alternative 
accommodation payments would cease at the end of April 2023. It also asked him to 
evidence the storage costs hed claimed. Mr M disagreed his property was habitable due to 
the consumer unit and his internal doors. He thought Zurich was acting unfairly because it 
had assessed things years after the leaks happened and therefore couldnt see the true 
extent of the damage. He was also unhappy the RICS surveyor hadnt been instructed.
Zurich instructed a RICS surveyor chosen by Mr M who attended in May 2023. In summary, 
the RICS surveyor said the visible damage from the kitchen ceiling leak seemed to be 
minimal  and they couldnt find related water damage to other parts of the property. But 
they said further investigation such as pulling up the floor could be done to make sure.
In its final response letter in May 2023, Zurich offered Mr M compensation for not instructing 
the RICS surveyor earlier. But it didnt think it made a difference to the progress of the claim. 
And it reiterated Mr Ms property was habitable and it still needed to see evidence. In total, 
Zurich says its paid around £1,650 in compensation for delays and service issues.
Unhappy with Zurichs response, Mr M asked our service to look into things. In her second 
assessment, our investigator said Zurich should pay the cost of the alternative 
accommodation until July 2023 if Mr M provides the evidence its asked for. She also 
directed it to pay the cash settlement previously offered. Neither Mr M nor Zurich agreed with 
the investigators assessment so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in August 2023. I said the complaint shouldnt be upheld in 
summary because I thought:
Zurich had done enough to make up for not instructing the RICS surveyor as agreed. 
Even if they were instructed earlier, the progress of the claim wouldve been no different 
as their findings were very similar to the major loss teams.
There wasnt enough evidence to say Mr Ms property was uninhabitable. I didnt think 
hed taken reasonable steps to show theres damage to his electrics caused by an 
insured event which stopped him from being able to live at his property. 
Mr M had been given the opportunity by Zurich to show there were leak related problems 
with his electrics that caused his property to be uninhabitable. But he didnt do so.
There wasnt evidence Mr Ms property was unsafe or unsanitary to live in. 
Having looked at Mr Ms tenancy agreement for his alternative accommodation, Zurich 
had given him enough notice to vacate the property. 
The evidence Zurich had asked for to support Mr Ms claim for out-of-pocket expenses 
werent unusual or unreasonable. As he hadnt provided the information requested, 
Zurich hadnt acted unfairly in declining the claims. 
Zurich shouldnt need to cover Mr Ms expenses as his property is habitable and he can 
return to it with his belongings. 
There was no evidence Zurich had caused damage to Mr Ms property during their visit  
and I wasnt given a reason why they would need to pull tiles or tanking off his walls. All the surveys and reports Id been provided suggested the damage was more likely due 
to poor workmanship and not an escape of water. So the decision to only cover damage 
to the kitchen ceiling following the site visit in January 2023 was fair. 
Mr M hadnt sufficiently evidenced the damage hed claimed for. 
Whilst water damage may have dried out by time the reports were put together in 2023, I 
wouldve expected to see some evidence of it  such as staining  if the leaks caused 
the extent of damage Mr M described. 
Reports from earlier  December 2021  also said the moisture readings werent high; 
there was little evidence of cracking and movement to tiles; and the damage to the 
bathroom and hallway were caused by those areas not being properly sealed. 
From the photos, there were no units blocking access to the area of the kitchen ceiling to 
be repaired. So I didnt think Mr Ms kitchen needed removing and replacing. 
I asked both parties for their comments on my provisional decision by the deadline set. 
Zurich confirmed it had received my provisional decision but didnt make any further 
comments. Mr M sent several detailed replies. He asked for a copy of our full file to make 
sure I had all of the relevant information from him and Zurich. And he asked our service to 
tell Zurich to return his belongings and cover his outstanding rent. He provided photos and 
information hed given us before. Ive summarised the parts of his replies which relate to the 
outcome of the complaint that I can look at below:
Mr M wouldnt have let Zurich move his belongings into storage if hed known it wouldnt 
arrange the repairs and hed have to cover the cost of them being returned. 
Zurich had confirmed by email it would arrange for Mr Ms items to be returned at its own 
expense. So he believes it should do what it said it would. 
Zurich had created the arrears on Mr Ms alternative accommodation because it hadnt 
returned his belongings to his property (some of which are at the alternative 
accommodation).
Mr Ms landlord will be out of pocket if Zurich doesnt now cover the cost of his 
alternative arrangement. 
Mr M felt the RICS survey was incomplete. Instead he thought our service could arrange 
a site visit to his property to see the damage and in particular, to confirm his kitchen 
needed to be removed to repair the ceiling. 
The council visited Mr Ms property and confirmed the RICS survey missed important 
information and the kitchen would need to be removed to repair the ceiling. They also 
said we should award around £30,000 for his expenses and accommodation. 
If the RICS surveyor had been instructed earlier  when the leak was happening, they 
wouldve been able to see the true extent of the damage. 
The RICS surveyor didnt remove Mr Ms flooring or kitchen units so couldnt see the full 
extent of the damage. 
During the visit in January 2023, Zurich caused damage and took advantage of Mr M. The electrical inspection was cancelled because one of the major loss technicians 
refused to visit the property. Mr M thinks theyre the person who damaged his property. 
Mr M hadnt agreed to the costings provided by Zurich because he didnt think it was 
enough to fully repair the damage. He calculated it would cost over £110,000 to repair. 
The kitchen ceiling has a metal frame around it and a spine running across the middle 
which the plasterboard joins to. There is also a sub ceiling with asbestos. So Mr M thinks 
the ceiling cant be repaired without special equipment and replacing the kitchen. 
Mr M doesnt accept his property is habitable with no internal doors as hell have to heat 
the whole property in order to heat one room. 
The kitchen and fitted wardrobes were meant to be put into storage. Had that happened, 
the RICS surveyor wouldve been able to see the water damage behind it. 
The damage to the bathroom was not caused by Mr M using it as he was already staying 
at a hotel when the inspection happened. 
Mr M also sent us details and photos of damage caused by previous escapes of water in his 
property. He says these were caused by the property above and a leak behind his shower. 
This includes the leak from September 2019. He explained what happened when he brought 
those complaints to our service. And hes sent us an email from his landlord of his alternative 
accommodation about his outstanding rent arrears.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont comment on every point Mr Ms raised but Ive thought very carefully about 
everything hes said. I thank him for taking the time to gather the information he has. I know 
this complaint is very important to him so hell be disappointed with my outcome. But having 
reconsidered all of the evidence again, I dont uphold the complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr Ms given me a detailed run down of the previous escapes of water hes experienced in 
his property. Hes also told me what happened when he complained about those incidents. 
But thats not relevant here as Im looking at the events that happened during a specific 
timeframe only. 
Mr Ms sent us an email from March 2023 in which Zurich acknowledged his complaint and 
said it would arrange for someone to contact him about returning his contents. But that 
doesnt persuade me that Zurich should now cover Mr Ms out-of-pocket expenses for 
storing or returning his items. From what Ive seen, Zurich asked for evidence of Mr Ms 
expenses on several occasions, including his storage costs. But I cant see he provided it at 
any point. I dont think the request was unreasonable and without it, I dont accept Zurich 
needs to cover the cost of Mr Ms expenses  including returning his items. I appreciate Mr M thinks if Zurich had returned his items to his property, it would mean his 
rent arrears on his alternative accommodation wouldnt have built up. And I presume thats 
because he would no longer have needed to continue the tenancy agreement. But until now, 
Mr Ms maintained he needed to remain at the alternative accommodation property himself 
as his property was uninhabitable. So Im not persuaded if Zurich had agreed to cover the 
cost of returning his items from his rental accommodation to his home address, he wouldve 
agreed it and vacated the property. In any event in this case, I dont think Zurich has done 
anything wrong in declining to cover any further expenses. 
Mr M says his landlord of the alternative accommodation will be out of pocket if Zurich 
doesnt continue to cover his rent. But thats a matter for Mr M and his landlord as the 
tenancy agreement is between them. Zurich gave notice to Mr M in March 2023 that hed 
need to return to his property and it wouldnt continue to cover his rent. But Mr M chose to 
remain in the rental accommodation. As Im not persuaded his property is uninhabitable or 
that he needed to stay in the alternative accommodation, I dont accept Zurich is responsible 
for covering the rent arrears which have built up since then. 
I understand Mr M feels passionately that our service should arrange an inspection of his 
property as he thinks the surveys which have been completed werent independent. But that 
isnt a service we offer. And even if it was, I dont think its necessary here. 
Ive been given the reports commissioned by Zurich and the report by a RICS surveyor. 
Whilst Zurich organised the RICS surveyor, they were identified and picked by Mr M. So Im 
satisfied hes been given the opportunity to request an independent surveyor. Both reports 
show very similar findings and I dont agree another report is likely to show anything 
different. I know Mr Ms said the RICS surveyor didnt pull up his floor or take down his 
ceiling so couldnt fully inspect the damage. But having looked carefully at the report, Im 
satisfied they didnt find traces of the damage Id usually expect to see  for example, 
staining and higher moisture readings. So I dont think a more invasive inspection, which 
wouldve caused more damage to his property, was appropriate here. 
Mr M says the Council has recently visited his property and made a number of comments on 
what the outcome of his complaint should be and that the RICS report was inaccurate. But 
its for our service to decide the outcome of individual complaints we look into, based on the 
evidence weve received. Mr Ms not given us any reports or communication from the 
Council to support what hes said about the survey. So Ive relied on the evidence I have 
been given to reach a Final Decision on this case. 
Mr Ms provided further information to support his view that the kitchen needs to be removed 
for the ceiling to be repaired. In particular, hes said his sub-ceiling has a metal frame which 
the plasterboard attaches to and that would prevent a contractor from replacing a small part 
of the ceiling. But plasterboard is usually attached to a support in the ceiling  and I dont 
think thats any different here. Zurichs report suggests a small patch repair is needed to the 
ceiling, and even with the structure Mr Ms described his kitchen ceiling has, I cant see why 
that cant be done here. Mr Ms also said the ceiling contains asbestos and therefore 
requires special equipment. But hes not provided any evidence of this  and I note, none of 
the reports have confirmed it either. So this doesnt change my findings in this case.   
I know Mr M doesnt think his property is habitable. But I dont agree as I havent seen 
anything to suggest its unsafe to live in or unsanitary. Mr M also says it will cost him much 
more than Zurich has previously offered to carry out an effective and lasting repair. But for 
the reasons Ive given here and in my provisional decision, Im satisfied he hasnt sufficiently 
evidenced the damage was more likely caused by an insured event. So I dont think Zurich 
needs to do anything more in this case.My final decision
My Final Decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman