DRN-3233519
The complaint
Ms L complains that Allay Claims Ltd are asking her to pay their success fee for a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) claim she said she hadnt authorised them to make.
What happened
In March 2020, Ms L said she was offered compensation for a mis-sold PPI policy by her 
lender Ill call S. Shortly after Allay asked her to pay their fee for her successful claim. And 
are now threatening her with debt collectors. Ms L said she never signed any paperwork for 
Allay, and the signature they have on their letter of authority (LoA) she said has been 
confirmed by S as not being hers. She complained to Allay.
In August 2019, Allay said Ms L completed an on line application and signed a LoA 
instructing them to check whether shed any PPI. And theyd acted in good faith in submitting 
this to her lenders and pursuing PPI claims based on the information provided to them in the 
initial application. They said theyd updated Ms L when PPI had been found, and theyd 
continued to keep her updated about her PPI claim. In March 2020 S told them Ms Ls 
claim had been successful. As Ms L hadnt cancelled her agreement with them, they said 
their fees were justified.
Ms L wasnt happy with Allays response and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said, on balance, Ms L had authorised Allay to act on her behalf. And as her 
claim was successful their fee was justified.
Ms L didnt agree, she reiterated the signature on the LoA wasnt hers. And said shed heard 
nothing from Allay about the claim until S offered her compensation. She asked for an 
ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Allay feel strongly that the success of Ms Ls claims was because of the submission they
made for her. Ms L is adamant that Allay didnt have a valid authorisation from her 
instructing them to act on her behalf. Ms L said the signature on Allays LoA isnt hers. But 
its not our role to validate a signature as we arent handwriting experts. Where there is a 
different version of events as is the case here, I have to base my decision on what I think 
most likely happened. In making my decision I need to determine whether I think its more 
likely than not Ms L had or hadnt authorised Allay to act on her behalf. If I consider she has, 
whether Allay knew she no longer wanted them to work for her. And to see whether Allay 
has acted fairly and reasonably in their actions with her.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) deemed 29 August 2019 as the deadline for PPI 
claims to be made. Leading up to the August PPI deadline many claims management 
companies, such as Allay, amended their terms and conditions in recognition of the 
expected high volume of claims. And reflected that lenders could investigate any claim 
based on a data subject request. So, for some lenders the submission of a LoA was 
accepted as a claim for mis-sold PPI and no further information was needed for them to 
investigate the mis-sold PPI claim. Any claim received after the 29 August 2019 deadline 
wouldnt have been accepted by the lender(s) unless there were exceptional circumstances 
for doing so.
So, Ive looked at what has happened. 
Allay has shown an online application for a free PPI check was made in August 2019. The 
personal details in this application correlate with personal details Ms L has given this
service. The application also needed details of Ms Ls lenders, and these details were also
provided. Allay said that their terms and conditions had to be agreed to for the application to 
progress. And by agreeing to the terms and conditions this would have generated the LoA 
populated with the personal details that had been supplied. Allay said the LoA couldnt be 
submitted without a signature being added. Ms L has told us that she remembered looking at 
free PPI check websites. 
Ive looked at Allays terms and conditions they say:
We will notify you once PPI has been identified and submit your complaint to the lender. If
the claim is successful, our normal fee, as per this Terms of Engagement, will
apply.
In August 2019, I can see from Allays records that following the submission of the LoA S 
told them Ms L had PPI on an account. And a couple of days later Allay sent a letter of 
complaint to S  asking them to investigate a claim for mis-sold PPI on Ms Ls accounts with 
them.
Allays records also show around his time they emailed Ms L and sent her a SMS message 
to her mobile phone number *7008, the same number she has given to us, to notify her that 
PPI had been found. The notification also confirmed her claim had been submitted in line 
with their terms and conditions. So as outlined above from this point Allay would have been 
providing their claims service. Ms L has said she blocks text messages from numbers she 
doesnt recognise. But I cant hold Allay responsible for Ms L not reading the messages they 
sent to her. 
PPI being found didnt mean Ms Ls claim was successful as it needed to be considered by 
her lender whether the PPI had been mis-sold to her. In October 2019, I can see that S told 
Allay theyd received the mis-sold PPI complaint. Allays records show they sent an update 
message to the same mobile phone informing Ms L of the acknowledgement. And through 
the same channel several times in December 2019 to update Ms L that S was still 
investigating her mis-sold PPI claim. 
In March 2020, S told both Ms L and Allay that her complaint had been upheld and the 
compensation offered to put things right. I think this shows S recognised Allay as being Ms 
Ls representative. And that they werent dealing solely with Ms L in pursuing a mis-sold PPI 
claim.
In April 2020, Allays records show a letter for the mis-sold PPI claim for S headed We 
Won was sent to Ms L, the address being the same as the address Ms L has given to us, an 
invoice for Allays success fee was sent at the same time. So, taking all the above into account Im satisfied, on balance, that Ms L authorised Allay to act on her behalf in pursuing 
mis-sold PPI claims.
I will now look to see whether Ms L asked Allay to stop working for her.
Allays terms and conditions say:
From the point we submit your complaint, you have a 14-day cooling off period during which 
you can cancel your contract with us. If at any time during the 14-day cooling off period we 
obtain an offer of compensation for you, our normal fee will be payable.
And go on to explain the various channels for cancelling the agreement, phone, email, 
downloading a cancellation form from Allays website or in writing to them. 
Ms L said she hadnt had any calls or messages from Allay. As Allay emailed her and sent a 
message to her mobile phone on 25 August 2019 to tell her PPI had been found with S and 
that theyd submitted her complaint. Id consider the 14-day cooling off period to start from 
that date. So, Ms L would have had up to 7 September 2019 to cancel the agreement free of 
any charge. I havent seen any evidence that Ms L asked Allay to cancel the agreement 
either within or after the 14-day cooling off period. 
I can see Allay sent further emails and text messages to Ms L, to contact details that shes 
given to us. I havent seen any evidence that Ms L asked Allay to stop or question them as to 
why they were contacting her. And I dont think it was enough for Ms L to simply disengage 
from the process for Allay to know she didnt want them to act on her behalf before the end 
of the 14-day cooling off period, so theyd continued to provide their claims service.  
The agreement Ms L would have had with Allay was on a No win No fee basis. This means 
Allay charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they did. 
This meant any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for free. Where a 
claim was successful, Allays fee maybe more or less than the value of the work they 
actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. As I think Ms Ls 
claim was submitted by Allay just prior to the August deadline, and the claim was successful. 
I think Allay is justified in charging their fee.
I know Ms L will be disappointed with my decision but taking all the above into account Im 
not upholding her complaint. As I think it more likely that Ms L had authorised Allay to act on 
her behalf in making a mis-sold PPI claim and the agreement hadnt been cancelled. As the 
claim was successful Allay can charge their fee.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman