DRN-2395454
The complaint
Mr N is complaining about a card payment he tried to make from his Nationwide Building 
Society current account.
What happened
In April 2020, Mr N was trying to make a payment online to top up his pay as you go mobile. 
He was able to make a £1 payment, but when he tried to make a £10 payment, it didnt work. 
Mr N tried to resolve this with his mobile phone service provider. At first, they suggested he 
try re-entering his payment details. When that didnt work, they said the issue was caused by 
Mr Ns bank. They said the bank suspected fraud and that Mr N needed to contact 
Nationwide for more information.
Mr N complained to Nationwide. In Nationwides final response to Mr Ns complaint, they 
said that although they do sometimes challenge or decline transactions if they suspect fraud, 
that hadnt happened here. They said theyd approved two transactions for £0 and one 
transaction for £1.  So, they didnt think theyd done anything wrong.
Mr N wasnt happy so he brought his complaint to our service. He said his mobile phone 
service had been cut off because the payment had failed. So hed had to get a new number 
which had caused him a lot of inconvenience.
Our investigator didnt think Nationwide had done anything wrong. She said Nationwides 
audit trail showed that thered been three successful transactions. And she said the audit 
trail didnt show any declined transactions. She also couldnt see that Nationwide had had 
any concerns about fraudulent activity on Mr Ns account.
Mr N asked for an ombudsman to review the matter  so its come to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I realise itll be a disappointment to Mr N, Im not upholding his complaint. Ill explain 
why.
The mobile phone service provider told Mr N that his bank suspected fraud and thats why 
his payment was unsuccessful. But I cant see any evidence that Nationwide had any 
suspicions of fraud. Ive looked through their system notes from around the time Mr N was 
trying to make the payment and theres nothing to indicate Nationwide suspected fraud. 
In addition, Nationwides records show all of Mr Ns attempted transactions around that time. 
The records show me what Nationwide told Mr N  that theyd approved two transactions for 
£0 and one transaction for £1 for Mr Ns mobile phone service provider. And the records 
dont show any declined transactions. The first £0 transaction and the £1 transaction took 
place around a week before the second £0 transaction.
Its common for e-commerce merchants to check that a card is valid before they process a 
transaction. And thats what the £0 transactions were  Nationwides records show these as 
card verification transactions rather than payments.
The timing of the second £0 transaction corresponds with the chain of emails between Mr N 
and his phone service provider. I can see from the emails that at around 5.30pm the service 
provider said theyd removed the payment details from Mr Ns account and suggested he try 
again to log in and top up his phone, re-supplying the payment details. At 6.10pm Mr N 
emailed, saying he was having the same problem. I can see this attempt in Nationwides 
records  they show an approved card verification transaction at 6.09pm for £0. But theres 
no sign of an attempted payment transaction in the banks records.
Although I dont have enough evidence to explain exactly why Mr Ns attempt to top-up his 
mobile phone failed, I can see that Nationwide approved the attempted transactions. And I 
cant see any evidence that they suspected fraud. 
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ns complaint about Nationwide Building 
Society. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman