DRN-2213900
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) has been unfair when it says 
it wont meet a claim they made for storm damage to their home.
What happened
In March 2020 Mr and Mrs C discovered their roof had been damaged after a storm. They 
contacted Ageas which said it would consider their claim.
Ageas obtained a report from a surveyor about the roof and the damage. Based on this 
Ageas said it wouldnt meet the claim, because it thought the storm wasnt the immediate 
cause of the damage  it had instead highlighted existing damage.
Mr and Mrs C complained, but Ageas didnt change its stance.
Mr and Mrs C asked us to review their complaint. Our investigator thought Ageas had acted 
fairly when it said it wouldnt meet the claim.
Mr and Mrs C dont think thats fair, and say their own builder said the damage was caused 
by the storm. Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When I look at a complaint about storm damage, I ask three questions: was there a storm at 
the time, is the damage typically that caused by a storm and was this particular damage 
most likely caused by the storm in question.
Theres no suggestion there wasnt a storm immediately before Mr and Mrs C made their 
claim, so Im satisfied Ageas was right to consider the claim under storm damage. The 
damage  lost mortar and displaced lead flashings  could be caused by a storm.
The third question is often the one that causes most problems. In order for a claim for storm 
damage to succeed, Mr and Mrs C must show that the damage was caused by a particular 
event  in this case a storm. For Ageas to say it need not meet the claim, it has to show that 
it can fairly apply an exclusion  in this case that a lack of maintenance and age led to the 
gradual deterioration of the mortar and lead flashing, and the storm only highlighted this 
damage.
Ageas sent a surveyor to look at the damage to the roof. Based on the report it received it 
said there were signs of gradual deterioration, which it thought meant the damage caused 
wasnt solely because of the storm  instead it highlighted pre-existing damage.
It is normally considered fair for an insurer to rely on the report it receives from its specialist, 
unless a customer can provide some persuasive evidence for to show the report is wrong. 
Mr and Mrs C have sent us a statement from their builder who says the damage was caused 
by a storm.
I dont think thats enough for me to say Ageas cant rely on the report it obtained. I dont 
think theres any dispute that the storm did cause flashing and mortar to finally fail  but I 
cant say that the storm was the only and immediate reason. I think the photos do show the 
sort of damage described by the surveyor, and that this is normally damage that builds 
gradually. And Ive taken note of Ageas argument that if the only cause of damage to the 
mortar was the storm, wed expect to see damage to the ridge tiles too. That doesnt seem to 
have happened, which suggests the damage has built up over time.
Ive also taken note of the fact that Mr and Mrs C say they havent had any work done on 
their roof for about five years, and although it might have been sound at this point, its 
possible the damage could have built up since then.
Taking everything into account Im not persuaded I should uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 November 2020.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman