DRN-3317327
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) started to charge him for his packaged 
bank account, when hed previously been told that he would not be charged if he kept his 
account balance above a certain amount. 
What happened
Mr S holds a fee-paying Gold account, a feature of the account meant that providing Mr S 
kept the balance of the account above a certain amount, he would not be charged the 
monthly Gold account fee. This feature of the account is known as a fee waiver.
I understand that Lloyds wrote to Mr S to say that it would be removing the fee-waiver from 
the Gold account fee in September 2021. 
In its response to Mr Ss complaint, Lloyds explained that it had removed the fee-waiver from 
all account holders and this was a decision that it was entitled to make, based on the terms 
and conditions of the account. It credited Mr S with £44.85 as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr S referred his complaint to our service. One of our adjudicators considered what Mr S 
and Lloyds had said and provided and she felt that Lloyds need not do anything more to put 
matters right.
Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
I note in our initial view we mentioned issues with a branch closure and a debit card, this 
appears to be an error as this does not refer to this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Mr Ss comments that he was promised that he would not have to pay the account fee 
for life. Unfortunately, as the sale of the account took place many years ago there is little 
evidence that is available about what exactly was said and agreed during the sale. Im also 
mindful that due to the time scales involved memories can change and fade over time. 
Furthermore, beyond Mr Ss testimony, there is no other evidence available that shows, or 
even suggests, he was promised that Lloyds was essentially unable to change any of the 
features on the account, or at least the fee-waiver feature, for as long as he held it. In the 
circumstances, I think its more likely that he was told he could have the Gold account for 
free, providing he met the fee-waiver  essentially, like any other benefit, for as long as it 
existed as a feature on the account. 
In terms of Lloyds decision to remove the fee-waiver, this is something that Lloyds is entitled 
to do. It is essentially up to Lloyds to decide what products and services it provides and also 
which ones to discontinue. 
Additionally, whilst Lloyds has not been able to provide the terms and conditions from the 
time of the sale, the nearest ones available do give Lloyds the option to change both the 
charging structure of the account and the benefits that the account came with - provided 
sufficient notice was given. I am satisfied that it is more likely than not that the terms and 
conditions from the time of the sale would also have had this provision, as this a standard 
term in most packaged bank accounts. And Ive also not seen anything to suggest that this 
was a newly introduced term in the version that I have seen.
Therefore, whilst I understand why Mr S is dissatisfied by this, especially as he has been a 
customer of Lloyds for some time, I am unable to say that Lloyds decision to remove this 
feature of the Gold account is unreasonable.
However, when making such changes to accounts, Lloyds is obliged to give notice to its 
customers. From what Mr S and Lloyds have provided, Lloyds did give Mr S reasonable 
notice of the withdrawal of the fee-waiver. So I think Mr S was given a reasonable amount of 
time to decide whether he wanted to continue with the account and pay the monthly fee, or 
to downgrade his account to a fee-free account instead. 
Therefore, taking everything into account, I dont require Lloyds to do anything further in 
relation to this complaint.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman