DRN-3137027
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain Phoenix Life Limited (Phoenix) mis-sold a Whole of Life (WOL) 
policy in 1989 because there is no evidence the policy was suitable.
 
What happened
I understand Mr and Mrs P took out a WOL policy following a recommendation from an 
adviser in May 1989. It was reviewable and included life and critical illness cover. The 
policy initially had a sum assured of £50,000 which was then reduced in August 1996 to 
£24,225. At the tenth and fifteenth policy anniversaries no reduction to this sum assured was 
found necessary and the sum assured remained at £24,225. 
Mr and Mrs P surrendered the plan in 2008 as their circumstances had changed. I 
understand they sold their business and had limited income so wanted to reduce their 
outgoings. 
Mr and Mrs Ps representative complained on their behalf to Phoenix in November 2019. 
The representative complained that it wasnt clear why the plan was needed, and no 
alternatives were discussed. Also, that there was no assessment of affordability in 
retirement, reviews werent disclosed and the advisor didnt ask how long the cover was 
needed. 
Phoenix responded to the complaint in January 2020. They said that Mr and Mrs P had a 
need for life cover and a fixed term life and critical illness policy wouldnt have been available 
in 1989. Phoenix said the plan included full critical illness cover and this was only available 
with life cover on a WOL plan or alongside an endowment savings plan. They explained the 
policy was reviewed during its lifetime and Mr and Mrs P reduced the sum assured in August 
1996. Phoenix went on to explain that later reviews found no reduction to the sum assured 
was necessary and it remained the same until it was surrendered.  Therefore, they didnt 
uphold the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs Ps representative contacted us about the complaint. The Investigator issued 
their view explaining why she didnt think the WOL policy had been mis-sold. Mr and Mrs Ps 
representative didnt agree and responded on their behalf. The representative said:
Under the terms of the Financial Services Act 1986 (FSA 1986) a firm had a duty 
to properly know its customer before making any recommendation and even 
when it did, it had to ensure it gave suitable advice;
There is no evidence to support the suitability of the recommendation regardless 
of Mr and Mrs Ps later circumstances as recorded by Phoenix in 1993 and 
assumptions shouldnt be made; 
Theres no evidence to support the cover was a priority and paying for a plan 
does not make the advice suitable; and 
The term plan issue is only relevant if it is established that Mr and Mrs Ps actual 
priority at this time was this type of cover. 
Therefore, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Phoenixs obligation to obtain sufficient information about Mr and Mrs Ps 
objectives and circumstances and to ensure they make suitable recommendations based on 
that information. I also appreciate Mr and Mrs Ps representative is very concerned about the 
lack of evidence from the point of sale. I note he feels Phoenix are unable to demonstrate 
they considered Mr and Mrs Ps priorities and circumstances to ensure they gave suitable 
advice. However, its not unusual for there to be limited evidence after such a long period. 
Ultimately, the WOL policy was sold in 1989 and surrendered in 2008. In these 
circumstances, it wouldnt be fair to conclude that Phoenix have done something wrong 
because they are unable to provide point of sale documentation from so long ago. Instead, I 
must consider the circumstances and evidence both parties have been able to provide and 
carefully weigh up what I think is more likely to have happened.  
As a WOL policy was taken out, its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs P discussed this 
with an advisor. Although, its not possible to now know exactly what was discussed at that 
time. It is also likely Mr and Mrs P were provided with information which explained the 
reviewable nature of the policy. Im content its likely they understood it was reviewable 
because they reduced the sum assured in 1996 and also took out other WOL policies in 
1993. It is probable that they would have raised concerns at this time if they had previously 
been unaware. 
 
Although theres no documentation available from 1989, in 1993 Phoenix again met with Mr 
and Mrs P and made a further recommendation based on the information obtained. They 
completed a fact find at this time which recorded details of Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances 
and financial situation. The advisor noted that they had their own business, were married 
and had two young dependent children. The advisor also recorded their objectives and 
priorities as being family protection and provisions in the event of death or critical illness. 
Ive not been provided with evidence that Mr and Mrs Ps situation was significantly different 
or changed somewhat between the years of 1989 and 1993. Therefore, Im of the view Mr 
and Mrs Ps circumstances and objectives as recorded in 1993 are likely to have been 
similar to their position in 1989.
Furthermore, in the 1993 fact find the adviser also considered the policies Mr and Mrs P 
already held and found there was a shortfall in their level of cover. I can see they had 
£281,345 worth of cover. The WOL policy (1989) was also included in these calculations at a 
sum assured of £50,000 for life and critical illness cover. At this time, they went on to 
increase the amount of life and critical illness cover they had. So, Im of the view this is likely 
to broadly reflect Mr and Mrs Ps priorities in 1989 and that they wanted to ensure there was 
sufficient cover for family protection in the event of death or critical illness.   
It seems, on balance, that Mr and Mrs P wanted life and critical illness cover in 1989. They 
had dependent children and financial commitments and as they were self-employed, they did 
not have benefits provided by an employer. As mentioned, there isnt anything to say their 
needs and priorities might have changed between 1989 and 1993. They also kept the policy 
until a change in circumstances meant they had to reduce their expenditure. Whilst this point 
in itself doesnt mean the policy was suitable, it does indicate that Mr and Mrs P recognised 
there was a need and that it was affordable at the time it was sold. This is particularly in light 
of what we know from the 1993 fact find and as they went on to increase their level of cover.  
 
In respect of the alternatives, its not possible for me to say with certainty what was 
discussed. I understand a mortgage care policy with a sum assured of £110,000 was taken 
out prior to 1989 and so Mr and Mrs P were aware that there might be other options. 
Phoenix have said a fixed term assurance policy for life and critical illness cover wasnt 
available in 1989. So, its not possible to offer redress to convert the WOL policy to a fixed 
term policy. 
Overall, Im not persuaded Phoenix have done anything wrong here. I understand this will be 
a disappointing decision for Mr and Mrs P especially in light of the limited evidence from the 
point of sale. But Ive based my decision on what I think is more likely to have happened and 
the evidence I do have. Having looked into it, Im persuaded its likely Mr and Mrs P wanted 
life and critical illness cover and as a fixed term and critical illness plan wasnt available at 
the time, Im satisfied the policy seems suitable. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman