DRN-2594926
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W are represented by a Claims Management Company (CMC). The CMC 
complain that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (Royal London) did not 
assess the level of risk that Mr and Mrs W were prepared to take when they were sold 
endowment contracts.
The CMC also say that the adviser did not check to see if Mr and Mrs W had emergency 
funds available and that other investment options were not discussed.
What happened
In 1989, Mr and Mrs W met with an adviser from Royal London who recommended a joint 
life with profits endowment policy. This was a 20-year policy with a monthly premium of 
£101.50. The policy had a guaranteed assured sum of £20,000 and matured with a value of 
£35,567.07.
Mr and Mrs W were also sold joint life with profits endowment policy in 1994 with a term of 
10 years. This had a monthly cost £101.65. The policy had a guaranteed assured sum of 
£10,000 and matured with a value of £12,995.88.
In December 2019, The CMC complained to Royal London with the following complaint 
points:
The adviser failed to accurately assess the level of risk they were willing to take
They were not willing to take any risks when it came to their savings
They had no investment experience at the point of sale and were not prepared for the 
level of risk associated with the product recommended
The adviser failed to establish if they had sufficient emergency funds in place.
Other more suitable options for their savings were not discussed
Royal London investigated the complaint but didnt think that they had done anything wrong 
and didnt uphold the complaint. They said that following a review of the paperwork at the 
time, they felt that the products sold were suitable and that no corrective action was 
necessary.
Unhappy with Royal Londons decision, the CMC referred the complaint to the service and 
one of our investigators reviewed the complaint. The investigator initially thought that an 
element of the advice was unsuitable but following more information from Royal London, 
issued a second view saying that he thought Royal London had acted fairly and did not 
uphold the complaint.
Unhappy with the investigators view, the CMC have asked for an ombudsman to look at the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs W but I agree with the outcome reached by the 
investigator and will not be upholding the complaint.
In their submission to the service, the CMC say that Mr and Mrs W had no previous 
investment experience and they were not prepared to take any risks with their savings. The 
CMC say that the adviser did not accurately assess the level of risk that Mr and Mrs W were 
willing to take.
Ive looked at the polices that were recommended by Royal London. They were with profit 
endowments and were designed to provide a guaranteed capital sum at the end of the term. 
They also provided life cover in the event of a premature death of a life assured during the 
term of the policy.
Both policies had sums assured of £20,000 and £10,000 and this was guaranteed. If Mr and 
Mrs continued to pay the monthly premiums, they would receive at least the sums assured at 
the end of the term. 
The CMC have said that Mr and Mrs W were not prepared to take any risks with their 
savings. I think that the polices that were sold were risk free in the sense that the sum 
assured was guaranteed and delivered the financial objectives that were required. I think 
that the adviser did assess the level of risk that Mr and Mrs W were prepared to take.
The CMC have said that the adviser did not check that Mr and Mrs W had emergency funds 
in place. In their submission to the service, Royal London said that when the first policy was 
recommended, Mr and Mrs had bank and building society savings, but no further details 
were recorded. When the second policy was taken out, Mr and Mrs W had joint savings 
recorded as £4,000.
The policy documentation that I have seen gives limited information on what Mr and Mrs Ws 
liabilities or monthly outgoings. I can see that Mr W had an annual salary of over £20,000 in 
1989 and £30,000 when the second policy was taken out in 1994. 
Although I was not at either of the two meetings when the polices were recommended and 
cant say what was discussed about savings or emergency funds, I think that on the balance 
of probability, the adviser would have mentioned the affordability of the monthly premiums 
and was satisfied that Mr and Mrs W could afford the premiums through the term of the 
policies. 
The adviser has captured salary details and savings details and I have not seen any 
evidence that Mr and Mrs W could not afford the monthly premiums, so I dont agree with the 
CMC that the adviser did not check that emergency funds were in place.
I have looked at the paperwork to see what Mr and Mrs Ws financial objectives were when 
the advice was given. The first policy shows limited information on objectives and Royal 
London have said that the adviser identified a savings need. The second policy shows an 
objective to save over the next 10 years.
As the policies were sold many years ago and limited information is available, I cant say for 
certain that other options were discussed but the policies sold achieved Mr and Mrs Ws 
financial objective.The CMC have also said in their submission that the policies were sold by an unauthorised 
representative from Royal London. I have looked at Royal Londons response to this and I 
am satisfied that an assisting representative with suitable qualifications and experience 
accompanied the advisor and signed off on the sales.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman