The complaint
Mr B says Provident Personal Credit Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Provident provided evidence of one home credit loan Mr B had in April 2012. The loan was 
for £150 and was repayable at £5.25 per week.
An adjudicator considered the complaint about this loan and did not think it should be 
upheld. Mr B asked that an ombudsman review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Provident needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
Ill start by acknowledging that Mr B has said he had more than one loan from Provident. 
Mr B mentions loans going as far back as 2000. But Ive seen no evidence of additional 
loans  and I should also let Mr B know that this service is unable to investigate Provident 
loans which commenced before April 2007. Weve asked Provident to provide information to 
us in the usual way and its evidence includes a spreadsheet containing just one loan. I only 
have evidence, from Mr B and Provident, of one loan to investigate  so thats what Ill do.
Provident has provided almost no evidence of having carried out any affordability checks 
before giving Mr B this loan. It has also not provided a credit agreement. All I can see is that 
it recorded Mr Bs employment status as unemployed  with no record of what, if any, 
income Mr B had. But at an absolute minimum, I think its fair to assume that if Mr B was 
unemployed, hed have been entitled to the job seekers allowance unemployment benefit.
With that in mind, the weekly repayments could have been close to 10% of Mr Bs income  
which is not a small amount for someone who is unemployed. But I am also mindful that 
there is little to no evidence of Mr Bs financial situation at the time of the loan. Neither Mr B 
nor Provident have really provided anything which gives me any real insight into Mr Bs 
DRN-1869173income, expenditure or broader financial circumstances in 2012. So I have little evidence to 
suggest a more thorough affordability check wouldve suggested the loan was unaffordable.
Ive also seen that, in the spreadsheet Provident has provided, the loan is shown as having 
been written off in July 2012. And at that point Mr B had only repaid £21.50 towards the 
£150 loan. So even if the loan shouldnt have been provided, it doesnt look like Mr B lost out 
financially. As it seems the loan was written off around eight years ago, its perhaps 
unsurprising theres so little evidence in this case.
Given all of the above, Im not satisfied theres any evidence of a financial loss. So for this 
reason, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint against Provident Personal Credit Limited.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2020.
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman