DRN-2356560
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Q complain about Covea Insurance plcs decision to void their 
property insurance policy because of non-disclosure.
What happened
On 14 November 2006, Mr and Mrs Q took out the policy through a broker. In 2009, they 
submitted a claim to Covea for subsidence. Initially, Covea turned down the claim. 
However, after further investigations, Covea accepted the claim in 2013.
Whilst dealing with the claim, Covea found out in 2018 that Mr Q had a previous 
conviction that hadnt been disclosed when the policy was taken out. It said if it had 
known this information at the time, then it wouldnt have provided cover. It therefore 
voided the policy from the date it started in 2006. As Covea had already made payments 
under the claim, it asked Mr and Mrs Q to repay this amount, less the premiums that had 
been paid. Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs Q brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Mr and Mrs Q 
had failed to disclose material information when the policy was taken out, and that Covea 
had therefore been entitled to void the policy.
I issued a provisional decision on 3 November 2020. My provisional findings were:
The policy was taken out in 2006. The relevant law that applied at the time was the 
Marine Insurance Act 1906, which placed a duty of utmost good faith on the parties to 
the insurance contract. That meant the insured needed to tell the insurer everything they 
knew, or ought to have known, that would influence the insurer in deciding whether to 
accept the risk or what premium to charge. If the insured failed to do so, there will have 
been non- disclosure and the insurer would be entitled to avoid the policy.
However, the long-established approach of this service is that the above would result in 
an unfair outcome. In line with good practice at the time, Covea should have asked clear 
questions about facts that it considered material. I then need to decide if Mr and Mrs Q 
took reasonable care when answering the question/s.
I dont know how Mr and Mrs Q took out their policy through their broker. However, Ive 
seen a statement of insurance that was sent to Mr and Mrs Q by their broker after theyd 
agreed to take out the policy. They were asked to check all the details were correct, and 
were made aware that the answers must have been given to the best of their knowledge. It 
was also made clear that failure to disclose all material information could invalidate the 
policy or result in a claim not being paid.
The statement of insurance included some questions and Mr and Mrs Qs answers. 
I therefore assume that this was material information Covea wanted to know before 
the application could be accepted. Covea hasnt said otherwise.
The statement of insurance said:
Have you, or any member of your family, or any other person permanently living with you:

Ever been convicted or have any pending prosecutions for any criminal offence? (other 
than driving offences) ? You are not required to disclose convictions that are spent 
by virtue of the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974.
I think this was a clear question, though I dont agree with Coveas interpretation 
that it required the applicant to disclose convictions of any member of their family, 
even if not permanently living with them.
Mr and Mrs Q answered no. However, Mr Q had been convicted of a criminal offence a 
few years earlier and that conviction hadnt been spent when the policy was taken out.
Mr and Mrs Q say that Mr Q wasnt living at the property at the time. They also say that 
the property was in Mrs Qs sole name, therefore Mr Q shouldnt have been a joint 
policyholder. Theyve provided the address of where Mr Q was apparently living at the 
time.
I havent seen any evidence which supports that Mr Q was living elsewhere at the time 
the policy was taken out, other than an address. Nevertheless, the policy was taken out 
in joint name and so the question was directed to both Mr and Mrs Q. Whilst Ive noted 
their explanation that the policy should have been taken out in Mrs Qs sole name, they 
would need to raise any concerns they have about this with the broker. As far as Covea 
was concerned, the policy was taken out in joint name and so the question was directed 
to both Mr and Mrs Q.
Consequently, I think Mr and Mrs Q failed to take reasonable care in answering this 
question and so there was negligent non-disclosure.
Covea has provided underwriting evidence to this service which shows that it wouldnt 
have offered Mr and Mrs Q cover at the time, had it known of Mr Qs conviction.
However, the policy then renewed each year. That meant a new policy started each year.
The usual approach of this service is that when a claim is made after the policy has 
renewed, we would expect an insurer to be able to show that it wouldnt have offered 
cover for the period the claim was in, not just the original policy.
I understand Mr Qs conviction was spent in 2011. I havent seen the renewal 
documents sent to Mr and Mrs Q at each renewal, though I have seen the renewal 
documents sent by the broker in 2009. These included a statement of insurance with 
very similar wording in respect of criminal convictions to the statement of insurance that 
was sent to Mr and Mrs Q in 2006. Ill therefore assume that the statement of insurance 
was sent at each renewal. That means Mr and Mrs Q didnt need to disclose Mr Qs 
conviction once spent, and so there was no non-disclosure at any renewals after this 
date.
The claim was first submitted in April 2009, and was turned down by Covea later that 
year. After further investigations, the claim was accepted by Covea in 2013.
As I understand it, the subsidence damage has been ongoing since 2009 to date and 
the policy continued to renew each year until Covea voided the policy in 2019.
Taking that into account, I think Covea should deal with the claim for any subsidence damage that has occurred after the renewal following the date Mr Qs conviction was 
spent in 2011. Though as Covea will be aware, if it cant distinguish between this damage 
and the only way it can repair the damage that has happened since then is to also repair 
the older existing damage, then it should repair the older damage too. This is in line with 
this services general approach to subsidence cases where an insurer needs to provide 
an effective and lasting repair, even if some of the earlier damage isnt covered.
I also think Mr and Mrs Q have been caused inconvenience by Coveas decision to void 
their policy, as theyve continued to live in a property affected by subsidence without 
repairs taking place. I intend to require Covea to pay them £400 compensation for this.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further comments they wished to make. 
Mr and Mrs Qs representative responded to make the following points:
He would like me to take into account that it took nine years after the claim was 
made for Covea to void the policy for non-disclosure. He says it was open to 
Covea to determine those facts when the claim was made, or before it accepted 
liability four years later. 
Mrs Q is the sole owner of the propery, and believed the policy had been in her 
sole name. In the insurance documents, Mrs Q is named first and is referred to as 
Policyholder 1. Mr and Mrs Qs representative thinks the policy should be 
changed retrospectively so that its in Mrs Qs sole name.
 Mrs Q has remained insured with Covea, and therefore there is no additional 
premium to pay.
Covea responded to make the following points:
It was correct that Mr and Mrs Qs claim was initially declined. However, this 
decision was challenged by Mr and Mrs Qs engineer. As a result, further 
investigations took place and Covea reached a concluded position on the matter 
in 2013. It therefore wanted to correct any suggestion in my provisional decision 
that Mr and Mrs Qs claim was rejected in 2009 and only accepted in 2013.
When Covea cancelled the policy from inception, there were unresolved issues 
regarding the claim, mainly relating to a retaining wall.
Covea notes that Ive disagreed with its interpretation of the question. It thinks the 
question does require applicants to disclose convictions of any member of their 
family, even if not permanently living with them.  
It confirms that the renewal documentation sent to Mr and Mrs Q each year 
included the same or similar statement in respect of criminal convictions.
It accepts that if Mr and Mrs Q had taken out a new policy after 2011, they 
wouldnt have needed to disclose Mr Qs conviction. It also accepts that if Mr and 
Mrs Q had made a claim after this time, it would have had no grounds to cancel 
the policy from inception. However, it says that is not the situation because there 
was an existing claim in place prior to Mr Qs conviction being spent. It therefore 
doesnt think that it should deal with the claim.  
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Qs representative has asked me to take into account the length of time it took 
Covea to void the policy for non-disclosure. I appreciate that Covea had been dealing with 
the claim for some years before it voided the policy. However, Im satisfied the non-
disclosure only came to light after this length of time. I wouldnt have expected Covea to 
have checked this information when the claim was first made, as it had no reason to believe 
at that time that Mr and Mrs Q hadnt told it material information when taking out the policy.
Im aware that Mrs Q is the sole owner of the property. However, the policy was applied for 
in joint name. Im satisfied the insurance documents made this clear. As I said in my 
provisional decision, if Mr and Mrs Q have any concerns about how the policy was taken out, 
they should raise these with the broker. I therefore dont require Covea to change the policy 
retrospectively so that its in Mrs Qs sole name.
Mr and Mrs Qs representative says that they remain insured with Covea. That isnt the 
information we have from Covea, and so Mr and Mrs Q will only need to pay further 
premiums to bring the policy up-to-date if the policy was actually voided when Covea said it 
was. If Mr and Mrs Q had obtained cover elsewhere, then of course there would be no need 
for them to bring their premiums up-to-date with Covea. They would only need to do so if 
they had been without cover since the policy was voided, and wanted cover from that time.
Covea says it wants to correct any suggestion in my provisional decision that Mr and 
Mrs Qs claim was rejected in 2009 and only accepted in 2013. However, this is what 
happened. I didnt make reference to the various investigations that took place between 
those dates because they werent relevant to the complaint.
Although Covea has made reference to unresolved issues relating to the claim itself, that 
isnt for me to comment upon in this decision. Ive only been asked to consider the complaint 
about Coveas decision to void the policy for non-disclosure.
Covea remains of the view that the question does ask applicants to disclose convictions of 
any member of their family, even if not permanently living with them. Its asked me to 
reconsider my interpretation of this. 
Ive reconsidered this point, however I still dont agree with Coveas interpretation of the 
question. I think the question is asking about people living with the applicant, whether they 
are family members or not. Covea says that means the question could be answered in the 
negative if a member of the applicants family was in prison when the question was 
answered, and in Coveas view, that cannot be a correct interpretation. 
I assume from Coveas comments that it doesnt want to know about an applicants distant 
family members that may have a criminal conviction or pending prosecution. Instead, it 
seems its concerned that a family member who would normally live in the property may be 
in prison at the time the question is answered. If thats the case, then Covea may wish to 
reword the question to reflect that this is the information it wants to know.
Covea says the claim was made prior to Mr Qs conviction being spent. However, Ive 
addressed this in my provisional decision. I remain of the view that as some of the damage 
happened after 2011 (when Mr Qs conviction became spent), then so long as Covea can 
separate this damage from the earlier damage, it should only cover the damage that took 
place after this time.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Covea Insurance plc to reinstate 
the policy and continue to deal with the claim based on the damage that has occurred 
following the renewal after Mr Qs conviction was spent. The remaining policy terms will 
apply. It will be entitled to ask Mr and Mrs Q to pay any further premiums that may be 
due, to bring the policy up-to-date if that is what they wish.
I also intend to require Covea to pay Mr and Mrs Q £400 compensation. It should 
also remove any record of the voidance from any internal or external databases.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q and Mrs Q to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman