DRN-3444458
The complaint
Mr E complains Studio Retail Limited (Studio) didnt provide him with support when he 
experienced financial difficulty during the Covid-19 pandemic. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to Mr E and Studio. I wont repeat in any 
great detail what is already known to both parties. In my decision Ill mainly focus on giving 
the reasons for reaching the outcome I have.
Mr E has a catalogue shopping account with Studio. As a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, 
he experienced financial difficulty as he was furloughed from his employment. 
To support him, between May 2020 and June 2021, Studio agreed to a number of measures 
including:
- A three month payment deferral in May 2020 which was extended for a further three 
months;
- Refunded interest in November 2020 and May 2021 totalling around £200;
- A number of payment plans set up from January 2021 onwards;
- Late payment charge refunded in March 2021;
- 30 days breathing space applied in May 2021;
- As a gesture of goodwill, waived £343 in arrears in June 2021. 
Mr E complained Studio didnt do enough to support him. Studio said they had acted fairly. 
Unhappy with their response, Mr E referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the case wasnt upheld. They believed Studio had acted fairly and reasonably 
during Mr Es time of financial difficulty. Mr E disagreed and maintained his position. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Mr E has mentioned it was irresponsible for Studio to lend to him from the outset 
and fraud was committed on his account. However as that wasnt subject to the complaint 
brought to our service, in this decision I will only be addressing whether Studio did enough to 
support him during his time of financial difficulty. Having done so, Im satisfied they did, Ill 
explain why. 
However as a starting point, I wish to say Im sorry to hear Mr E experienced financial 
difficulty during the pandemic, I appreciate this wouldve been a difficult time for him. 
In response to the pandemic, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) published guidance 
which said borrowers negatively impacted could apply for a payment deferral up to six 
months meaning they wouldnt need to make repayments as it would be deferred to a later 
date. In this case, its clear Mr E was impacted by the pandemic so Im satisfied Studio 
treated him fairly by agreeing to a six month payment deferral in line with the guidance. 
The FCAs guidance makes it clear that although a payment deferral may be agreed, 
financial businesses are still entitled to charge interest during that period. However based on 
Studios account notes, I can see around November 2020, they agreed to remove around 
£130 in interest charges and later removed further interest charges in May 2021. As they 
werent required to this so I cant say they acted unfairly. 
Once a payment deferral came to an end, the expectation was for financial firms to find out 
from their consumers whether they were in a position to resume their contractual payments 
or if they were still experiencing financial hardship. In this case, the latter applied to Mr E as 
the employment industry he worked in remained significantly impacted. As a result, from 
January 2021, Studio agreed to a number of payment plans ranging from £5, £10 to £43. 
However based on correspondence Ive seen, many of these payment plans were not 
followed by him. 
Based on the evidence, there was a lot of back and forth communication between Mr E and 
Studio about the account and his financial circumstances. Im satisfied they made numerous 
attempts to get an understanding of his financial situation including his incoming and 
outgoing expenses so they could determine what he could afford and set up payment plans 
accordingly. On that basis, I dont agree with Mr Es comments that they refused to accept 
his payments. 
Studios contact notes indicate Mr E made repeated requests for the debt to be transferred 
to an external debt collection agency but they explained they were wiling to work with him 
and provide support as defaulting the account would have severe consequences. They also 
signposted Mr E to specialist debt charities who would be able to provide further help and 
support. In my opinion, it was clear Studio were trying to assist Mr E. 
In the months that followed, I can see Studio applied a 30 day breathing space meaning they 
temporarily paused further interest. Moreover, in June 2021, they agreed to waive arrears of 
£343 as a gesture of goodwill. I must bear in mind that based on the terms and conditions, 
Mr E owed Studio this amount of money. Despite being entitled to the same, they agreed to 
waive what I consider to be significant amount in order to support him further. For that 
reason, I cant say they acted unfairly. 
As it was clear Mr E wasnt in a position to resume the contractual payments, pay back the 
missing payments or follow the arrangements to pay, I find it was fair and reasonable for 
them to take further action in November 2021. They sent notice of sums in arrears and a 
final demand letter. Ive reviewed both correspondence and Im satisfied it was made clear to 
Mr E what would happen should the amount not be paid. From my understanding, Studio 
decided to default the account around December 2021. 
Overall, having considered what has happened, Im satisfied Studio provided reasonable 
and appropriate financial support to Mr E across a range of measures during his time of 
financial difficulty. So I dont agree with Mr Es comments they refused to help him and they 
didnt do enough. However despite their efforts, the account wasnt brought back up to date 
in a reasonable timeframe so further action was taken.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman