DRN-3793688
The complaint
Mrs P is unhappy QIC Europe Ltd has declined a storm damage claim she made under her 
home insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2022, during a period of strong winds, damage was caused to Mrs Ps boundary 
wall. So, she made a storm damage claim to QIC, her home insurance provider.
QIC inspected the wall and initially offered a cash settlement to cover the damage, following 
the visit of a field surveyor. But after Mrs P disputed the amount offered, one of QICs 
internal surveyors reviewed the images and concluded that the primary cause of the damage 
was gradual deterioration of the mortar. QIC said the bad weather merely highlighted that 
pre-existing historic issue. So, it changed its decision and declined the claim based on an 
exclusion in Mrs Ps policy for damage which happened gradually. QIC accepted it had 
caused a loss of expectation and offered Mrs P £200 compensation. 
Mrs P was unhappy with QICs position, so she approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things and thought we should uphold Mrs Ps complaint. She 
didnt agree with the internal surveyors conclusion that gradual deterioration was the main 
cause of damage to the wall. So, she recommended QIC should reconsider the claim in line 
with the remaining policy terms. She also said QICs offer of £200 didnt go far enough to 
compensate Mrs P. She said this should be increased to £350.
QIC didnt agree with our investigators conclusions. So, as no agreement has been 
reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When we consider complaints about storm damage claims, we take into account the 
following questions, and if any of the answers are no then its likely a claim wont succeed:
Were there storm conditions?
Is the damage consistent with storm type damage?
Was the storm the main or dominant cause of the damage?
QIC accept there were storm conditions at the time of loss. Thats not in dispute, so I dont 
need to make a decision about whether a storm occurred on the date of damage. And a 
garden boundary wall could be damaged by a storm, so that potentially satisfies question 
two above.
But QIC has declined the claim on the basis of its surveyors conclusions, that gradual 
deterioration, rather than the storm conditions, was the dominant cause of the damage and 
that this was merely highlighted by the storm. 
The storm section of Mrs Ps policy explains:
We dont cover: 
a. loss or damage caused by frost; 
b. loss or damage to drives, patios, footpaths, terraces, gates, fences and hedges 
unless your home has been damaged at the same time and by the same cause; 
c. loss or damage to radio and television aerials or satellite dishes, and their fittings 
and masts; and 
d. anything that happens gradually
Ive considered the conclusions reached by QICs surveyor, and the images and information 
provided by both parties. Having done so, I dont agree with the conclusions reached by 
QIC.
The initial field surveyor highlighted some wear and tear (gradual deterioration) to the wall. 
But in his view the dominant cause of damage was the wind, rather than the wear and tear. 
QICs internal surveyor disagreed and felt the dominant cause of damage was the gradual 
deterioration.
In situations like this, where there is conflicting expert evidence, Ill need to decide which Im 
most persuaded by. Ill make this decision on the balance of probabilities. That is, what do I 
think is more likely than not.
 
QIC is seeking to decline the claim based on a policy exclusion. That means the onus is on 
QIC to show that the exclusion, more likely than not, applies. Based on the available 
evidence, I accept that the wall was suffering from some gradual deterioration. I say this as 
both surveyors agreed on this point, and the photos do show cracking to the mortar of the 
wall. 
However, it isnt enough for QIC to show that gradual deterioration was present. Rather, it 
needs to show that, on balance, the gradual deterioration was the dominant cause of the 
damage. And taking everything into account, I dont think QIC has done that. Ill explain why.
Neither of the expert reports/opinions are particularly detailed as to how the conclusions 
have been reached. But as the field surveyor actually inspected the wall in person, I think its 
reasonable to apply some additional weight to his opinion. That said, I do accept QICs 
surveyor is suitably qualified and that the photos are of sufficient quality for them to have 
assessed the condition of the wall.
Ive considered the conflicting expert opinions alongside the photos and other evidence. The 
photos clearly show areas of deteriorated mortar. But these seem most prevalent on the 
areas of the wall which remains standing. If gradual deterioration of the mortar had been the 
dominant cause of damage, I think its reasonable to conclude that these sections of the wall 
would have come down in the high winds too  but they didnt. The windspeeds on the date of loss peaked at around 71mph. This significantly exceeds the 
policy definition of storm force winds  55mph. Such strong winds would, in my view and the 
view of the field surveyor, be sufficient to be the dominant cause of damage to the wall even 
taking into account the presence of gradual deterioration.
Based on everything Ive seen, Im not persuaded that gradual deterioration of the mortar 
was, on balance, the dominant cause of the damage to Mrs Ps wall. It follows that I dont 
think QICs decision to decline the claim, based on the gradual damage exclusion, was fair 
or reasonable. So, I think QIC should reconsider Mrs Ps claim in line with the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy.
QIC accepted it caused delays and offered £200 compensation. But in addition to the delays, 
I think QIC reached an unfair decision on the claim  which would have caused additional 
distress and inconvenience. Overall, I think QIC should increase the offer of compensation to 
£350.
Finally, Mrs P has highlighted to our service that her insurance renewal stated QIC had 
already settled this claim at a cost of around £700. This appears to be based on either the 
cash settlement, which was initially offered then later withdrawn, or the cost of the temporary 
repairs QIC initially completed. 
In any event, Ive decided that QIC needs to reconsider Mrs Ps claim in line with the 
remaining policy terms. Once it has done this, QIC must also ensure that the outcome of the 
claim is accurately recorded on all internal and external databases.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
QIC Europe Ltd must:
Reconsider Mrs Ps claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Ensure that the claim is accurately recorded on all internal and external databases.
Pay Mrs P £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman