DRN-1558584
 
The complaint
Mr B has complained about Aviva Insurance Limited. He isnt happy that it cancelled his 
motor insurance policy and charged him a cancellation fee.
What happened
Mr B bought a new second hand prestigious car and looked to put it on cover through his 
broker. Unfortunately his insurer didnt cover this type of car, so his policy was cancelled and 
he was charged a cancellation fee. 
As Mr B wasnt happy about this and felt this was unfair he complained to Aviva and then 
this service. Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. He 
was satisfied that Aviva wouldnt insure Mr Bs new car and it was entitled to charge a 
cancellation fee when it couldnt place the new car on cover.
But Mr B didnt agree so the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why.
I can understand why Mr B is frustrated as he already had a prestigious car and just 
expected to be able to put his new car on cover. And he had no problem in placing his new 
car on cover elsewhere. But Aviva has shown it wouldnt cover Mr Bs new car and I cant 
ask it or instruct it to take on a risk that it isnt prepared to. Insurers have their own criteria 
about the risks they are prepared to take when insuring a car and there can be many 
impacting factors, such as a higher vehicle rating group. But this service doesnt interfere in 
its commercial decisions and as it wouldnt insure Mr Bs car there was no alternative to 
cancelling the policy.
Furthermore, Aviva set out its cancellation fees in its policy documentation and it is entitled 
to charge that fee. I know Mr B feels this is just Aviva looking to make money, but it does 
cost to cancel a policy and the details of this were set out in the policy documentation when 
he took it out so I cant say it has acted unreasonably. 
So, although I can understand Mr Bs concerns (and I do think Aviva couldve waived its 
cancellation fee as a gesture of good will) it hasnt done anything wrong and wasnt obliged 
to waive the fee. It simply wasnt able to insure Mr Bs new car as it wasnt a risk it was 
prepared to accept and so Im not upholding the complaint.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that Im not upholding this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman