DRN-4420618
The complaint
Mr and Mrs V complain because U K Insurance Limited (UKI) hasnt paid a claim under 
their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs V are insured under a travel insurance policy provided by UKI. 
Mr and Mrs V were on a multi-destination holiday abroad, returning to the UK on 29 May 
2023. On arrival at what Mr and Mrs V say they intended to be their second destination Mr V 
unfortunately fell ill. Mr and Mrs V stayed there for the rest of their trip and returned to the 
UK on their original return flight, foregoing a visit they said theyd planned to make to a third 
destination. 
On their return to the UK, Mr V contacted UKI to make a claim for the cost of additional 
accommodation in his and Mrs Vs second destination. Mr V said he had visited his GP in 
the UK and had been prescribed antibiotics, and subsequently provided a medical certificate 
from his GP. 
UKI said Mr and Mrs Vs claim wasnt covered under their policy as theyd incurred no 
additional costs and hadnt contacted UKI and/or a doctor while they were abroad. When Mr 
V complained, UKI maintained its position to decline the claim but paid £75 compensation for 
delays and other service failings. 
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs V brought the matter to the attention of our service. One of our 
investigators looked into what had happened and said he didnt think UKI had acted unfairly 
or unreasonably in the circumstances. Mr and Mrs V didnt agree with our investigators 
opinion, so their complaint has been referred to me as the final stage in our process. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Travel insurance policies dont cover every eventuality and UKIs obligations to Mr and Mrs V 
are limited by the terms, conditions and exclusions which are set out in their contract with it. 
Insurance like this exists to cover financial losses (either unused costs or additional costs) if 
an insured event which is covered by the policy happens. 
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Vs policy and I dont think they have 
any cover for either the situation they found themselves in or for the costs they are claiming 
for. 
Mr and Mrs Vs policy covered their trip (which is defined as a journey that begins and ends 
at your home during the period of insurance) ending on 29 May 2023. 
Cancellation cover only applies if the whole trip is cancelled before a policyholder departs 
from the UK. And, even if I were to accept that the visit which Mr and Mrs V say they 
planned to a third destination was cancelled in circumstances where they had no pre-booked 
flights to that country, Mr and Mrs V have no unused costs relating to that trip to claim for. Mr 
and Mrs Vs policy also provides cover for unused costs if a trip is cut short in its entirety. 
But, again, this isnt what happened here. Mr and Mrs V returned to the UK on their original 
return flight on 29 May 2023, so their trip wasnt cut short. 
Mr and Mrs Vs policy does, in certain circumstances, provide cover for additional 
accommodation costs if a trip is extended due to a medical emergency. But, as Mr and Mrs 
V returned to the UK on their original intended return date, I cant fairly say that their trip as 
defined under the policy was extended either. And, even if I were to accept that part of Mr 
and Mrs Vs trip (their stay in the second destination) was extended in circumstances where 
they have no evidence to show they would be visiting a third destination, in order for a valid 
claim to be made under the emergency medical section of cover, UKI would need to have 
been contacted while Mr and Mrs V were still abroad. I understand Mr and Mrs V say they 
tried to contact UKI but couldnt get through, but I find it unlikely that Mr and Mrs V would 
have been unable to make contact with UKI at any point during the time they stayed in their 
second destination. Im not making any finding about whether I think Mr V has successfully 
evidenced that it was medically necessary for him and Mrs V to extend their stay in their 
second destination, as I dont think their claim is covered under this section of their policy 
regardless.   
Even if Mr and Mrs V had evidence of an onward flight booking to their third destination, they 
dont hold a policy which provides cover for disruption to a planned itinerary and/or enforced 
stay on part of a trip. And, while I appreciate that Mr and Mrs Vs trip was affected by Mr Vs 
illness, travel insurance policies dont cover loss of enjoyment. 
In any event, even if there was a section of this policy which I thought applied to this 
particular situation, I dont think Mr and Mrs V can fairly be said to have evidenced that 
theyve incurred additional costs that their travel insurance policy would step in and 
indemnify them for. I understand, from Mr and Mrs Vs perspective, they feel they spent 
more on accommodation in their second destination than theyd intended to. But Mr and Mrs 
V had no firm plans as to when they intended to move on to their third destination and had 
no flights booked to do so. If Mr and Mrs V had travelled on to the third destination then they 
say they would have stayed with friends. But, based on the available evidence, I cant fairly 
conclude that Mr and Mrs V wouldnt always need to have paid for accommodation for the 
entire duration of their stay until they returned to the UK on 29 May 2023. 
I understand Mr V says he has never made a travel insurance claim, that an additional 
premium was paid to UKI for an extension to the cover and that Mr V doesnt consider the 
value of this claim to be significant in comparison to the overall cost of the trip. But none of 
these are reasons upon which I could fairly direct UKI to cover a claim which I dont think 
falls within the parameters of Mr and Mrs Vs policy. 
A call took place between UKI and Mr V about the claim after Mr and Mrs Vs return to the 
UK and Mr V says he was given incorrect and, subsequently, contradictory information by 
UKI. I dont think any calls Mr V had with UKI materially affect the outcome of this complaint. 
The calls took place after Mr and Mrs V had already incurred the costs they were claiming 
for, so Mr and Mrs V didnt act to their detriment based on any of the information which UKI 
might have given to Mr V. I also dont think that the physical location of UKIs staff when 
taking Mr Vs calls is a relevant consideration as to whether Mr and Mrs Vs claim is covered 
under the terms and conditions of their policy. 
Im satisfied that the £75 compensation which UKI has already paid is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances for the impact of any of its delays or service failings on Mr and Mrs V, so I 
wont be directing UKI to do anything further. Any complaint about any issues which Mr V experienced when purchasing the extension to 
the policy before his and Mrs Vs trip would need to be directed to UKI in the first instance 
before our service would have the power to consider them. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Vs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman