DRN-3215005
The complaint
Mr B complains about how the Society of Lloyds dealt with a complaint he made about 
damage to his door following a theft claim it had resolved in 2017. Hes unhappy hes been 
told hell have to make a new claim and pay another excess.
What happened
Mr B owns a shared ownership property. He pays for buildings insurance each year, which is 
provided by the Society of Lloyds (SoL). While he isnt the policyholder, hes a beneficiary 
under the policy.
In April 2017, Mr B contacted SoL to report that his property had been broken into. He made 
a claim for repairs to windows and a rear door, which had been damaged during the break 
in. SoL instructed a company, which Ill refer to as G to repair the damage. It undertook the 
repairs and Mr Bs claim was resolved subject to him paying an excess of £100.
In September 2020, Mr B contacted SoL to explain that the rear door that G had installed 
was no longer fitting correctly. He said there was a gap at the top of the door, leaving his 
property exposed to weather. 
SoL reopened Mr Bs previous claim and requested photographs of the damage, which he 
provided. SoL reviewed the images provided and asked Mr B to obtain a cause of damage 
report. But Mr B wasnt able to obtain one  he said the company hed asked to assess the 
damage wouldnt undertake an inspection. G had gone into administration by this point. So, 
SoL appointed a company called M to inspect Mr Bs rear door and provide a cause of 
damage report. 
A surveyor from M attended Mr Bs property and submitted a cause of damage report to SoL 
following its visit. This report stated that the rear door had dropped from alignment and it 
needed to be deglazed and realigned. M informed SoL that this was accidental damage and 
unconnected with the original installation of the door.
After receiving information from M about the cause of damage, SoL informed Mr B that it 
couldnt consider his claim under the previous one hed made in 2017. It stated that, if he 
wanted to pursue a claim for repairs, hed need to submit a new claim, which would be 
subject to a £100 excess. SoL also invited Mr B to provide a cause of damage report if he 
disputed Ms report.
Mr B didnt submit a cause of damage report and complained to SoL about how his claim 
had been dealt with. He stated that the cause of the damage was due to the door having 
contracted over time because of changes in the weather, which hadnt been taken into 
account during the original installation. And he wanted SoL to repair the door as part of his 
original claim without him paying an excess.
SoL investigated Mr Bs complaint about its decision not to treat the damage as part of the 
original claim but it didnt uphold it due to the absence of evidence showing that the damage 
was connected to this installation process. It did, however, identify that Mr Bs reopened 
claim could have been handled more efficiently. And it paid him £50 compensation to 
recognise the delay he experienced. 
Being dissatisfied with SoLs response to his complaint Mr B referred it our service. Our 
investigator looked into Mr Bs complaint but didnt recommend upholding it. They werent 
persuaded SoL had acted unfairly in how it had dealt with this claim. And they didnt think it 
needed to do anything further to resolve this complaint. But Mr B didnt agree with our 
investigators view of his complaint and asked for it to be referred to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. I can see Mr B has gone to some 
trouble to provide our service with some very detailed points about his complaint. I want to 
assure him that Ive read everything he's sent us. I hope Mr B will understand if I dont 
address every comment hes made in this decision. I intend to concentrate on what I 
consider is key to this complaint. 
I can appreciate why Mr B is disappointed with our investigators view of his complaint. My 
role is to assess whether I think SoL made a mistake, or treated Mr B unfairly, such that it 
needs to now put things right. And, having thought carefully about everything he and SoL 
have said, Im afraid to say that I dont think it did. Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute that theres damage to Mr Bs rear door. Ive seen photographs showing 
a gap at the top of the door. And SoL has accepted this evidence as showing that theres 
damage to the door in question. Its also not in dispute that this is the door that G installed in 
early 2017. However, theres a disagreement between Mr B and SoL about the cause of the 
damage and the correct outcome of this complaint.  
Mr Bs policy provides cover for damage caused by a range of perils that might happen. 
These are specific one-off events. For a claim to be successful a policy holder must show 
that the damage theyre claiming for was caused by one of the perils listed in their policy.
Here SoL asked Mr B to provide a cause of damage report. But, as I set out in the 
background to this complaint, Mr B wasnt able to do that. Given that, by this point G had 
ceased trading, SoL appointed M to assess the door and provide the report it needed to 
consider Mr Bs claim. I think this demonstrates that SoL was taking proactive steps to 
progress to Mr Bs claim in circumstances where he hadnt been able to arrange for a 
contractor to inspect his door and where G was no longer available to assist.
Ive carefully studied the report M provided SoL. It was drafted following an inspection of the 
door by a surveyor, who felt that the damage is not connected to the previous repair by G. 
They said the door has dropped from alignment and needs to be deglazed and realigned. 
This has nothing to do with repairs over 2 years ago. 
I dont think it was unreasonable for M to describe this damage as accidental. It hasnt stated 
that the cause of the damage was due to the door having contracted over time as Mr B 
believes. I think M would have said that if this applied here. And I havent seen any evidence 
contradicting Ms cause of damage opinion. Im therefore unable to fairly find that the 
damage was caused by the original installation by G.I can see Mr B isnt happy that SoL has relied on Ms report to decline to consider the 
damage as part of the original claim. But M is a recognised organisation who regularly 
assesses property damage on behalf of insurers. So, its isnt unreasonable for SoL to use 
Ms expertise in assessing a claim for damage. 
Mr B has been given the opportunity of providing evidence to show that the cause of 
damage was as a result of a fault with the door G installed. But he hasnt provided any 
evidence that supports his assertion that the damage was caused by the original installation 
process or which discredits Ms opinion or findings. Like our investigator, I think that if the 
damage had been caused by the original installation in 2017 it would have manifested itself 
sooner than 2020.
Mr B has argued that his door was subject to a 5-year warranty. But I havent seen any 
evidence confirming the terms and length of the warranty. I therefore havent seen enough 
evidence to satisfy me that a warranty could cover the damage Mr B reported to SoL.
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, I cant conclude that SoL acted unreasonably 
in placing reliance on Ms cause of damage report. And I cant find that it acted unfairly, 
having relied on Ms opinion, in declining to consider the damage Mr B was reporting as part 
of the original claim. 
I can see SoL informed Mr B that if he wanted to pursue his damage claim hed need to 
make a new claim, which would be subject to a new excess payment. I cant say this was 
improper or unreasonable. Mr B has declined to do so, which means I cant tell SoL to 
consider the damage he reported in September 2020 as part of a new claim.
Ill turn now to the service issues SoL identified in its final response to Mr Bs complaint. SoL 
accepts that it could have responded to Mr Bs reopened claim more proactively. Ive 
carefully considered the chronology and business file SoL has provided our service and I 
can see there appears to be a delay of around 4 weeks between SoL appointing M and then 
confirming the cause of damage with Mr B following Ms inspection.
This delay wasnt protracted. But it was unnecessary, and its bound to have caused 
additional upset to Mr B who was waiting for his claim to be progressed. SoL has already 
recognised that the delay meant Mr B experienced a shortfall in the service he received. As I 
set out in the background to this complaint, its already paid him £50 to reflect that. On 
balance, Im satisfied that this amount fairly reflects the trouble and upset Mr B would have 
been caused by the delay. Its in line with awards our service has made in similar 
circumstances, and its what I would have suggested had no offer been made. So, I wont be 
requiring SoL to increase the amount its already paid. 
I recognise Mr Bs strength of feeling about this complaint and I appreciate that hell be 
disappointed with my decision. But based on everything Ive seen I cant fairly conclude that 
SoL has acted unreasonably in declining to deal with the damage to his door under the 
original claim. And I think the compensation its already paid appropriately recognises the 
delay Mr B experienced.  So, I wont be asking SoL to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2022.
 Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman