DRN-3221720
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained that ReAssure Limited took too long to process a surrender 
request of their flexible mortgage individual savings accounts (FMISAs). They say that the 
amount they received was considerably less than they expected, due to delays caused by 
ReAssure. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S say they contacted ReAssure on 13 January 2021, to request a valuation and 
enquire about surrendering the FMISAs that they each held. 
ReAssure say they told Mr and Mrs S during this call that this particular product could only 
be surrendered using a completed form. They sent a letter on 14 January 2021 which valued 
the policies at approximately £36,400 each. This letter also said that the surrender 
documents would be sent within 10 working days. 
Mr and Mrs S say they didnt receive the forms until 22 January 2021, they say they were 
dated 18 January 2021. ReAssure say they received the completed forms on 26 January 
2021 and the surrender instruction was carried out at the next dealing point. 
Mr and Mrs S received a letter dated 28 January 20201, it said that the FMISAs had been 
sold at a value of approximately £35,125 each. Mr and Mrs S say they didnt receive the 
payments until 9 and 15 February 2021. They complained to ReAssure. They were unhappy 
that they had to surrender the policies using a form and that the time it had took saw a 
significant change from the value they were given to the amount they received. 
ReAssure said that the policies had to be surrendered using a completed form. They felt that 
the instruction was acted upon withing a reasonable timescale. However, they did 
acknowledge that there were delays in making the payment. They said they had been 
working to a 15 working day timescale due to checks, they offered Mr and Mrs S £325 for 
this.  They remained unhappy and brought their complaint to our service for an independent 
review. Our Investigator looked into it. She said she felt the amount paid to Mr and Mrs S 
was correct and the policies had been sold within the expected timescales. She did agree it 
had taken too long for the payments to be processed but felt the compensation paid for was 
fair. 
As no agreement was reached, the case has been passed to me to issue a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs S have said they feel issues with their policies began when the management 
transferred over from a different company in 2020. They were initially unhappy that they 
couldnt access account information online. ReAssure has said they werent able to make 
the policies visible online, as they managed the insurance element but the previous 
company still managed the investment element. I am satisfied with this response and         
Mr and Mrs S werent being treated unfairly here. 
Mr and Mrs S have said their frustrations grew further when they decided to surrender their 
policies. They were told this could only be done using a form that was to be posted to them. 
Whilst I can understand Mr and Mrs Ss feelings about this, at a time when most surrender 
requests can be completed online or over the phone, I have listened to ReAssures 
reasoning. They say they needed a completed form as they were redeeming an insurance 
element which meant cover would stop and also because they needed to surrender an 
investment held at a different company. I think this is reasonable. 
It also took five days from the initial call requesting surrender forms before they were sent. 
Mr and Mrs S say it took nine days from the call before they received them. The surrender 
wasnt completed until two weeks after the initial call. I can understand why this would have 
frustrated Mr and Mrs S. ReAssure have said this is due to the necessity to have a 
completed written form and for the insurance and investment elements to both be 
surrendered separately. They have also said that the instruction needed to be forwarded to 
the investment management company. Whilst I agree this took longer than one would like. I 
am satisfied that the reasoning for this is reasonable and the forms were sent within the 
expected timeframe of ten days and actioned the next day after receipt. 
Mr and Mrs S are understandably unhappy that the value of the policies fell significantly 
between the time of the call and when they were eventually surrendered. However, as I have 
concluded they were sold within a reasonable timescale considering the requirements, I 
cant hold ReAssure responsible for this drop in value. When the valuation was sent, it 
explained that it wasnt guaranteed as the values are recalculated on a regular basis and 
can go down as well as up. Unfortunately for Mr and Mrs S, they went down quite 
considerably during this period of approximately two weeks. 
ReAssure have acknowledged that the payments took too long to be sent to Mr and Mrs S. 
Who say they didnt receive the full amount until mid-February 2021, almost three weeks 
after the policies were surrendered. ReAssure have now said that it can take up to 15 days 
to send the proceeds, due to the calculations involved. However, Mr and Mrs S werent 
made aware of this and I agree they should be compensated for the time taken and the 
inconvenience caused. Especially as they made several attempts to chase the funds and 
received the proceeds from one policy almost a week before the other one. 
However, they have paid Mr and Mrs S £325 as compensation for this as well as including 
£19 interest for late payment when they paid the proceeds of Mrs Ss policy. I think this is 
reasonable and more than we would award for the loss of use of the funds for that period of 
time. 
Mr and Mrs S also queried why the amounts differed for the two policies. ReAssure 
explained that it was due to the difference in insurance costs. I am satisfied with the answer 
given and the response from their actuarial department showing that the figures calculated 
were correct. 
In summary, whilst I acknowledge it took longer to surrender these FMISAs than it has for 
other policies that Mr and Mrs S have held, I am satisfied that the requirements were 
necessary and they were still surrendered within the expected and provided timescales. 
However, it took too long to send the proceeds and Mr and Mrs S should be compensated for that. I think the £325 compensation and £19 interest payment is sufficient, and 
acknowledged the impact and inconvenience of the time it took and how much effort          
Mr and Mrs S had to put in to chase the funds. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman