DRN-2374730
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with a valuation that was carried out by a surveyor who was appointed by 
National Westminster Bank plc. He would like a second opinion.
What happened
Mr S has a mortgage with NatWest for his holiday home. He made an application on 
6 February 2020 for additional borrowing of £70,000 on his mortgage and this was approved 
subject to a valuation being carried out on the property. 
The valuation was carried out on 24 February 2020 and the report said that the property in 
its present condition was valued at £270,000. 
Mr S is unhappy about this because it has affected the loan amount and interest rate he 
wanted.
He thinks the valuation is incorrect for the following reasons:
A valuation was carried out four years ago which was 28% higher 
The house price index (HPI) is 36% higher
Properties in the postcode area increased by 16% over four years
Valuation from estate agent was 42% higher
Examples provided of other homes show the valuation is incorrect
Mr S says he would like another valuation carried out which he is willing to pay for, but hes 
been told that its not NatWests policy to do so and also that because of the situation with 
Covid-19, it wasnt possible.
He says NatWests process is not geared up to challenge valuations and they have no 
flexibility to use the HPI. He is disappointed with the valuation and would like a second 
opinion.
NatWest sent their final response on the matter on 21 April 2020 and said that they were 
unable to arrange a second valuation as it wasnt their policy to do so. They said they rely on 
the valuation carried out by a professional surveyor. 
Mr S didnt agree so he brought the complaint to our service where it was looked at by one 
of our investigators. Our investigator didnt think that NatWest did anything wrong or were 
unreasonable in not arranging another valuation. 
Mr S disagreed with the investigator and asked for the complaint to be looked at by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S isnt happy with the valuation that was carried out on his property. He has given various 
reasons as to why he disagrees but also said that he hasnt been given a reason for the 
difference. He said that he wanted to borrow additional funds against his mortgage and 
because the valuation has come back lower than he expected, it has affected the original 
amount he wanted to borrow and the interest rate that has been applied. 
I have looked at the information that has been provided by NatWest and I can see that they 
instructed a Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) surveyor. So, NatWest 
instructed an expert and they were entitled to rely on their report.
I have taken a look at the valuation report dated 24 February 2020 which shows an 
estimated value/purchase price of £315,000 but the surveyor valued the property in its 
current state, at the time, at £270,000. The fact that Mr S was borrowing additional funds 
means that there isnt a purchase price as such, but the value that he expected the property 
to be worth.
Mr S didnt agree with the valuation for the reasons Ive summarised above. He feels that 
NatWests process has the potential to under- or over-price a property and where the 
difference is significant, it should be flagged on their side and a second opinion sought. 
NatWest told Mr S that he could appeal the valuation, but he would need to provide details of 
three comparable properties in order for them to look into it further. They said that Mr S 
could find local properties that had been sold to help him with this.
Mr S supplied a comparable property but was told this was not acceptable as the property 
value was over 12 months old and descriptions of it had not been provided so the surveyor 
was unable to increase the valuation figure. They said they couldnt consider the matter 
further without three recent comparable properties.
I have looked at the requirements that the surveyors have for the appeals process which is 
stated on the valuation challenge and response form. The following are required:
 Three comparable properties, recently agreed or completed sales, be similar as 
much as possible to the subject property and in the same locality
 Cannot accept marketing letters, asking prices, automated valuations, indexed 
valuations and previous valuations.
The form says that if the criteria are not met, they will be unable to deal with the challenge.
This wasnt NatWests decision, it was the requirements of the surveyor and because of this, 
we cant consider the actions the surveyor took or the requirements they had.  NatWest did 
confirm that the valuation could be considered again by the surveyor if Mr S was able to 
provide three recent comparable properties with full descriptions. Mr S sent in details of one 
property which was over 12 months old so I can understand why this was deemed as 
unacceptable, because it didnt meet the panels criteria.
I have looked at a post valuation query response form that has been provided to us by 
NatWest. This document shows that a general query had been made to the surveyors 
regarding the concerns that Mr S had. The notes indicate that the valuation was reviewed, 
and it confirms that the valuation carried out was supported by local and recent comparable 
evidence. It was reasonable for NatWest to relay the concerns that M S had to the surveyor 
to get their comments  and this is what we would expect. It appears that Mr S had his own opinion on what his property might be worth but unfortunately, this was not as high as he 
would have hoped.
NatWest, as will most other lenders, calculate the loan to value (LTV) on the value of the 
purchase itself or the valuation figure, whichever is the lowest, so they have based Mr S 
LTV on £270,000 which has impacted the interest rate he could obtain. But NatWest have 
not done anything wrong here. The higher the LTV, the greater the risk the lender is taking in 
lending the money, and its reasonable to reflect that in their pricing. 
Mr S has already said that he wasnt given a reason as to why the valuation amount was so 
different and while I would agree that this would make it very difficult for him to understand 
without having this information, the crux of the issue here is that Mr S thought his property 
was valued more than it was. So, I dont think it looks like there was a particular reason as 
such, just that the property wasnt valued as much as Mr S thought. The property was valued 
by a professional surveyor which NatWest have relied on and I dont think this was wrong.
The report says that ongoing repairs are needed but it doesnt specify exactly what they are.  
Looking at the age of the property and the fact that there is nothing specifically listed in the 
comment section, it seems that this is based on general maintenance and upkeep of the 
property and what the valuer seems to expect with similar property types  which is what he 
has said. I appreciate that Mr S would like NatWest to instruct another surveyor to value the 
property that he will pay for, but this isnt the process that NatWest follow. They rely on the 
valuation that the surveyor has carried out and then base their lending decision on that. 
NatWest have said they are unable to use the HPI value as their process is to obtain a 
valuation. A HPI is a national statistic that shows changes in the value of residential homes. 
It gives borrowers an indication of how much their property might be worth. HPIs are not 
guaranteed and an in-person valuation is much more reliable because someone has visited 
the property. 
We wouldnt normally ask a lender to obtain a second opinion or ask them to change their 
process if what they have done in the circumstances is fair and reasonable. A lender has 
their own process to follow and they rely on valuations that are carried out on their behalf. 
NatWest appointed a professional expert in their field to carry out a valuation and relied on 
that in order to make their lending decision. I am satisfied that they have not done anything 
wrong.
From the information that I have, I can see that NatWest confirmed that Mr S still went ahead 
with the application. I appreciate that the loan to value (LTV) figure has resulted in the 
interest rate band being higher, for the additional loan Mr S took out  but NatWest are 
unable to influence the valuers policy on how they reach their valuation figures.
Overall, I cant agree that NatWest have acted unfairly in this situation, so I wont be asking 
them to do anything further.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman