DRN-3385329
The complaint
Mr O says a finance agreement he entered into with Vauxhall Finance plc (Vauxhall 
Finance) was misrepresented to him.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators opinion that this agreement was misrepresented to Mr O. 
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr O acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) explains that finance providers are liable for 
what they say and for what is said by a credit broker or a supplier before the consumer takes 
out the credit agreement. 
So, if Mr O was given a false statement of fact by the supplier and if that led him to enter into 
a finance agreement he wouldnt otherwise have entered into, I would think the agreement 
had been misrepresented to him and the relevant legislation would allow me to hold Vauxhall 
Finance accountable for the misrepresentation.
I think Mr O was given a false statement of fact. I say that because the invoice and the order 
form both explained that the car came with the remainder of the manufacturers warranty. 
That clearly wasnt the case as the service records show the first service wasnt completed 
in time before Mr O took receipt of the car and that invalidated the warranty.
I dont think Mr O would have been likely to proceed with the deal had he known the 
warranty had been invalidated. I think hed have worried about future costs if the car broke 
down. So, I think the agreement was misrepresented to Mr O and I think Vauxhall finance 
should put that right for him.
Putting things right
The normal remedy would be to put the consumer back in the position he would have been 
in had the misrepresentation not have taken place. 
The investigator suggested the best way to do that was for Vauxhall Finance to take the car 
back, end the agreement and refund Mr Os deposit and Id agree.
Whilst I understand Mr O has paid quite a bit towards the agreement Im not persuaded 
theres a reason to structure the redress in any other way.
Ive noted that Vauxhall Finance think rejection would be disproportionate here. I dont think 
thats the case because, as Ive already explained, I dont think Mr O would have proceeded 
with the deal at all if it hadnt been for the misrepresentation.
Mr O will have been distressed to realise he didnt have the warranty he thought he had, and 
I can understand he would have been worried the car may breakdown and that he may be 
liable for repair costs. In the circumstances I think Vauxhall Finance should pay him £150 to 
reflect the distress caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Vauxhall Finance Limited 
to:
Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Collect the car at no further cost to Mr O if he agrees.
If the car is returned refund Mr Os deposit and add 8% interest per year from the 
date paid to the date of settlement.
Remove any information from Mr Os credit file.
Pay Mr O £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman