DRN-2719545
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) completed an inadequate repair to
a mains pipe which caused a further leak and significant damage to her mothers home.
What happened
Mrs H had contents insurance policy with IPA which included home emergency cover for her
mothers property. In May 2018, there was a leak from a mains pipe at the property, so
Mrs H reported the leak to IPA. IPA then arranged for a third-party plumbing company to
repair the pipe.
In mid-June 2018, there was a further leak on the previous repair, so Mrs H contacted IPA
who sent the third-party plumber back to repair the leak for a second time.
In January 2019, Mrs Hs mother had another issue, but this time it was with her boiler. So,
Mrs H contacted IPA again, and they arranged for another third-party company to repair the
boiler.
At the start of July 2019, there was a substantial leak from the mains pipe in Mrs Hs
mothers property. Mrs H tried to contact local plumbers - rather than IPA as she didnt trust
them based on her previous experience - but no-one was available for several hours. As
there wasnt a stop-cock in the property, she had no option but to contact the water board to
use the shut-off value in the pavement outside the property. After several hours, the water
board engineer attended the property and was able to turn off the water.
The engineer repaired the pipe in Mrs Hs property. He then completed his job sheet to
confirm that the leak had been fixed and also noted that he felt that the fitting that had been
used to repair the mains previously, hadnt been fitted correctly. He felt this is what had
caused the water leak on this occasion.
Mrs H complained to IPA the next day. She explained that there had been a leak at her
mothers property which had been repaired several times. But on this occasion the leak was
so bad that they had to call out the water board as they were unable to shut it off in the
property. She explained the water board engineer felt the repair by IPA hadnt been up to
standard and had caused the leak - so she felt they were responsible for the damage and
wanted them to cover the repair costs.
IPA didnt uphold the complaint. They said their plumbers that had attended the property
most recently in January 2019, had only repaired parts on the boiler- not the mains - so they
couldnt be responsible. They also said that the last time the mains had been repaired by
themselves was in May 2018. IPA felt that a poor repair would have failed almost
immediately, and as this was around 12 months ago, they felt the most likely cause was
wear and tear or the age of the pipe - which they wouldnt be liable for.
Mrs H didnt agree so she asked this service to look into her complaint. She explained that
she was still having to use de-humidifiers to dry the property out over a month later, and that
shed had to arrange for replacement of all the furniture and redecoration when she felt the
leak had been caused by poor repairs initially.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He thought that based on the
evidence hed seen it was reasonable that a push-fit connection had been used in the
original repair. He also didnt think there was enough conclusive evidence to say that this
repair had been done incorrectly and caused the water leak.
I issued a provisional decision on 21 January 2021. I said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided to uphold
the complaint and Ill explain why.
Poor initial repair
I recognise that IPA feel that if the repair had been done incorrectly by D in May 2018 that it
would have failed sooner. But Im not persuaded thats the case. Ive seen that push fittings
can be relied on for a significant period of time - provided they are fitted correctly. However,
if not fitted correctly, they can become loose for example where there are changes in water
pressure. Ive also seen that IPAs plumbers have confirmed that some brands of push fit
connectors can hold up-to 10 bar (100psi), so should have held, as long as fitted correctly.
Ive looked the job sheet which Mrs H received from the water board engineer who attended
the property at the time which noted push fit fitting should not be fitted on black polly pipe
and the paint on the pipe had not been cleaned. The fitting had been pushed on over the
paint. He also stated in his report notes that the push fit had blew off the pipe. This implies
that the push fitting hadnt been fitted correctly to the black polly pipe when the repair had
taken place. This is the most persuasive evidence in the circumstances because it was
complied by an expert who attended at the time.
Mrs H has provided several videos of the leak which show the significant force that the water
was leaving the black polly pipe. They also show that the pipe does have some residue on
it where the push fit was attached, and although I cant confirm that this is paint as the water
board engineer has stated, I have seen that the pipe itself wasnt clean which I think could
have affected the seal of the push fitting.
I recognise that IPA have said they discussed this with their network management team and
that they feel if the repair had been completed incorrectly it would have failed sooner.
However, I havent seen anything that suggests they visited the property to inspect the pipe
or arranged for an independent engineer to either look at it or provide a report to confirm
this. This was despite Mrs H contacting them shortly after the incident had occurred.
I also dont agree that the fitting would have failed before this point. Looking at all of the
information and evidence thats been provided, I think that its likely that the push fit
connection into the pipe became lose over a period of time causing the leak and subsequent
damage to the property.
I say this because, IPAs plumbers themselves have said that a push fit connection will only
work if fitted correctly, and the water board engineer stated on his report that he didnt feel it
had been - due to the paint that was on the pipe. If IPA were happy that the part they used
for the repair was fit for purpose and should have withstood the mains water pressure - and I
havent seen any evidence showing the actual part was damaged - it seems likely that the
failure here was due to human error. So, Im persuaded that the original repair wasnt
completed in the way that it should have been by IPAs plumbers.
Wear and tearI acknowledge that IPA feel there could have been other causes of the leak such as the
parts failing due to wear and tear, and that this would be excluded under their policy.
However, Ive looked at the job sheet from the plumber that repaired the leak at Mrs Hs
property on 27 May 2018 and I can see that they noted that the Existing Condition of
Installation was good. I think its likely that if there were signs of wear and tear or age to the
existing pipework that the plumber would have noted this on the job sheet.
Looking at the photographs and videos Ive been provided with, it also appears the only part
that failed was the push-fit into the end of the pipe - which was fitted by D in May 2018. If the
part did fail due to natural wear and tear as IPA have suggested, I dont think its reasonable
that their plumber completed a repair using parts which have lasted barely a year.
Particularly as this repair came with a 12-month guarantee - which as per the policy
document means it should have been a permanent repair.
I also think its reasonable that a regular person would expect that any repair which was
completed on a permanent basis would last more than 12 months. Looking at the case
notes and job sheets, Ive also seen that the last repair Mrs H had completed by IPA on the
mains pipe was in mid-June 2018. This means that she complained to IPA just three weeks
after the guarantee had expired. So, I dont think its reasonable that IPA wouldnt accept
liability on the basis the 12-month guarantee had just expired.
Putting things right
Based on all the evidence Ive seen, Im persuaded that the damage to Mrs Hs property was
caused by inadequate repairs which were completed by IPAs plumbers in May and June
2018. Mrs H has provided invoices and bank statements and confirmed that the total cost of
repairs required was £3,134.41, including £1,000 for the cost of a replacement boiler.
Mrs H has explained that the boiler wouldnt start after it had been covered in gushing water
for several hours, and Ive seen the video which confirms this. However, I havent seen any
evidence or reports showing that the damage to the boiler was beyond economical repair
and without this, I cant reasonably ask IPA to refund the cost of a new boiler.
However, I do think its fair that IPA should refund Mrs H the remaining £2,134.41 which she
paid to replace flooring, furniture and redecorate from the water damage - putting her back in
the position she would have been before the issue with the pipe occurred.
Mrs H has told us that she was caused distress because her elderly mother lived in the
property and it was uninhabitable, so she needed to get the issues resolved quickly which
was difficult due to the extent of the damage. I acknowledge that it took her several months
for the property to be returned to normal, causing Mrs H further upset. So, I think that given
the circumstances of the complaint, IPA should pay Mrs H £200 for the trouble and upset
caused.  
I invited Mrs H and IPA to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to
consider before issuing my final decision. Mrs H provided written evidence from the plumber
who replaced her boiler explaining that it was replaced because water had damaged it 
beyond economical repair. And asked that I consider this as part of my decision.
IPA didnt respond to say whether they accepted my provisional decision. I forwarded them a
copy of the evidence from Mrs H and asked for their comments and response to this, but
they didnt reply. They also didnt tell me they had anything more to add.
I issued my second provisional decision on 12 March 2021. I said that I was satisfied with the evidence provided by Mrs Hs plumber explaining why the boiler had needed to be 
replaced. I said that I hadnt received any correspondence from IPA about the evidence 
Mrs H had provided so I intended to ask IPA to refund the £1,000 shed paid for the new 
boiler. 
IPA didnt respond the second provisional decision to say whether or not they accepted it. 
Mrs H asked why the compensation amount was so low and explained the effect the leak 
had had on her mother in her final few months which she didnt feel had been taken into 
account. She also felt it was unreasonable for the business to send an engineer who may 
not have been qualified and she remained unhappy with how IPA had dealt with her 
complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion I did in my provisional decision. 
Mrs H has explained in detail how devasting the effects of the leak were on her mother given 
her health conditions and having to move out of her property. I recognise this has been an 
extremely difficult time for Mrs H because of this, but the DISP rules only allow us to look at 
the impact on Mrs H as the eligible complainant, not her mother. I acknowledge this is likely 
to feel unfair as it was her mothers home, but this isnt within my remit and therefore isnt 
something Im able to consider as part of the compensation award. 
I also recognise Mrs Hs frustration about IPA, the engineer they provided and how they 
dealt with her complaint and I acknowledge that she feels they are able to run their business 
in this way. But Im only able to look at individual complaints rather than the overall affect a 
business has on consumers in general. As we arent the regulator, we cant tell a business 
what processes they should follow or who they should use as contractors. However, if Mrs H 
wishes to take this further, she can contact the Financial Conduct Authority, although I need 
to make her aware, they dont respond to individual complaints.
I recognise that Mrs H feels strongly about this and I understand why she may feel the 
compensation amount was too low. But based on everything Ive seen and the rules I must 
abide by, I feel that the £200 compensation for trouble and upset is fair given the 
circumstances of the complaint.
Putting things right
As Ive reached the same conclusion as I did in my provisional decision, Inter Partner 
Assistance SA must do the following:
Refund Mrs H the £2,134.41 she paid for repairs to the property;
Refund Mrs H the £1,000 she paid for a replacement boiler;
Pay Mrs H £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Inter Partner Assistance SA must follow the 
instructions Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2021.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman