DRN-3652655
Complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) recorded a fraud 
prevention marker against him. 
Background
In August 2021, Mr A applied for a Virgin Money current account. Virgin Money was 
concerned that inconsistencies in the information Mr A provided. In particular, it was 
concerned that Mr A had made previous applications for financial products under previous 
names. So it declined Mr As application and also recorded a fraud prevention marker 
against him. 
Mr A complained after learning that Virgin Money had recorded a fraud prevention marker 
against him. Virgin Money looked at Mr As complaint and didnt uphold it. As Mr A remained 
dissatisfied, he referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr As concerns. She didnt think that Virgin Money had 
acted unfairly or unreasonably and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr A disagreed and so 
the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Virgin Money has filed is intended to record that there was application 
fraud  relating to Mr A using his real name but providing other false information in an 
application for a financial product. In order to file such a marker, it isnt required to prove 
beyond reasonable doubt that Mr A is guilty of a fraud or financial crime, but it must show 
that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. 
The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain their version of events in order to understand their 
level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr As complaint, I need to decide whether I think Virgin Money had 
enough evidence to show that Mr A did provide materially false information. Secondly, Virgin 
Money also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr A was deliberately dishonest 
when doing so and that any discrepancies werent simply down to a mistake or 
misunderstanding. Its also important to note Virgin Money had to have enough evidence to 
meet both parts of test for it to have acted fairly and reasonably.
Having considered matters, I do firstly want to start by saying that its disappointing to see 
that Virgin Money failed to obtain Mr As version of events before recording the marker. I 
accept it believed the information it obtained from credit reference agencies indicated that  
Mr A had provided false information. But, on its own, this is only really enough to trigger 
suspicion or concern. And I have to question how Virgin Money could possibly have 
assessed Mr As knowledge and intention before it recorded the fraud marker against him 
when it looks like it didnt speak to him before doing so.
That said, even though it would have been preferrable for Virgin Money to have contacted 
Mr A before recording the fraud marker. I dont think that doing so would have made too 
much of a difference here. I say this because I think there is enough here to suggest that      
Mr A knowingly and dishonestly provided Virgin Money with false information. 
Mr A disputes making applications under aliases. He says that the names he used are his 
names. But even leaving aside the discrepancies in the names Mr A used in various 
applications, for the sake of completeness Id add that the evidence Mr A has provided 
doesnt support his version of events, its still the case that he told Virgin Money he was 
living at his current address since July 2002. And this isnt supported by other information 
showing that hed successfully made multiple applications for credit at least one other 
address since 2002.
I know that Mr A says he wasnt asked about details of his previous addresses. But thats 
because he said that he lived at his current address since 2002. Furthermore, and perhaps 
most importantly, the address which ended up being left off Mr As application had negative 
information recorded against him  namely two defaults that were relatively recent. And as 
this information about previous addresses is likely to have impacted Virgin Moneys decision 
on whether to provide Mr A with an account, Im satisfied that it was a material falsehood. 
Given Mr A would have known about the defaulted accounts and that he hadnt lived at his 
current address since 2002 like hed said on his application, I think it is more likely than not 
that this was knowing and deliberate, rather than an innocent mistake. So Im satisfied that 
this address discrepancy meant that Virgin Money had sufficient evidence to record a fraud 
marker against Mr A, irrespective of other concerns it may have had about Mr A making 
applications under aliases. 
Overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Virgin Money did have sufficient 
evidence to record an application fraud marker against Mr A. As this is the case, I dont think 
that Virgin Money acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr A and Im not upholding his 
complaint. 
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr A  especially given the impact he says the 
marker is having. Be that as it may I cant simply ignore the fact that the available evidence 
appears to show that Virgin Money didnt act unfairly here. So I hope Mr Y will understand 
the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman