DRN-2443088
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the reduction in his No Claims Discount (NCD) following two
claims under his car insurance policy with Ageas Insurance Limited.
What happened
Mr S bought a car insurance policy through a broker in May 2018. The insurer was Ageas.
Mr S had earned nine years NCD when he bought his policy. He then made two claims and
at renewal in 2019, Ageas reduced his NCD to two years, but later agreed to bring it up to
four years. The reason it did this was because the third party accepted liability for the second
claim. So Mr S had one fault claim and one non fault claim recorded.
Mr S still thought Ageas had been unfair and asked us to look at his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Ageas had been clear about its step back process and it hadnt
explained that it caps its NCD at five years. So she thought Ageas should put Mr S back in
the position he would have been in had it been clearer about how it applied an NCD.
The investigator thought Mr S would have more likely than not protected his nine years NCD
if hed know it was capped at five years. She thought it reasonable for Ageas to ask Mr S to
pay the extra for this benefit, and provide him with an updated NCD of eight years following
the outcome of the claims made in the policy year. This was the equivalent of losing a year
in line with Ageas step back table.
Ageas didnt agree. It says the policy wording is sufficient and if Mr S had questions about
the NCD, he could have contacted his broker for clarification.
I issued a provisional decision on 12 November 2020. I though Ageas had been unfair but I 
thought it should pay Mr S £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. I 
didnt think Mr S should have to pay the extra for the benefit of protecting his NCD. 
Ageas didnt reply to my provisional decision. In a call Mr S said he hadnt received my 
provisional decision, but the investigator explained my recommendations which he accepted.
So the case has been passed back to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive received no new information since my provisional decision, my final decision is along 
the same lines.
Mr Ss Statement of Insurance says hed earned nine years NCD from his previous insurer
when he bought this policy. Mr S didnt protect his NCD.
We think an insurer should explain in the policy how NCD works as this can vary from
insurer to insurer. The information in Mr Ss policy booklet  which he received via the broker 
- reads as follows:
(broker name) operate a panel of insurers and each insurer applies their own
individual No Claim Discount scale. If no claim has been made during the current
insurance year, the Insurer will include a discount in Your renewal premium. The
amount of discount will be in accordance with the Insurers scale of No Claim
Discount applicable at the time of renewal.
If a claim has been made and Your No Claim Discount remains outstanding from
your previous insurers You may be required to prove Your entitlement by producing
written evidence from Your previous insurers. If a claim has been made or arisen
under this insurance in any one period of insurance Your No Claim Discount will be
reduced at the next renewal in accordance with the Insurers step back scale
applicable at the time of renewal (usually to the equivalent of 0, 1 or 2 years) subject
to any No Claim Discount Protection condition that may apply to this insurance.
We asked Ageas to provide details of where it explained to Mr S how its step back process
works or where it told him his NCD would be limited to five years. Ageas has referred us to
the wording above.
I dont think Mr S could have made an informed decision about his NCD based on the
information provided. As his contract is with Ageas, I think Ageas didnt act reasonably as it
hasnt been clear enough about how its NCD works. So I think the fairest outcome is for
Ageas to put Mr S back in the position he would have been in at renewal in May 2019, on
the basis of one fault claim and one non fault claim, starting from nine years NCD. Ageas
says that where it can recover all of its costs, that incident will not count as a claim for the
purposes of NCD.
I therefore think Ageas should provide a letter to Mr S confirming his NCD as at May 2019
was eight years. Mr S can show this to subsequent insurers if applicable.
The investigator thought it reasonable for Ageas to charge Mr S what it would have charged
him to protect his NCD. But I think Ageas caused Mr S unnecessary distress and
inconvenience. I can understand Mr Ss upset by Ageas decision to reduce his NCD. And
Mr S will need to make the necessary enquiries with the insurer of his car since May 2019
and May 2020 to look to receive any appropriate refund of premium based on an NCD of
eight years.
So I think Ageas should also pay Mr S £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to do the 
following:
Provide Mr S with a letter confirming his NCD at eight years as at his renewal of May
2019.
Pay Mr S £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Ageas Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we
tell it Mr S accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on thecompensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate of
8% a year.
If Ageas considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from
that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give Mr S a tax
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue &
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman