DRN-2778363
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with the service received from U K Insurance Limited (UKI) 
following a claim they made under their home insurance policy.
What happened
In June 2019 a pressure gauge burst which caused water to escape in Mr and Mrs Bs 
home. They initially cleared up the water and werent going to claim, but as they noticed 
damage, they contacted UKI, their home insurance provider, to make a claim.
UKI assessed the damage and appointed a contractor to carry out repairs. However, during 
the course of repair works, poor quality repairs were completed, and additional damage was 
caused to Mr and Mrs Bs property.
A new kitchen was needed due to the damage caused and items disposed of, along with 
other repair works which needed redoing due to the poor workmanship. But again, these 
were completed poorly, and additional damage was caused.
Multiple complaints were raised throughout the course of the claim, and overall, UKI offered 
a total of £2,800 compensation. Ultimately UKI reached a position where they said due to the 
repeated poor previous works and damage caused, and not having another contractor to 
complete the outstanding repairs, theyd be looking to cash settle the remaining outstanding 
works to enable Mr and Mrs B to have them completed.
Mr and Mrs B were unhappy with the service theyd received during the claim, the overall 
compensation theyd been offered and that UKI was looking to cash settle for the 
outstanding work. So, they approached the Financial Ombudsman Service to investigate.
Our investigator looked into things, but he didnt recommend UKI do anything further. He 
agreed the service Mr and Mrs B had received had been poor, the contractors had carried 
out poor workmanship and caused damage. But he said the compensation UKI had already 
offered was fair. He also said that it wasnt unreasonable for UKI to want to cash settle the 
outstanding works, given the previous service Mr and Mrs B had received from the 
contractors.
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs B brought their first complaint to this service outside of the six months in which 
they were required to do so. Our investigator first said, on this basis of the complaint being 
brought late, that this wasnt a complaint which we had jurisdiction to consider. 
However, following discussion, UKI agreed to waive its objections and agreed we could 
consider the complaint brought to us, despite it being outside the timescale. And due to it 
being an ongoing claim with a number of complaints, UKI also agreed for us to consider 
what happened overall during the life of the claim and complaints.
UKI issued four final response letters addressing complaints raised during the claim, Ive 
summarised these below.
December 2019 complaint response
UKI accepted their contractors repair works were poor and said that these would be rectified. 
They also acknowledged the communication had been poor. UKI offered £1,000 
compensation for what had happened so far.
February 2020 complaint response
UKI acknowledged that Mr and Mrs B were unhappy with the kitchen proposed by the 
contractor to remedy the original poor workmanship. And they also recognised what the 
contractors had offered wasnt a similar match to what was in place prior to them causing 
damage. They also apologised that a visit was cancelled. UKI offered £100 for what had 
happened.
November 2020 complaint response
There were a number of complaint points considered by UKI. They accepted the repairs and 
standard of finish were poor and the claim had been mis-managed, and communication was 
lacking. They also said the duration of repairs had been largely exceeded, and additional 
time was needed to rectify the additional works and damage caused.
UKI acknowledged theyd needed to extend the alternative accommodation on several 
occasions, and it shouldve been further extended given Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances.
Overall UKI recognised that the service Mr and Mrs B had received had been unacceptable 
and they offered £1,500.
But UKI also said the alternative accommodation theyd offered was all that was available at 
the time. And they also said they wouldnt cover the costs of bills at the risk address unless 
they were more than they usually would be, as they were already paying for the bills at the 
alternative accommodation. They also said they wouldnt cover the mortgage payments, 
along with paying for the alternative accommodation. And they said they wouldnt cover the 
amount Mr and Mrs B asked them to pay for every email theyd sent. Instead UKI said theyd 
factored in the overall service and inconvenience into the compensation offer.
UKI also said that if the contractor hadnt completed the works after the timescale set, then 
theyd look to cash settle given the service received from the contractors up to that point.February 2021 complaint response
UKI apologised for any further damage or poor works carried out. Given the poor previous 
repairs by the contractor, UKI said they didnt want to resend the same contractors in order 
to avoid more errors occurring. Therefore, they said theyd be looking to cash settle the 
remainder of the claim.
But as the repairs attempted hadnt been carried out within the timescales expected, UKI 
offered a further £200 compensation.
So as can be seen from the above, multiple complaints were raised and addressed by UKI 
during the claim. And its not disputed that things werent handled in line with Mr and Mrs Bs 
reasonable expectations. UKI accept multiple things went wrong and theyve offered a total 
of £2,800 compensation over the length of the claim.
As both parties are aware of what has happened, and each and every event and dispute 
which has occurred throughout, and neither party dispute this, I dont intend to revisit or 
comment on everything that happened individually. Ill instead focus on what I believe is 
important in reaching my decision on what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint. I dont mean this as a discourtesy to either party, rather this reflects the 
informal nature of our service and my role within it. But its clear that its been a difficult and 
distressing time for Mr and Mrs B, and Id like to reassure both parties that Ive considered all 
the information theyve provided in its entirety when reaching my final decision. 
As its not in dispute things have gone wrong throughout, and thats why UKI has offered 
Mr and Mrs B £2,800 in compensation, here Im deciding overall whether thats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint. Im also commenting on some of the 
more specific points raised, including what UKI say should happen next in order to move the 
claim forward.
The work carried out by UKIs contractor
The work carried out by UKIs contractor was poor, thats not disputed by either of the 
parties. I wont list all of the issues, of which there are many, but examples include poor 
flooring works, tiling, grouting, decorating and the property not being kept clean, or cleaned 
after works were completed. And the works to rectify the additional damage and poor 
workmanship were then also poor.
In addition to the poor works completed, additional damage was caused to Mr and Mrs Bs 
home. This meant a new kitchen was needed and disputes arose surrounding that, including 
the quality, design and layout. The kitchen doors, amongst other items, were also disposed 
of, and there was then a dispute around replacing those against the quality of the originals.
Alongside the actual works being poor and additional damage being caused, there were also 
separate issues relating to the contractors and the service they provided, such as leaving the 
property unlocked, cancelling appointments and Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with some of the 
direct communication they had from the contractors too.
Whilst Ive not commented specifically on everything individually, Ive taken everything into 
account when reaching my decision on whether the compensation offered is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. And although Ive only summarised things, I fully 
appreciate the impact of the repeated poor repairs and additional damage both on 
Mr and Mrs B and the claim handling and duration overall.Mr and Mrs B have also said they dont want UKI to use the same contractors more 
generally for other claims in the future. But how UKI operate more generally, or what 
contractors they choose to employ for other customer claims isnt something which I can 
decide as thats not my role or the role of this service. We arent the regulator of UKI, so Im 
not able to decide UKIs wider operating procedures, or which contractors they employ more 
generally to carry out insurance related repairs. My consideration and remit here is limited to 
UKIs handling of Mr and Mrs Bs claim in isolation.
Alternative accommodation 
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with the alternative accommodation offered for the period they 
couldnt be in their home whilst repairs were taking place. They were offered two separate 
apartments (a two-bed and a one-bed), or a three-bed property. Mr and Mrs B accepted the 
apartments, which were 10 minutes away from the risk address. The three-bed property was 
around half an hour away, so some distance further.
Whilst I appreciate Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with the options given and that they had to opt 
for two apartments, UKI (and their agent) were limited in what they could offer as that 
depends on availability at the time. Therefore, I cant hold UKI responsible if there wasnt 
anything else more suitable, or closer, they could offer at that time.
I can also see that the accommodation needed to be extended several times, and a dispute 
arose whether Mr and Mrs B should return home when works were allegedly nearing 
completion. Ultimately it was agreed they couldnt return at that time and UKI have 
recognised they shouldve accepted that sooner than they did. This, and the service 
Mr and Mrs B received, has been taken into account when Ive considered the appropriate 
level of compensation below.
Service received and compensation
Its clear the claim has been ongoing much longer than expected, and the service 
Mr and Mrs B have received throughout has been poor. The lengthy claim duration is mainly 
due to the repeated poor works carried out by UKIs appointed contractor, the damage they 
caused, and rectification works being needed after that. There was also a period when the 
contractors were forced to close between the original works, and them then continuing, but 
thats unforeseen and not something in UKIs control. That said, I can see that its been a 
difficult time for Mr and Mrs B due to both personal circumstances, the claim handling by UKI 
and their contractor and the time taken overall.
As Ive mentioned, damage was caused during the course of repairs, and the works to then 
repair and resolve that havent gone smoothly either. Appointments have been cancelled, 
and Mr and Mrs B have had to chase responses to communication too.
Mr and Mrs B have sent a considerable amount of emails to both UKI and the contractor, 
and have had to raise a number of concerns throughout the claim. Disputes arose 
surrounding works to repair both the insured works and to rectify the poor repairs by UKIs 
contractors.
And whilst Ive only summarised things here, and not commented on everything that 
happened individually, I can fully appreciate how difficult its been for Mr and Mrs B and the 
impact on them as a result. Mr and Mrs B have asked for a considerable sum to compensate them, and costs they think 
UKI should pay. Mr and Mrs B have asked for an hourly rate for every email theyve sent 
throughout the claim. Theyve also asked for things like their home and car insurance to be 
free, and for UKI to pay for their mortgage during this time. But those are costs which 
Mr and Mrs B would always have incurred even it wasnt for the claim, so its not something 
Im going to direct UKI to pay. 
Instead, Im considering whether the total compensation UKI have offered over the claim 
duration, totalling £2,800, is reasonable. And this is taking into account the service 
Mr and Mrs B received, the timescales, and overall them needing to contact UKI on various 
occasions throughout, rather than an individual specific amount for each email which has 
been sent. And having taken everything into account, and whilst I do recognise the difficult 
and distressing time its been for Mr and Mrs B, I think the amount UKI offered overall, 
totalling £2,800, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So, Im not going to ask UKI to 
increase this amount.
Outstanding works
There are still some works outstanding on the claim following UKIs contractors final attempt 
to resolve things, and due to the replacement doors taking time to be manufactured and 
delivered. UKI has said that due to the contractors previous poor repairs, Mr and Mrs B 
should obtain quotes for local tradesmen to finish the outstanding works, and theyll cover 
the cost of cash settling this.
Mr and Mrs B believe that UKI should arrange for the final works to be completed, and find 
and employ another contractor to do this.
However, UKI has confirmed it doesnt have any other contractors able to do this in 
Mr and Mrs Bs area. And given the repeated poor repairs and damage caused by the 
previous contractor on several occasions and how this has impacted both Mr and Mrs B and 
the claim duration, I think UKIs proposal here is fair and reasonable in order to move things 
forward and to complete the outstanding works.
Claim costs
Mr and Mrs B have said they think the claim cost should be recorded as zero due to the poor 
works completed and the claim handling. However, UKI needs to record a true and accurate 
reflection of the claim costs they have incurred. 
Mr and Mrs B have said this may affect them in the future with other insurers. But not all 
insurers take into account the actual claim costs specifically when pricing a policy, or they 
dont result in an increase based on the amount, rather it can be just having a loss itself 
(which always wouldve been the case here) which some insurers take into account. 
Ultimately, UKI has compensated Mr and Mrs B for the poor service overall, what went 
wrong and the additional works being needed. And as Ive explained, I think the 
compensation amount offered for that is fair. Mr and Mrs B have said this may happen in the 
future, and if they can demonstrate how this has impacted them specifically in the future, 
rather than may, then they should raise this with UKI for consideration in the first instance.My final decision
U K Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay compensation totalling £2,800 to 
settle the complaints and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that U K Insurance Limited should pay Mr and Mrs B a total of £2,800  
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman