DRN-1462048
The complaint
Mr A complains about the settlement hes received from Liverpool Victoria Insurance 
Company Limited (LV) in respect of his home insurance claim for theft. 
What happened
Mr As home was burgled in June 2019. He reported the incident to the police and made a 
claim to LV. Mr A reported a number of stolen items to LV including watches along with 
some electrical goods and cash. LV accepted the claim, obtained the police report and 
began to validate it. About a week later, LV told Mr A it was in a position to settle some of the 
items hed reported stolen. It also said there was a £350 policy excess to be paid. 
Mr A was unhappy that he was required to pay the excess. He said he wished to make a 
complaint. About five days later, Mr A called LV again and said he was unhappy about the 
excess. He also said he needed to pay £150 to repair a door damaged in the burglary. 
During a call on the same day Mr A mentioned hed reported £200 in cash being stolen but 
now thought it was definitely more than that. He asked LV what it proposed doing about the 
damaged door. LV asked Mr A to send it the quote hed obtained for the damaged door but 
Mr A said he didnt have one and then later agreed to get one. 
Mr A later told LV hed paid to have the door repaired himself. After a further inspection was 
carried out by LVs agents, however, the door was reported to still be in a damaged state. 
Mr A gave LV the name of his repairer but LV was unable to obtain any proof from him that 
hed carried out the repair. 
During another call in early July, Mr A reiterated he remained unhappy that he was required 
to pay an excess and, having heard from LVs jewellery valuers, explained that he would 
prefer a cash settlement so he could invest in CCTV and security. During the same call Mr A 
raised questions about other stolen items and again said hed paid £150 to have the door 
repaired. LV told Mr A that he needed to evidence that hed paid for the repair before it 
would settle for it. LV asked Mr A again to pay the excess so it could proceed with the claim 
and Mr A said hed already paid £150 for the door. Mr A said to LV that he thought some of 
the other items claimed for came to about £390. 
Due to concerns it had with the claim, LVs claims department referred it to its fraud team. 
The new case handler told Mr A that any offers already made were withdrawn whilst further 
enquiries were conducted. Mr A was also told the complaint hed made would be looked at 
separately and in line with LVs complaints process. LV also told Mr A that due to the need to 
now make further enquiries the claim process itself would likely take longer than it wouldve 
done originally. 
About a week later LVs investigator visited Mr A to conduct further enquiries. Pending 
production of its report, Mr A phoned LV on a number of occasions in the next fortnight or so 
chasing progress on his claim. He also demanded that the fraud investigator was removed 
from his claim. LV declined to do so. 
LV issued its final response to Mr As complaint about delays in settling his claim on 23 July 
2019; Mr As complaint was not upheld. LV said it saw no unjustified delays and that it had a 
responsibility to all its customers to fully validate each claim before offering settlement. It 
said it needed to satisfy itself that the items Mr A was claiming were owned by him and were 
worth the amounts hed stated. It said that it was still waiting for its investigators report and 
that once it received that it would respond to him accordingly. 
LV received its investigators report along with the police report of the incident in mid-August 
2019. It let Mr A know it was reviewing both before setting out next steps. Upon reviewing 
the first notification of loss call, the investigators report and the contents of the police report, 
LV noted a number of discrepancies. LV wrote to Mr A setting them out. They were that Mr A 
had told the police hed had 3 watches stolen but had since told LV 7 had been taken (and 
that he actually had 15 watches in the drawer); the loss list Mr A gave the police is different 
from the one he gave LV; that Mr A became frustrated with LV when it asked him to prove 
his loss and, that the door has not been repaired despite Mr A claiming it had and asking to 
be reimbursed for £150.
Mr A responded to LV and said at no time had he ever claimed to know the entirety of the 
items stolen. He said the list of items had changed after hed checked his online purchase 
history and bank statements. Mr A said he wanted to see a copy of the police and 
investigator reports. With regard to the door, Mr A said hed asked his contractor for a receipt 
but had yet to receive one. Mr A said he remained frustrated that LV had tried to collect the 
£350 excess before dealing with the burglary. He also said he never claimed to know exactly 
how much cash had been stolen.
LV thought Mr As response failed to satisfactorily address the concerns itd raised. Over the 
next two weeks or so Mr A called LV asking for the case handler to be removed and 
continuing to complain about delays with the claim. During one call, the case handler 
informed Mr A that LV was unsatisfied with the extent of his claim and that he told the police 
hed had 3 watches stolen. LV asked Mr A to explain why hed done so and then 
subsequently claimed for 9 stolen watches. Mr A told LVs case handler that he hadnt told 
the police that 3 watches were stolen. LV said the police report stated he had.
LV finalised its enquires and wrote to Mr A, setting out its final position, on 16 October 2019. 
LV was satisfied that Mr A had tried to inflate his claim (specifically by claiming for more 
watches than were stolen) but because the extent of the fraud was less than 10% of the 
entire claim value, it decided not to decline the entire claim, only the fraudulent element. LV 
agreed to consider the remaining items but, due to a breach in trust, said it couldnt accept 
Mr As testimony alone as evidence that the remaining items were stolen, or that he owned 
or purchased them. LV said it was holding Mr A to strict proof for the remaining items and 
rejected any that he couldnt prove ownership of or which had not been reported to the police 
(such as the increased number of watches). LV also said itd recommended its underwriters 
cancel his policy. 
LV agreed to settle for 3 watches, that being the number hed reported to the police as 
missing, based on the cost its jewellery expert had said it could replace them for. This came 
to a total of £223.80. In respect of the damaged door, LV said it wasnt satisfied the damage 
claimed for was related to the theft, nor had Mr A proved hed paid £150 to have it repaired. 
LV said the damage hadnt been mentioned to the police at any point. LV said the cash 
claimed wasnt covered by the policy because under the policy terms theft of money needed 
to be reported to the police within 24 hours of being stolen. It said Mr A didnt report it 
missing for 3 days. And it said Mr A, during the course of the claim, had inflated the amount 
of cash he believed had been taken. 
Of the electrical items Mr A had claimed for, LV said Mr A had failed to prove he owned a 
camera he valued at between £560 and £845, nor was it listed on the police report as missing. LV said it wasnt going to settle for a projector as this was business equipment that 
wasnt covered by the policy terms nor would it pay for a laptop Mr A claimed hed paid £599 
for but which (aside from an unspecified PayPal entry for the same amount) hed been 
unable to otherwise prove hed owned. Mr A had also claimed for two other laptops 
purchased for friends overseas which he said were in the property at the time of the theft. LV 
said Mr As responses in respect of these items had been contradictory such that it could not 
be sure they had been in the property at the time of the theft. 
LV also said Mr A had provided no substantiation for a tool set claimed for and valued at 
£50-£100 nor for perfume hed claimed to have been taken. So, LV said it wouldnt be 
settling for these. 
LV calculated Mr As claims settlement to be £1,469.98 after deduction of the £350 policy 
excess (£223.80 for the watches and £1,596.18 for the electrical items where proof of 
ownership had been established). Mr A responded to say he disagreed. LV then issued a 
second final response letter on 24 October 2019. It said itd appreciated that Mr As claim 
had taken longer than expected but didnt think any un-necessary delays had occurred. It 
said that as the claim progressed and it received new information it needed to validate it 
further so that it was able to cover part of the claim. 
Unhappy with the outcome of his claim, Mr A complained to this service. Our investigator 
looked into his complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. She didnt think LV had 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in the way it had settled his claim. Mr A disagreed with our 
investigators findings. He said he had never expected or requested a cash settlement rather 
hed asked to be provided with vouchers. He said one of the 3 iPads he had claimed for was 
Wi-Fi and cellular but LV had provided settlement based on an inferior model. Mr A also said 
hed found some receipts for some of the camera accessories hed purchased and that the 
projector wasnt for business purposes but an association that had plans to become a 
charity. Finally, he said one of the friends hed bought a laptop for was willing to provide 
testimony. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint again but still wasnt persuaded from what Mr A had 
said that it should be upheld. Mr A disagreed with our investigator. He sent LV some further 
evidence of items taken and said he was going to instruct solicitors to pursue a case for him. 
Mr A provided LV with a receipt for a laptop but it declined to add the item to his settlement 
as it said the receipt provided didnt support the item being claimed. Our investigator told LV 
that this information was new in any event so would not be forming part of the current 
complaint. 
The complaint was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A complains that LV hasnt settled his theft claim in full. It is worth stating at the outset 
that its not my role to determine whether Mr A has acted fraudulently or not. Its my role to 
decide, taking all the circumstances into account, whether LV has acted fairly and 
reasonably in the way it has handled Mr As claim. Having considered all the available 
evidence, and with regret for the disappointment I know my decision will cause Mr A, I have 
to say I think it has. Ill explain why. 
reduction in claim settlementI can see from the policy terms and conditions that LV doesnt have to pay a claim in full if it 
has reason to believe it to be fraudulent, false or exaggerated. And it can cancel the policy 
too. So, I have to decide whether LVs decision to rely on this clause, to not pay the claim in 
full, was a fair and reasonable one for it to take given the available evidence. 
Ive set out in some detail above the sequence of events, and the evidence LV obtained 
during the course of the claim, that led it to reduce the claim settlement on the grounds that 
part of the claim had been fraudulently made and/or exaggerated. 
I've considered the loss form Mr A submitted to LV at the start of the claim in which he 
claimed a total of 38 items including the damage to his door. I can see that in the end, LV 
paid out for 18 of these items, totalling £1,469.98 (£1,819.98 less the £350 excess). 
Its a condition of the policy that Mr A must provide LV with any information relevant to the 
claim which it needs to help it validate it. LV declined to provide a settlement for over half of 
the items included in Mr As loss list. Some of these were declined because LV wasnt 
provided with sufficient evidence that Mr A owned the items stolen (such as the camera) or 
because he had insufficient evidence in relation to them such as the perfume set and box of 
tools. 
The majority of the items LV declined to indemnify Mr A for (namely most of the watches and 
the laptops), were declined because LV found there were inconsistencies in what Mr A had 
told them (as detailed above). In addition, I can see that some of the information provided by 
Mr A to the police differed to that he gave to LV. By way of an example, the police report 
states that three watches had been stolen but Mr A then told LV hed had 7 stolen and that 
there were 15 watches in the drawer. 
Insofar as LV has declined to indemnify certain items on Mr As loss list on the grounds he 
had inflated/exaggerated them or because there were inconsistencies in the accounts hed 
given, I dont think LV acted unreasonably. As Ive said above, its a condition of the policy 
that Mr A provide LV with information relevant to the claim and, for some of the items hes 
claimed, hes been unable to do so. Taken with the inconsistencies/exaggeration (for 
example the increase to the number of watches claimed and the increase to the cash), I 
dont think LVs decision was an unreasonable one to have taken.  
I can also see that some of the items LV has said it will indemnify Mr A for have been settled 
based on the cost of inferior model specifications (in particular I can see theres been a 
dispute about the amount LV offered for the iPads claimed) because Mr A has been unable 
to show that precisely which models he did own. I dont think its unreasonable that LV 
settled these items in this way given the absence of any specific proof that Mr A owned the 
models he was claiming for. I know that Mr A provided our investigator with some further 
information about one of the iPad models he was claiming for but unfortunately it doesnt 
show he owned it. So, I dont think, in the absence of any proof that Mr A actually owned it, 
that LV has unfairly declined to pay out for it. 
Similarly, with regards to the projector, I note that it is used for an association that isnt a 
registered company but this doesnt mean that LV unreasonably considered it to be 
business equipment. As a comparison, a sole trader wont be a registered company either 
but the equipment used for its trade will still be considered to be business equipment. 
It follows that I think the inconsistencies identified, the lack of sufficient proof that some of 
the items were owned (or, like the door, were damaged in the theft) by Mr A, and, of those 
where ownership was accepted, a reduced amount paid because Mr A was unable to 
definitively provide model specifics, were all reasonably relied on by LV in order to decline to 
pay the claim in full. form of settlement
The policy terms permit LV to select how to settle a claim. In Mr As case I can see it decided 
to cash settle it. And its based the settlement amount on the current (cheapest) market retail 
value for the items concerned (typically lower than the replacement cost identified by Mr A 
on his loss form). 
An insurance policy is designed to put the policyholder back in the position they were in prior 
to the claim, so if a replacement can be sourced for less money than either that originally 
paid, or the price offered by other retailers, it's not unfair for LV to base its settlement on the 
cheapest supplier available. I know that Mr A said hed have preferred to have received 
vouchers but, as Ive said, the decision on how to settle a claim is LVs to make. By giving 
Mr A cash equivalent to what he could buy a replacement for, LV has met its obligations 
under the policy. So, Im satisfied that LV has settled the claim in line with the policy terms 
and conditions.  
policy excess
The policy terms also state that if the policy schedule shows that an excess is to be paid 
then this amount must be paid as the first part of any claim. I can see that Mr As schedule 
says he has to pay a £350 excess. Given thats the case, and that the payment of the 
excess is part of the contract between LV and Mr A, I dont think it was unreasonable of LV 
to ask Mr A at the outset to pay it and to deduct it from the settlement amount when he 
didnt. 
claim handling
Ive thought to about whether LV caused un-necessary delays to Mr As claim and I dont 
think that it did. The claim was made on 12 June 2019 and LV wrote four months later to 
Mr A with its settlement offer (on 16 October 2019). Insurers are permitted to validate the 
claims they receive. I can see that LV had a number of concerns with Mr As claim but I can 
also see these were investigated in a timely manner and that LV kept Mr A informed about 
progress. So, I cant reasonably conclude that LV caused un-necessary delay to Mr As 
claim.  
new issues
The recently provided laptop receipt is new information that has been provided since LVs 
final response letter and since Mr A brought his complaint to this service. I know that Mr A 
has provided it to LV and that LV has said that didnt support the item he was claiming for. If 
Mr A wishes to complain about this matter, he needs to first raise it with LV so it can have 
the opportunity to look into it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman