DRN-3555416
The complaint
Ms L complains Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) treated her unfairly when she 
missed a payment on her credit card account.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again
here. In this decision Ive mainly focused on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome I 
have.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ls complaint. Ill explain why. 
However as a starting point, I wish to say Im sorry to hear Ms L was unwell with Covid-19 
and she is currently suffering with further medical concerns. I appreciate this must be a 
difficult time for her and I wish her a speedy recovery. 
I consider the central issue of this complaint is whether Nationwide acted when Ms L failed 
to make the minimum payment on her credit card account in December 2021. 
Ive carefully considered what Ms L has told our service and by her own admission, she 
forgot to make the minimum payment. She said this was due to her being ill with Covid-19. 
Given the situation, I can understand she wouldve had other priorities at the time and why 
she forgot to make the payment. However I cant overlook the fact that the terms of the 
account sets out the minimum payment must be received by the date as set out in the 
statement and in this case it wasnt.
The investigator has already outlined the terms of the account so I wont repeat them again 
here. Having reviewed them, it makes it clear that in the event the minimum payment isnt 
paid, Nationwide can take a number of actions. In this case, theyve charged a late fee, 
charged interest, reported the missed payment to credit reference agencies (CRAs) and 
suspended the account. Although I understand they later decided to waive the late payment 
fee and interest as a gesture of goodwill given Ms L told them she was ill and they could see 
she usually managed her account well. 
I acknowledge Ms L is particularly unhappy about the adverse information recorded on her 
credit file. I must stress Nationwide are required to report fair and accurate information to 
CRAs. As outlined above, Ms L didnt make the minimum payment by the set deadline and it 
wasnt received until around two weeks later. On that basis, I consider Nationwide acted 
fairly and in line with the terms in reporting the same to the CRA so I wont be asking them to 
remove it. 
Ms L said she was unaware the payment was missed. Nationwide said they sent her a 
statement and a letter in December 2021. Ms L said she didnt read the statement and the 
letter wasnt received until the start of January 2022. She found the letter threatening in 
nature. Nationwide has provided a template of the letter that wouldve been sent. It outlined 
the account arrears, a payment is required immediately and explains what would happen 
should it not be paid, such as suspension of the account. Having read the letter, I dont find it 
to be threatening in nature. However I can appreciate Ms L wouldve been upset and 
surprised by receiving the same as she hadnt realised she had missed the payment. 
As a result of the missed payment, Nationwide suspended the account and for the reasons 
already explained above, they were entitled to do so. From my understanding due to the 
suspension, Ms Ls grocery order of essential items was at risk of being cancelled due to 
non-payment. This caused her worry but Im glad to hear she was able to make alternative 
arrangements for the order to be paid.  
Ms L also said she had arranged for a balance transfer to be paid into this account but it was 
delayed by Nationwide due to IT issues. She said due to the delay, the account remained 
suspended meaning she was unable to use it. 
Nationwide disputed IT issues impacted the receipt of this payment. They explained 
payments generally take up to two days to clear and because the payment fell over a bank 
holiday weekend it took three days to clear. Nationwide said the payment wasnt delayed by 
an IT issue and it was cleared on the next earliest day. Based on what Ive seen, theres 
nothing to suggest the payment was delayed so I cant say Nationwide acted unfairly. Upon 
receipt of the payment, the suspension was removed from the account and I find Nationwide 
acted fairly in doing so. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied Nationwide acted fairly and in line with the 
terms of the account when Ms L failed to make the required payment in December 2021 so I 
cant say theyve done anything wrong. I appreciate Ms L will be disappointed by my 
outcome but I hope she accepts my findings. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman