DRN-2589024
Complaint
Mrs H has complained that Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) provided her with an unaffordable 
loan. 
  
Background
L2G provided Mrs H with loans for £750 and £1,000.00 in April 2019 and November 2019. 
These loans had an APR of 1,013.2% and an 18-month term. This all meant the respective 
total amounts repayable of £3,085.56 and £4,114.08 were due to be repaid in 18 instalments 
of £171.42 and £228.56 respectively.
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that L2G unfairly provided 
these loans as proportionate checks would have shown they were unaffordable. L2G 
disagreed with our adjudicator and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Mrs Hs complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mrs Hs complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself
that Mrs H would be able to repay her loans in a sustainable way?
o If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
o If not, would those checks have shown that Mrs H wouldve been able to do 
so?
2. Did L2G act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs H would be 
able to repay her loans in a sustainable way?
L2G provided these loans while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required L2G to carry out a reasonable 
and proportionate assessment of Mrs Hs ability to make the repayments under these 
agreements. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so L2G had to think about whether
repaying the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mrs H. In practice this
meant that L2G had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt
cause Mrs H undue difficulty or adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for L2G to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mrs H. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were L2Gs checks reasonable and proportionate?
L2G says that it carried out an income and expenditure assessment with Mrs H prior to 
providing her with these loans. It also carried out credit checks. For loan 1, Mrs H declared 
that she was earning around £1,500.00 a month and had expenditure of £150.00 a month. 
For loan 1, Mrs H declared that she was earning around £1,300.00 a month and had 
expenditure of £0. 
L2G checks suggested her income was closer to £1,200.00 a month and her expenditure 
between £850 and £900 based what it saw on his credit file. This left her more than enough 
to cover the payments to these loans. 
Ive carefully considered what L2G has said. But L2G clearly wasnt confident in the income 
and expenditure information Mrs H provided such that it adjusted the figures. And its 
adjustments not capturing all of Mrs Hs expenditure as well as the repayments, in any event, taking up most of the calculated disposable income lead me to think that L2G needed 
to take steps to verify Mrs Hs actual monthly expenditure. 
As I cant see that this L2G did do this, I dont think that the checks it carried out before 
providing Mrs H with her loans were reasonable and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to L2G that Mrs H
would have been unable to repay this loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before these loans were 
provided, I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is 
more likely than not that a proportionate check would have told L2G that Mrs H would have 
been unable to sustainably repay this loan.
L2G was required to establish whether Mrs H could make her loan repayments without 
experiencing significant adverse consequences  not just whether the loan payments were 
technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ive carefully considered the information provided. Having done so, its clear Mrs Hs credit 
commitments were more extensive than even L2G thought. And her income was being used 
to meet commitments to existing creditors. So I think she was always unlikely to be able to 
make the payments she was being asked to commit to without borrowing further or suffering 
significant adverse consequences.
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would
more likely than not have demonstrated that Mrs H would not have been able to make the
repayments to these loans without borrowing further and/or suffering undue difficulty. And, in 
these circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than 
not have alerted L2G to the fact that Mrs H was in no sort of position to make the payments 
on these loans without suffering significant adverse consequences.
Did L2G act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs H in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. And having done so, Ive not seen anything 
to suggest that L2G acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs H in some other way. So I 
dont think L2G acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs H in some other way.
Did Mrs H lose out as a result of L2G unfairly providing her with these loans?
As Mrs H paid and is being expected to pay a high amount of interest and charges on loans 
that she shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of 
what L2G did wrong.
So I think that L2G needs to put things right.  
Fair compensation  what L2G needs to do to put things right for Mrs H
Having thought about everything, I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs Hs complaint for L2G to put things right by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Mrs H paid on loan 1;
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan 2 from the outset. The 
payments made should be deducted from the new starting balance  the 
£1,000.00 originally lent. L2G should treat any payments made should the new starting balance be cleared as overpayments. And any overpayments should be 
refunded to Mrs H;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded amounts from the date 
they were made by Mrs H to the date of settlement;
removing any adverse information recorded on Mrs Hs credit file as a result of 
these loans.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must give  
Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Hs complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited needs 
to put things right in the way set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman