DRN-1569404
The complaint
Miss S complains that Gain Credit LLC, trading as Lending Stream, lent irresponsibly to her. 
What happened
Between June 2019 and August 2019, Miss S borrowed three loans from Lending Stream. 
The borrowing history is set out below: 
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 24/06/2019 outstanding 6 200 £68.64
2 06/07/2019 outstanding 6 200 £132.09
3 18/08/2019 outstanding 6 100 £167.81
 
In her complaint to this service, Miss S said that she had bad credit history and shouldnt 
have been given the loans. She also said she was in a debt management plan. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld.  She thought the checks 
Lending Stream had undertaken were proportionate and Miss Ss financial trouble wouldnt 
have been apparent from those checks. 
Miss S disagreed with that view. She said she shouldnt have been provided with any further 
borrowing when she was already behind with other debts and in a debt management plan. 
As Miss S disagreed with our adjudicators view, the matter has been passed to me to make 
a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss S could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether Miss S could sustainably repay the loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ss complaint.
As I said above, early in the lending relationship, I cant say it would have been proportionate 
for Lending Stream to undertake a full review of Miss Ss circumstances. Even so, it should 
still take account of the information Miss S provided and that which it obtained of its own 
volition before deciding whether to lend. 
There was some confusion within the papers that Lending Stream sent to us. Its electronic 
information suggested that it did not undertake a credit check when Miss S applied to it. 
However, its written correspondence to Miss Ss representative suggested it had partly relied 
upon information from a credit reference agency. 
I asked our adjudicator to clarify with Lending Stream whether it had undertaken a credit 
check. I regret to say that Lending Stream did not respond to our adjudicators repeated 
correspondence requesting clarification about this. On balance and taking account of the 
electronic evidence, it seems to me that its most likely Lending Stream did not undertake 
those credit checks. In considering each loan below, Ive looked at whether the information 
Lending Stream did obtain was enough. 
For loan 1, as this was the first loan Miss S had borrowed from Lending Stream, I think it 
was entitled to rely on the information Miss S gave it. I can see she declared her income to 
be £1,400 per month and that she lived at home with her parents. Her expenditure was 
broken down as being £50 for food, £50 for transport, £300 on credit expenses and £100 on 
other payments. Altogether, she declared her monthly outgoings to be £500. 
I think the outgoings Miss S declared were probably quite low. I can see that Lending Stream 
increased those figures when it was assessing affordability and said her expenditure was more likely to be in the region of £723 per month. I think that was probably a reasonable 
adjustment, given that Miss S said she was living with her parents. Based on the information 
provided, I dont think Lending Stream had reason to think that Miss S would have been in 
financial trouble. So I think the checks into her income and expenditure were probably 
proportionate. Following those checks, I can see how Lending Stream reasonably concluded 
that Miss S could sustainably repay loan 1. 
Miss S applied for loan 2 shortly after she applied for loan 1. I can see that at this stage, she 
told Lending Stream that her income had decreased along with her expenditure. Lending 
Stream made further adjustments to her expenditure when it was calculating affordability. 
And based upon what it knew about her personal circumstances, I think those adjustments 
were reasonable. I dont think Lending Stream should have been on notice that Miss S had 
financial problems. I can see how it reasonably concluded that loan 2 was sustainably 
affordable. 
When Miss S applied for loan 3, the situation was similar, other than her income was stated 
to have increased again. Lending Stream again made further adjustments to her 
expenditure, which appear again to have been reasonable in light of what it knew about her 
circumstances. At this stage, I cant say it would have been proportionate to have 
undertaken a full review of her circumstances. 
Ive thought carefully about what Miss S told us about her financial difficulties. And I 
appreciate what she said about being in a debt management plan. But at this stage, Lending 
Stream would have only reasonably known about the debt management plan if Miss S had 
disclosed that to Lending Stream. Looking at the infancy of the lending relationship and 
comparing the amounts borrowed to Miss Ss income and expenditure, I dont think it would 
have been proportionate at that stage for Lending Stream to undertake a detailed credit 
check or a full review of her circumstances. 
I appreciate Miss S feels strongly that these loans shouldnt have been agreed. Im sorry to 
disappoint her, but Im afraid I havent upheld this complaint.
Miss S has told us she is now suffering from some health problems and I note there is a 
balance outstanding in respect of these loans. If a repayment plan is arranged, I remind 
Lending Stream of its obligation to treat Miss S fairly. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Gain Credit LLC, trading as Lending Stream. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman