DRN-3672619
The complaint
Mr J complains about Atlanta Insurance Intermediaries Limited referring him to an accident
management company (AMC) for credit hire and repair when he called to report an accident.
Mr J is represented on this complaint. For ease of reading Ive referred to Mr J throughout.
What happened
Mr Js motorhome was hit by a third party when he and his family were on their way to go on
holiday. Because of the accident they were no longer able to continue with their trip and Mr J
called Atlanta to report the accident.
As Mr J didnt think he was at fault for the accident Atlanta referred him to an AMC to
arrange the repairs to his motorhome on a credit hire and repair basis. Unfortunately, there
has been several issues with the AMC handling the claim. Because of this Mr J has
complained to Atlanta. Hes said he thought he was claiming on his motor insurance policy
and had even incorrectly called his insurer when he had difficulty with the AMC.
Atlanta responded to Mr Js complaint and explained that as the issues were with the AMC
then Mr J would need to raise his concerns with them. As Mr J wasnt happy with Atlantas
response the complaint has been referred here.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and found that Atlanta has been unable to provide
a copy of the call when it referred Mr J to the AMC. Because of this he said that Atlanta
hadnt shown that it did what it should have when referring Mr J. Our Investigator asked
Atlanta to cover the travel costs he incurred when the AMC took the hire car back and also
for items damaged in the accident. He also recommended Atlanta compensate Mr J £150 for
distress and inconvenience caused by the poor referral.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 4 April 2023 where I said:
As Mr Js insurance broker, Atlanta was obliged to provide Mr J with information that was
clear, fair and not misleading, in line with its obligations under Principle 7 of the FCA
Handbook: Communications with clients (see PRIN 2.1R The Principles) and ICOBS 2.2.2R
(Clear, fair and not misleading rule). In the circumstances of this case, this means that when
Mr J contacted Atlanta to tell it about his non-fault claim for damage to his motorhome,
Atlanta ought to have provided him with clear information about his options, so he could
decide how best to proceed with getting his motorhome repaired.
Atlanta hasnt provided a copy of the call or a guidance document to show what was
discussed or should have been discussed when it referred Mr J to the AMC. Mr Js explained
they werent aware theyd been referred to an AMC and had thought they were claiming on
their motorhome insurance policy. Im therefore not satisfied Atlanta did what it was
supposed to during the call. Ive therefore looked at the impact this has had on Mr J.
Mr J has listed several issues with the AMC. These include, but arent limited to, refusing to
provide a hire car as he has another car, losing his motorhome and having items stolen from
the motorhome. There are other issues Mr J has raised but I havent listed them all here.
This is because I can only look at the actions of Atlanta, not the AMC, in this decision. And
while I understand, in hindsight given all the issues raised, Mr J said he wouldnt have used
the AMC Im not persuaded that is the case.
I say this because Mr J has explained the AMC initially refused to give him a like for like hire
vehicle as he had another car. Mr J explained that his other car isnt big enough for him and
his family and because of this he needed a bigger vehicle, which was eventually agreed to.
Ive also noted that Mr J only had a Class A courtesy car on his policy. So as Mr J has
explained he needed a bigger like for like vehicle and had to push this point with the AMC for
them to provide him with an equivalent vehicle, which was suitable for his needs. I think its
likely if Atlanta had explained the differences between claiming on his policy and using the
AMC, he would still have used the AMC as he needed a like for like vehicle, as Mr J
explained to the AMC.
However, Ive also noticed that due to the poor referral, Mr J thought he was using his own
insurance policy. And when he had issues with the AMC, he also said he called his insurer
as he thought he was claiming through his insurer. So, Im satisfied that while Mr J would still
have used the AMC, the poor referral has caused him unnecessary distress and
inconvenience as he wasnt aware he wasnt claiming on his motor insurance policy. To
compensate him for this Atlanta should pay Mr J £150 compensation for the distress and
inconvenience.
Ive also noted Mr J has raised concerns about other losses, such as travel costs when he
didnt have a like for like vehicle and damage to personal belongings as well as the loss of
belongings in his motorhome. However, as Im satisfied, he would still have used the AMC,
then I think its likely he would still have had these losses. And as theyre the responsibility of
the AMC its not something I can hold Atlanta responsible for in this decision.
Atlanta responded to my provisional decision and explained it had located the call with Mr J 
but he was just transferred to the claims line. It said it was unable to obtain a copy of this call 
and agreed to the outcome in my provisional decision. 
Mr J responded and did not agree. He said if the options had been made clear to him he 
would have used the Class A courtesy car. He said a quick online search on the AMC would 
have shown reviews which would confirm his reasons for not using them. Mr J also said 
there was no benefit in using the AMC. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Js comments, but theyve not persuaded me to change my decision. I 
say this because while I appreciate, given the issues with the AMC and the poor online 
reviews, Mr J now says he wouldnt have used them, hed previously told us that he was 
unable to use his other car as it was too small, and therefore needed a bigger car for his 
family. Im therefore not persuaded he would have used the Class A courtesy car if given the 
option, as explained above and in my provisional decision. And so while Im satisfied Atlanta 
didnt explain things as it should have and do empathise with Mr Js experience with the 
AMC, Im not going to depart from the outcome reached in my provisional decision.  My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint in part. I require Atlanta Insurance Intermediaries Limited to pay Mr J 
£150 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman