DRN-2796490
The complaint
Mr L and Miss M say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr L and Miss M took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2005. Mr L and Miss M paid for the 
PPI with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered them in case 
either one or both of them were off work sick or lost their job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr L and Miss M disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr L and Miss Ms case. 
While I know this will come as a disappointment for Mr L and Miss M, I have not found their 
PPI policy to have been mis-sold  Ill explain why.
I understand Mr L and Miss M dont remember agreeing to PPI, and I think thats very much 
understandable given that buying insurance is not often memorable and this sale was many 
years ago. But I can see that at the time, they submitted an application specifically for PPI, 
separately to applying for the mortgage itself  the policy was not part and parcel of the 
lending. The form was clear about what it was for and I think they would have understood it 
was an application for PPI. The form was signed  again, separately to signing for the 
lending. And they set up a separate direct debit specifically to pay for PPI. Ive not seen any 
wider problems with Lloyds sales process from the time, nor anything which shows that Mr L 
or Miss M were misled into buying PPI here. So I think that Lloyds made Mr L and Miss M 
aware they had a choice about buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it at the time  
though I can understand if they no longer recall doing so after so long.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr L and Miss M, so it had to check it was right for them. 
And based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it 
looks like Mr L and Miss M were eligible for the cover and werent affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations. The policy would have paid out on top of their work benefits and 
offered them more comprehensive cover, such as for when their work benefits reduced to 
just a fraction of their normal pay. And they didnt have any other significant savings or 
protection in place. Its worth bearing in mind that if Mr L and Miss M fell behind on their 
mortgage, they couldve lost their home. So the PPI couldve really been useful for them in 
protecting their home and providing some peace of mind.
Its possible that the information Lloyds gave Mr L and Miss M about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. Here, it looks like Mr L and Miss M chose to take out PPI, which 
indicates they wanted this type of cover. As I explained above, Mr L and Miss M werent 
affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful 
for them in case something went wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how 
much it would pay out in a claim. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr L 
and Miss M could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better 
information was likely to have put them off taking out the cover.
Lastly, Mr L and Miss M have expressed concerns about the mortgage product itself and the 
way it was administered. In this decision, Ive only considered the sale of the PPI policy, 
rather than any issues to do with the mortgage itself. But Mr L and Miss M may be able to 
make a separate complaint to Lloyds about the mortgage, and may be able to ask our 
service for help with that as a separate case.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr L and Miss Ms complaint about the 
sale of this particular PPI policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman