DRN-3386207
The complaint
Mr F complains that Loans 2 Go Limited lent him money on a high interest loan which he 
couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Loans 2 Go provided Mr F with a loan of £250 on 23 December 2019, repayable over
18 months at the rate of £57 a month. He settled the loan on 10 March 2020.
When Mr F applied for the loan, Loans 2 Go carried out a credit check, and independently
verified his income. It verified this at £2,191 per month. It assessed his monthly expenditure
was around £1,894 including credit commitments. Even adding a 10% buffer to that it
believed the loan repayments of £57 were affordable.
Mr F supplied bank statements from three months before the loan up to a month after it.
On review by our adjudicator, she didnt think that Loans 2 Go had needed to carry out
further checks. On the information provided when the loan was applied for she said the loan
appeared to be affordable and Loans 2 Go had acted reasonably.
Mr F didnt agree, pointing out the high number of payday loans in his credit record.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that in light of Mr Fs credit record I didnt think that 
Loans 2 Go had made a fair lending decision.
Both parties accepted my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings were as follows:
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this
complaint are:
Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr F
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr F would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Loans 2 Go to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of Mr Fs ability to make the repayments under this agreement.
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Loans 2 Go had to think about whether
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr F undue difficulty or
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of it
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr F.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Looking at Mr Fs credit record, I would observe that he had for some time been relying on
payday loans and high cost credit. At the time of applying for the loan he had four payday
loan accounts open, all of which he had applied for in the four months prior to this loan
application. In addition, he had numerous such accounts on his record. His bank account
had only occasionally been overdrawn. But Ive noted that he had had regular funding from
loans to keep it in credit.
In addition to the short term loans, he had a loan for which £2,763 was outstanding, and
another loan with £864 outstanding. He had three credit cards, two of which were over their
limits of respectively £150 and £250. He had a third credit card which had reached its limit of
£850. In the affordability assessment and application a figure of £300 was put for his credit
commitments. Looking at the credit report, I think it should have been around double that. Its
difficult to put an accurate figure on it, as I dont know how much Mr F was paying towards
his credit cards and the short term nature of the loans makes it difficult to assess when each
loan was to be repaid. But I think it likely that his credit commitments amounted to around
29% of his income which I think is high.
I understand that the loan was for a relatively small amount, although it was at a high interest
rate. Nevertheless, I bear in mind the discrepancy between the amount recorded for credit
payments on his application and affordability assessment and that shown in the credit report,
the very high number of payday and high cost loans, and the fact that Mr F had exceeded or
reached his credit limit on three credit cards. Whilst Loans 2 Go has shown that he appeared
to have a (small) disposable income, its not just the pounds and pence affordability I take
account of. I think taking those factors into account that the loan was likely to beunsustainable.
I think that Loans 2 Go carried out proportionate checks. But I dont think it reacted
appropriately to what those checks showed. So I dont think it made a fair lending decision.
As both parties have accepted my provisional findings those findings are now final and form 
part of this final decision.
Putting things right
Mr F has had the benefit of the loan, so its fair that he should have paid back the capital. But
I think that Loans 2 Go should repay the interest and nay other charges. It should:
refund all interest and charges Mr F paid on the loan.
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date(s)
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement.*
remove any negative information if appropriate about the loan from Mr Fs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday to take off tax from this interest. It must give
Mr F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Loans 2 Go Limited to provide the remedy set out under 
Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman