DRN-2849165
The complaint
Miss J complains that Equifax Limited incorrectly handled her personal data by merging it 
with details of a third party on her credit file. She wants compensation.
What happened
The facts of this complaint arent in dispute and are well-known to the parties. So Ill just 
summarise them.
Errors with Equifax data matching system led to details of a third party being merged with 
Miss Js credit record. Miss J feels this had an adverse impact on her credit record and led to 
her having to borrow at high interest rates.
Equifax acknowledged its errors and apologised to Miss J. It offered Miss J £450 
compensation. This included £100 for electoral roll information not being recorded at a 
previous address. Our investigator thought this was fair and reasonable.
Miss J didnt agree and thought that the level of compensation should be higher. She 
mentioned that the third party had received a higher offer. As its not been possible to 
resolve this complaint an ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see why Miss J feels so strongly about this issue. And I can understand why she thinks 
that her credit record has been adversely affected.
Miss Js complaint consists of several individual elements. These relate to being incorrectly 
financially associated with a third party with a poor credit history. And included inaccurate 
entries about late payments and open credit being attributed to Miss J. As well as the failure 
to record her full electoral roll details.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Equifax has admitted that it made errors and provided an explanation as to how they 
occurred. So Ill concentrate on the issue of what I think is a fair and reasonable level of 
compensation. 
Whilst Miss J has provided a breakdown of several separate issues, thats not the way we 
usually approach awards. Unless a specific sum can be identified as a consequential loss, 
wed usually consider the likely overall effect of the errors. And I stress that the aim is to 
compensate the consumer  not penalise the business.
The incorrect recording of late payments and open credit agreements; financial associations 
and the subsequent need for a notice of disassociation, all arise from the same mistake. The 
merging of Miss Js information with that of a third party. 
Whilst the consequences of these errors cant be precisely calculated in financial terms, its 
highly probable they wouldve had a detrimental impact on Miss Js credit record. And its not 
in doubt that this wouldve added to the distress she experienced.
Miss J has mentioned the impact - both past, present and future - that the errors might have. 
Im not able to make awards for what might happen. If and when a consequential loss which 
can be directly attributed to these errors occurs it could be dealt with at that time. And whilst 
Miss J took out loans whilst her credit file was affected  Equifax was not responsible for the 
decision to take out those loans. 
Im not aware of the complete circumstances relating to the seemingly larger offer made to 
the third party who was affected. That is not a matter for me and remains between that 
individual and Equifax. I can only determine if the offer Equifax made to Miss J is fair and 
reasonable. Not if someone else was possibly made a more generous offer.
In summary, I find that Equifax offer was fair and reasonable. And as Im not upholding this 
complaint, I shant ask it to increase that offer. Its broadly in line with the level of 
compensation that Id have suggested had it not already been made.
If, on reflection, Miss J now wishes to accept it, she needs to get in touch with Equifax for 
arrangements to be made for payment. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman