DRN-3917879
The complaint
Ms D complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) unfairly closed her 
credit card and passed it to another business. 
What happened
Ms D contacted Amex in June 2021 to advise she was experiencing financial difficulties. Ms 
D explained she was hoping to arrange a mortgage within the next six to eight weeks and 
asked for some time to make a payment to clear the balance. 
Amex says it asked Ms D to complete an income and expenditure assessment to see what 
kind of assistance it could provide. But Amex says Ms D didnt provide the requested 
information. That meant interest and charges continued to accrue. Amex noted Ms Ds 
circumstances and waited for the payment to be made in line with the timescale it was given. 
But the payment wasnt made within the previously noted six to eight weeks so Amex says it 
took the decision to end the agreement and passed the account to a third party firm of debt 
collectors. 
Ms D has explained that negative information recorded on her credit file meant she was 
unable to secure a new mortgage. As a result, Ms D has explained she had to borrow funds 
from a family member in December 2021 and brought the account up to date. 
Ms D complained and Amex sent her a final response. Amex said the account hadnt been 
repaid in line with the timescale Ms D gave in June 2021 and was closed in line with the 
terms and conditions. Amex didnt agree it had acted unfairly by closing the account or 
passing it to a debt collector. 
An investigator at this service looked at Ms Ds complaint. They thought Amex had dealt with 
it fairly and didnt ask it to take further action. Ms D asked to appeal and said shed given 
Amex assurances she would be able to pay the balance back when the mortgage was 
arranged. Ms D explained she thought Amex had acted unfairly by moving to close her 
account instead of giving her more time. Ms D said that the information Amex recorded had 
led to her mortgage application being declined. As Ms D asked to appeal, her complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Ms D is upset and that she feels it was Amexs actions that led to her 
mortgage application being declined. Ive looked at all the available information and listened 
to Ms Ds calls with Amex to see how it treated her during a time of financial difficulty. 
During Ms Ds first call with Amex she advised she was looking to get a new mortgage within 
the following six to eight weeks. The call handler offered to complete an income and 
expenditure assessment over the phone to look at Ms Ds circumstances. Towards the end 
of the call, Ms D advised shed call back the following week to go through the income and 
expenditure assessment. The call handler also said the account would be closed if no 
payments were received in the following three months. 
In the weeks that followed Amex sent Ms D text messages asking her to contact it to discuss 
the account. At the beginning of August 2021 Amex sent a final demand to Ms D and it 
closed the account at the end of the month. I understand Ms D felt the action was contrary to 
the request for help shed made, but during the call she had in June 2021 Ms D agreed to 
discuss an income and expenditure assessment and potential options for her account. But 
theres no call notes or recordings that show Ms D got back in touch with Amex in the six to 
eight week timescale given. 
Im sorry to disappoint Ms D as I understand she was in the process of making other 
arrangements. But Amex is obliged to report accurate information about her account to the 
credit reference agencies. Amex was obliged to treat Ms D positively and sympathetically 
and I can see it assigned her account to its financial difficulties team. It also asked for Ms D 
to call it back and go through an income and expenditure assessment to see whether 
tailored help could be offered. Ms Ds told us she didnt receive income and expenditure 
forms from Amex. But I note it offered to complete the process over the phone and I think its 
fair to say Ms D couldve called it and given the details if the forms werent received. Im 
satisfied Amex explained it needed budget information from Ms D in order to assess her 
circumstances and what assistance it could provide. Amex went on to send text messages 
and account statements as well as collections correspondence to Ms D during this period. 
Ultimately the account wasnt repaid within the timescale Ms D gave and arrears increased. 
The account terms allow Amex to close an account thats behind and Im satisfied in the 
absence of a payment or other arrangements it was reasonable for it to take that step at the 
end of August 2021. I understand my decision will feel harsh to Ms D, but I think Amexs 
decision to close her account and record information on her credit file was reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Ms Ds account was passed to a debt collector by Amex. Again, I understand why Ms D is 
unhappy with this approach, but Im satisfied Amex acted in line with its account terms and 
its decision to refer the account on to a third party to collect was reasonable. 
Im sorry to disappoint Ms D but I havent been persuaded to uphold her complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ds complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman