DRN-2037892
The complaint
Mr G has complained about the compensation which NRAM Limited has offered for the mis-
sale to him of a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Mr G thinks the offer is too low.
Background
I issued my provisional decision on 25 June 2020. My provisional decision forms part of this 
final decision.
My provisional decision set out the background to this complaint. It explained why I thought 
Mr Gs complaint should be upheld
Neither Mr G nor NRAM responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said in my provisional decision that, as NRAM has already offered Mr G compensation for 
the mis-sale of the PPI policy to him, I wouldnt be looking at how the policy came to be sold. 
I only looked at whether NRAM had now offered Mr G fair compensation.
Where a business mis-sells a PPI policy to a consumer, I said we would normally expect it to 
put that consumer in the position they would have been in had the policy never been sold to 
them. So, in a regular premium PPI sale such as this one, we would expect the business 
which sold the policy to refund all the premiums the consumer has paid, together with 8% 
simple interest on each of these - for the period they have been wrongly deprived of this 
money.
In Mr Gs case, the insurer of his policy has already refunded some of the premiums which 
he paid. This totalled £971.04, made up of 56 premium payments at £17.34 each. So I said I 
didnt think NRAM should be required to make a further refund of these premiums. But it 
didnt appear as if the insurer included 8% simple interest on these premiums. And in the 
latest offer of compensation which NRAM has made, it hasnt included 8% interest in respect 
of these premiums either. So, combining NRAMs current offer with the premium refund Mr G 
has already received from the insurer, I didnt think that Mr G would receive enough to put 
him back in the position he would have been had NRAM not mis-sold the policy to him.
I thought that it was NRAMs responsibility to ensure that Mr G was fully compensated for 
this mis-sale. So I didnt think that its offer was large enough. And I said it followed from this 
that I was intending to uphold Mr Gs complaint about the amount of compensation hed 
been offered by NRAM.
As neither party has provided further information or comment following my provisional 
decision, I see no reason to change the conclusions I reached in it. So I still think Mr Gs 
complaint should be upheld because NRAMs offer of compensation to him is too low.
Putting things right
NRAM needs to put Mr G in the position he would have been if he hadnt been mis-sold this 
PPI policy. So NRAM should:
Work out and refund the premiums which Mr G had paid for his policy which have not 
already been refunded by the insurer.
Work out and pay Mr G simple interest at 8% on the above premiums, for the period from 
when they were paid to when NRAM pays Mr G his revised settlement.
Work out and pay Mr G simple interest at 8% on the premiums which the insurer has 
already refunded to Mr G, for the period from when Mr G paid them to when the insurer 
refunded them.
NRAM can deduct from the above any successful claims Mr G made on his policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given Im upholding this complaint against NRAM Ltd. I direct NRAM Ltd 
to put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2020.
 
Simon Furse
Ombudsman