DRN-2727518
The complaint
Mr B complains about Fairmead Insurance Limited trading as Legal and General (Legal and 
General) for its decision to decline his claim. He is also concerned about he clarity of the 
literature he received and thinks he was offered an inappropriate policy. He wants Legal and 
General to pay out his claim and make its literature clearer. 
What happened
Mr B purchased his home insurance from Legal and General via a broker. Policy documents, 
including the Insurance Produce Information Document, were sent to him. 
Some time later, Mr B suffered a theft at his home and items including a pedal cycle and a 
quad bike buggy were stolen from an outbuilding at his home.
Mr B submitted a claim to Legal and General.
Legal and General requested evidence of purchase of the pedal cycle but referred the claim 
for the quad bike buggy to Legal and Generals technical team.
That team declined this part of the claim. It directed Mr Bs attention to wording in the policy 
terms and conditions which set out that cover extended to household goods and personal 
belongings owned by the policy holder:
but excluding:

Vehicles and other means of transport that are mechanically propelled or assisted, 
whether licensed for road use or not, or their parts or accessories (other than 
domestic gardening equipment, mobility carriages electric wheelchairs and 
electrically assisted pedal cycles that are not required to be licensed in used on a 
public road).
Caravans, trailers, aircraft, drones, hovercraft, boats or their parts or accessories.

Mr B was not happy with this and complained. His complaint was not upheld. 
He contacted us and one of our investigators has looked into his complaint. Mr B explained 
that the quad bike buggy was used by his young child and he considered it a toy. He 
therefore felt this should be covered. 
Initially the investigator considered that it would not be fair to categorise a childs quad bike 
toy as a vehicle. She therefore recommended that this part of the complaint be upheld. She 
considered that the wording of the insurance product information document was sufficiently 
clear. 
Legal and General then provided further information on the quad bike, arguing that it was a 
vehicle and was not primarily a toy, even if it was used by a child. 
In light of this information, the investigator revised her view and did not recommend any part 
of the complaint be upheld. 
Mr B did not accept this view and asked for an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Bs upset and concern in this matter. It must have been very upsetting, after 
suffering the theft, to then learn that the quad bike which made up the majority of his claim 
would not be covered. 
He has indicated that he feels he was mis-sold the policy as it was not appropriate for his 
needs. This is because the cover did not extend to the quad bike. He feels that the 
information document is misleading because it details what is covered, but does not detail 
the exclusions to cover, which are found in the policy booklet instead. 
The policy was sold to Mr B by his broker, so I will not look at the circumstances of was said 
during the sale within this complaint. Mr B was provided with documentation including the 
product information document, and also the detailed terms and conditions. 
Mr B has indicated that he thinks that the policy information document is inadequate as it 
does not make clear the exclusions which apply and focuses on the areas of cover offered. 
I have reviewed the information document and agree with the investigators conclusion that it 
is sufficient. It does not cover every clause of the policy, but details the key areas of cover 
for this general product. The information is broken down into headings including what is 
insured, what is not insured, where is cover provided, what are my obligations, and how 
to cancel the contract.
Under the section Where am I covered? Buildings and Contents cover (where chosen) the 
information sheet sets out that cover is provided for contents within the home, and limited 
cover to some of your contents items within the boundaries of your homes, such as in your 
garden or garage.
I accept that this document is not comprehensive, but in my view it is clear about the scope 
of cover, and that there are some limitations on cover when items are not located within the 
home. 
These limitations and exclusions are then detailed in the policy booklet where a specific 
exclusion describes vehicles and mechanically propelled or assisted means of transport. 
The exclusion appears in the policy terms in several contexts, including the definition of 
contents, the definition of personal property and in relation to liability to third parties. 
The exclusion is clear that it intends to rule out vehicles or similar machines which may be 
used outside of the home and which may present risks to others as well as the insured. The 
exclusion then exempts items such as mobility aids and lawn mowers. 
I do not think this exclusion is unreasonable. It is a matter for businesses whether they wish 
to accept particular risks and in this case Legal and General was not willing to accept risks of 
this type. I have not seen evidence that the quad bike was specifically discussed at the time of policy sale and so cannot say that there was any reason to consider that the product may 
be unsuitable for Mr B.  
I have also reviewed the item listing for the quad bike buggy and I agree that this item is not 
designed exclusively for children, nor intended as a toy. It is relatively powerful, requires 
regular maintenance, has seat belts and can bear up to 180kg distributed over the two seats. 
I do not think that in any reasonable sense this item can be described primarily as a toy, and 
it is reasonable for Legal and General to categorise this item as a vehicle or means of 
transport. 
Consequently, I agree that Legal and Generals decision to apply this exclusion was 
reasonable and I do not uphold this part of Mr Bs complaint. I also do not consider that the 
documentation provided to Mr B was unclear or lacking in detail, so I do not uphold that part 
of his complaint.
I realised that this will be disappointing to Mr B, but I hope it explains clearly why I have 
reached this decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint and do not as Fairmead 
Insurance Limited trading as Legal and General to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman