DRN-1868478
 
The complaint
Ms G is unhappy with the way Zurich Insurance PLC (Zurich) dealt with her claim after her 
car was involved in an incident. 
What happened
On 27 February 2019 Ms Gs car was involved in an incident. Ms G contacted Zurich to 
report what had happened. She informed Zurich that a third party had hit her car, and drove 
off. She also explained there were several CCTV cameras which shouldve recorded what 
had happened. 
Ms Gs insurance policy explained the following in respect of uninsured drivers:
Uninsured drivers
If you make a claim following an accident and the driver of the other car is not insured you 
will not lose your no claims discount or have to pay any excess provided:
 we establish that the accident is not your fault;
 you give us the other vehicles make, model and registration number; and
 the name and address of the person driving the other vehicle.
Zurich appointed another business (TCG) to request CCTV of the area so that they could 
use this to identify the third party involved in the incident.  
On 6 June Zurich contacted TCG for an update. The call note for this recorded there is only 
one camera that points to the junction in question and it was determined that this camera 
belonged to the Council email requested for footage to be reviewed- request was made on 
21 March. TCG also advised that there would be a lengthy wait for this. 
On 10 July TCG told Zurich Unfortunately the council have advised us that the incident was 
not captured on their CCTV. 
Ms Gs claim was recorded as a fault claim as Zurich were unable to trace the third party 
involved in the incident. She also lost one life of her no claims discount, and had to pay the 
policy excess for the claim. 
Ms G complained to Zurich about the way the claim had been recorded, and the impact on 
her no claims discount, policy excess, and insurance premium. She was also unhappy with 
the delay in getting CCTV footage from the council, and said that if this had been requested 
sooner, the outcome of her claim may have been different. Ms G was also unhappy with a 
fine of £80 charged by the DVLA because of the delay in Zurich concluding her claim. Zurich responded to Ms Gs complaint on 24 March 2020. They offered £150 for the delay in 
contacting the council, but also explained that there was no CCTV footage available for the 
incident. Zurich also said that theyd compensate Ms G an additional £80 as a gesture of 
goodwill for her complaint about the DVLA fine. 
Ms G was unhappy with this response, and so referred her complaint to this service for 
investigation. The investigator found that Zurichs offer to settle the complaint was fair, and 
didnt recommend they do anything more. Ms G didnt agree with these findings saying that 
the claim had been poorly managed, and that there were several cameras at the junction 
where the incident had happened. As the complaint couldnt be resolved its been passed to 
me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence I agree with the investigators findings on this complaint for 
broadly the same reasons. I can understand this is likely to come as a disappointment to Ms 
G but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Fine with DVLA
Zurich offered to refund the cost of the £80 fine to Ms G, and Ms G hasnt made any further 
comments about their offer. I dont think Zurich need to do anything more to put things right 
in settlement of this complaint. 
CCTV
Ms G feels strongly that the delay in getting CCTV from the council meant that the third 
partys details could not be found. As the third party couldnt be traced, the incident was 
recorded as a fault claim, and Ms G insurance premium, policy excess, and no claims 
discount were affected. 
Its not disputed that Zurich couldve handled the claim more efficiently. There was a delay in 
chasing the council for the CCTV. Because of this delay, it wasnt until almost five months 
after reporting the claim that the council advised their CCTV hadnt recorded the incident. 
When we find that a business has done something wrong, we look at what wouldve 
happened had things progressed the way they shouldve. In this case, the council advised 
that there was only one camera covering the area which Ms G had described as the scene 
of the incident. Ms G strongly disputes this. She says that there were more cameras all 
pointing to the area where the incident had happened. Theres no way to say for certain 
whether there were more cameras that wouldve captured what happened. But I do think it 
was fair for Zurich to rely on what the council had told them. 
From the CCTV footage that was reviewed, the council advised that the incident was not 
captured on their CCTV. Although Zurich shouldve chased the council for an update, I cant 
say that on balance the outcome of the claim wouldve been any different if theyd done this 
sooner. The response from the council was that their camera had not recorded the incident. 
So the timing of reviewing this footage wouldnt have changed what was recorded. Ms G 
would still have been told that there wasnt enough evidence to identify the third party. Because of this, the impact on her policy excess, and no claims discount wouldve been the 
same as the position shes in now. 
But I do recognise that the delay wouldve caused Ms G undue stress and frustration. If 
shed been told sooner that the CCTV found by the council hadnt captured the incident, the 
outcome of her claim wouldve been the same, but it wouldve avoided the stress of not 
knowing what was happening. I think its fair that Zurich pay Ms G compensation in 
recognition of the upset caused to her because of their delay in chasing the council for a 
response on the CCTV. 
Zurich offered £150 in recognition of how they couldve handled things better, and the impact 
on Ms G. I think this amount is fair compensation in the circumstances.
Ms G says that her insurance premium has increased because of the way her claim has 
been recorded. The cost of an insurance premium can vary on renewal, depending on 
several factors. Its often the case where the recording of an incident- fault or non-fault- can 
impact on the cost. So I dont think it would be reasonable to say that Zurich should refund 
Ms G for the increased cost of her insurance premium following the incident. 
In line with Ms Gs insurance policy, as the third party couldnt be traced, Ms G had to pay 
her policy excess, and lost one life of her no claims discount. Although I can appreciate Ms 
Gs disappointment with this, Zurich acted fairly, and in line with Ms Gs insurance policy in 
applying these terms. So I dont think they need to compensate for the financial impact of 
this. Zurich have advised that Ms G does still have nine years no claims protection.  
My final decision
Zurich Insurance PLC have already made an offer to pay Ms G £230, and I think this offer is 
fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Zurich Insurance PLC should pay Ms G £230. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2020.
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman