DRN-4044115
The complaint
Mrs A has complained that Financial Administration Services Limited (Financial 
Administration) accessed her account without authorisation and changed her title. 
Background
Mrs A holds an investment account with Financial Administration. Earlier this year she 
contacted it to let it know that she had legally changed her name and title following her 
gender transition. She asked that her account information be updated to reflect this. 
Financial Administration correctly updated Mrs As title and name change as requested and 
sent a letter to her to confirm the change had been completed. Unfortunately following this 
Mrs As title was incorrectly changed back to the previous title she had used. Following this 
Mrs A received two letters in the post over two days, addressed incorrectly and in a way Mrs 
A found particularly distressing. 
Mrs A contacted Financial Administration to complain. It accepted that an error had been 
made, apologised, corrected Mrs As title on her account and offered her £150 compensation 
for the upset the error had caused. 
Mrs A didnt accept Financial Administrations offer. In essence she remained concerned that 
there was no error and that the act of changing her title back was linked to transphobia. In 
addition, she believed that when her account was accessed to change her title back, it was a 
breach of GDPR. She also didnt think £150 was reflective of the upset and distress caused 
when she received the incorrectly addressed letters. She asked that Financial Administration 
provide her with a single point of contact so she has assurances errors linked to her gender 
identity might be minimised going forward. 
As Mrs A was unhappy with Financial Administrations response she brought her complaint 
to our service. One of our investigators looked into Mrs As complaint. He said that the two 
letters sent to Mrs A with the incorrect title caused her considerable distress. He 
recommended Financial Administration increase the level of compensation it offered from 
£150 to £350. He said the business had confirmed that it wasnt possible to provide Mrs A 
with a single point of contact going forward and that this wasnt something he could compel it 
to do.
Financial Administration agreed with the investigators view, but Mrs A didnt. She said that 
she still didnt accept the title change was due to a legitimate error and that her account had 
likely be accessed incorrectly. She also didnt think the increase in compensation was 
sufficient for the impact the letters had had on her or her relationship with the business. She 
asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint and so its been passed to me for 
consideration.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the findings of our investigator and for much the same reasons. 
I know this will upset Mrs A, so I want to explain why below. 
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint very briefly, in far less detail than has 
been provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think is the heart of the matter here: what is fair and reasonable for 
Financial Administration to do to put things right for Mrs A. 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied 
I dont need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I 
think is a fair outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature 
of our service as a free alternative to the courts. 
I dont doubt the distress Mrs A experienced when she received the incorrectly addressed 
letters from Financial Administration earlier this year. And I can fully appreciate why she 
would be concerned that the reason it happened was linked to transphobia as opposed to 
human error. I have considered her concerns and have reviewed the information provided by 
the business very carefully.
Having done so I am satisfied that the reasons Mrs As title was incorrectly changed after it 
had been properly updated, was down to human error. Financial Administration has 
confirmed it spoke to the person who changed Mrs As name initially and that an error was 
made following that process when the account was double checked to make sure the 
changes had been properly applied. As soon as the issue was flagged the title was corrected 
and, as far as Im aware, the issue has not occurred since then. 
I appreciate Mrs A has concerns here at the change was mindful or deliberate. But Ive not 
seen anything that indicates that was the case. And without anything additional to consider I 
have nothing to show that the explanation provided by Financial Administration isnt genuine. 
Therefore, having listened to everything Mrs A has said on this point and considered it at 
length, I dont think theres sufficient evidence for me to say the change of title was linked to 
anything malicious or inappropriate in regard to how or why Mrs As account was accessed 
or how the title was changed. 
Mrs A also requested a single point of contact with Financial Administration and suggested 
her account could be moved to its wealth management division where account holders 
have individual account managers. Financial Administration has explained that Mrs As 
account doesnt meet the criteria for such a move and even if it did, she would still likely 
speak to different people, as managers arent the only staff members to contact account 
holders. 
I cant force Financial Administration to move Mrs As account to its wealth management 
division. And based on what the business has said I dont think it would provide Mrs A with 
the assurance she wanted it to. However, I am hopeful, given that the information on Mrs As 
account has remained correct since the issue earlier this year, that similar mistakes will not 
occur in the future. 
 Mrs A has said that £350 doesnt reflect the level of upset she was caused by her account 
information being incorrectly changed. She remains concerned that her information had 
been breached and it was no longer safe for her to contact the business if she needed to. 
Compensation amounts are extremely subjective and its important I consider not only the 
strength of Mrs As feelings, but also the length of time it took the business to respond to the issue and what that response was.  
In this instance I think Financial Administration responded appropriately in that the issue was 
immediately fixed, and the cause was down to an individual human error and not something 
that is likely to happen again. 
I do agree that the initial offer of £150 by Financial Administration was too low, but I agree 
the £350 suggested by our investigator is reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Putting things right
Financial Administration Services Limited should pay Mrs A £350 in recognition of the 
distress caused.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I am upholding Mrs As complaint against Financial 
Administrations Services Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman