DRN-3271240
The complaint
For many years Mr T and Mrs T have held a packaged bank account, called a Platinum 
account, with Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds). 
The Platinum account offers Lloyds customers several potential benefits, such as travel 
insurance, for which Lloyds usually charges a monthly fee. For several years, customers 
could avoid paying the monthly fees if they met certain banking conditions. Lloyds called this 
arrangement a fee-waiver scheme. Lloyds withdrew this scheme in 2021.
Mr T and Mrs T usually qualified for the fee-waiver and have complained that Lloyds treated 
them unfairly when it withdrew the scheme. They had just paid an additional premium to 
increase the scope of their travel insurance for twelve months and they think that Lloyds 
should allow them to keep the policy without paying the monthly fees for the Platinum 
account. 
What happened
In June 2021, Lloyds wrote to Mr T and Mrs T to say the fee-waiver scheme would end in 
September 2021 and if they wanted to keep the Platinum account they would have to pay 
the monthly fees from then on. After further discussion, Lloyds also told Mr T and Mrs T that 
despite the additional premium they had paid for travel insurance, the policy would not cover 
them if they didnt pay the monthly fees for the Platinum account. 
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr T and Mrs Ts complaint and thought that 
Lloyds had acted reasonably. Mr T and Mrs T didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and 
asked for an ombudsman to review their complaint. So, it has come to me to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about Mr T and Mrs Ts 
complaint. Ive looked into everything that Mr T and Mrs T and Lloyds have told us or sent us 
about the case and Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why below. 
It seems to me that there are two parts to Mr T and Mrs Ts complaint. The first is about 
whether Lloyds treated hem fairly when it withdrew the fee-waiver scheme and the second is 
about whether it should have allowed them to keep the travel policy without paying the 
monthly fees. These two are clearly closely connected, but to make sure I havent missed 
anything, I have considered them separately.
Did Lloyds treat Mr T and Mrs T fairly when it withdrew the fee-waiver scheme?
Lloyds was allowed to make this change to the Platinum account provided it told its 
customers what it was planning and gave them reasonable notice and choices. 
The letter Lloyds sent to Mr T and Mrs T about this change in June 2021 was entitled The 
fee-waiver on your Platinum account will soon end. It told Mr T and Mrs T that Lloyds would 
remove the scheme in September 2021, told them what the monthly fee would be and 
invited them to review whether the Platinum account would still be right for them. It said they 
could change to an account without a monthly fee, albeit without the Platinum accounts 
benefits, before the end of the fee-waiver scheme if they so wished.
It seems to me that this letter shows that Lloyds treated Mr T and Mrs T fairly when it 
withdrew the fee-waiver scheme from them..
Should Lloyds have allowed Mr T and Mrs T to keep the travel policy without paying the 
monthly fees ?
For Mr T and Mrs T, this seems to be the most significant part of their complaint. Theyve 
told us that just before they heard that Lloyds was withdrawing the fee-waiver scheme, they 
paid an additional one off premium to extend the scope of their travel cover. Theyve said 
that after they made this payment they received notice of a full year's cover. They think 
Lloyds should still provide this cover without charging them the monthly fees for the Platinum 
account, which they hadnt been expecting to have to pay when they extended the cover. 
Mr T and Mrs T have sent us copies of several letters between themselves and Lloyds to 
show what happened. From these letters, the sequence of events seems to have been as 
follows:
In Summer 2021 (I dont have an exact date) Mr T and Mrs T paid an extra premium 
to extend the scope of their travel insurance.
On 30 June 2021, following Mr T and Mrs Ts additional premium, Lloyds wrote to 
them (letter 1) about the travel insurance policy for which it gave an end date of 30 
June 2022, twelve months into the then future.
Also, in June 2021, Lloyds sent the letter about ending the fee-waiver scheme (letter 
2) to Mr T and Mrs T. I dont have the precise date when Lloyds sent this letter, but 
Mr T and Mrs T have said they received it shortly after letter 1 and I am happy to 
accept this.
Mr T and Mrs T phoned Lloyd to ask what would happen to their travel insurance if 
they didnt pay the monthly fees for the Platinum account. On 3 July 2021, Lloyds 
wrote back (letter 3) to say that despite the additional premium, the travel insurance 
would no longer be valid (effectively cancelling the policy) if they didnt pay the 
monthly fees.
The crux of this part of Mr T and Mrs Ts complaint is that they dont think Lloyds had the 
right to cancel the policy (as in letter 3), a few days after it said the policy would last for 12 
months in letter 1. 
I have already explained that I think Lloyds acted reasonably when it withdrew the fee-waiver 
scheme. And its self-evidently reasonable that the travel insurance the Platinum account 
provides would usually end if a customer closes that account by not paying the monthly fees. 
So, the critical point of this part of Mr T and Mrs Ts complaint is whether the end date for the policy which Lloyds gave in letter 1 should override the usual practice for a policy to end if a 
customer stops paying the monthly fees, as in letter 3.
Clearly, Lloyds wrote letter 1 with the assumption that Mr T and Mrs T held a Platinum 
account, which was true at the time, and would continue to do so. And as they had paid the 
additional premium for 12 months, they also seem to have expected to keep it into the future. 
This sets the context of letter 1, which would obviously change if Mr T and Mrs T closed the 
Platinum account by not paying the fees. I accept their decision about this could be 
influenced by Lloyds withdrawing the fee-waiver scheme, but as Lloyds withdrew that 
scheme fairly, that choice would lay with Mr T and Mrs T. I therefore dont think that Lloyds 
was under any obligation to allow them to keep the travel policy without paying the monthly 
fees for the Platinum account.
I do not know if Mr T and Mrs T chose to keep their Platinum account or to close it. If they 
kept it, then there is nothing further for me to consider. But if they closed it, then I accept that 
it seems they may have paid the additional premium for twelve months when they would 
have no benefit from it for some of this period. 
Lloyds used an external insurance company (the insurer) to provide the travel insurance and 
its very likely that Mr T and Mrs T paid the additional premium direct to this company. Lloyds 
mentioned this in letter 3. It said that if Mr T and Mrs T had any further queries about the 
travel insurance they should contact the insurer directly (*). I do not know if Mr T and Mrs T 
have done this, but if not, and they have closed their Platinum account, they may wish to do 
so. However, I cant give them any advice about this, or predict what the outcome of any 
discussion may be. Nor can I tell if any complaint Mr T and Mrs T may then wish to bring to 
us about the insurer will fall inside or outside the rules and time limits that determine which 
complaints we can consider. 
Mr T and Mrs T have also told us that some of the letters they received from Lloyds were 
only addressed to one of them, rather than both. They have described this as 
unacceptable. I accept this may have been inconvenient for Mr T and Mrs T, but I do not 
think they suffered any loss or harm as a result, so I will not be taking it further with Lloyds. I 
will leave it to Mr T and Mrs T to discuss their communication preferences with Lloyds if they 
so wish. 
So, in summary, I think that Lloyds met its obligations to Mr T and Mrs T when it withdrew 
the fee-waiver scheme for their Platinum account. And dont think I have grounds to tell it to 
allow them to keep the travel insurance if they stop (or have stopped) paying the monthly 
fees for the Platinum account . 
(*) In recent correspondence with us, Mr T and Mrs T have questioned Lloyds advice that 
they should contact the insurer. Theyve pointed out that all the paperwork about their 
account and their complaint has been branded as Lloyds. I accept this, but I also accept 
that Lloyds seems to be within its rights to refer them to the insurer for the specific part of 
their complaint about the additional premium. If Mr T and Mrs T do not have contact details 
for the insurer then I would expect Lloyds to provide them on request. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mr T and Mrs Ts complaint about 
Lloyds Bank PLC. I am not going to tell it to allow them to keep the travel insurance policy 
without paying the monthly fees for the Platinum account. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman