DRN-3589650
The complaint
The estate of the late Mr R complains Telford Mann Limited (Telford) gave unsuitable 
advice when it recommended Mr R invest in an Enterprise Investment Scheme (the EIS). 
What happened
According to Telfords final response letter, Mr R first consulted its adviser in 2012 and the 
relationship continued until Mr Rs death in late 2018. He was concerned about his liability to 
IHT and as well as making gifts to relatives he had discretionary trusts set up in 2006 and 
2012 and invested in 2013 in a portfolio of unlisted shares to obtain business relief from IHT. 
A meeting note of 24 April 2017 says Mr R was selling a UK property for £160,000 he had 
bought for £12,000 and capital gains tax (CGT) would be due in January 2019 on the gain. It 
said £100,00 would be left after tax and short-term expenditure and Mr R wanted advice on 
how best to invest this to generate growth and income above the levels currently available 
on deposit. It said he would want income every six months but wanted to maintain and grow 
the capital, to which it said he wouldnt require access for the foreseeable future. 
The note said Mr R still considers himself a very balanced investor and wanted to maintain 
the risk score of 4, Moderate, approach for his investments  It said he understands that 
investments will rise and fall in value and has experience of years of capital losses but is 
confident that these investments remain long-term and that any short-term losses will not 
have an impact on his standard of living in retirement. [He] would like to give his money 
opportunity for real capital growth above inflation and believes that the Moderate risk profile 
will provide him with the returns that he is looking for over the medium-to longer-term. The 
note said Mr R would contact Telford again once the sale date of the property was known. 
The 24 April 2017 note made no reference to inheritance tax (IHT). But a meeting note for a 
4 July meeting to discuss options for his investment of £100,000, said Mr R would like to 
mitigate his potential IHT liability whilst also delaying/deferring the capital gains tax liability 
he will have on the property gains. These are benefits offered by the EIS. The note said the 
EIS was compared to Mr Rs existing estate planning investment and he was happy to invest 
into either. Telford recommended the EIS as this better meets his objectives.
Telfords final response letter said the capital gain was around £120,000 and would have 
incurred CGT of around £30,000. It said putting £100,000 into the EIS deferred £25,000 of 
this and as Mr R didnt need to access the capital this tax would never be paid because the 
liability would be extinguished when Mr R died. Telford estimated Mr R received £12,000 in 
income tax relief. It said he wouldve received 100% relief from IHT had he survived for two 
years (IHT is charged at 40% on assets above the IHT threshold). 
The 4 July 2017 meeting note says Telford explained the EIS, the tax advantages and the 
risks. It says Telford gave Mr R the literature to read and agreed to return on 7 July to 
complete the applications and pick up the cheque. It said Telfords written advice would 
follow as soon as possible and Mr R could contact Telford if he had questions about this. 
The note said Mr R feels that the risks associated with this plan are consistent with his 
overall attitude to investment risk and he believes that any capital loss he could incur would 
not have a detrimental impact on his standard of living now or in the future as he does not 
intend to use this money to supplement his other investments. 
The advice report followed on 14 July 2017. Our investigator noted from this that Mr R was 
in his late 80s and retired with income from rents and pensions of around £30,000 a year 
which he supplemented by drawing around £18,000 from his investments. He had around 
£335,000 in a share portfolio in trust, around £170,000 in an offshore bond in a discretionary 
trust, around £87,000 in an estate planning service, a stocks and shares ISA worth around 
£100,000, another ISA worth around £43,000 and £50,000 in cash. His property and chattels 
were worth around £230,000 and his main residence around £350,000. 
Mr R also had the £100,000 he was investing. The report said: You seek a solution which 
will assist in reducing your immediate liability to Capital Gains Tax and one which will further 
improve your overall tax position from an Inheritance Tax and Income Tax perspective. It 
said his specific requirements were to invest in order to assist in managing your overall tax 
liabilities and diversifying your investment portfolio. It noted that he wouldnt need access to 
the capital and also wouldnt need income from it as he would increase regular withdrawals 
from other sources instead. 
The advice report said Mr Rs risk profile was 4  Moderate based on a risk-profiling 
questionnaire he had completed. It described this as follows: You accept that an increased 
investment risk is inevitable if you are to achieve attractive real returns. Investments in this 
category usually offer reasonable growth potential in the medium term. Although risk is 
reduced through diversification across markets, the Fund Manager can use this wide choice 
of assets to adjust exposures according to specific market conditions. You should note that 
these funds are subject to market movements and currency risk.
The report said: Ordinarily I would recommend an investment portfolio to meet the above 
stated risk profile, however, given your circumstances and objectives, I do not think it 
appropriate to recommend a diversified portfolio of investment funds to meet this particular 
need at this present time.  
Instead the advice report said a £100,000 investment in the EIS most appropriately matches 
your stated objectives and specific requirements, as evidenced by our research. It said this 
would further diversify his overall portfolio and provide tax benefits. It also said:
We have discussed the risks associated with investment monies into an EIS and you are 
happy to consider investing this capital for the longer term. You are aware that by investing 
deposit monies into the recommended EIS, you are increasing the level of risk that the 
monies are exposed to, from a no risk cash asset to an EIS with a specific investment focus. 
You understand the increase in risk and are happy to proceed with the investment based on 
the objectives detailed previously.
When recommending the EIS, the advice report said the EIS aims to reduce risk by 
investing across three investee companies per investor, but the nature of the investment 
strategy is specialised so risk can only be mitigated to a limited extent. [The EIS] believe that 
their chosen sector will provide good growth potential and exit options for investors based on 
their experience of investing in this sector of the past five years. 
The advice report said the EIS wasnt rated by third party ratings agencies for its financial 
strength but it said this wasnt unusual for EIS schemes. It said the provider of the EIS had 
been established in 2008 and Telford had known it since launch and had monitored the 
progress of its investments. The report said: We feel that they have now built up a track 
record and sufficient experience in the sector to support an investment The advice report said the £100,000 investment would allow Mr R to defer £18,000 of CGT. 
It noted the potential to claim up to £30,000 in income tax relief and the potential for IHT 
relief of £40,000 after two years. 
The report said: Whilst it wouldve been possible to invest in other EIS schemes, these tend 
to be higher risk in nature due to their more specialist remits and the lack of management 
pedigree, which means that although returns may be higher, the potential risk to your 
investment is also greater. EIS are by their very nature inherently risky, but [the EIS] aims to 
reduce the risk wherever possible. 
The report had a section for Specific Risk Associated with EIS. This said: EIS are for 
higher risk investors and should be held for the long term, but during our discussions, you 
confirmed that you consider yourself to be an experienced investor. With this in mind, I feel 
that the recommended EIS meets your objectives and provide[s] a spread of investment 
strategies as detailed later in this report.
The report also said  under the heading Limited Advice  you would like us to limit our 
advice and you require no advice on the suitability of the products within your overall 
financial circumstances.
The advice report ended by thanking Mr R for his business (he had already handed over his 
cheque, which was received by the EIS on 11 July 2017 according to an acknowledgment 
letter dated 14 July). But there was also an appendix which explained the tax treatment of 
the EIS in more detail and also had a number of Risk Warnings, including:
EIS invest in young growth oriented companies. To this end, they are considered to be 
high risk investments, and the possibility of losing all of the invested capital is greater.
The EIS aims to invest all investor funds in a target of three companies, but special 
circumstances may apply to certain investors which mean that they hold investments in 
few[er] investee companies than this. Such investors will not benefit from the same 
diversification and consequently, their investment in the EIS will carry a higher risk.
In its final response letter Telford said the main objective of the investment was to save tax, 
and this was achieved for CGT and income tax, with a potential for IHT benefits too. It said 
the EIS represented only around 10% of Mr Rs assets, excluding his principal residence  
and Telford said this wasnt excessive. It said his overall position was still in line with a 
moderate attitude to risk. It rejected Mr Rs complaint.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. Our investigator said Mr Rs gain 
was £108,700 and tax of £19,566 - around 18% of the gain - was due. But our investigator 
thought the advice meant Mr R risking all the £100,000 in a high risk product. He said it 
wasnt possible to guarantee the success of any company or accurately foresee market 
conditions or regulatory changes that might affect its prospects. 
Our investigator thought Mr R understood the EIS as riskier than some investments but our 
investigator didnt think Telford had made the high risk nature of the EIS sufficiently clear to 
Mr R. He said some of the literature mentioned the high-risk nature of EISs, but this wasnt 
given sufficient prominence in the advice as a whole.
For example the risk of the loss of all the capital was mentioned but only in an appendix. Our 
investigator didnt think Telfords records showed Mr R understood how the risk level of the 
EIS varied from his recorded attitude to risk.
Our investigator thought Telford had promoted the EIS to Mr R on the basis it didnt carry as much risk as other EISs. He thought most of Telfords recorded comments about risk 
caveated or downplayed the risk  and this likely reflected what was said at the meetings. 
Our investigator accepted that other options for addressing the tax liability Mr R wanted to 
address had been explored but not found to be suitable. Overall our investigator thought the 
EIS wasnt suitable for Mr Rs attitude to risk and involved higher risk than Mr R wanted. He 
didnt think Mr Rs investment experience made the advice or the EIS suitable for Mr R.
Our investigator noted that the EIS was capable of achieving Mr Rs objective of saving tax. 
This included inheritance tax savings after two years, income tax relief of up to 30%, the 
facility to defer capital gains and to offset capital gains made elsewhere in future against 
losses made on the EIS. But the EIS was still unsuitable for Mr R on the grounds of risk. So 
our investigator thought the position Mr Rs estate was in, having taken the EIS, should be 
compared to what that position wouldve been if Mr R had instead put the money into an 
investment taking a small amount of risk. 
Telford didnt agree with our investigators conclusion. It said, in brief summary:
The conclusion wasnt based on the circumstances at the time of the advice but with the 
benefit of hindsight based on the poor investment outcome.
Mr R was aware the risks associated with the EIS were greater than his mainstream 
investments. It is inevitable that investments offering such tax concessions carry greater 
risk. The tax reliefs are to encourage investment in new, innovative companies that 
would otherwise be unable to obtain the necessary funding.
From Mr Rs point of view the tax benefits of the EIS did outweigh the risks. This was 
also Telfords view and this was adequately documented. The EIS was suitable for Mr R 
and in line with his objectives and overall circumstances.
The investment was affordable for Mr R and he was able to withstand the full loss of 
capital without this affecting his standard of living.
The CGT deferred was likely saved entirely since CGT wasnt payable on death and 
Mr R knew he wouldnt need the invested sums and so he would never need to pay the 
CGT. The investigator overlooked this and also underestimated the rate of CGT that 
wouldve been payable - as it wouldve mostly been paid at 28%. Mr R also received 
income tax relief and wouldve saved on 40% inheritance tax if he had survived for two 
years.
Taking the EIS didnt change the risk profile of Mr Rs portfolio of investments overall, 
which continued to match his attitude to risk and capacity for loss.
Those bringing the complaint for the estate werent at the meetings or in any position to 
know Mr Rs feelings towards the investment and its risks. In addition Telford had made a number of other points, including:
Mr R was in a position to make an informed decision about investing in the EIS. The 
discussions took place between April and July and funds werent allocated for three 
months after that. So there was plenty of time for him to consider things before he 
decided, and to change his mind and withdraw if he had concerns. He confirmed in 
writing his receipt of Telfords meeting notes, its suitability report and the EIS information 
memorandum. 
A lack of liquidity in Mr Rs assets was referenced in the complaint, but apart from his 
properties all Mr Rs other assets were liquid at the time of this death.
As the matter couldnt be resolved informally it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R had a history of taking out investments that had IHT benefits. The EIS offered the 
prospect of greater IHT savings sooner than could be made from other methods such as 
potentially exempt transfers. It also offered the prospect of a CGT saving. So the EIS offered 
significant benefits for Mr R that other investments wouldnt offer. Mr R didnt need the 
invested funds to meet his own living expenses  so he could afford to make the investment 
and afford to take the risks of the EIS in order to secure its potential benefits. The issue is 
whether Mr R understood the degree of risk this meant taking and whether that degree of 
risk was suitable for Mr R given his willingness to take risk. 
It seems to me that if Mr R understood the degree of risk involved, then the fact he was 
willing to take the EIS shows he was willing to take that degree of risk with the money he 
was investing. On that basis the investment would be suitable, since there is nothing in 
Mr Rs circumstances that made taking that risk unsuitable for him if he wanted to take it  
he could afford to lose the money and taking the risks of the EIS allowed Mr R to secure 
benefits that were directly relevant to his particular circumstances at the time.
He decided to draw income from other investments, so his initial income need noted in April 
was no longer there in July. Im content this was the case and Mr R didnt need access to the 
invested funds. 
It follows that the key question is whether Telford made clear to Mr R the degree of risk 
involved in taking the EIS. From what Ive seen, Telford accepts the EIS was a higher risk 
investment. As Telford has said, the risks associated with the EIS were greater than his 
mainstream investments. The significant tax advantages offered by EISs are offered to 
provide some compensation for taking that risk, to encourage, as Telford says, investment in 
new companies that might otherwise not obtain funding. The possibility of losing most or all 
the money invested was real, and this was so from the outset. It isnt something that was 
only known with hindsight after the investment lost, as I understand it, much of its value. 
So Ive thought carefully about whether what I have supports the view that Telford made the 
high risk nature of the EIS sufficiently clear to Mr R. On balance I share our investigators 
view that that the evidence suggests Telford didnt make this clear enough to Mr R. In saying this I note the advice report referred to EISs in general as being considered to be 
high risk. This isnt the same as saying that they are high risk. Also it appears only in the 
appendix. More importantly, the report had already distinguished the EIS from other EISs in 
general, saying the latter were higher risk in nature due to their more specialist remits and 
the lack of management pedigree. The report had noted the pedigree it considered the 
provider of the EIS to have, referring to having monitored the provider since 2008 and saying 
the provider as having now built up a track record It is plain that Telford recommended 
the EIS to Mr R on the basis that it carried less risk than EISs ordinarily carried. As such 
generalised statements about the risk of EISs wouldve carried less significance for Mr R.
I think it was clear that Telford wasnt recommending something that matched the risk profile 
description it had quoted in the letter  but only insofar as what was recommended was not a 
diversified portfolio of investments. Whether or not the EIS otherwise matched Mr Rs risk 
attitude wasnt made clear enough in my view. The report said by making the investment the 
risk to which the money was exposed to was increased from that of a no risk cash asset  
which was self-evident  up to an EIS with a specific investment sector focus but there was 
no clear statement that this involved more risk than would ordinarily be suitable for someone 
with Mr Rs moderate risk attitude. 
Also I think it noteworthy that when referring to attitude to risk the only risk profile description 
given was for the moderate risk attitude Mr R was assessed as having. There wasnt any 
description of the higher risk attitude that would have matched the EIS investment Telford 
was recommending.
I dont overlook that Mr R had previously been advised by Telford to invest in a portfolio of 
unlisted shares  and I note that Telford discussed the possibility of paying more into that 
portfolio and compared it to the EIS at its meeting, with Mr R being happy to invest in either. 
But even if Telford was clear about the risks of that portfolio at the time it recommended it to 
Mr R, Im not persuaded any risk warnings given wouldve been clear and fresh in Mr Rs 
mind four years later when Telford recommended him the EIS. Also despite having what on 
the face of it would appear to be a risky investment of unlisted shares, there is no suggestion 
that this shows Mr R was a speculative or high risk investor in general or wanted speculative 
or high risk investments when he met with Telford in 2017. When pointing out that EISs are 
for higher risk investors, the advice report didnt say Mr R was such an investor but rather 
than he was an experienced investor and it said the EIS suited him on that basis.
I note that Telford says Mr Rs overall position was still in keeping with a moderate attitude. It 
says he invested only around 10% of his wealth (excluding his home) in the EIS. In my view 
10% is still a high proportion and I also note Mr R already had some of his money invested in 
unlisted shares before the 2017 advice. Also the advice increased Mr Rs risk exposure 
overall as the funds had previously been in property and were to be invested in speculative 
business enterprises through the EIS. 
In any case, the key issue in my view remains whether Telford made Mr R sufficiently aware 
of the degree of risk involved with the EIS when it recommended it to him in 2017. For the 
reasons Ive given above, Im not persuaded that it did.
Telford says Mr R was given plenty of time to read the literature and to make up his mind. 
The EIS was explained to Mr R on 4 July 2017 and presented to him as an option at that 
time (along with the option of putting more into something he already had) and he signed for 
the investment three days later. So I dont find what Telford says about this persuasive. But 
even if I were to accept that Mr R had been mulling the EIS since February and reviewed it 
further in the months running up to October after signing for it in July, this wouldnt in itself 
mean Telford presented the risks to him properly or advised him of the risks properly, nor 
would it follow that Mr R understood the risks. With all this in mind, what Telford says about the length of time the transaction was spread 
out over, doesnt persuade me the advice to invest in the EIS was suitable  in light of what 
Ive already said above. Also I accept that those bringing the complaint werent party to the 
discussions Telford had with Mr R but this doesnt change my view of the suitability of the 
advice Telford gave.
I note what Telford says about our investigator miscalculating the rate or amount of CGT 
payable. I note the 18% rate mentioned was the rate mentioned in Telfords advice report, 
which also referred to a £18000 figure. Even if the actual benefit had been higher than this, 
like Telford now says it was, this wouldnt change my view that Mr R wasnt made sufficiently 
aware of the degree of risk involved in investing in the EIS.
In light of all Ive said above, for the reasons Ive given, Ive decided to uphold the complaint.
Putting things right
Ive decided Telford Mann Limited was at fault and should put things right as set out below.
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put the 
estate of Mr R as close to the position it would probably now be in if Mr R had not been 
given unsuitable advice.
I take the view that Mr R would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what Mr R would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is 
fair and reasonable given Mr R's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Telford do?
To compensate the estate of Mr R fairly, Telford must:
Compare the performance of Mr R's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Telford should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
The EIS Still exists 
but illiquidFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the date of my decision. 
If at the end date the EIS (or any part of it) is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on 
the open market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the 
actual value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided the personal representatives 
of Mr R agree to Telford taking ownership of the illiquid assets, if it wishes to. If it is not 
possible for Telford to take ownership, then it may request an undertaking from the 
personal representatives of Mr R that they repay to Telford any amount they may receive 
from the portfolio in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Telford 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any tax relief Mr R received as a result of holding the investment, including any CGT 
avoided, should be considered a return on the actual investment. To reflect this addition to 
the actual value Mr R received, such sums should be deducted from the fair value at the 
point at which Mr R received the reliefs so that these sums cease to accrue any return in 
the calculation from that point on.
If the continued existence of the EIS incurs charges for the estate that are not met from the 
EIS itself, and these cant be ended by Telford taking over the illiquid assets, I think its fair 
that Telford pays the estate of Mr R an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of 
those charges (calculated using the charges in the previous year to date). This should 
provide a reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the EIS to be closed.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr R wanted capital growth with moderate risk to his capital. He wanted real growth 
above inflation and above that available on deposit. But the investment time horizon 
was necessarily limited by his age.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified 
indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government 
bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk 
to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr R's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a moderate level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put the estate of Mr R into that position in my view. This does not mean that Mr R would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate 
bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a 
reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr R could have 
obtained from investments suited to his objective and risk attitude. In reaching this 
view I take into account that Telford has raised no objection to this benchmark and 
what Ive said above about Mr Rs investment time horizon.
My final decision
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to 
pay compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider 
appropriate. If I consider that fair compensation exceeds £160,000, I may recommend the 
business to pay the balance. I include this reminder about our award limits here because in 
this case I do not know what amount the calculation will find to be due.
Telford Mann Limited should provide details of its calculation to the estate of Mr R in a 
clear, simple format.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation 
exceeds £160,000, I recommend that Telford Mann Limited pays the estate of Mr R the 
balance plus any interest on that amount as set out above.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. It does not bind 
Telford Mann Limited. It is unlikely that the estate of Mr R can accept my decision and go to 
court to ask for the balance. The estate of Mr R may want to consider getting independent 
legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation 
should be calculated as set out above. My decision is that Telford Mann Limited should pay 
the estate of Mr R the amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £160,000 
plus any interest set out above.
If Telford Mann Limited does not pay the full fair compensation, then any portfolio currently 
illiquid should be retained by the estate of Mr R. This is until any future benefit that it may 
receive from the portfolio together with the compensation paid by Telford Mann Limited 
(excluding any interest) equates to the full fair compensation as set out above. 
Telford Mann Limited may request an undertaking from the personal representatives of 
Mr R that either they repay to Telford Mann Limited any amount the estate of Mr R may 
receive from the portfolio thereafter or if possible, transfer the portfolio at that point.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr R 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman