DRN-2813555
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society caused her mothers accounts with them 
to be merged with her own, so that Miss M could access her mothers accounts online.
What happened
Miss M had to delete and reinstall the Nationwide online banking app on the advice of 
Nationwide following some accessibility issues she was having. When the app was 
reinstalled, Miss M noticed that her mothers Nationwide accounts were visible and 
accessible to her, alongside her own accounts.
Miss M wasnt happy about this, so she made a complaint. Miss M also wasnt happy as she 
felt that Nationwide were holding payments and not releasing them to pay bills, including a 
monthly payment for Miss Ms mobile phone contract.
Nationwide looked at Miss Ms complaint. They didnt feel that theyd withheld any payments 
and noted that the mobile phone contact provider hadnt applied for the monthly payment 
amount that had been made available for them.
However, Nationwide did acknowledge that Miss Ms mothers accounts had been merged 
with Miss Ms, and they explained that this was because of a human error. Nationwide 
apologised for the error and registered a data breach. Nationwide also separated the 
accounts to correct the issue and made a payment of £125 to Miss M to compensate her for 
any trouble and upset the matter may have caused.
Miss M didnt feel that Nationwides response went far enough, so she referred her complaint 
to this service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they felt that 
Nationwides response to Miss Ms complaint, including the corrective action and the £125 
payment of compensation, represented a fair and reasonable resolution to what had taken 
place. So, they didnt uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Miss M remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its understandable that Miss M would have been concerned when she discovered that 
Nationwide had made an error such that her mothers accounts were merged with her own 
and so that they were accessible to her via the online banking portal.
In circumstances such as this, where a business has made an error that has resulted in 
accounts being merged incorrectly, it would be expected by this service that the business 
would take the corrective steps necessary to rectify the position, and also to make an offer of 
compensation to recognise the upset and inconvenience the matter may have caused.
I think that Nationwide have done that here. They acted to separate the incorrectly merged 
accounts so that only Miss Ms accounts were accessible to her and they logged the mistake 
as a data breach to keep an accurate and proper record of what had happened. Nationwide 
also compensated Miss M for what had taken place, paying £125 to her because of this. 
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer considered fair and reasonable by 
one party not being considered as such by another. And Im aware that Miss M feels that a 
larger amount of compensation is warranted in this instance. But the £125 that Nationwide 
have paid here to Miss M as compensation here does feel fair to me, and I must note that its 
Commensurate with what this service would expect, given the circumstances. 
So, its difficult for me to conclude that Nationwide need to take any further action in regard 
to this aspect of Miss Ms complaint. And Ive also seen nothing in the information presented 
to me that suggests that Nationwide were withholding payments in the manner that Miss M 
suggested. Indeed, Nationwide have been able to demonstrate that the monthly payment to 
Miss Ms mobile phone contract provider was made available but wasnt applied for by them.
It must be noted at this point that it isnt the role of this service to punish or fine businesses, 
but rather to ensure that a resolution to a dispute is reached that is fair, in consideration of all 
the circumstances. And, in this instance, I feel that the complaint response already issued by 
Nationwide, including the payment of £125 compensation to Miss M, does represent a fair 
and reasonable resolution to this complaint.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Miss M was wanting here, but it follows from this 
that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking Nationwide to take any further action at this 
time. I hope that Miss M can understand, based on everything I have explained above, why I 
have made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman