DRN-2579283
The complaint
Mrs T and Mr T are unhappy Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited declined a contents 
insurance claim after a bag with valuables was stolen from their daughters car away from 
their home. Theyre also unhappy Lloyds added a fraud marker against the policy and 
cancelled it. 
For ease of reference and as hes been most involved with this complaint, Ill only refer to 
Mr T.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here. 
In November 2019 Mr Ts daughters car was broken in to and some items were stolen. Mr T 
called to make a claim on the policy. During the first conversation Lloyds told Mr T the claim 
wouldnt be covered due to the car being unattended and the location of the bag in the car 
when it was stolen. Mr T later gave his daughter permission to speak to Lloyds about the 
claim. Lloyds considered Mr T and his daughters statements and reconsidered the claim. It 
also asked an independent claims assessor to review the claim and speak to Mr T and his 
family. 
After considering the evidence, Lloyds decided to reject the claim, cancel the policy and add 
a fraud marker against the policy. It said Mr T and his daughter had provided conflicting 
statements about what had happened on the night of the theft, so it didnt know what had 
really happened. 
Mr T was very unhappy, so he made a complaint. Lloyds considered the complaint but didnt 
change its decision. So, Mr T brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He thought Lloyds hadnt 
treated Mr T unfairly and that he understood why Lloyds had reached the conclusion it had. 
Mr T disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. 
I reviewed the complaint and asked Lloyds if it would be willing to remove the fraud marker 
and record that the policy lapsed instead of being cancelled. Lloyds agreed with this 
outcome. But Mr T didnt. He said Lloyds didnt review all the evidence carefully enough and 
was too quick to accuse him of fraud. 
He added that Lloyds should also offer an apology, answer three of his points on why it 
came to the decision it did and pay him some compensation for the stress it caused him and 
his family. Mr T also wanted to provide feedback to Lloyds on why he feels he had been 
badly treated during the claims process.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im still going to uphold this complaint in part. I know Mr T will be 
disappointed with this outcome, so Ill explain why below. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome.
Im satisfied that Mr Ts daughter was a victim of a crime. But I dont think Lloyds shouldve 
cancelled the policy and added the fraud marker to Mr Ts name. Ive noted that there were 
inconsistencies in testimonies Lloyds were provided with during the claim. But after 
considering Mr Ts further testimony and medical evidence explaining his daughters medical 
history, I can understand why there were inconsistencies.  
Lloyds needs to be satisfied that the events that led up to the theft of the bag and the 
valuables is covered under the terms and conditions of the policy. Unfortunately, due to the 
inconsistent accounts it was provided with, it couldnt be certain about what really happened.
Having considered the evidence, I believe it was reasonable for Lloyds to reject the claim on 
the grounds that the first version of events given to the police on the night of the theft and 
then when Mr T first made the claim were the most likely to have occurred. 
Mr T has provided evidence to this service which explains why his account of the theft and 
his daughters were different. He has also explained why his daughter was distressed at the 
time as well as providing some medical evidence of her personal circumstances at the time 
of the claim. Im persuaded this provides a reasonable explanation for the inconsistencies. 
And as a result, Lloyds should remove any fraud marker against Mr Ts name and record 
that the policy lapsed. 
Should Lloyds provide a written apology and compensation to Mr T? 
Mr T says Lloyds decision to cancel his policy and add a fraud marker against his name has 
caused him and his family a lot of stress. I can understand Mr Ts strength of feeling on this 
matter. But I dont think Lloyds should apologise for its actions here. 
When a claim is submitted its up to Mr T to provide enough information for the claim to be 
considered and accepted. And an insurer needs to be satisfied, for auditing purposes, that 
the events that led up to a claim took place as described. But Mr Ts account of what 
happened was different to his daughter. And his daughter also gave inconsistent accounts 
on whether the car was unattended. Given the fraud condition in Mr Ts policy allows it to 
reject the claim and cancel the policy in circumstances such as this, I can understand why 
Lloyds took the action it did. But after reviewing the evidence Mr T provided to this service, I 
believe there were valid reasons for these inconsistencies and the fraud marker should be 
removed.   
I understand Mr T would like Lloyds to improve the way it handles claims in the future. Ive 
passed his feedback to Lloyds for it to consider. But its not within my powers to ask Lloyds 
to make changes to how it reviews similar claims in the future. Thats for Lloyds to review 
and decide on any changes it feels are necessary. 
Putting things rightLloyds has now agreed to remove any fraud markers against Mr Ts name and to record his 
policy as lapsed. 
I think thats a fair outcome in the circumstances and I make no further award against 
Lloyds.
 
My final decision
Lloyds has now agreed to remove any fraud markers against Mr Ts name and to record his 
policy as lapsed. 
I think thats a fair outcome in the circumstances and I make no further award against 
Lloyds. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman