DRN-3550332
The complaint
Mr K says Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (trading as Hargreaves 
Lansdown (HL)) caused him financial losses by restricting his access to (and trading in) his 
HL Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). He says HL did this without his 
consent/authority. He seeks compensation for financial loss.
What happened
The chronology of key events is as follows:
On 30 September 2021 Mr K asked HL to suspend online access to the SIPP. He 
says this followed from a particular share purchase he had made which then lost 
value sharply, and from feeling spooked by the markets being increasingly volatile. 
There is also evidence that he made the request in order to safeguard against further 
trading/trading losses at the time (and the gambling nature of trading) and, in this 
respect, to avoid having easy online access to trading in the SIPP.
HL suspended the SIPP on 1 October (the following day). However, earlier on the 
same day and before HL did this, Mr K found that it remained accessible online and 
active, so he made some day trades in order to recover his losses. In the afternoon, 
he says he attempted to close one and found that the SIPP had been suspended. He 
says the financial loss he seeks compensation for began from this point. He 
complained about the suspension on this date, 1 October 2021, as he considered 
that HL went beyond the online access (only) suspension he had instructed.
HL wrote to Mr K on 4 October. It acknowledged his complaint and said it would be 
addressed. It also gave an interim response, in which it explained that its concern 
about his trading wellbeing had been prompted by the nature of his request and by its 
consideration of the high trading frequency activity (and associated dealing costs) in 
his SIPP, so its priority at the time was on providing him with support  with regards 
to which it made suggestions.
Mr K wrote to HL on 9 October to say he had taken independent financial advice and 
that his intention was to adopt a more measured and cautious approach for longer 
term investing in the SIPP and to continue to use the SIPPs drawdown feature for 
income, and he asked for online drawdown access to the SIPP to be restored.
Mr K wrote again to HL on 13 October, this time to elaborate on his complaint  in 
which he considered that HLs reaction was unwarranted and that he was being 
pressured to take financial advice. 
HL wrote to him on 14 October to confirm the following  with immediate effect he 
would be able to instruct withdrawals from the SIPP and to instruct sales (only) in the 
SIPP; online access remained suspended but he would be able to do both by 
telephone; telephone dealing was more expensive than online dealing so the 
decision had been made to apply the cheaper online dealing rates to his telephone 
dealing instructions whilst his online access remained suspended; and, in order to 
consider restoring the SIPP to full functionality he would need to evidence the 
financial advice he said he had received. Mr K replied on the same date and said he 
was pleased with the access that had been restored and that, for the time being, he 
would not be making further investments.
HL repeated its request for evidence of advice on 11 November and on 15 
November. On the latter date, it also replied to an enquiry Mr K had made about 
transferring the SIPP. It said the steps it had taken did not restrict him from 
transferring the SIPP to a new provider and that the suspension was only in place to 
prevent dealing in it. Mr Ks enquiry had been put to HL on 11 November, when he 
also repeated his temporary decision, based on advice, not to make further 
investments but complained that his SIPPs growth would be hindered if HL 
permanently prevented him from doing so. He affirmed his capability to conduct his 
own trading and SIPP affairs and demanded that HL lift the suspension. He appears 
to have written to HL earlier, on 9 November, in a similar fashion.
Mr K referred the matter to us on 25 November 2021. Shortly before one of our investigators 
shared his view on the case, Mr K updated us to say that because of the initial loss at the 
time access to and trading in the SIPP was suspended he had since been reluctant to sell 
the relevant holdings, so the losses in them had deepened to a total of around £1,600 
(around May this year). 
The investigator concluded that the complaint should not be upheld. He referred to HLs 
safeguarding and due diligence responsibilities in the case, which he considered to have 
been triggered by Mr Ks initial request and by the terms and conditions for the SIPP. He 
mentioned a specific term in this respect, which entitled HL to suspend a clients account 
where evidence suggested a need to protect the client. He said this applied to Mr K and his 
case. He noted that Mr Ks communication of 9 October conceded his need for a more 
measured and cautious approach, and he considered it reasonable for HL to require 
evidence of the financial advice Mr K had referred to. Had that been provided, he felt it would 
likely have led to the full restoration of the SIPP. He also noted that Mr K had been told, on 
15 November, that he was not prevented from transferring the SIPP elsewhere, so if he did 
not wish to comply with HLs request that alternative was available to him.
Mr K disagreed with this outcome and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He maintained 
that HL acted beyond his instruction, without his authority and in conflict with the notion of 
safeguarding his interests (in contrast, he says, HL put his SIPP at risk by preventing him 
from trading in it). The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What Mr K instructed HL to do on 30 September 2021 is not in dispute. The same applies to 
the fact that HL went beyond the instruction to suspend online access (only). On 1 October, 
it did that but it also, initially, suspended the SIPP. Mr K appears to have made an issue of 
the fact that notice to him (on 14 October) that he could withdraw and sell from the SIPP (by 
telephone) was not given until a fortnight thereafter. However, available evidence does not 
show that, prior to this notice, he sought to withdraw and was prevented from doing so.  
Furthermore, his communication of 9 October did not refer to any particular and/or pressing 
sale(s) he needed to conduct. Instead, and as I noted above, it referred to him taking advice. 
His communication on 14 October also referred to what was essentially his own temporary 
decision to suspend trading in the SIPP  mirroring HLs suspension around the same time. He repeated this decision on 11 November. In this overall context, and on balance, I do not 
consider that there is evidence of a tangible wrongdoing by HL between 30 September and 
14 October, during which it suggested he should primarily consider sources of support and it 
considered how to manage the matter that had arisen.
There is enough evidence, mainly from Mr Ks submissions and correspondence, that he 
was concerned about his trading (and losses) getting out of control by or at the point he 
made his request on 30 September; and that he shared this with HL on that date. I 
appreciate that his request was limited and that he neither asked for nor wanted a complete 
suspension. I also acknowledge that one of his core arguments is that HLs actions, in 
response, were without his consent and authority. Understandably, and as the SIPP was his 
(beneficially), he believes HL needed such consent and authority to do as it did.
As a regulated firm, HL was/is required to comply with laws and regulations in the course of 
its business. One such regulation, in the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) section 
of the regulators Handbook (and at COBS 2.1.1 (R)), was/is that A firm must act honestly, 
fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client  also known as 
the clients best interests rule. In addition, amongst the Principles for Businesses that 
regulated firms must adhere to is Principle 6, which says firms are required to  pay due 
regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. Both HL and the investigator 
have referred to the specific term, amongst those agreed for the SIPP, that entitled HL to 
suspend an account in aid of protecting the accountholder. 
The sum effect of the aforementioned regulations, especially the clients best interests rule, 
and the relevant term for the SIPP was that, upon notice of a matter that put Mr Ks 
interests/best interests at stake and one that suggested the need to consider protecting his 
SIPP, HL was under a duty to consider action that could validly go beyond the confines of 
his instruction, consent or authority. It had a regulatory duty to discharge in terms of 
safeguarding his interest in the face of notice about a potential threat to that interest, and it 
also had a contractual basis to do so. Of course, this was not to be done arbitrarily or 
prematurely, so key questions to ask are whether (or not) HL had sufficient reason to trigger 
this duty and whether (or not) it discharged it in a reasonable fashion. On balance, I consider 
that it had such reason and that it discharged its duty reasonably, and my reasons follow.
HL reacted to news from Mr K about his trading and losses concerns, and about both 
potentially being out of his control. In his submissions to us he appears to have described 
this as being akin to an out of control gambling issue. I am satisfied that such news was 
enough for HL to consider exercising its duty to safeguard Mr Ks (and his SIPPs) bests 
interests. For the sake of clarity, I do not say or suggest that Mr K told HL that he had a 
gambling problem, but available evidence is that his message to HL was that his trading 
(and losses) were or could have been out of control at the time, and parallels could 
reasonably have been drawn between both.
HL reacted promptly, on the next day, by suspending the account whilst it considered the 
matter further. There is evidence that it kept Mr K informed on what was happening in this 
respect and with regards to the complaint he had made. As I said above, no tangible 
wrongdoing appears to have happened during the fortnight over which its considerations 
lasted. 
By 14 October, Mr K had confirmation that he could withdraw and sell from the SIPP, that he 
could do so by telephone and that telephone dealing would be available to him at no 
additional costs. These measures were reasonable and were clearly aimed at restoring 
access to and relatively safer use of the SIPP, whereby sales were permitted but no new 
speculative trading could be conducted. It is also clear that the prohibition on new trading 
was intended to be a temporary measure by HL, so I do not accept the suggestion in Mr Ks complaint at the time that it was permanent. HL provided the SIPP on an execution only 
basis, so it did not give an investment advice service. It considered there would be a form of 
assurance that trading in the SIPP would be safer if based on independent professional 
advice, hence its request for evidence of such advice before considering its full restoration.
On balance, and for the above reasons, I am persuaded that this was a reasonable 
approach. It also appeared to be uncontroversial at the time because Mr K had already 
referred to receiving such professional advice. HL simply asked for evidence of that. 
Furthermore, and as the investigator noted, even if  as it appears and for whatever reason 
 Mr K did not consider the approach to be reasonable, he knew (from 15 November) that 
HLs actions did not stop him from transferring the SIPP to another provider. He would have 
had ample options in the market/sector for that. There is no evidence that he sought such a 
transfer before or after 15 November.
The complaint stems from the events in September, October and November 2021, and Mr K 
has explained that his current claim reflects specific losses which were created at the time 
and have accumulated since. As I have set out above, on balance, I do not find that HLs 
conduct at the time was wrong; I do not find that Mr K sought to make and was prevented 
from making sale trades or withdrawals during the initial fortnight; I find, as a matter of fact, 
that he has been aware, since 14 November 2021, that he is able to make such trades and 
withdrawals; so I also find that responsibility for the losses he has referred to, arising from 
the specific trades (from the time) that have not been closed (despite his ability to close 
them) does not belong to and is not shared by HL. I therefore do not uphold his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman