DRN-3228857
The complaint
Mr C complains that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) have mishandled his commercial legal 
expenses claim.
UKI use intermediaries to administer their legal expenses policy and manage claims on their 
behalf. So, any reference to the insurer within this decision should be read as including the 
acts or omissions of such intermediaries.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
UKI agreed to cover Mr Cs rent arrears from 14 December 2020  which was the 
point the insurer received all the documents theyd requested from Mr C  to 26 April 
2021 when vacant possession was secured. However, I dont consider they have 
acted fairly and reasonably by only backdating the claim to the point where Mr C 
submitted his documentation. He had originally notified UKI of the rent arrears when 
his tenant missed the first payment in February 2020. There is no dispute that Mr C 
had put UKI on notice of his claim. And while I appreciate it took some time for him to 
submit the required documentation, the claim was subsequently accepted by UKI 
(which it seemingly also would have been if he had submitted everything in March 
2020 when the information was originally requested).
I understand it is a condition of the policy for the insured to send in anything the 
insurer asks for. But in March 2020, Mr C informed UKI that he was unable to provide 
further information at that point as his letting agents had ceased contact. UKI have 
also not sufficiently demonstrated that their position has been prejudiced as a result 
of Mr C not sending the documentation sooner. He complied with all other 
requirements to serve notice on the tenants, for example, and continued to make 
progress with the eviction of his tenants the entire time. UKI have said they could 
have put legal representation in place to begin the eviction process sooner. But Ive 
seen no persuasive evidence to suggest they would have been able to secure vacant 
possession any earlier.
Mr C also appointed his own solicitor to pursue the eviction (for which UKI have 
agreed to reimburse the costs). And while I understand there were sometimes delays 
in the eviction process, these seem to have been largely outside of Mr Cs control, 
such as hearings being postponed etc. Therefore, Im not satisfied that UKIs position 
has ultimately been prejudiced by Mr Cs delay in submitting the necessary 
documentation, or that they would have been likely to secure vacant possession any 
sooner. 
As a result, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for UKI 
to backdate the claim from the point Mr C notified them of the rent arrears in 
February 2020. However, I accept that the insurer was effectively unable to validate 
the claim until Mr C had sent in the required documentation on 14 December 2020. 
So, I wont be asking UKI to add 8% simple interest from February 2020, but I think it 
would be fair and reasonable for this to accrue from the point they accepted the claim 
in 14 December 2020.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct UK Insurance Limited to:
Backdate Mr Cs rent arrears claim to the point he notified them of it in February 
2020; and
Pay 8% simple interest per annum on the part of the claim that has not been paid yet, 
from the date the claim was accepted on 14 December 2020 until the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman