DRN-4191687
The complaint
Ms T has complained about the service she received when she wanted to arrange a new 
preferential interest rate on her mortgage she holds with Accord Mortgages Limited. Ms T 
has said, in summary:
More competitive interest rates were available to other people who were not mortgage 
prisoners.
The original rate she was offered was unfairly withdrawn on affordability grounds.
Mortgage prisoners are not meant to be assessed on current standard affordability 
criteria as outlined in the mortgage handbook because they are trapped with that lender.
Accord was only offering one mortgage that was around the monthly payment she was 
requesting but that needed an upfront payment of £1,495.
When she tried to get a better mortgage rate through a broker it was blocked by Accord.
What happened
I wont set out the full background to this complaint as it is extensive and goes back many 
years, but I can confirm that I have read and understood everything that has been said and 
provided.
Ms T has held a mortgage with Accord since 2006. She originally borrowed around £185,000 
on an interest-only basis over a ten-year term.
Following a previous complaint made to the Financial Ombudsman Service, in 2015 Accord 
extended the mortgage by four months to allow Ms T to take a new two-year fixed rate of 
2.79% to run from March 2015 until 31 May 2017.
In March 2017 Accord agreed to extend the term to run until 2028 and then, from June 2017, 
a new fixed rate of 2.24% was put in place to run until 31 August 2022.
In June 2022 Ms T contacted Accord to discuss what new rates would be available to her 
when her current fixed rate ended. In a call on 15 June she was told the best five year fixed 
rate was 3.08%, which would result in her payments increasing by about £100 a month. 
Ms T indicated that was too high.
A further call took place on 22 June and Ms T was provided with illustrations for three 
different interest rate products. Further illustrations were issued on 27 June.
The illustrations that were issued were:
22 June - 2.79% fixed until 30 September 2027 with a £1,495 product fee
22 June - 2.87% fixed until 30 September 2024 with a £995 product fee
22 June  3.24% fixed until 30 September 2025 with no product fee
27 June  3.08% fixed until 30 September 2027 with no product fee 
27 June  3.14% fixed until 30 September 2024 with no product fee 
Ms T spoke to the adviser again on 5 July and then on 12 July Ms T said shed found 
cheaper deals with Accord through a mortgage broker, and she was told the rates through a 
broker would be the same as with Accord direct. Ms T said shed contact her broker to 
discuss matters.
On 1 September Ms Ts mortgage reverted to the standard variable rate (SVR), and 
despite the contractual monthly payment (CMP) increasing, Ms T has continued to pay 
£380 a month (which is the amount shed been paying since the end of 2020).
In the meantime Ms T had raised a complaint with Accord at the end of July. Accord didnt 
uphold the complaint and so Ms T referred the matter to our service.
Our Investigator said that he felt there was a misunderstanding in the original call as Ms T 
has said she was trying to negotiate on the rate offered but the call handler took that as Ms T 
saying she couldnt afford the higher rate. He felt Ms T was saying the higher payment would 
make things harder, not that it made it unaffordable, although he understood why Accord 
had taken it that way. He said he couldnt uphold the broker part of the complaint as the 
broker hadnt replied to his requests for information. Overall he felt £150 compensation was 
fair for the misunderstanding which led to a delay.
After our Investigator had issued his findings Ms Ts broker replied. The broker said he didnt 
know what the problem was, but he wasnt able to secure any rates for Ms T with Accord. 
Our Investigator asked Accord about that, and it confirmed that the broker would have 
needed to contact Accord so it could end the direct advice process that was ongoing due to 
it providing illustrations to Ms T. Once that was done the broker could have provided his own 
illustrations. Accord said it didnt receive any query from the broker, or any request for the 
rates to be made available to him. 
Our Investigator explained that to Ms T and asked if she wanted to accept the £150 
compensation. Ms T didnt agree with his findings and so the case was passed to me to 
decide.
Ms T said she wanted to speak to me before I made my decision, and following some 
correspondence on that I wrote to Ms T explaining why I didnt need a hearing to decide this 
complaint. I gave her the opportunity to make any verbal submissions and, as the deadline 
for that has now passed without anything further being received Im now issuing this decision 
as the final stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Ms T wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed her complaint in the way that I 
have. Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think 
is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
This service is impartial between, and independent from, consumers and businesses. What this means is that we dont represent either party, and I dont act under eithers instructions 
or take directions on how a complaint will be looked at. For that reason, I wont be answering 
Ms Ts questions nor will I be ordering Accord to do so.
Ive listened to the calls very carefully and having done so I agree with the findings our 
Investigator reached.
Ms T has said that in the first call on 15 June she was just trying to negotiate for a lower 
interest rate product, but I can understand why the Accord call handler had concerns about 
the affordability of the new rate as Ms T said it would make things really difficult, and when 
asked if it was unaffordable she said it was really, but she could work more hours. Having 
considered everything I dont think the call handler was unreasonable in having concerns 
about whether the new rate would be affordable and sustainable for Ms T, albeit it could 
have been handled better.
I understand Ms Ts confusion that Accord said it couldnt recommend the new rate if it was 
unaffordable, but that instead her mortgage would move to the SVR which was higher. But 
under the rules of mortgage regulation Accord shouldnt put in place a new interest rate 
product that Ms T couldnt afford, even if the alternative was even more expensive. Whilst, 
under the rules, Accord didnt have to carry out an affordability assessment, here Ms T 
directly said she would struggle to afford it and Accord couldnt just ignore that. The SVR 
formed part of Ms Ts existing contract, so Accord wouldnt be amending the contract to 
something unaffordable when the mortgage moved to the SVR, whereas a new interest rate 
product would be a contract variation and therefore Accord shouldnt do it if it is 
unaffordable, especially as it would be locking Ms T in for a number of years as otherwise 
she would incur an early repayment charge.
All that said, that all falls away as there was a further conversation a week later with a 
different call handler and at that time exactly the same rate (3.08%) as had been discussed 
in that first call was still available, so Ms T wasnt disadvantaged by what happened in the 
15 June conversations. In fact, an illustration was issued to Ms T for that 3.08% rate on 
27 June. 
In the follow up call rates were discussed, and Ms T said she didnt want to pay a high 
product fee. The adviser sent Ms T some illustrations and they arranged a further 
appointment for the following week. The following week some more illustrations were issued 
(including one for the 3.08% rate). The rates had changed that day, but the call handler 
decided to honour the rates from the week before.
Ive looked at the illustrations that were issued along with Accords products that were 
available at the time to existing customers and Im satisfied they are correct. Whilst Ms T has 
said that better rates were available through a broker thats not the case as Accord offered 
exactly the same rates through brokers as it did for its direct applications. 
The screenshots Ms T has provided arent for existing customers taking a new interest rate 
product, theyre instead for people moving home which is a different product range and one 
that Ms T (or any other existing customer wanting a new rate) wasnt eligible for. 
Theres no record of Ms Ts mortgage broker contacting Accord to ask why he was unable to 
produce any illustrations, and had he done so Ive no reason to believe Accord wouldnt 
have ended its process which would have allowed him to produce his own illustrations. 
However, even if that had happened, as Ive explained, it wouldnt have made a difference 
here as he only had access to exactly the same rates that the Accord mortgage advisers had 
already discussed with Ms T.Ms T said to our investigator The outcome I feel would be most fair, appropriately applying 
the transitional arrangements and in supporting my best interests is that Accord are 
requested to put my mortgage on one of their competitive interest rates that were being 
offered in June 2022  dated to start from September 2022 onwards. But that is exactly 
what Accord was trying to do in June and July 2022. The rates that Accord discussed with 
Ms T (and sent her illustrations for) were its most competitive interest rates that were being 
offered to existing customers who wanted a new interest rate product.
Ms T has said I am aware that there are UK Mortgage Rules that do say mortgage 
prisoners are not to be treated unfairly and especially with higher interest rates than those 
who are not trapped with their existing lender. By that I believe Ms T is referring to evidential 
provision 11.8.1 in the Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook; 
commonly known as MCOB 11.8.1E.
The full provision says:
Where a customer is unable to:
(1) enter into a new regulated mortgage contract or home purchase plan or vary the 
terms of an existing regulated mortgage contract or home purchase plan with the 
existing mortgage lender or home purchase provider; or
(2) enter into a new regulated mortgage contract or home purchase plan with a 
new mortgage lender or home purchase provider;
the existing mortgage lender or home purchase provider should not (for example, by 
offering less favourable interest rates or other terms) take advantage of the customer's 
situation or treat the customer any less favourably than it would treat other customers with 
similar characteristics. To do so may be relied on as tending to show contravention of 
Principle 6 (Customers interests).
Principle 6 is one of the regulators overarching principles; it requires firms to pay due regard 
to their customers interests and treat them fairly.
What this means, then, is that it may be unfair (though in some circumstances it may not) for 
a lender to treat a customer less favourably  including by offering less favourable interest 
rates  than it would treat other customers with similar characteristics. Though this only 
applies if the customer is either 1) unable to vary or replace their mortgage with their existing 
lender, or 2) unable to move to another lender.
From this we can see this provision isnt applicable here because Ms T wasnt unable to [] 
vary the terms of an existing regulated mortgage contract [] with the existing mortgage 
lender as the new interest rates Accord offered would be considered a variation of that 
existing contract. The fact Ms T didnt like the rates on offer isnt the same as her being 
unable to get a new rate with Accord.
It may be Ms T is referring to MCOB 11.7.4G:
In accordance with its obligation under Principle 6 to treat its customers fairly, 
a firm should not treat a customer with whom it enters into or varies a regulated mortgage 
contract or home purchase plan pursuant to this section 11.7 less favourably than it would 
treat other customers with similar characteristics, for example by offering less favourable 
interest rates or other terms.
In common with most active mortgage lenders Accord makes new fixed and variable interest rate products available to some customers who would otherwise move onto the SVR. Not all 
products will be available to all customers  lenders will set criteria to determine who is 
eligible for which products. These may include factors like the loan to value, the length of the 
remaining term of the mortgage, and whether the application is a remortgage, house 
purchase or rate switch.
Accord offers different products to different groups of customers. It wants to attract new 
customers, so it reserves its most attractive rates for them. It is a commercial organisation, 
ultimately dependent for its survival on its ability to attract and retain customers. In common 
with any other business, it sets the prices it charges based on various factors  including its 
costs, but also including the emphasis it wants to place on attracting and retaining different 
types of customers.
The rules of mortgage regulation require lenders to treat their customers fairly. But within 
that theres a broad commercial discretion available in how they run their businesses  and 
set their prices. Theres nothing in the rules that state Accord must offer the same rates to 
new customers as it does to existing customers.
As Ive set out above MCOB says that a lender shouldnt treat a customer differently from 
other customers with similar characteristics. But Ms T hasnt been treated differently to other 
customers with similar characteristics. Shes been offered the same rate thats available to 
all other customers with similar characteristics  including loan to value, and including the 
fact that shes not new to Accord and not applying to move to another property now.
Accord is required to treat its customers fairly. But treating each customer fairly doesnt 
mean it must treat all customers the same. It is, in my view, fair and reasonable for it to set 
different preferential interest rate products to attract and retain particular groups of 
customers. I dont think it has treated Ms T unfairly.
I do understand why Ms T wanted a lower rate than Accord was offering. But Accord wasnt 
obliged to offer Ms T a bespoke rate outside of its normal existing customer range. Whilst 
the available rates were higher than the headline best buy rates in the market for customers 
moving house, they were within a reasonable range of rates on offer generally for existing 
customers.
Ms Ts mortgage was already held on an interest only basis, and Accord went through the 
various rates it had available. There wasnt an option for a payment in the region of £380 a 
month, with the lowest coming in at around £450 a month, but that had a £1,495 product fee. 
To obtain a rate without a product fee the monthly payment would have been around £500. 
There is nothing Accord could do about that as those were the rates it had available, and if 
Ms T didnt want any of those then her mortgage would revert to the SVR.Finally, Ms T has said:
I havent been able to keep up with payments of £761 - £1196 because I really cant afford 
those amounts as detailed above. I could as has been said repeatedly afford £480. 
However I believe those arrears are wrong and unfair. Therefore should be cancelled. I 
expected and request specifically that the financial Ombudsman advise Accord to revert to 
a fair and reasonable rate from August 2022 which will remove those arrears and make the 
monthly payments affordable for me.
Unfortunately, that isnt something Im able to order Accord to do. I can only order Accord to 
do something to put things right if Im first satisfied it did something wrong. Accord offered 
Ms T the correct rates in June/July 2022 and she chose not to accept them despite Accord 
telling her they were the correct rates for existing customers, and exactly the same rates 
would be available through a mortgage broker. 
Having considered all the evidence very carefully Im satisfied that the rates that were 
discussed with Ms T in the phone calls were the best rates that Accord was able to offer her, 
and the rates would have been the same whether she applied directly or through a mortgage 
broker. 
All that said, I do agree with our Investigator that some compensation is fair due to the 
confusion in the 15 June conversations as I think Accord could have done more at that time 
to truly get to the heart of Ms Ts concerns. And for that I also agree with our Investigator 
that £150 is fair compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part, but only insofar as I order Accord Mortgages Limited to pay 
£150 compensation to Ms T.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman