DRN-3444482
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that GE Money Consumer Lending Limited (GE Money) didnt deal 
with their claims under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) fairly.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K bought a timeshare membership from Business C, in April 2007. The cost of 
the timeshare was £12,459, of which £7,737.56 was funded by a point of sale loan from 
GE Money. The loan was in joint names and was set to run for ten years. GE Money says 
that the loan was repaid in full in April 2008 and it has provided evidence to support this.
In June 2018, Mr and Mrs K contacted GE Money to make claims under CCA Sections 75 
(s.75) and 140A (s.140A). Mr and Mrs K raised a number of issues about how Business C 
conducted the sale. They say, in summary, that:
- Business C mispresented important elements of how the product worked. And that but 
for these misrepresentations, they wouldnt have gone ahead with the purchase.
- There were other issues with how the product was sold, including that they were put 
under undue pressure, that Business C breached various regulations and didnt 
provide them with clear enough information about what they were buying.
GE Money responded to say that it wasnt able to identify a GE Money account from the 
information that had been provided. Mr and Mrs K subsequently contacted us about their 
concerns. Mr and Mrs K are represented, but for ease I will mainly refer to Mr and Mrs K 
throughout.
After we notified GE Money of the complaint, it eventually wrote to Mr and Mrs K declining 
their claim. It said, in summary, that:
- Mr and Mrs K would need to approach Business C about the allegations to do with 
information provided by Business C at the point of sale. GE Money said this was 
because it didnt sell the product and wasnt present at the point of sale. It said that, as 
such, it couldnt investigate the complaint points fully and fairly. 
- In terms of the other allegations, it said for the most part that the claims had been 
raised too late. This included reference to the Limitations Act 1980 (LA).
It also offered Mr and Mrs K £50 in recognition of an administrative error resulting in the 
complaint having been incorrectly closed.
Mr and Mrs K confirmed they still wanted us to look into things. 
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint and didnt think GE Money needed to 
do anything further. The adjudicator thought that the claims under s.75 and s.140A CCA 
had been brought too late, so they didnt think GE Money needed to consider the 
substance of the claims.
Mr and Mrs Ks representative responded asking for the case to be referred to an 
ombudsman and saying that a full response would follow in due course. The adjudicator 
gave both parties until 12 April 2012 to provide any further representations. Neither party 
provided anything further. 
So the complaint was passed to me to decide. As the deadline for further representations 
has passed, Ive gone on to decide the case based on the information already on file. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This includes the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards, and codes of practice and good industry practice. Having done so, Im 
not going to tell GE Money to do anything further to resolve the matter. Ill explain 
why.
Before I do, I want to assure Mr and Mrs K, if I dont address every point thats been 
raised, its not because I havent thought about it. I have considered everything thats 
been said and sent to us. But, Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is 
relevant and material to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.
GE Money has said that Mr and Mrs K would need to approach Business C about the 
allegations to do with information provided by Business C at the point of sale. However, I 
disagree. Under s.75 CCA, GE Money is required to consider claims for 
misrepresentation and/or breach of contract. And clearly allegations of misrepresentation 
are to do with information provided by the supplier of a product or service at the point of 
sale. 
However, for reasons that Ill go on to explain, I dont think this ultimately makes a 
difference to the outcome of this complaint. 
Was the claim under s.75 CCA brought in time?
Mr and Mrs K say that Business C misrepresented to them the nature and benefits of 
the timeshare agreement, so they say GE Money is jointly liable under s.75 CCA and as 
such they have brought a like claim. But if GE Money could show the claim was 
brought outside of the time limits set out in the LA, it would be entitled to rely on the LA 
as a defence to answering the claim. I should make it clear however that Im not 
deciding if any right that Mr and Mrs K may have to bring these claims has expired 
under the LA - thats a matter for the courts. In this decision Im considering if GE Money 
acted fairly and reasonably in turning down Mr and Mrs Ks claims.
A claim for misrepresentation against the supplier would be ordinarily brought under s.2(1) 
of the Misrepresentation Act 1967. And it was held in Laws v. The Society of Lloyds [2003] 
EWCA 1887 that this type of claim is an action founded in tort covered by s.2 LA or an 
action brought for a sum recoverable by statute within s.9 LA. Under both of those 
provisions, a claimant has a period of six years to bring a claim from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued.The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point in time that everything needed to 
make a legal claim occurred. So, in Mr and Mrs Ks case, thats when they could have 
brought a claim for misrepresentation against Business C or a like claim against GE Money. 
I think that was the date they entered into the agreement to buy the timeshare  which was 
in April 2007. It was at that time that they entered into an agreement based, they say, on 
the misrepresentations of Business C. And they say, had the misrepresentations not been 
made, they wouldnt have bought the timeshare. So, it was on that day that they suffered a 
loss, as they took out the loan from GE Money.
It follows, therefore, that I think the cause of action accrued in April 2007. Mr and Mrs K 
had six years from then to make a claim. But they didnt try to contact GE Money about 
their claim until June 2018, which was outside of the time limits set out in the LA. So, 
although GE Money didnt initially deal with the claim, I think it ultimately acted fairly when 
it eventually turned down the misrepresentation claim.
The claim under s.140A CCA
Under this section a court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a 
credit agreement if it decides that the relationship between the debtor and the creditor 
arising out of the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make such a 
determination but I think this is relevant law and I have taken it into account.
In its final response letter, GE Money suggested that s.140A CCA doesnt apply, 
because the agreement ended before 6 April 2008. That would be true if the 
agreement began before 6 April 2007. However, the agreement began on 
10 April 2007. As such, s140A does apply.
However, GE Money has provided evidence to show that Mr and Mrs Ks agreement was 
paid off in April 2008 and I havent been provided with anything else to suggest this is 
incorrect. 
The LA applies to a claim under s.140A CCA too. It was held in Patel v. Patel [2009] 
EWHC 3264 (QB) that when considering s.140A CCA, the time for limitation purposes ran 
from the date that the credit agreement ended if it was not still running at the time the claim 
was made. And as the limitation period is six years, Mr and Mrs K had to make their claim 
within six years of April 2008. As they didnt do that, theyre likely to have made the claim 
too late.
GE Money initially didnt deal with the claim. But for the reasons set out above, I dont think 
it would have upheld the claim if it had properly considered it. So, I dont think it needs to 
do anything further.
Ive thought about whether there is anything else that extends the time period under the 
LA. But having done this, I dont think there is. 
Ive already said its ultimately for the courts to decide whether or not any claim that 
Mr and Mrs K may have against the supplier or GE Money has expired under the LA. But, 
as far as I can see from the information available, any claim that Mr and Mrs K might have 
against the supplier and/or GE Money has most likely exceeded the time limits set out in 
the LA. I think it is reasonable to take this into account in these circumstances. And as a 
result, I am not persuaded that GE Money acted unfairly in not dealing with the claim 
properly. Unaffordable lending
Mr and Mrs K say they werent able to afford the loan and that there was no assessment of 
their creditworthiness before the loan was granted. 
But the assertion that GE Money lent to Mr and Mrs K irresponsibly was framed as giving 
rise to an unfair debtor-creditor relationship under Section 140A. And Ive already explained 
why I think that claim is likely to fall outside of the time limit set by the LA. 
Lending money under a regulated credit agreement of the kind in question was an activity 
covered by our jurisdiction on 10 April 2007. But Mr and Mrs K have provided very little 
detail about this particular allegation. And even if I were to find GE Money didnt do 
everything that it should have when it agreed to lend (and I make no such finding), in order 
to uphold this complaint on that basis, Id have to be satisfied that the lending was 
unaffordable for Mr and Mrs K and that they lost out as a result.
I havent seen any evidence to show that Mr and Mrs K had any affordability issues during 
the life of this loan. Theres nothing to suggest that they struggled to meet the loan 
repayments - for example - or otherwise had financial problems during the relevant time. 
So, there is insufficient evidence for me to uphold this complaint for this reason.
As regards GE Moneys offer of £50 for an administrative error, this seems reasonable 
enough to me. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint against GE Money 
Consumer Lending Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Ben Brewer
Ombudsman