DRN-2489753
The complaint
Mr B complains that Creation Financial Services Limited (Creation) sold his account to a 
third party without telling him.
  
What happened
Mr B had a credit card account with Creation. In March 2019, he contacted Creation and
explained that, following a change in his circumstances, he was struggling to meet the
payments on his card. He agreed a repayment plan with Creation, and this was put in place
for six months. Mr B made all the payments in line with the plan. In October 2019, he
contacted Creation again. He explained that he needed a bit longer to get things back on
track. Creation agreed to a new repayment plan on the same terms, for a further six months.
Around eight days after the new repayment plan was agreed, Creation sold Mr Bs account
to a debt purchase company, which Ill call L. Creation didnt tell Mr B it was going to do this.
He found out from a relative after it had happened. L sent a letter about Mr Bs outstanding
balance to his relatives address. It appears that this was on the basis of a historic financial
connection. But Mr B hadnt been in contact with this relative for many years. The contact
from L created a very awkward situation and Mr B says it has placed a strain on family
relationships. In addition, because Mr B hadnt heard of L, he says he was concerned as to 
whether the letter was genuine. He called them and also contacted Creation, who told him 
that his account had been sold to L.
Mr B says that it was unreasonable for Creation to sell his account without giving him notice.
He complained to Creation, who initially rejected the complaint. It said that it was entitled to
pass his account to L and that he would have received a letter telling him of its decision to do
so. But Creation later reviewed its response and acknowledged that it hadnt written to Mr B
before the sale to L. It says that the usual process is for L to write and inform the customer
after the account has been transferred. Because the information in its response letter had
been wrong, Creation paid Mr B £50 for the inconvenience.
Mr B wasnt happy with Creations response and asked this service to look at the complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Creation had acted fairly and recommended that it pay further
compensation of £300 to Mr B. Creation didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me to 
be reviewed. I issued a provisional decision on 1 December 2020. I provisionally upheld the 
complaint and indicated that I thought Creation should pay Mr B compensation of £150, in 
addition to the £50 it has already paid.
Mr B accepted the provisional decision. But Creation didnt agree. It says that it hasnt made 
any mistakes here because it was entitled to sell Mr Bs account and that it was for L to 
communicate this to Mr B. It says that Mr Bs stress and shock at finding out that his account 
had been sold wasnt over and above the stress and shock any customer would experience 
when finding out that their account had been sold. As to the letter which was sent to Mr Bs 
relative, Creation says this was sent by L and wasnt Creations fault.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent been provided with any new information, but Ive looked at everything again and 
considered the points put forward by Creation in response to my provisional decision. I 
realise my decision will be disappointing to Creation, but I havent seen anything which 
changes my mind about the appropriate outcome here. Ive taken into account the fact that 
Creation was entitled to sell Mr Bs account under the accounts terms and conditions. And 
that it didnt have to write to Mr B first to tell him this  it could leave it for L to tell him 
afterwards. But, having considered the particular circumstances of Mr Bs complaint, I dont 
think reliance on the terms and conditions alone reflects Mr Bs experience or produces a fair 
outcome here. So my findings below are largely unchanged from those set out in my 
provisional decision.
 
Creation agreed a new repayment plan with Mr B just days before his account was sold. Mr
B had been in contact with Creation over a period of several months and had made it aware
of his personal circumstances. From his point of view, he had a relationship with Creation
and had come to an arrangement with it which acknowledged and reflected his
circumstances. He has explained how it was a relief to have been able to come to this
arrangement. It was therefore a shock to him to find out that his account had been sold to a
debt purchase company.
This raised many questions for Mr B and caused a great deal of anxiety. At first, he couldnt
be sure whether the letter was genuine, and he was concerned it could be a scam. He had
to contact L and Creation himself to find out. And he didnt know what the implications were
or how this affected the repayment plan he had just agreed. Having pro-actively come to an
arrangement with his credit card provider to manage his debt, he was now facing
uncertainty. Although this was relatively short lived, as he was able to speak to Creation and
L to find out what had happened, Mr B has described the impact of the situation, which he
found very stressful.
I think, in the circumstances here, its reasonable to expect that Creation would have told Mr
B that his account would be sold when discussing the new repayment plan with him. But
Creation says that it wasnt considering selling the account at the time the repayment plan
was agreed. So it says the call handler wouldnt have been aware of it and couldnt have told
Mr B about it. Ive no reason to doubt that the person who agreed the repayment plan over
the phone didnt know the account would be sold. But I think its fair to say that, by agreeing
the new repayment plan, Creation gave Mr B the reasonable expectation that his relationship
with it would continue at least in the very short term. I dont think a customer in his position
would expect the situation to change within days. Its against this background that I think the 
shock and distress experienced by Mr B goes beyond that which many customers might 
experience upon learning that their account has been sold to a debt purchase company.
Mr B thought hed got his account under control and didnt have to worry about it
for the next few months. Creation didnt make him aware (even in general terms) of the
possibility that he could be pursued by another firm (whether L or any other business) who
might purchase the debt. And it couldnt guarantee that the repayment plan would
remain in place after it sold the account, because L wasnt under an obligation to
continue the arrangement. So, just days before the sale to L, Creation had agreed 
something with Mr B which it couldnt be sure would continue. I dont think that was 
reasonable. 
The letter Mr B received from L didnt say that the arrangement would continue. The wording
suggested that the full outstanding balance was due, or that Mr B would need to agree a
new repayment plan. Mr B has described the stress this letter caused. Receiving a letterfrom a debt purchase company during a difficult period, when Mr B thought hed already got
an arrangement in place, had a significant impact. The letter was sent by L, so the wording
wasnt within Creations control. But the impact of it is a direct result of Creations decision to
sell the account at that time without making Mr B aware.
I understand that L has agreed to continue the repayment plan which Mr B had agreed with
Creation. So Mr B isnt worse off financially as a result of the account having been sold. But I
dont think that negates the initial stress which was caused by Creations decision to sell the
account at that point in time without telling Mr B it was going to do so.
The way Mr B found out about the sale to L was very unfortunate. That letter wouldnt
have been sent to his relatives address if the account hadnt been sold. But I dont think it
was an inevitable consequence of the sale to L that this happened. And Im satisfied that
Creation didnt pass on the relatives details to L. So I cant fairly say that Creation is
responsible to any great extent for this unfortunate incident or the associated difficulties
within the family. But the fact that Creation didnt tell Mr B that it was selling his account
meant that he was on the back foot and couldnt explain what the letter was about, which he
says made the contact with family members more difficult and caused suspicion.
In making this decision, Ive carefully considered the fact that Creation was entitled to sell 
the account and it didnt have to give Mr B prior notice. But I dont think reliance on the terms 
and conditions alone produces a fair outcome here. Creations decision to sell the account 
without telling Mr B, within days of agreeing a new repayment plan with him, had a negative 
impact on Mr B and caused unnecessary stress, beyond the inevitable stress involved where 
an account is passed to a debt purchase company. 
Putting things right
Our awards are intended to reflect the impact of a situation on the customer and put that 
right, so far as possible. The impact here was significant and I dont think Creation has 
recognised that to date. The compensation it has paid to Mr B so far was for a mistake in the 
final response letter, not for any of the issues outlined above. So I think Creation needs to 
pay some further compensation to Mr B. Taking everything into account, I think a further 
payment of £150 is fair here.
 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. My final decision is that Creation Financial 
Services Limited must pay further compensation of £150 to Mr B.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2021.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman