DRN-3938461
The complaint
Mr R complains about the way Skyfire Insurance Company Limited (Skyfire) cancelled his 
car insurance policy and how this has been recorded on the insurance database.  
What happened
Mr R says he met an individual through a mutual friend and asked him to help take out an 
insurance policy on his behalf on the understanding that he was a legitimate broker. Mr R 
says he sent his details to the individual who then confirmed to Mr R that he was now 
insured. Around six weeks later, and after Skyfire undertook some checks, they contacted 
Mr R to say his policy would be cancelled as hed used an unauthorised broker  also 
referred to as a ghost broker. The policy was then cancelled and Mr R says Skyfire reported 
this on the insurance database as fraud, so he complained. Skyfire responded and explained 
theyd made the correct decision to cancel the policy and were unable to amend how theyd 
logged the cancellation. They also explained this was a material fact which would need to be 
declared to any future insurer. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr R. He thought Skyfire had acted unreasonably in 
the way in which they cancelled the policy so he recommended they remove the record of 
them cancelling the policy from any database and also pay Mr R £400 compensation. Mr R 
agreed but Skyfire disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation here is a fair way to resolve matters. 
My starting point is Mr Rs car insurance policy booklet. This sets out the terms and 
conditions and, under the heading Fraud it says, If you or anyone acting for you buys a 
policy with the insurer using an unauthorised intermediary or insurance broker, your policy 
will be cancelled 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that Mr R used an unauthorised broker to take out 
the policy. So, I cant say Skyfire have acted against the terms and conditions by cancelling 
the policy once they became aware of discrepancies that were linked to the ghost broker. 
But, Ive looked to see whether, in the circumstances of this case, this was a reasonable 
step for Skyfire to take. 
Mr R says he placed his trust in the ghost broker as they shared a mutual friend. He says, 
not only did the ghost broker refer to himself as a broker, but his friend also assured Mr R he 
was a broker. And given that Mr R met him face to face and Mr R was assured by his friend 
he would get a better price by using him, he believed he was a legitimate broker. Mr R says 
he made no payment to the ghost broker but to the insurer direct. Mr R has also provided 
screenshots of a text message he received from the ghost broker and his response. Ive 
seen these and the ghost brokers text asks for information to help him apply for a policy on 
Mr Rs behalf. This includes key questions which many, if not all, insurers ask during the 
sales journey  and Mr R provides his response to these by text. I understand Mr R then 
received the policy documents, and the Statement of Fact and Policy Schedule records the 
same information which Mr R provided in his text response to the ghost broker. 
Skyfire have provided details of their call with Mr R which they believe shows Mr R knew or 
shouldve known hed used a ghost broker. During this call, Mr R explains he was sat with 
his friend of 10 years when he took out the policy  and he asked him to arrange this as     
Mr R didnt know how to do it. The call handler then asks Mr R where the policy was taken 
out and Mr R informs them of the city and area. The call handler asks for the ghost brokers 
full name, but Mr R is only able to give his first name. Skyfire say Mr R claimed his friend 
took out the policy, but he couldnt provide further information about them even though he 
claimed he knew them for 10 years. 
Ive considered both parties accounts and the information, and carefully thought about 
whether I believe Mr R shouldve known or at least realised something wasnt right. And Im 
persuaded by Mr Rs account that he genuinely believed he was dealing with a legitimate 
broker. Theres two points here which I find most persuasive, firstly, the questions asked by 
the ghost broker are all relevant and necessary questions asked during a sales journey. 
Secondly, the documents Mr R received had the correct details on them and they recorded 
the answers given by Mr R to those questions. I understand why Skyfire would be suspicious 
about Mr R not knowing more information about someone he claims to have known for 10 
years. But Mr Rs account of how he met this individual does provide a reasonable 
explanation on why he didnt have any further details beyond those he provided during the 
call. So, even though Mr R only has limited information about the ghost broker, this doesnt 
demonstrate that he clearly knew or should reasonably have known the individual was a 
ghost broker. 
Given the information Ive seen, I believe Mr R has been the victim of a ghost broker here. 
So, I dont think it was fair and reasonable for Skyfire to cancel his policy without giving him 
the option of cancelling it himself first. I think if Skyfire had given Mr R the option of 
cancelling his policy himself, instead of them cancelling it, its most likely he wouldve taken 
that option. So, to put things right I think Skyfire should record the cancellation as though   
Mr R had cancelled it. They should also update any internal or external databases to show 
Mr R hasnt had this policy cancelled by them. Mr R says theres now a fraud marker 
showing on an insurance database which relates to this policy. If that is the case, then given 
that I dont believe Mr R was aware or shouldve been aware hed used a ghost broker, I 
dont think its fair for a fraud marker to be recorded against Mr R here. So, Skyfire should 
remove this from any database to ensure it doesnt appear against Mr R. 
Finally, I can see this has caused Mr R a significant amount of upset, worry and 
inconvenience. Mr R explains he has had another policy cancelled as a result of the fraud 
marker and hes now finding it difficult to obtain another policy. I dont think a cancellation in 
the circumstances of this case was unreasonable but, had Skyfire given Mr R the opportunity 
to cancel the policy himself, its unlikely he wouldve faced these ongoing difficulties. So, I 
think Skyfire should pay Mr R £400 in compensation for the impact their error has had on 
him as well as the inability to gain insurance elsewhere at a competitive price.
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Skyfire have made an error in not allowing Mr R the opportunity to 
cancel his policy himself. So, Skyfire should record the cancellation as though Mr R had 
cancelled it. They should also update any internal or external databases to show Mr R hasnt 
had this policy cancelled by them. Skyfire should remove the fraud marker against Mr R. 
Skyfire should also pay Mr R compensation of £400.  My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Skyfire Insurance Company Limited must 
take the steps in accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman