DRN-4137646
The complaint
Mr B complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF)  has unfairly turned down his claims under sections 75 and 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).  
What happened
On or around 27 April 2010 (the Time of the sale), Mr B purchased additional points in a 
holiday club membership provided by a timeshare supplier (who I shall refer to as C). The 
points purchased were in addition to points already held, and the total cost of £5,894 was 
funded by entering into a fixed sum loan agreement with BPF in Mr Bs name1.
In January 2018, using a professional representative (PR), Mr B made a number of claims 
to BPF under the CCA. The initial letter of claim/complaint, along with subsequent 
submissions made by PR, runs to several pages. So, it isnt practical to repeat them in full 
here. But I will provide a summary of the key points below.
PR alleged that Mr B purchased the membership points having relied upon 
misrepresentations made by C and, under section 75 of the CCA (S75), BPF is jointly liable 
for those misrepresentations. PR also said that those misrepresentations, amongst other 
things, led to an unfair debtor-creditor relationship under section 140A of the CCA (S140A).
In particular, PR suggest that the following statements of misrepresentation were made by C 
as benefits of purchasing the additional membership points:
they would reduce the annual membership charges per point held;
they would provide better benefits such as being able to bank points for a longer 
period of time; and 
Mr B would be able to holiday at any resort in the portfolio range including at high 
season with accommodation of the same standard or better than currently enjoying.
The PR also made the following comments in support of why they believe the debtor-creditor 
relationship is unfair under S140A:
Mr B didnt receive a disclosure statement or, if he did, he didnt have adequate time 
to review it;
the compliance officer involved in the transaction wasnt impartial and didnt ensure 
Mr B was free from influence of misrepresentation;
the duration and/or obligation to pay management charges for the duration is unfair 
under the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contract Regulations 1999 (UTCCR);
the sales process, including untrue statements in relation to the main characteristics 
of the product, was unfair under Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading 
Regulations 2008 (CPRs). Specifically:
oC used aggressive sales tactics by targeting Mr B after being supplied with 
alcohol;
1 While the purchase was actually made in the joint names of Mr and Mrs B, the loan is in Mr Bs sole name. 
So, I will only refer to Mr B throughout this decision as he is the only person eligible to make this complaint.
oC falsely stated that the product was only available for a limited time or on 
particular terms for a limited time;
oC created the impression Mr B couldnt leave the presentation until a contract 
was formed; and
othere was no guaranteed end date of Mr Bs liability under the scheme;
Mr B discovered the loan was subject to a significantly higher rate of interest than 
that being provided by other lenders;
BPF didnt undertaken an assessment of affordability; and the features of the finance 
werent explained.
BPF didnt uphold Mr Bs claims/complaints and didnt agree that sufficient evidence was 
provided to support the allegations. And, in any event, thought that any claim under S75 was 
out of time under DISP 2.8.2(2) of the Dispute Rules within the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) Handbook. BPF also said that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to hold them 
responsible for any omissions or failings made by C or that there were any other reasons to 
uphold Mr Bs claims/complaints.
Mr B didnt agree with how BPF had considered his complaint, or their findings. He also said 
their response incorrectly referred to various statements and allegations he hadnt, in fact, 
made in his original complaint.
The PR referred Mr Bs complaint to this service, and in doing so referenced various 
legislation, regulations and published studies and findings that they believe apply generically 
to the sale of timeshare products. In particular, they referred to their application and 
relevance to the sale of Fractional2 timeshares. But in this case, a points-based product 
was purchased rather than a Fractional product.
One of our investigators issued their thoughts on Mr Bs claim/complaint having considered 
all the evidence and information available (The first view). In doing so, they didnt think Mr 
Bs complaint should be upheld. Specifically, our investigator didnt think there was sufficient 
evidence available to support the various allegations and so didnt think there was enough to 
suggest the product sold had been misrepresented to him. Our investigator also didnt think 
it was likely that a court would conclude that Cs actions, as an agent of BPF, led to an unfair 
debtor-creditor relationship under S140A.
Mr B remained unhappy with our investigators findings and responded pointing out various 
discrepancies and disagreements about how his complaint had been reviewed and 
considered. These included that various points of dispute considered didnt form part of his 
original complaint. 
Mr Bs complaint was further reviewed by another of this services investigators. As part of 
that review, the investigator requested more information in relation to the suggestion that Mr 
Bs credit worthiness hadnt been assessed at the time of sale. It appears limited information 
and evidence was available although the PR did confirm that while the loan and repayments 
were affordable at the time of the sale, there was a subsequent change in Mr Bs financial 
circumstances.
The second investigator issued a summary of their own thoughts on Mr Bs complaint (The 
second view). In doing so, they also didnt think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. In 
particular, the investigator though that any claim under S75 had been brought too late. They 
also didnt think it likely a court would conclude that the debtor-creditor relationship was 
unfair.
As Mr B remained unhappy with our investigators second view, PR asked that his complaint 
be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. PR confirmed that they also wished to rely 
2 A Fractional Timeshare ordinarily involves an equity stake in specifically nominated property/ies.on a 46-page document produced by a barrister containing Generic submissions on behalf 
of complainants, which relates specifically to complaints about the sale of points products 
by C.
Having considered the relevant information about this complaint, while I ultimately came to 
the same outcome as our investigator, Id considered certain issues not previously 
addressed. Because of that, I issued a provisional decision on 27 April 2023  giving both Mr 
B and BPF the opportunity to respond to my findings before I reached a final decision.
In my provisional decision, I said:
Relevant Considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) Handbook means Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
S75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. Mr 
B paid for the timeshare points with a restricted use fixed sum loan agreement, and it 
isnt in dispute that S75 applies here. So, this means that Mr B is afforded the 
protection offered to borrowers like him under those provisions. And as a result, Ive 
taken this section into account when deciding whats fair in the circumstances of this 
case.
S140A looks at the fairness of the relationship between Mr B and BPF arising out of 
the credit agreement (taken together with any related agreement). And because the 
points product purchased was funded under the credit agreement, it is deemed to be 
a related agreement. Only a court has the power to make a determination under 
S140A. But as its relevant law, Ive considered it when deciding what I believe is fair 
and reasonable. 
Given the facts of Mr Bs complaint, relevant law also includes the Limitation Act 
1980 (LA). This is because the original transaction - the purchase funded by a loan 
with BPF - took place around April 2010. Only a court is able to make a ruling under 
the LA, but as its relevant law, Ive considered the effect this might also have.
BPFs response to Mr Bs complaint/claim suggests that any claim for 
misrepresentation was brought too late under DISP 2.8.2(2). The FCAs DISP rules 
specifically relate to complaints about regulated financial products or services and 
provides rules and guidance about what this service is able to consider. Its important 
to recognise that the complaint being considered here specifically relates to whether I 
believe BPFs response to Mr Bs claim was fair and reasonable given all the 
evidence and information available to me. This service is not afforded powers to 
decide or make findings on legal claims.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, my 
decision is made on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive 
based it on what I think is more likely than not to have happened given the evidence 
thats available from the time and the wider circumstances. In doing so, my role isnt 
necessarily to address every single point thats been made in my decision. And for 
that reason, Im only going to refer to what I believe are the most salient points 
having considered everything thats been said and provided.
Its also relevant to stress that this services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution 
Service (ADR) is to provide mediation in the event of a dispute. While the decision of 
an ombudsman can be legally binding, if accepted by the consumer, we do not 
provide a legal service. And as Ive already said, this service isnt able to make legal 
findings  that is the role of the courts. Where a consumer doesnt accept the findings of an ombudsman, this doesnt prejudice their right to pursue their claim in other 
ways.
Mr Bs timeshare product experience
In addition to the above, I think its relevant to acknowledge Mr Bs dealings and 
experiences with C first started in December 2000 when he first purchased a 
timeshare membership product from them.  In May 2001, he purchased a full Points 
Membership which replaced his previous membership with an allocation of 1,501 
points. Mr B made subsequent points purchases as follows:
November 2001  purchased a further 500 points;
April 2002  purchased a further 500 points;
November 2002  purchased a further 1,000 points;
The purchase completed in April 2010 afforded Mr B a further 501 points bringing his 
total holding to 4,002 points. Its this purchase that is the subject of Mr Bs 
complaint/claim here.
Ive seen a summary of Mr Bs reservation history which provides details of 
bookings/holidays taken using his points allocation(s) over the years. From his initial 
purchase in December 2000 to April 2010, Mr B successfully booked and utilised 
holiday bookings every year on 18 occasions for durations of between two and 14 
days. In total, Mr B benefitted from 24 weeks of holidays at resorts and 
accommodation available under his timeshare points scheme with C.
Since the points purchase in April 2010, Mr B made a further 23 bookings up to 
January 2018 for periods of either one or two weeks each time. Of these, nine 
bookings were cancelled, and one wasnt attended. 
So, based upon this information, I think its reasonable to conclude that Mr B had a 
reasonably strong awareness about the products hed purchased, how they operated 
and any associated costs.
The claim of misrepresentation under S75
The PR says the supplier misrepresented various aspects of the points purchase 
agreement and benefits to Mr B when he bought it, And the PR believe this brings 
cause for a claim under S75.
But a section 75 claim is an action (that is, court action) to recover any sum by virtue 
of any enactment under section 9 of the LA. And the limitation period under that 
provision is six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued. So here, 
Mr B had to make a claim within six years of when he entered into the purchase 
contract and credit agreement  which the PR confirm was in April 2010. Thats 
because this is when they say Mr B lost out having relied upon the alleged false 
statements of fact at that time.
Details of the alleged misrepresentations were submitted by the PR to BPF in 
January 2018. But as this is almost eight years after Mr B first says he lost out; I 
believe a court is likely to find that any claim falls outside of the time limit permitted in 
the LA. And as I dont believe there are any circumstances or provisions that may 
lead to that limitation being postponed here, I dont think I can fairly say that BPFs 
response ultimately appears unreasonable. 
The unfair relationship claim under S140A
A claim under S140A is a claim for a sum recoverable by statute  which is also 
governed by Section 9 of the LA. As a result, the time limit for making such a claim is 
six years from the date on which the cause for action accrued. However, in determining whether or not the relationship complained of was unfair, 
the High Courts decision in Patel v Patel (2009) decided this could only be 
determined by having regard to the entirety of the relationship and all potentially 
relevant matters up to the time of making the determination. In that case, that was 
the date of the trial or otherwise the date the relationship ended.
So, having considered this, I believe the trigger point here is slightly different. Any 
relationship between Mr B and BPF continues while the finance agreement remains 
live. So, that relationship only ends once the agreement ends and the borrowing 
under it has been repaid. And as Mr Bs loan remained outstanding at the time of the 
claim, I believe any claim under S140A is likely to have been made in time under the 
provisions of the LA.
Misrepresentation
Under S140A, in determining if the relationship is unfair, the courts must have regard 
for anything done (or not done) by or on behalf of the creditor. So, I think the 
alleged misrepresentations were, therefore, relevant here. Even though I dont think 
they can be considered under S75 due to limitation. 
The PR have provided limited details and evidence to support the representations Mr 
B says C made. Ive not been provided with any specific statements from Mr B 
setting out his direct memories but acknowledge that he does say he was told these 
things. So, Ive thought about this alongside the evidence thats available from the 
time of the sale. In doing so, I havent seen or been provided with any documentation 
from the time of the sale which supports what Mr B says he was told or that what was 
said amounted to misrepresentation. Specifically:
I havent found any evidence to confirm that C told Mr B that purchase of the 
additional points would reduce the annual membership charges per point 
held. Or that having completed the purchase, the membership charge per 
point didnt in fact reduce when compared to what the charge wouldve been 
under his previous points holding.
I havent seen any evidence from the time of the sale which confirms that C 
told Mr B hed be able to bank points for a longer period (than he previously 
could). And even if that was the case, Ive not been provided with anything 
that suggests or supports that Mr B wasnt able to do that or had even 
attempted to do so.
I havent seen any evidence that Mr B was unable to book holidays at any of 
the resorts in Cs portfolio range at any particular time, or that the standard of 
accommodation booked differed from what he says hed been told. And in any 
event, I think its unlikely a holiday company would be able to guarantee a 
certain level of availability given peak times and popular destinations would 
likely be in high demand and sell out first.
Ive gone on to consider the various points raised by the PR as to why they believe 
the debtor-creditor relationship was unfair under S140A.
Disclosure Statement
PRs letter of complaint appears unclear about whether Mr B received a copy of this 
document or not. So, Ive considered the documentation from the time of the sale.
Point 16 of the Members Declaration states, We have received a copy of our 
Agreement together with the notices required under the Timeshare Act 1992 (as 
amended) and a Disclosure Statement (January 2010). Mr B appears to have signed 
the declaration and initialled next to this point. So, in the absence of an evidence to 
the contrary, Ive no reason to conclude that Mr B didnt receive this document. PR suggest Mr B wasnt given time to consider the Disclosure Statement. But point 
17 of the Members Declaration states, We have read and fully understand the 
above, and appears to have also been initialled by Mr B. Further, the Acquisition 
Agreement Terms and Conditions dated 27 April 2010 includes a section headed (in 
capital letter), Important  You should read this carefully. Your right to cancel this 
agreement. It provides Mr B with a period of 14 days in which he may cancel the 
agreement under any circumstances. The evidence shows that the purchase wasnt 
completed until 12 May 2010. So, despite signing and initialling the declaration, even 
if Mr B ultimately felt he hadnt been given sufficient time to consider the 
documentation and his proposed purchase, I believe he had sufficient time, 
thereafter, to cancel the transaction if he wanted to. And Ive seen no evidence he 
chose or attempted to do so.
The compliance officer
Ive not seen any evidence from the time of the sale that supports Mr Bs 
recollections that Cs compliance officer was presented as being impartial. My 
understanding is that it was the compliance officers role to ensure that all required 
regulatory documentation had been provided and completed in order to meet Cs 
responsibilities under the various legislative and regulatory requirements 
independently from Cs sales representative. 
Even if I was to find that the compliance officer failed to ensure Mr B was free from 
influence or misrepresentation  and I make no such finding  it appears Mr B still 
retained the benefit of the14-day cooling off period, should he decide to change his 
mind.
Management charges
PR argues that the duration of the membership and the associated ongoing 
obligation to pay management charges until Mr B is able to exit, created an unfair 
debtor-creditor relationship between him and BPF.
Its important to consider how the membership operated in practice, including how Mr 
B could exit the contract beyond the initial 14-day cooling off period. 
PR havent provided all the related documentation that governs the points 
membership held by Mr B. But this service has seen various membership 
documentation. Although not necessarily from the time of the sale, they ultimately 
apply to the membership Mr B holds. In particular, documentation from October 
2010, and where subsequently updated in December 2015. So, Ive considered if 
these couldve led to unfairness.
Article 123, October 2010 details what happens if a member fails to pay the due 
charge. They include extensive powers for C to make such debts immediately 
payable. C could also remove a members points or membership. I cannot see any 
de minimis debt clause.
In December 2015, article 12.2.7 introduced the concept of membership suspension, 
rather than removal. And the scheme regulations were also amended. I believe this 
meant that members fees didnt continue to accrue during suspension. And based 
upon this, I think its unlikely a court would consider the suspension terms created an 
unfair debtor-creditor relationship.
I also note that the courts previously held that a clause within the acquisition 
agreement created an unfair debtor-creditor relationship. But its important to 
consider each case on its own merits. The presence of an unfair, or potentially unfair 
term alone wont, in my view, mean a court would automatically deem the 
3 of Cs articles of associationrelationship unfair. And in Mr Bs case, I havent seen (and it hasnt been alleged) 
that terms have been applied or operated unfairly against him.
Under article 7.2, a member could give notice to terminate. When read in conjunction 
with article 7.5, I believe a member wasnt obliged to pay outstanding fees before 
being able to give notice to terminate. Any outstanding fees and charges that would 
still be payable - including in the current year - could be paid after giving termination 
notice. So, I dont believe they would continue to accrue, and membership would, 
therefore, be suspended.
Either way, Mr B has options, including termination or suspension with possible 
reinstatement. The latter could be more favourable. So, I think its unlikely a court 
would say this created an unfair relationship.
Ive also considered article 12.5. Specifically in relation to liability for interest and 
legal costs. There isnt any suggestion that C has had to pay any of these. So, in this 
instance, I cant see that this is likely to have created an unfair relationship either.
The sales process
Various allegations have been made by the PR about the process and tactics used 
by C as part of the sales presentation at the time. But I havent seen any evidence 
from the time, or statements to support those allegations. Theyre supplemented by a 
number of points included in the Counsels Submission in allegations of pressure. 
However, these were generic points and not specific to Mr Bs recollections of the 
sale. So, I dont think they offered much help in making factual findings of pressure in 
Mr Bs case.
Its accepted that Mr B has benefited from membership of Cs products/schemes 
since late 2000. And the subject transaction of his complaint here was the sixth such 
purchase hed completed in almost ten years. Importantly, it related to the purchase 
of additional points to supplement his existing points holding. It wasnt a new product 
purchase and Mr B wasnt a new customer.
Furthermore, Mr B booked and benefitted from holidays under his points membership 
every year during that period. So, I dont think its unreasonable to conclude that he 
had experience and knowledge of the operation of, and benefits associated with, Cs 
products and processes.
Its also reasonable to conclude that Mr B is likely to have attended a number of 
meetings with Cs representatives during that period. And because of that, he 
benefitted from a growing level of experience about what he could expect from those 
meetings and sales presentations.
In deciding whether to make a determination under S140A, the court shall have 
regard to all matters it thinks are relevant (including matters relating to the creditor 
[BPF] and matters relating to the debtor4 [Mr B]).
Whilst there might be potential for a court to decide that some of the allegations 
might have led to an unfair debtor-creditor relationship here, I think such a decision is 
likely to be taken within the context of Mr Bs overall experience. And because of 
that, I think it unlikely a court would determine there was sufficient imbalance to 
deem the debtor-creditor relationship as unfair here. 
The loan interest rate
PR suggest that Mr B, upon discovering the interest rate on his loan with BPF, 
thought this was significantly higher than that being provided by other lenders. Again, 
Ive seen no evidence of rates offered by other lenders at the time of the sale. Neither 
4 CCA section 140A (2)is there any suggestion (or conditionality  as far as I can see) that prevented Mr B 
from choosing to fund his purchase using alternative methods or lenders here.
The loan agreement includes a prominent section, immediately above where Mr B 
signed it, which explains his right to cancel in clear to read capital letters. It provides 
14-days in which Mr B couldve chosen to cancel the loan without any cost or 
detriment to him. The loan agreement also clearly shows the interest rate that 
applied. Ive found no evidence or seen any suggestion that Mr B questioned the 
interest rate or voiced any concerns or an intention to cancel the loan application at 
the time. 
In any event, UTCCR excludes from any assessment of fairness any term which 
relates to the price of goods or services. The interest rate in a loan agreement is, in 
my view, part of the price of the loan. So, I dont believe I could properly uphold this 
part of Mr Bs complaint.
The credit assessment
PR claim that neither C nor BPF completed a credit worthiness assessment in 
accordance with the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) guide to irresponsible lending. 
They also refer to the rules and procedures set out in the CONC5. The latter didnt 
apply here as CONC didnt come into force until after Mr Bs loan was applied for and 
approved.
BPF told this service that they adhere to a strict lending criteria and that Mr Bs 
application was checked and approved at the time to ensure it met their lending 
requirements. They add that the application was processed after assessment of Mr 
Bs credit file (with the credit reference agencies) and his credit score was deemed to 
be at a sufficient level for them to agree his application.
BPF havent provided specific evidence of their credit assessment or details of Mr Bs 
credit file or credit score at the time. And given the passage of time, I wouldnt 
reasonably expect that information to still be readily available. But I have seen a copy 
of the credit application Mr B completed at the time of the sale which included his 
personal details together with his earnings and employment situation.
If I were to find that BPF hadnt completed all the required checks and tests  and I 
make no such finding  I would need to be satisfied that had such checks been 
completed, they would have revealed that the loan repayments werent sustainably 
affordable to Mr B in order to uphold his complaint here.
A statement of Mr Bs loan account with BPF shows that the direct debit for his 
monthly repayments was returned unpaid in each of the first six months of the loan 
term. But Ive not been provided with any explanation of why that was. In any event, 
each payment was subsequently and successfully paid by Mr B within the month it 
was due.
Although requested, neither Mr B or PR have been able to provide any specific 
evidence or information about Mr Bs financial circumstances at the time of the sale. 
But PR did tell this service, the loan and repayments were affordable at the time 
the transaction took place. So, accepting that the first six payments may have 
been late, there appears to be an acceptance that this wasnt due to a lack of 
affordability on Mr Bs behalf.
PR go on to explain that Mr Bs financial circumstances were later impacted by the 
failure of his business around two years after the loan was taken. For me to uphold a 
claim here, I would have to find that any change in Mr Bs financial circumstances 
was reasonably foreseeable as part of an appropriate credit assessment. Given the 
5 The Financial Conduct Authority Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC)circumstances here, I cant reasonably say that the completion of appropriate checks 
and tests wouldve likely revealed to BPF that Mr Bs business would subsequently 
fail, adversely impacting his income. And because of that, Im not persuaded that this 
aspect should be upheld.
Summary
As Ive explained, I think any claim under S75 is likely to have been made too late 
under the provisions of the LA. I also havent found any circumstances under which I 
think a court is likely to determine that an unfair debtor-creditor relationship existed 
between Mr B and BPF as a consequence of the terms of any of the agreements, or 
the actions of C or BPF. 
With this in mind, I cant reasonably say that BPFs response to Mr Bs 
claims/complaints was ultimately unfair or unreasonable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision, BPF confirmed they had nothing further to add.
The PR said that while Mr B doesnt accept my provisional decision, he doesnt intent to 
make any further submissions.
In the circumstances, and in the absence of any new information and arguments, Ive no 
reason to vary from my provisional findings. So, I wont be asking BPF to do anything more 
here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman