DRN-2195130
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy about a change in fee structure introduced by London House Exchange 
Limited (trading as Property Partner) on his investment based crowdfunding account. He 
says the introduction of the new fee was unfair and has caused him a financial loss. 
What happened
Mr S holds a crowdfunding account on Property Partners platform  which facilitates him 
investing in shares of properties held within a special purpose vehicle (SPV). In July 2019, 
Property Partner wrote to its customers, including Mr S, to explain a change in its fee 
structure. It explained it was introducing a new Assets Under Management (AUM) fee. It told 
customers:
- from 5 August 2019, an AUM fee based on the equity value of each of part of the 
property investments value that is owned by clients would apply; 
- an AUM was the most common and important fee across the asset management 
industry, and it was essential that it implement this;
In September 2019 Mr S made a formal complaint to Property Partner about the newly 
introduced fees. He said his main issues were that Property Partner:
- changed the terms and conditions of the platform mid-term, with investors not able to 
see out their current investments under the initial agreed conditions;
- didnt provide any notice to investors that changes in fees may be forthcoming, even 
though it had actively been raising money for a number of projects;
- is planning to charge increased fees retrospectively on investments that have already 
been made and under which investors already paid fees to invest;
- is reducing the annual dividend he can expect from his portfolio by a significant 
amount;
- reduced the attractiveness of the platform by increasing the fees, which resulted in it 
becoming harder to exit without suffering losses. This was because there were fewer 
bids on the secondary market, and what bids there were may have had large 
discounts in light of the fees. 
Property Partner responded to the complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary it said:
- the new fee structure enables the business to become sustainable and 
protect/increase the capital value of its clients investments;
- had it not applied the AUM fee to clients existing investment holdings, Property 
Partner would not realise the revenue required to continue in business;
- clients have until 5 February 2020 to sell their investments on the resale market and 
have the AUM fee refunded in full.  
Mr S wasnt happy with the response, so he referred his complaint to this service for an 
independent review. 
One of investigators looked into the complaint. He didnt think it should be upheld. In short, 
he said:
- Property Partners terms and conditions did allow it to make amendments, such as 
introducing the new charges; 
- only a court could say whether the change was unfair - but we look at what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances;
- the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) guidance on the fairness of variation clauses 
in financial services consumer contracts, is a useful resource to help in looking at 
whether Property Partner acted fairly in using the clause to introduce the new fees;
- Property Partner provided sufficient reasons and information to explain why the 
charge was introduced;
- there was evidence to say Mr S was able to exit the contract because he was able to 
sell on the secondary market, albeit likely at a loss, dependent on what buyers were 
willing to pay. And Mr S was able receive a full rebate of any new fees paid provided 
this was done within six months of the fees being introduced;
- Property Partner provided notice of the fees very soon after the decision was made 
to introduce them - and Mr S hadnt suffered a loss as a result of the notice he was 
given. 
Mr S disagreed with our investigators view. In summary, he said:
- he continues to believe Property Partner treating him unfairly by implementing the 
new fees, which he hadnt originally signed up to;
- he is unconvinced of the justification around fees to make the business viable;
- there was no option to exit, other than secondary market  at depressed prices.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was referred to an ombudsman to provide 
a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ss complaint centres around the introduction of a new fee by Property Partner. He was 
given notification in July 2019 that an Assets Under Management (AUM) fee would apply 
from 5 August. This essentially meant Mr S would be paying a fee on the equity value of 
shares he owned through the platform. The result of which was his monthly dividend 
distributions would be reduced. Property Partner acknowledged this was a significant 
change for its clients and put a provision in place to refund any AUM fee that has been paid 
on shares that a customer sold on its secondary market before 5 February 2020. And at the 
same time Property Partner updated its terms and conditions to include the AUM fee. 
Property Partner has provided our service with information regarding its considerations,
including information which was shared with the FCA before making the changes. This 
included whether its terms allowed it to vary the fees charges, the notice given and whether 
customers were required to accept the new terms. 
Firstly, Ive considered the terms and conditions Property Partner has sought to rely on to 
introduce the new fees. Ive reviewed the terms that Property Partner say were applicable to 
Mr Ss account prior to the notification of the AUM  they contain the following term:
14.2 We may update these investor terms and conditions from time to time to reflect anychanges in law or for any other reason. If we update these terms and conditions, we will 
inform you as soon as practical whether by email or an alternative method such as uploading 
to the Website, and (by your continued use of the Website) you will be deemed to have 
agreed to the updated terms and conditions. You will still be bound by the previous investor 
terms and conditions that you have, or deemed to have, agreed to. If there is a conflict 
between any versions of the investor terms and conditions to which you have agreed, or 
deemed to have agreed to, the most recent version shall take precedence unless it is 
expressly stated otherwise.
Property Partner says the inclusion of this term allows it to make changes to the fees 
charged to customers. While I appreciate this is a broad term, it does support that Property 
Partner may vary its terms, but it still needed to consider the impact of any changes it makes 
on its customers. Mr S thinks its unfair for new charges to be implemented that he didnt 
originally sign up for. Its not for me to decide whether this term is fair or not  that is 
something only a court can decide. But as a regulated financial business Property Partner is 
under an obligation to treat its customers fairly. And the obligation I am under is to consider 
what is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances  which includes having consideration 
for the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of 
practice; and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
In December 2018, the FCA published guidance that outlines the factors financial services 
firms should consider under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 when drafting and reviewing 
variation terms in their consumer contracts. This is relevant guidance to help me decide 
whether Property Partner has treated Mr S in a fair and reasonable way when it introduced 
an AUM fee.  
Firstly, Ive considered whether the introduction of the fee provides a fair balance between 
the legitimate interest of the Property Partner and Mr Ss best interests. Property Partner 
says it had been experiencing difficult market conditions since mid-2016. It says the new fee 
structure enables it to become sustainable, so that it can protect and increase the capital 
value of its clients investments. It also says had it not applied the AUM fee to clients 
holdings, Property Partner would not have realised the revenue required to continue in 
business. Effectively, it is saying that it believed without making these changes there was a 
risk of loss of capital to consumers  which would be more detrimental than a new fee. 
Within the FCA guidance it says ..a variation term may indirectly serve the consumers 
interests in circumstances where other restrictions on the firm mean that the ability to flex 
rates fairly on existing products enables the firm to continue to exist and the customer to 
continue to receive the product/service in question.
So, Ive thought about this in the context of this complaint. I understand Mr S is unconvinced 
by the arguments put forward by Property Partner around its business viability being 
justification for introducing the AUM fee. As part of our investigation, Property Partner has 
provided further information to this service to support the arguments it put forward to justify 
the need for a new fee. It says this information is commercially sensitive. I am able to accept 
information in confidence and Im satisfied its appropriate to do so here.
Im satisfied, from the information Property Partner has provided to this service, that it has 
made a reasonable justification for needing to introduce a new fee and it took into account 
the needs of its customers when doing so. Its impossible for it to know exactly what 
consequences of different courses of action were. But Im persuaded it was reasonable for 
Property Partner to conclude flexing rates fairly on existing products meant it could 
continue to provide their customers, including Mr S, with the product or service they were 
now charging differently for. Ultimately, I think it was reasonable for them to conclude it was in all their clients interests to be able to carry on operating largely as it was and providing 
that same service. I am persuaded by the evidence provided that it wouldnt have been likely 
to be able to do so without introducing this fee. And Ive borne in mind the FCA guidance 
when concluding overall that Property Partner has complied with the principles and treated 
Mr S fairly by taking the decision to introduce a new fee. 
Ive also considered whether Mr S was provided with a freedom to exit if he didnt accept the 
new terms. The FCAs guidance says firms should consider a consumers right to terminate 
the contract before or shortly after any variation takes effect and whether they would be able 
to exercise the right in practice. Within the guidance it says:
firms should consider the consumers freedom to exit the contract if they do not accept 
the variation, and how they can actually do so. This should include the financial and practical 
barriers in the contractual terms which may prevent them from doing so. Examples of 
barriers could be exit charges or requiring the consumer to give a long period of notice.
Property Partner says Mr S could exit the through selling his investment on the re-sale 
market it provided. It says this allowed Mr S ability sell down his investments and terminate 
his contract  and close his account. I also note that it agreed to rebate any AUM fee paid for 
investments sold within six months of its introduction. 
Mr S disputes whether selling on the resale market is really an exit. He says he was only 
able to exit with big losses. He says the announcement of the new fee had the impact of 
depressing prices in the secondary market and caused a lack of available buyers. Property 
Partner say there was a drop in trading prices on the resale market immediately following the 
announcement, but all shares traded on its resale market have been at a price determined 
by individual willing buyers and willing sellers. So, where clients have sold at a loss 
immediately after the announcement, that was entirely at a price of their choosing.
Ive considered the arguments put forward from both parties to decide whether Mr S has 
been treated fairly in this respect. There was an active resale market made available  and 
also an ability to receive a rebate of the new fees if sold within six months. So, it is difficult to 
say Mr S couldnt exit the contract if he didnt want to accept the new terms. But I do 
appreciate Mr Ss points about the negative impact on prices the announcement initially 
caused. And Property Partner does admit this impact. Im not persuaded the pricing 
fluctuations on the resale market is sufficient to say Mr S has been treated unfairly. The 
nature of a secondary market does mean the availability to trade will depend on the demand. 
A variety of factors will determine the price. While the introduction of a new fee will be a 
factor, I conscious that this isnt the only factor affecting price and things change overtime. A 
six-month window was also given to receive a rebate on the AUM fee, so this meant Mr S 
wasnt in a position where he needed to sell his shares immediately.  I also dont think it is 
correct to say the AUM created a penalty on exit in the way Mr S describes. I appreciate    
Mr S takes a different view, but Im satisfied that Property Partner did provide him with the 
ability exit the contract if he didnt accept the new terms.   
Ive also considered the notice given to Mr S about the new fee. From the information Ive 
seen, Property Partner did inform customers very shortly after the decision was made to 
introduce an AUM fee. There were three weeks between the notice and the introduction. I 
understand Mr S did initially raise concerns about investments he made shortly before the 
announcement. However, I understand that he was able to get a return on the recent 
investment he made  without suffering a loss. So, I dont find he has been disadvantaged 
by the notice given. 
Ive also considered the wider points Mr S raised about Property Partner not treating him 
fairly  including the reference to regulatory principles of treating customers fairly. Whilst I understand why Mr S is unhappy with fee being introduced that wasnt originally in 
the contract, this doesnt mean he must have been treated unfairly. I dont agree the 
introduction of an AUM changes the underlying risk of investment. This was still dependent 
on the profitability of the properties he was invested into. Having considered these points 
and taking into account the reasoning already provided above, they dont change my overall 
thinking. It follows that I dont think Mr S has been treated unfairly in the circumstances, so I 
wont be asking Property Partner to do anything further. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2021.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman