DRN-3803226
The complaint
Mr T has complained about the actions of Atlanta Insurance Intermediaries Limited (trading 
as Swinton Insurance) when he was unable to access his online account relating to his 
home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr T contacted Swinton because he needed to change his recorded occupation under his 
policy. The terms of business confirmed that if Mr T made changes to an existing policy, he 
would not be charged any administration fee if he did this online (although separately, the 
insurer might alter the premium depending on whether the change altered its view on risk).
Mr T discovered that his online account was not working. He called Swinton to rectify this 
problem, but it was not able to do so at this time. In addition to his dissatisfaction with this, 
Mr T was also unhappy because he said Swinton misinformed him about whether changing 
his policy details online would result in him being charged an administration fee. Mr T 
complained to Swinton about the service it had provided.
The day after Mr T had spoken to Swinton it responded to his complaint, explaining that 
there had been problems with its online portal that had affected some customers, and 
apologising for this. It asked Mr T to contact it if the problems continued, with details of the 
device and browser he was using, so it could investigate further. Swinton also stated that the 
day before, its representative had misinformed Mr T that he could wait until policy renewal 
before changing his occupation. It asked him to ring as soon as possible to confirm his new 
details, and it confirmed that it would not apply any administration fee for any change made.
Mr T continued to find he could not use his online account, explaining that the links Swinton 
sent him did not work. He said this led to him needing to reregister his account on a number 
of occasions. I understand Mr Ts online access to his account was ultimately resolved by 
Swinton. However, Mr T brought a complaint to this service on the basis that he had been 
inconvenienced and had had his time wasted. He asked that Swinton be required to pay him 
£100 to £200 compensation to reflect this.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. His view was that Swinton had rectified its 
error quickly when it contacted Mr T to confirm he did need to change his recorded 
occupation under the policy, the day after it had incorrectly said this could wait until renewal. 
The investigator considered it was appropriate that Swinton was not charging an 
administration fee for this. He also felt that an apology from Swinton for the period Mr T did 
not have access to his online account was sufficient.
Mr T disagreed with the investigators assessment. He considered that it had oversimplified 
the problems hed encountered. In particular he highlighted that Swinton sent him links for 
the online account on a number of occasions, but these did not resolve the problem. Mr T 
said Swinton wasted his time, causing him unnecessary effort, and he therefore asked that 
an ombudsman review this matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Swinton made errors when dealing with Mr Ts request to change his 
occupation details. Firstly, its representative said that Mr T could wait until the policy 
renewed to make the change. That was incorrect because the occupation change had the 
potential to affect the insurers assessment of the risk that offering cover under the policy 
posed.
However, the day after Swinton misinformed Mr T on this subject, it contacted him to confirm 
that the occupation details did need to be changed at Mr Ts earliest opportunity. Swinton 
also stated that it would not charge the usual administration fee of £30 that applied when a 
change was made over the phone. In my view, it would clearly have been unreasonable for 
Swinton to charge Mr T the £30 fee when this was not applicable for a policy change made 
online. Thats because Mr T was unable to access his online account for problems that I 
understand were entirely not of his making.
In terms of the incorrect information that Mr T had been given regarding how soon the 
occupation change needed to be registered under the policy, whilst this represented a 
mistake by Swinton, I am mindful that this was corrected a day later. On balance, my view is 
that its not appropriate in these circumstances to require Swinton to pay compensation for 
this particular error.
The other key aspect of Swintons service that Mr T is unhappy with relates to his difficulties 
gaining online access to his policy. Mr T has emphasised the number of times that Swinton 
sent him a link to reactivate his account but he was unable to do so. Again, my 
understanding is that the problems Mr T encountered in this regard were not the result of 
any error that he had made. I appreciate that Mr T found the difficulties he experienced 
reinstating his online account significantly frustrating, and he also says that trying to find a 
solution to the problem was time consuming for him.
I acknowledge that Mr T has found Swintons levels of service in this matter to be wanting. It 
is reasonable that Mr T would have expected access to his online account to be restored 
swiftly. However, a failing in the level of customer service provided by a business does not 
inevitably mean in my view that that business should be required to pay compensation. In 
this case, Swinton did apologise to Mr T about the online access problems, and it restored 
this access after what I consider was a comparatively short period of time.
I appreciate that Mr T is likely to be disappointed with the outcome of his complaint. However 
overall, my view is that the difficulties Mr T encountered with his online account were not 
sufficiently material that they should lead me to require Swinton to pay compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
John Swain
Ombudsman