DRN-1429266
Complaint
Miss O says Elevate Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny, irresponsibly lent to her.
Background
I sent Miss O and Sunny my provisional findings on this complaint on 20 December 2019. 
The provisional decision forms part of this final decision and should be read alongside it.
I explained why I thought Sunny's offer to partially uphold Miss O's complaint in respect of 
loans 15 to 20 was fair. In summary, this was because:
Sunny's affordability checks for loans 1 to 7 were broadly proportionate in all the 
circumstances of the loans and there was nothing about the pattern of borrowing 
which suggested the loans would not be sustainably affordable for Miss O.
From loan 8 onwards, Sunny's checks were not proportionate but I didn't have 
enough information to 'recreate' proportionate checks and so didn't have enough 
information to suggest loans 8 to 14 were not affordable for Miss O.
By loan 15, there were clear signs, from the pattern of borrowing, that Miss O was 
not likely to be settling her loans sustainably. So it was fair that Sunny had offered to 
uphold the complaint for loans 15 onwards.
I asked Miss O and Sunny to let me know if they had anything to add in response to my 
provisional findings. Miss O expressed her disappointment that I hadn't upheld more loans 
but didn't want to provide any further information. Sunny didn't respond.
My findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I've taken into account our general 
approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, 
guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
As neither Miss O nor Sunny sent me anything new to consider, I've no reason to depart 
from my provisional findings. So my final decision is the same as my provisional decision, for 
the same reasons.
Putting things right
Sunny must:
refund all interest and charges Miss O paid on loans 15 to 20 (as numbered in my 
provisional decision) and;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
The number of loans taken from loan 15 onwards means any information recorded
about them is adverse. So Sunny should also remove all entries about loans 15 to 20 from
Miss Os credit file.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give
Miss O a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.My final decision
Elevate Credit International Limited's offer to uphold the complaint in respect of
loans 15 to 20 is fair - so it should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 February 2020.
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman