DRN-3943411
The complaint
Miss R complains HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly declined a connected lender liability claim she 
made for breach of contract and misrepresentation in respect of building works paid for in 
part with her HSBC credit card.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on Miss Rs case on 27 January 2023. Miss R accepted the 
provisional decision. HSBC agreed to settle in line with it, though noting that it did not fully 
agree with it. As both parties have agreed to settle, I dont intend to go into detail in this final 
decision, but to summarise very briefly:
Background to complaint
Miss R engaged a builder (Mr L) to renovate her home. Mr L contracted out various 
parts of the works to other contractors, one of which was a heating, ventilation and 
air conditioning (HVAC) company I refer to as CT, which was responsible for 
carrying out HVAC works for a price of £56,238.79.
Miss R says Mr L committed a major fraud against her and he was removed from the 
building project. CT had already done some work and Mr L had paid them some 
money. Miss R agreed to take over the contract Mr L had made with CT, paying the 
company £26,575 (said to be the amount outstanding), which included £275 on her 
HSBC credit card.
Miss R and CTs relationship broke down after various delays and issues with the 
HVAC works. She commissioned reports from three independent third parties, all of 
which agreed that CTs work was of an unacceptably poor standard. Miss R also said 
shed discovered CT had made various misrepresentations to her which had induced 
her to proceed and take over the contract.
These concerns about CT were brought to HSBC, framed as a claim under section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). HSBC rejected the claim as they said 
the value of the contract was too high for section 75 to apply to it. The bank refused 
to change its position after Miss R complained, and the matter was referred to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I made the following key findings:
HSBC had been right to say that the contract value was over the limit (£30,000) at 
which the protection of section 75 of the CCA ceased to apply. The correct 
interpretation of what had happened was that Miss R had taken over the existing 
contract which had a value of £56,238.79, rather than making a new contract with CT 
with a value of £26,575.
However, HSBC had not appreciated that Miss R had a connected lender liability 
claim under section 56 of the CCA, which did not have any limits on the value of the 
item or service being purchased. An analysis of the wording of section 56 of the CCA 
and an example contained in Schedule 2, Part II of the same act, showed section 56 
applied to Miss Rs scenario.
Section 56 would cover only the antecedent negotiations between Miss R and CT. 
This would include misrepresentations and any pre-contractual conditions or 
warranties. I couldnt see that CT had given any specific pre-contractual warranties 
but noted Miss R had alleged several misrepresentations had been made by its 
director (Mr D).
I found CT had made false statements to Miss R about having a preferred contractor 
status with the manufacturer of the HVAC systems (DK), as well as falsely stating it 
had ordered HVAC units already when it hadnt, and that Miss R needed to make a 
decision very quickly to avoid a price rise, which wasnt true. Evidence Miss R had 
produced from DK enabled me to draw these conclusions.
I noted that the false statements would have needed to play a substantial part in 
Miss Rs decision to take over the contract with CT for them to be actionable as 
misrepresentations. Having carefully considered the evidence I thought it likely that 
the false statements did play a substantial part in Miss Rs decision. Miss R had been 
very concerned to avoid falling victim to further fraud and CTs reassurances around 
its status with DK had been influential, especially combined with its other false 
statements which had put pressure on her to proceed quickly and without reflecting.
Given Miss R had had a valid connected lender liability claim, I said I was minded to 
conclude HSBC had acted unfairly in turning her claim down. I thought it should 
refund the amounts she had paid as a result of the misrepresentation (£26,575) plus 
compensatory interest. I said HSBC could deduct the value of any items supplied by 
CT which were re-used when Miss R had the work redone.
Responses to the provisional decision
As Ive already indicated, both parties agreed to settle in line with my provisional decision. 
Miss R explained that there had been four HVAC units left by CT. She said two of them had 
been returned to CT and the others had been in her house for a while but she believed other 
contractors has eventually disposed of them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Save for the explanation of what happened to the HVAC units, neither party has submitted 
any new evidence or arguments for me to consider. It follows that, apart from making a slight 
modification to account for the fact items supplied by CT were not reused, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision as summarised above. This 
means my conclusion is that HSBC acted unfairly in turning down Miss Rs connected lender 
liability claim, and should act to put this right as it has already agreed to do.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Miss Rs complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc 
to take the following actions:A) Refund or reimburse Miss R for all payments she made to CT in respect of the 
contract when she took it over from Mr L. This includes payments made on the HSBC 
credit card and by other means.
B) Pay 8% simple interest per year* on any refunds or reimbursements made as part of 
A), calculated from the date the bank originally declined Miss Rs claim, to the date 
she is refunded/reimbursed.
Based on Miss Rs further comments it appears none of the items supplied by CT were 
reused and therefore there should be no deduction made from any refund in this respect.
*If HSBC considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Miss R how much its taken off. It should also give Miss R a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman