DRN-4211638
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank have 
irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Mrs L applied for and was accepted for a Tesco credit card in October 2019, with a £2,600 
credit limit. The credit card came with a 0% promotional interest rate for balance transfers 
and money transfers for 16 months. Mrs L says this was irresponsibly lent to her as she was 
unemployed and had a lot of other debt at the time she made her application for the card. 
Mrs L made a complaint to Tesco.
Tesco did not uphold Mrs Ls complaint. They said they asked her for information about her 
income, outgoings and outstanding debts with other lenders. They said they didnt obtain any 
evidence of her income as there would be no obligation for them to do so, based on the 
other checks they carried out, such as information from Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs). 
Mrs L brought her complaint to our service.
Our adjudicator upheld Mrs Ls complaint. She said due to the level of credit limit Tesco 
approved for Mrs L, it would have been proportionate for them to verify her circumstances. 
She said looking at Mrs Ls bank statements she had an income of £840 a month that was 
made up of child benefit and child tax credits when she was approved for the card. She said 
the total borrowings was £7,000. And in these circumstances there was a significant risk Mrs 
L wouldnt have been able to repay the credit within a reasonable period of time, so Tesco 
should not have opened the account. As Tesco did not respond to our adjudicators view of 
the complaint, then the complaint was passed to me to make a decision on the complaint.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to approve the credit limit for Mrs L, Tesco needed to make proportionate
checks to determine whether the credit was affordable and sustainable for her. Theres no 
prescribed list of checks a lender should make. But the kind of things I expect lenders to 
consider include - but are not limited to: the type and amount of credit, the borrower's 
income and credit history, the amount and frequency of repayments, as well as the 
consumer's personal circumstances.
Ive looked at what checks Tesco said they did when initially approving Mrs Ls application.
Tesco said they looked at information provided by CRAs and information that Mrs L had 
provided before approving her application. The checks show that she had no adverse credit 
(such as defaults or County Court Judgements) and her payments with her existing credit 
commitments with other lenders were showing as up to date. So on the surface, it could 
appear that Mrs L could manage the credit she had been approved for.
But Im not satisfied the checks Tesco carried out here were proportionate. I say this as the 
application data showed Mrs L had told Tesco her gross income was £10,176 a year and her 
net monthly income was £810. The checks Tesco carried out showed that she already had 
accounts with revolving balances (for example credit cards) with outstanding balances of 
£3,277 and loan balances of £3,738. So her unsecured debt outstanding balances at the 
point they conducted their checks totalled £7,015, which was nearly 70% of her gross 
income. Adding another £2,600 credit limit had the potential to increase her borrowings to 
£9,615  which would be virtually 100% of her net income per annum. But as Mrs L was not 
using all of her available credit on her credit cards based on Tescos data, then potentially 
Tescos approval of the credit card application could have resulted in Mrs L having more 
unsecured debt than her gross income per annum. 
So due to the level of the Tesco credit limit in relation to Mrs Ls income and existing 
unsecured borrowings, then I would have expected Tesco to make further proportionate 
checks to ensure the credit limit was affordable and sustainable for her. 
Im persuaded that as part of a proportionate check, Tesco should have requested 
information from Mrs L to discuss her finances, to ensure that she had enough disposable 
income to be able to afford and sustain repayments to the credit card. For example, they 
could have rung Mrs L to discuss this, or as a proportionate check based on the level of 
existing borrowings she had and her reported income, they could have asked Mrs L to 
provide her bank statements or proof of income/outgoings, to see if she could afford the 
credit limit and that repayments would be sustainable for her. 
So Ive considered whether Tesco would have still approved the credit limit if they made 
further checks. And Im not persuaded that they would have done  and Ill explain why. As 
part of a proportionate check, Tesco could have spoken to Mrs L to see how she was 
managing her finances at the time, to ensure any lending would be affordable and 
sustainable. Or they could have asked for her bank statements to evidence this as part of a 
proportionate check. Mrs L has provided her bank statements for the three months prior to 
the application being approved. 
Ive looked at Mrs Ls bank statements from July-September 2019, given that her October 
statement may not have been available at the time Tesco carried out their checks. Mrs Ls 
bank statements show that the credits into her account and the outgoings are significantly 
higher than what her income was. despite the statement showing that her only regular 
income was child tax credit for £158.37 (later increased to £162 a week) and child benefit of 
£48.10 a week. But her outgoings show that Mrs L often has little or no disposable income 
left before the next benefit payment credits her account, so Im not persuaded that the 
repayments would be sustainable for Mrs L.
Im also mindful that it appears Mrs L took advantage of a promotional 0% interest rate for 16 
months with the Tesco credit card. So this may have helped her manage her finances better 
and save her interest for a period of time, allowing her to focus on reducing her credit. But 
even if Mrs L had reduced her borrowings elsewhere by the amount she had transferred she 
would still have over 70% unsecured debt to annual income ratio.
So Im not persuaded that despite Mrs L appearing to show no adverse data prior to the 
credit card approval and her benefitting from a promotional interest rate that she would be 
able to repay the credit in a sustainable manner, especially after the promotional period had 
ended  even if she reduced her outstanding balance as a result of the transfer. Tescos 
data showed she had an unsecured debt to income ratio of 8.66% and after the card was 
approved it would increase to 11.87%, but this was incorrect as her gross annual income 
was recorded at £10,176 and her total existing unsecured debt was £7,015 prior to the 
Tesco credit card being approved, this is 69% and the £2,600 credit limit for the Tesco card would increase this further. Tescos data showed she had utilised 71% of her existing credit 
lines, so if total credit (used and available) credit was factored into this, she would have over 
100% total unsecured debt to income ratio. So Im not persuaded that Tesco made a fair 
lending decision to approve Mrs Ls application and give her a £2,600 credit limit. So it 
follows I intend to ask Tesco to put things right for Mrs L.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Mrs L said she had no further information to add. Tesco did not respond to the 
provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider, then my decision 
and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to uphold this complaint. I said I intend to ask Tesco 
Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank to do the following:
Tesco should arrange to transfer any debt back to themselves if it has been passed to a debt 
recovery agent or liaise with them to ensure the redress set out below is carried out 
promptly.
Rework the account removing all interest, fees, charges, and insurances (not already 
refunded) that have been applied;
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mrs L along with 8%
simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the date of
settlement. Tesco should also remove all adverse information regarding this account from 
Mrs Ls credit file;
Or, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, Tesco should arrange an
affordable repayment plan with Mrs L for the remaining amount. Once Mrs L has cleared the 
balance, any adverse information in relation to the account should be removed from her
credit file.
Im still satisfied this is a fair outcome for the reasons given previously.
*If Tesco considers that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, they should tell Mrs L how much theyve taken off. They should also give 
Mrs L a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank should settle 
the complaint in line with the instructions in the putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman