DRN-3139731
The complaint
Ms D, through her representative, complains that Everyday Lending Limited lent to her 
irresponsibly. 
What happened
Ms D was approved for one loan from Everyday Lending on 24 April 2019 which was for 
£1,800 repayable over 24 months at just over £198 each month. It was settled in 
September 2020.
After the complaint had been referred to the Financial Ombudsman, one of our adjudicators 
thought that Everyday Lending had not lent responsibly and thought that it should put things 
right for Ms D. 
Everyday Lending disagreed and said:
oMs Ds debt consolidation (paying off three other creditors) that would have left her 
with credit commitment repayments would have been £355.56 a month; and
oit had correctly calculated that after the debt consolidation, and after paying the 
Everyday Lending loan of about £198, Ms D would have been left with £151.65 each 
month; and 
oit disagreed that Ms D was paying a significant proportion of her income each month 
to her creditors; and
oit used the repayment history of its own loan to substantiate its view that Ms D was 
able to repay the loan sustainably; and
oit disagreed with our adjudicators point that she would have had limited disposable 
income with which to have met any living cost fluctuations. 
 The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two questions that I need to 
answer to decide Ms Ds complaint fairly and reasonably. These are:
1. Did Everyday Lending complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Ms D would be able to repay the loans without experiencing significant adverse 
consequences?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Ms D wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did Everyday Lending act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday Lending to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Ms Ds ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday Lending had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Ms D undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday Lending to simply think about the likelihood of 
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Ms D. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
Considering this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Ms Ds complaint.
Everyday Lending carried out some checks before it lent to Ms D. This included asking for 
details of her income and expenditure, carrying out a credit check, requesting a payslip and 
bank statements. It calculated Ms Ds regular living expenses using statistical data and 
assessed her monthly credit commitments. Ive seen a summary of the information gathered 
by Everyday Lending, including the credit report and bank statements provided to it at the 
time. From what Ive seen, I think the checks that it carried out before lending to Ms D were 
reasonable and proportionate, in the circumstances.
Everyday Lending saw a copy of her new contract of employment and used her income as a £1,748 and her rent as £450. It used a formula and Office of National Statistics information 
to calculate that the living expenses were about £593. 
Everyday Lending had details of Ms Ds credit commitments and at the time of lending it had 
created a debt table. This is a duplicate of the debt table as part of its assessment on 
affordability. I have not used any trading names. HCSTL refers to high-cost short-term 
loans. The total row I have added. I have excluded reference to HMRC overpayment and a 
child ISA. 
Creditor type Balance Repayment monthly
Credit card £199 £ 5.97
Pay day Loan* £484 -
Credit card £344 £10.32
Credit card £700 £21
Mail Order £268 £8.04
Mail Order £256 £7.68
Credit card type account# £667 £20 but on CPA# 
Credit card £327 £9.81
Credit card £848 £25.44
HCSTL instalment loan* £311.76 -
Credit card £199 £5.97
Current account £426 £0
Communications supplier £11 £0.33
Four separate debt 
collection accounts- Total repayments all 
four £135
HP £800 £107.30
Total after Everydays paid 
off two creditors£5,840.76 £356.86 including the 
CPA account 
minimum sum of £20#
*Paid off by Everyday Lending before releasing the loan capital to Ms D. 
# This type of account often works in such a way that the total sum outstanding is removed 
from the customers current account under a continuous payment authority. My experience 
and understanding of this type of account from this lender is its not often that £20 is taken 
each month. Id expect a professional lender such as Everyday Lending to know this. 
I have seen as part of the records submitted to us that Ms D received £1,043.32 in her hand 
after Everyday Lending had paid off the pay day loan of £444.92 plus the HCSTL instalment 
loan of £311.76. Everyday Lending had calculated that it would have reduced Ms Ds 
monthly credit repayments by £646.77. That seems very likely.
However, the credit card calculations in the debt table were based on what appear to be 
minimum repayment figures and so there was no accounting for the fact that Ms D had to 
reduce the balance as well as just pay the credit card minimum payments. Added to which, 
my knowledge of the credit card type lender (outlined above) where it  listed the minimum 
payment as £20 rarely works in that way. Usually the whole outstanding balance is taken 
whenever the customers current account has enough money in it.  
In addition to the points made above, reviewing all the details seen about Ms D, another 
concern seen on Ms Ds bank statements and included in this debt table is that Ms D already 
had four debt collection accounts running which means that she was already showing signs 
of being in financial difficulties. And so, I think that the Everyday Lending additional debt 
burden for 24 months likely was not the best course of action for her. And the existing history towards other lenders  resulting in debt collector repayments being required  was an 
indication Ms D was not likely going to be able to pay sustainably for the whole two years. 
Even on its own calculations £151 left over, considering all the above, was not really a 
comfortable amount to be left with for a whole month. And left little with which to try to repay 
her credit card main balances. 
So  I uphold Ms Ds complaint. 
Putting things right
I direct that Everyday Lending does the following:
adds up the total amount of money Ms D received because of having been given this 
loan. The repayments Ms D made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Ms D having paid more than she received, any overpayments should 
be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). **
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then you should attempt to arrange an 
affordable and suitable payment plan with Ms D.
remove any negative information recorded on Ms Ds credit file relating to his loan.
**HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Lending to take off tax from this interest. It 
must give Ms D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Ds complaint and I direct that Everyday Lending Limited 
does as I have outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman