DRN-3853762
The complaint
Mrs F complains that CIGNA Europe Insurance Company SA-NV has refused to contribute 
towards her future surgery under her previous private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs F held a private medical insurance policy with CIGNA. She needed surgery and made a 
claim for this. CIGNA initially turned down the claim, but later agreed to cover it. However, 
CIGNA said it wouldnt cover the costs of robotic surgery for Mrs Fs condition but would 
cover laparoscopic surgery. Unhappy with this, Mrs F brought a complaint to this service in 
2021. 
In April 2022, our investigator began looking into Mrs Fs complaint. She ultimately agreed 
that CIGNA was entitled to only cover the surgery laparoscopically. 
After further discussion between all the parties, it came to light that CIGNA was willing to pay 
for the surgery, but would simply exclude the robotic element. So, CIGNA would pay around 
€10,000 towards the surgery (the total cost of the surgery would be around €45,000). It 
seems this offer was always on the table for Mrs F. In any event, this resolved Mrs Fs 
complaint. 
CIGNA then realised that Mrs F hadnt had the surgery. It noted that she had chosen not to 
renew her policy in March 2022. As she hadnt had the surgery by that point, CIGNA said it 
wouldnt contribute towards this as she no longer had cover in place. Mrs F was unhappy 
about this, as CIGNA had agreed to pay towards the surgery. Mrs F brought a new 
complaint to this service. 
Our investigator tried to mediate with the parties about the matter, to see if CIGNA would 
allow Mrs F to reinstate her cover if she paid the backdated premiums. However, CIGNA 
refused. Ultimately, our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought 
CIGNA had been entitled to refuse to contribute towards the surgery, as Mrs F no longer had 
cover in place. 
Mrs F didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms say:
This policy will not cover any costs relating to treatment received before the cover starts, or 
after the cover ends (even if that treatment was approved by us before the cover ends).
As Mrs F didnt have her surgery before her policy ended, under the policy terms, CIGNA 
doesnt need to pay anything towards the surgery.
I do have some sympathy for consumers where they cancel a policy after an insurer wrongly 
turns down a claim. In those circumstances, I might require an insurer to reinstate the policy. 
However, Mrs F chose to cancel her policy after CIGNA had agreed to cover her surgery 
(albeit laparoscopically rather than robotically), and she had a complaint about the matter 
pending with this service at the time. She would have been aware that the outcome of her 
complaint may well have changed CIGNAs decision (though as Ive said, bringing her 
complaint to this service didnt change the outcome as our investigator didnt uphold her 
complaint). Despite this, she still chose not to renew her cover.
In these circumstances, whilst I recognise my decision will disappoint Mrs F, I dont think it 
would be fair for me to require CIGNA to reinstate Mrs Fs policy so that she can claim for a 
contribution towards her future surgery.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman