DRN-3404622
The complaint
Mr L complains that Simplyhealth Access (Simplyhealth) has the wrong start date for his 
policy on its records. He says thats preventing him from making valid claims from 2004 
onwards.
What happened
Mr L has held an insurance policy for many years. It is designed to contribute to the cost of  
eligible medical treatment for both him and members of his family. In 2015, Mr Ls wife made 
a claim for treatment shed received in 2011. Initially Simplyhealth said it wouldnt pay the 
claim as it pre-dated Mr L holding a relevant policy. In 2020 Mr L pointed out that hed held 
the policy since 2004, and after some time Simplyhealth paid the claim.
Mr L complained about the start date Simplyhealth had recorded. Simplyhealth said it had 
migrated Mr Ls policy details on to a new database when it took over the business that had 
originally provided the policy. When it did that it recorded a start date that matched the date 
of the transfer  December 2011. It closed the old database in 2015 and said it couldnt 
change the start date shown on the new database. It says it doesnt have any details of the 
policy from 2004 to late 2011, or whether it paid any claims relating to this period. Finally it 
said that because of the lack of information it now held, it wouldnt be able to consider any 
claims from this period.
Unhappy with this response Mr L asked us to review his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Simplyhealth needed to do more than it already has. She noted 
that, although Simplyhealth hadnt changed the start date on its database, it did have notes 
that show it is aware the start date was actually 2004. She said it was for Simplyhealth to 
decide if it wanted to close an old database and when. She said she couldnt comment on 
whether Simplyhealth is obliged to meet any claims Mr L might now make for the years 
2004-2011.
Neither party agreed with this. Mr L wants us to instruct Simplyhealth to change the 
database it now holds and confirm that it will meet any eligible claims he might make for the 
years 2004-2011. Simplyhealth says its already given reasons why it wouldnt meet such 
claims and asks that we respond to this point.
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold this complaint, and Ill explain why. Ill concentrate on the two key 
points Mr L made and comment on them separately.
Information Simplyhealth holds
Simplyhealth needs to hold accurate information about Mr L. It says it has a start date of 
December 2011 on its database  but that it also has notes that show its aware the policy 
started much earlier than this. I appreciate Mr L wants Simplyhealth to amend the database, 
but its up to Simplyhealth to decide how it stores information, and as long as it has the 
correct information overall, I think its meeting that obligation. I cant see that its a 
disadvantage to Mr L how it stores information, and Im not going to ask it to change its 
records.
Claims that might be made 
Mr L says he intends to make claims for eligible medical costs incurred between 2004 and 
2011. Simplyhealth says it wont consider these because it no longer has any of the terms 
and conditions that applied to Mr Ls policy during those years. Nor does it have a record of 
what claims might already have been paid between 2004 and 2011.
Both parties want me to address this point. However, as our investigator pointed out, this 
isnt something that has actually happened  so Mr L has not experienced a loss. Nor do I 
know how, if Mr L made a claim, Simplyhealth would then respond. 
The ombudsman services role is to look at whether a business has treated a customer fairly 
when something has gone wrong and the customer believes hes suffered a loss of some 
kind. I cant comment on a scenario that hasnt actually happened.  I appreciate 
Simplyhealth says it wont consider a claim and why. But it hasnt actually refused a claim or 
treated Mr L unfairly. Instead its simply warned him about a likely outcome, and I dont think 
thats an unreasonable thing for it to do. It might be that Mr L has some very persuasive 
evidence that means Simplyhealth changes its mind  but I cant comment here on what that 
could be or how Simplyhealth should act at some point in the future. 
If Mr L makes a claim that he then feels is unfairly refused, he might be able to bring a fresh 
complaint to this service in due course. 
Mr L says the process of complaining to Simplyhealth has taken up a lot of his time and has 
had an emotional cost. Making a complaint can take time and feel difficult or frustrating, but 
that doesnt mean Mr L should receive compensation. Simplyhealth did pay Mr L £50 for not 
responding to one of his emails. I havent seen that its caused him any other problems, so I 
think its done enough and I wont ask it to do more than it already has.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman