DRN-4090888
Complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Santander UK Plc (Santander) closed a new current account without  
fully explaining why and this led to him losing out on an account switching bonus.
Background
In January 2023, Mr S applied for a current account with Santander. Mr S was told his 
application had been successful pending final checks. However, Santander subsequently 
reviewed further information pertaining to its final checks and as a result of this it notified    
Mr S that it was no longer prepared to offer him an account. 
Mr S was unhappy with this and complained. Santander didnt uphold Mr S complaint. As  
Mr S remained dissatisfied, he referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr S concerns. He didnt think that Santander had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr S unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr S disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I dont think that Santander acted unfairly towards 
Mr S and so Im not upholding his complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
As our adjudicator explained to Mr S, a bank is under no obligation to offer an account to a 
consumer if it doesnt wish to do so. And, after completing its final checks, Santander 
decided it didnt wish to have Mr S as a customer. Mr S is unhappy that Santander hasnt 
disclosed the exact reason for closing his account. However, closing a customers account is 
a commercial decision that a bank is entitled to take. And it has no obligation to share its 
reasons for that decision.
I realise that Santanders decision will have been very disappointing to Mr S and I can 
appreciate why the closure of his account will have caused him inconvenience  particularly 
as this has meant that Mr S is no longer entitled to a £200 account switching bonus. 
I also suspect that theres an element of disappointment as he believed that his application 
had been accepted and he would be able to open an account given hed received some of 
the initial account opening documentation. But despite all of this, Im simply not in a position 
to be able to tell Santander it has to offer Mr S an account in circumstances where it has 
legitimately decided it doesnt wish to do so. 
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Santander acted unfairly 
towards Mr S and Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mr S. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell 
appreciate why I think Santander hasnt acted unfairly or unreasonably towards him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman