DRN-1826519
 
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with the amount of compensation offered by Barclays Bank UK PLC for 
delays to a review of his bank account.
What happened
In December 2019, Mr K received a text from Barclays which said his debit card was 
blocked. Mr K queried this with Barclays and was told his account was under review, but that 
he would be contacted within 10 working days.
Mr K didnt hear anything further and chased the matter with Barclays over the next few 
weeks. In February 2020, Barclays removed the block from Mr Ks account and returned the 
funds under review. On the same day Barclays removed a block from Mr Ks business 
account, which had also been under review for a period of seven days.
Mr K complained to Barclays. He said he felt let down as a long-standing customer and was 
upset at how long the review had taken. Mr K added he called a number of times to chase 
the matter and wasnt given any information. And he said Barclays action had caused him a 
great deal of stress and embarrassment as he couldnt pay for purchases, give his children 
school money, or carry out transactions for his business.
Barclays responded to Mr K. It acknowledged that not having access to the funds had made 
Mr Ks life difficult. Barclays explained account reviews generally take 10 working days, but 
in this instance it took an extra 24 working days. Barclays offered Mr K £600 compensation 
for the delays caused, the poor service, and interest lost on the funds reviewed.
Mr K didnt accept Barclays offer of compensation and referred the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked at everything and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He 
found Barclays offer of compensation to be fair in the circumstances. Our investigator 
explained that in considering an award for compensation, it must be proportionate to the 
circumstances of the complaint and the impact it has had. And in this instance he found 
Barclays offer was fair in recognition of the trouble and upset Mr K experienced as a direct 
result of its actions.
Our investigator added that if Mr K could provide further evidence of any financial loss he 
had incurred as a direct result of Barclays actions, it would be considered as part of the 
overall compensation award.
Mr K didnt agree with our investigator that £600 was sufficient compensation. He said he 
had been caused a great deal of embarrassment by having his card declined when he tried 
to make purchases. Mr K added he couldnt buy his usual supplies for his business and 
didnt have money to give his children for school. He also said the worry had caused him 
sleepless nights and it would be difficult to prove the direct financial loss caused by Barclays 
actions.Mr K asked for an ombudsmans decision, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I think Barclays offer of 
compensation is fair and reasonable. Ill explain why below.
I appreciate Mr K has been through a difficult time here, and it is clear Barclays actions on 
his account caused him a deal of worry and stress. So I want to reassure him Ive taken all of 
his comments into account in making my decision.
Barclays has said it aims to complete these types of account reviews within 10 working days. 
In Mr Ks case, Barclays has shown through bank statements that Mr Ks direct debit 
transactions and regular bill payments werent affected by the review. But it has 
acknowledged the review took much longer than expected and confirmed Mr Ks debit card 
transactions were blocked during this time. 
So what I need to determine is whether Barclays offer of compensation takes into account 
the additional impact caused to Mr K  over and above the time it would have reasonably 
taken to complete the account review. 
Ive considered that Mr Ks personal account retained some features during the review and 
as such he was able to maintain direct debit and bill payments. And Ive also considered the 
review of Mr Ks business account was completed within the 10 working day timeframe 
Barclays gave  so I dont think it needs to compensate him directly for this. 
The evidence Barclays provided shows the delay in completing the account review, the 
overall poor service Mr K received when trying to get updates, and the interest he lost out on 
during the review. However, I havent seen any firm evidence of any consequential loss to 
Mr K here, so I dont think it would be reasonable to require Barclays to increase the 
compensation for this. Having considered everything, I find Barclays offer of £600 to be fair 
and reasonable for the impact caused to Mr K as a direct result of its actions. Barclays has 
said the offer of compensation is still available to Mr K if he wishes to accept it.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays offer of compensation is reasonable and I do not uphold 
this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2020.
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman