DRN-2525960
The complaint
Mr D, represented by a claims management company (CMC), complains that he was given 
unsuitable investment advice by a predecessor of Phoenix Life Assurance Limited.
What happened
In 1998 Mr D was advised to invest £50,000 in an investment plan, in the unitised with profits 
fund. He was in his 50s and had recently been made redundant  which was the source of 
the invested money.
He also had around another £42,000 spread across: £20,000 on deposit, a £7,000 TESSA 
(shortly to mature), £8,000 of Halifax shares and £7,000 in a bond, also invested in the with 
profits fund. Further, he was party to a £20,000 mortgage in joint names supported by an 
endowment. 
Mr Ds CMC complained to Phoenix Life that the advice had been unsuitable. It said that, 
despite the receipt of the redundancy money, Mr Ds finances werent secure, as he wasnt 
working and was receiving only a small pension. So, with a low monthly disposable income 
he was very dependent upon his partner.
The CMC felt that in these circumstances, Mr D shouldve been advised to pay off his 
mortgage before investing. And it also had concerns that too large a proportion of Mr Ds 
money had been placed in a single fund. 
Phoenix Life didnt up hold the complaint. It said the adviser had recorded in the fact find that 
Mr Ds investment aim had been for future personal goals over five to 10 years. It noted that 
hed selected the risk level described as him being prepared to accept a moderate risk. But 
Phoenix Life felt that despite this Mr D would most likely have been correctly categorised as 
a cautious investor. As such, investment in the low-risk with profits fund was suitable, and 
thered been no obvious affordability issues as Mr D had remained invested for 12 years  
far beyond the recommended minimum term.
In respect of the mortgage, Phoenix Life highlighted that it was noted in the Customer 
Review document, completed after the fact find, that Mr D and his partner were happy with 
their mortgage arrangements and only wanted to discuss investment. But in any event, the 
recommendation had left them with sufficient funds available to be able to pay the mortgage 
off in full or part had they later wished to do so. 
Phoenix Life said that that it was documented that Mr D wanted to invest with the potential 
for long-term growth in a with profits fund. As such, taking into account all the circumstances, 
the advice had been suitable. 
The complaint was referred to this service where our investigator reached broadly the same 
conclusions as Phoenix Life and didnt recommended the complaint be upheld. Mr Ds CMC 
didnt accept this. It reiterated its concerns about the mortgage, pointing out that the 
projected growth of the investment wouldve been impacted by charges, bringing it down to a 
level that was highly unlikely to outstrip the ongoing cost of the mortgage. It felt that, as 
such, this couldnt be deemed to be to best advice, in line with the regulatory requirements 
of the time.  
As the investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, the matter was referred to me to 
review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ds CMC has raised two main issues in bringing the complaint on his behalf. Firstly, that 
he shouldve been advised to pay off his mortgage balance before making any investments. 
And secondly, that the recommendation left him with too much committed to a single fund.
In respect of the first of these, I accept that its prudent to address liabilities before taking 
steps to invest. But it appears from the documentation that there was discussion of the 
mortgage and Mr D and his partner confirmed that they were happy with the existing 
arrangements. 
It may be that they didnt really appreciate the potential for them to be worse off if the 
investment performance failed to outstrip the cost of the mortgage. But I think that given the 
low level of the remaining mortgage and the fact that they appeared to be managing to 
maintain it without any great trouble, Mr D may well have simply been happy to keep it 
separate from his plans for investing for the future. 
It isnt uncommon to maintain a mortgage while investing. And Mr D was left with enough 
money uninvested that he couldve later made payments to the mortgage if circumstances 
had changed. Either way, I dont think a consideration of the circumstances supports a 
finding, on balance, that the adviser acted wrongly in not advising Mr D to pay off the 
mortgage. 
Turning to the issue of how the money was invested, I accept that committing the whole 
£50,000 to the with profits fund was a large amount to put into one fund. Particularly as Mr D 
already had £7,000 invested in the fund via a bond. 
But the fund was consistent with his likely attitude to risk  cautious  and wouldve featured 
a diversity of assets within it. Although it was a large amount, he was left with over £40,000 
at reasonably easy access. So, while I accept its a finely-balanced matter, I dont think the 
adviser acted wrongly in this respect either. 
I note the CMC s comments about the regulatory requirements in place at the time of the 
advice. But although the rules have changed over the years, theyve always in the main 
been underpinned by the broad principle of establishing a customers circumstances and 
objectives and making a recommendation that the adviser believes to be in keeping with 
them. In this case, I dont think theres anything to suggest that the adviser deviated so far 
from that principle that the complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2021.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman