DRN-1286390
The complaint
Mr U complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited overcharged him for 
damage to the alloy wheels of the car he returned at the end of a finance agreement.
What happened
Mr Us agreement came to an end in the summer of 2019. The car was collected by an 
agent acting for MBFS on 26 June 2019. The agent identified that three of the alloy wheels 
were damaged such that they needed to be replaced. MBFS sent Mr U a bill for £1,255.89 
(ex vat) which he disputed. MBFS rejected this and said it had provided a copy of its Vehicle 
Return Standards at the start of the agreement.
It said Mr U had enough opportunity to have any repairs carried out which were needed. It 
said its prices are bench marked against industry standard guidelines and would stand up to 
independent scrutiny. It said the photographs showed excessive damage to three wheels 
which required replacing. It said that the standard it applied was that 'Any gouge, crack, cut, 
torn' alloy wheel is not acceptable.
Mr U brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. He said that the industry standard 
guidelines were set down by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA).
It stated that scuffs totalling over 50mm on the total circumference of the wheel trim is 
unacceptable - and would therefore falls outside of fair wear and tear. He said the 
photographs showed the wheels fell beyond fair wear and tear.
He said he couldnt comment on the suggested remedy, but it had been determined that the 
alloys could not be refurbished and would need to be replaced. He said that if Mr U felt the 
suggested repairs and costs were unfair, he may wish to approach the BVRLA or Motor 
Ombudsman.
Mr U didnt agree and added no further argument or evidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MBFS is entitled to charge for damage which goes beyond fair wear and tear. This is in the 
agreement which Mr U signed. I have looked at the photographs and the wheels are 
damaged and Mr U is liable for any costs arising as a result of that damage. MBFS entered 
into an agreement and set the monthly payments based on the car being returned in a 
reasonable condition. It wasnt in such a condition and MBFS is entitled to charge for the 
cost of any repairs or loss it may have suffered. 
Those with the relevant expertise have deemed the wheels beyond economic repair and I 
have seen no evidence which demonstrates that this was wrong. To my laymans eye the 
wheels appear to be very badly damaged and it would seem reasonable to say that replacement was the correct option. However, I cannot say for certain, but I have seen 
nothing that would allow me to conclude that MBFS was wrong to charge Mr U as it did and 
so I cannot uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman