DRN-4084253
The complaint
Mr M complains TSB Bank plc (TSB) havent helped to determine why he isnt being sent 
one-time passcodes to his mobile phone, when attempting to make online purchases using 
his credit card. 
What happened
Mr M says he is a long-standing customer of TSB and has attempted to make online 
purchases using his TSB credit card for some months. Mr M says he has been unable to do 
so on several occasions when a one-time passcode (OTP) is required, as these havent 
been sent by TSB to his mobile phone to facilitate such transactions. 
Mr M says he has gone to considerable expense of having to make international calls to TSB 
without them contacting him, and he has been unable to make a number of purchases he 
wished to over Christmas in particular, and this matter has caused him extreme 
inconvenience. 
Mr M says he has complained to TSB but doesnt feel it has taken sufficient steps to look 
into the reasons why he is experiencing these issues. Mr M says although TSB have offered 
£75 to cover his costs this doesnt help put right the issues he continues to face regarding 
his credit card. 
TSB explained to Mr M the importance of what is known as Strong Customer Authentication 
(SCA) security system to which it is bound and says it has taken steps to reset his credit 
card to try and resolve the matter. TSB also suggested Mr M could also consider using its 
mobile banking app which could resolve the issue but recognise this would require Mr M to 
upgrade to a smart phone. TSB says it has looked into Mr Ms concerns but are unable to 
trace any technical issues at their end as to why he isnt receiving OTPs. TSB recently 
suggested he should call them at the time he is making a transaction to see if this might help 
resolve the problem. 
TSB says it has apologised for the frustration this matter has caused Mr M and paid him £75 
for the distress and inconvenience this has caused him. 
Mr M wasnt happy with TSBs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
The investigator feels TSB have taken reasonable steps to investigate the issues Mr M 
experienced regarding OTPs not being received. 
The investigator says TSB provided evidence to support the fact no transactions were 
declined by them, and the card hasnt been blocked and internally that the SMS messages 
have been sent and delivered. Additionally, the investigator says TSB have subsequently 
suggested alternative actions Mr M could take, including upgrading to a smart phone so its 
banking app could be used, using an alternative method of payment or to ring TSB on the 
number provided when next making a similar online purchase requiring an OTP.
The investigator felt she couldnt ask much more of TSB here and these alternative options 
and the £75 payment of compensation is fair in this situation. 
Mr M didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision.
I can understand it would be upsetting and frustrating for Mr M not being able to make online 
transactions because he isnt receiving the OTPs he needs, to finalise the transactions.
When looking at this complaint I will consider if TSB have taken reasonable steps to try and 
put right the issues Mr M has faced when attempting to make certain online purchases using 
his credit card account. 
The first thing to say here is the background to this complaint is well documented and known 
to both parties, so I wont reiterate everything thats been said previously, other than to say 
Mr M doesnt feel TSB have taken sufficient steps to get to the bottom of why he isnt 
receiving OTPs when he makes online purchases using his credit card account. Mr M 
accepts he has a basic mobile phone but doesnt feel that is why he is experiencing these 
issues, as he does receive OTPs when using his online banking with TSB or for his bank 
account in Greece. 
Its worth saying here when considering the issues Mr M makes, my role here is to consider 
if TSB have taken reasonable steps to identify what is causing the problems here and offer 
alternative solutions that could help resolve the matter  Im satisfied its done that here.  
I say this because from the information I have seen, firstly TSB have provided evidence to 
show that no transactions have been declined by them. Additionally, it has confirmed it has 
liaised with the business who provides and operates the SCA/OTP system for them, who 
have advised SMS messages are being sent and its records shows they are being delivered. 
TSB have also made the point Mr M is able to receive OTPs when he logs onto his internet 
banking, suggesting the overall function is working from its perspective. I can also see Mr M 
was asked to contact his network operator to see why the messages arent being received  
but Mr M doesnt feel this is the root cause of the problem and the issue lies with TSB. 
While Mr M my not agree, I am satisfied TSB have taken his complaint seriously and it has 
taken reasonable steps to check from its side if a technical problem exists  but despite that, 
it hasnt been able to establish any here. 
In those circumstances I would also expect TSB to offer some alternative solutions and 
again here it has informed Mr M if he was to upgrade to a smart phone he could download 
its mobile app in order to authentic transactions that way  but thats for Mr M to decide if the 
inconvenience he faces warrants this phone upgrade. TSB have also suggested Mr M could 
use alternative methods of payments for example his other bank account. 
Finally, and importantly here TSB have provided Mr M with a direct telephone number to call 
them when he next makes an online purchase, so it can try to identify any issue at point of 
sale. So, I cant say TSB are not trying to help Mr M here and Im satisfied this isnt a case of TSB 
not being willing to fully investigator the issues, more that it has tried to do so, but it cant 
identify any technical problems from its end. 
Taking all of this into account I cant see TSB could have done much more than it has here. 
While Mr M will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of TSB here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman