DRN-3082575
The complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc trading as Barclaycard wont refund a payment 
made on his credit card to an online seller for a gold chain.
What happened
In November 2019 a gold chain was purchased through an online marketplace using Mr Rs 
Barclays credit card. The total cost charged to his card was £1171.01. When Mr R received 
the chain he had concerns about whether it was as advertised. Specifically he was 
concerned that the gold content of the chain wasnt as described in the advertisement he 
was responding to. So he complained to the seller who said Mr R was trying to scam him by 
returning a different chain in order to profit from the difference. So Mr R didnt return the 
chain and soon reached deadlock with the online seller.
Mr R had paid using his online E-Money account. So he complained to his E-Money 
provider. But he was unsuccessful with that also. So having used his credit card to fund the 
purchase he complained to Barclays.
Barclays looked into the matter, but it didnt think it could help. This was because it didnt 
think it could pursue a chargeback because it didnt have a reasonable prospect of success 
in its view. It also thought a Section 75 claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 should be 
unsuccessful. So it didnt think it could do any more for Mr R.
Mr R didnt think this was fair, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into the matter. Overall, she didnt think Barclays had acted unfairly by declining Mr 
Rs request for a refund. Mr R didnt agree. So the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should make very clear that this decision is not about the online marketplace, which isnt a 
financial service provider and so doesnt fall within my remit. Nor is it about the seller of the 
chain or the E-Money provider.
This decision is only about whether Barclays has treated Mr R fairly in not refunding the 
transaction under the obligations it has. Its liability here is limited to these issues only and is 
not all encompassing.
authorising the transaction
Mr R says he made the transaction funding it through his Barclays Credit card. He doesnt 
dispute the amount, the recipient, the date or any other elements of the transaction. Barclays 
has explained how it received the transaction and applied it to Mr Rs account. So all things 
considered I think the transaction was properly authorised and Barclays correctly applied this 
charge to Mr Rs credit card account.
could Barclays challenge the transaction through a chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mr R 
does here, Barclays (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through a chargeback process.
I dont think Barclays couldve challenged the payment on the basis Mr R didnt properly 
authorise the transaction, given the conclusions on this issue that Ive already set out.
Barclays is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. But this transaction here is not the simplest of 
transactions. The payment didnt go directly to the online seller of the chain. It is actually two 
transactions. Barclays paid the E-Money Provider who received the funds. The E-Money 
Provider then in a separate transaction paid the online seller.
The chargeback process in this instance is limited due to the nature of this relationship. 
Barclays has explained that it could only attempt a chargeback here if Mr R hadnt received 
the goods. But it is clear he did receive the good in question-his issue is the quality of the 
good itself not whether it was received or not.
Barclays says it considered a chargeback and didnt think it had a reasonable prospect of 
success. So it didnt try this process because Mr R did get the chain albeit hes not happy 
with it. So considering what it knew and the overall circumstances here, all in all, I dont think 
Mr R has lost out due to Barclayss approach to chargeback here.
how about the Consumer Credit Act 1974?
The transaction was made using Mr Rs Barclayss credit card. Under section 75 of this Act, 
in certain circumstances, he has an equal right to claim against Barclays as he does against 
the supplier (the Website) if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier. In summary section 56 has the effect of making Barclays responsible during the 
antecedent negotiations leading up to Mr R entering into the agreement. In essence this 
means Barclays can be held responsible for the things that were done or said during the 
sales process before agreement was reached.
For a valid claim under this legislation there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement 
in place. This is often referred to as the DCS relationship or simply DCS. This means there 
needs to be the necessary three-party relationship. This often looks like:
A debtor (who makes repayments to the creditor for the borrowing for the purchase)
A creditor (who has to send the borrowed amount direct to the supplier)
A supplier (who has to provide what was purchased to the debtor)
This means the person who paid for the goods, the debtor, should pay and have a 
contractual relationship with the online seller who supplied the goods, as well as with the 
credit provider, the creditor. But this isnt the case here. Mr R has a relationship with the E-
Money Provider and his credit card was used to pay the E-Money Provider. The E-Money 
Provider then paid the online seller in a separate transaction. And Mr R had a contract for 
the purchase directly with the online seller but didnt pay them directly. So in essence this is 
a four-party relationship. 
Mr R may argue that the E-Money Provider was acting a payment processor. And it is the 
case that this particular E-Money Provider provides numerous types of financial transactional services. And this includes acting in some relationships as a Payment Processor. And in that 
situation where the funds are merely processed or go straight through a gateway or 
processor then the DCS chain wouldnt be broken. Further information on this can be seen in 
well-known legal cases considering S75 and additional parties (the OFT case and the 
Truman case). But this service has been in contact with the E-Money Provider recently 
specifically on this point and it has reconfirmed this transaction here was E-Money. And, 
indeed, Mr R has confirmed he used his account with the E-Money Provider to fund this 
transaction.
Accordingly Im satisfied that there isnt the necessary DCS relationship present to make 
Barclays responsible under this legislation. And thus it is fair that Barclays isnt responsible 
for any failings by online seller. So Mr Rs complaint here fails.
I appreciate Mr Rs comments about not being able to get fairness here from a number of 
different parties. But I should remind Mr R that at the crux of this his dispute is dissatisfaction 
with the gold chain he was sent by the online seller. So his primary complaint is with the 
online seller. He may have cause to complain with either the online marketplace or the E-
Money Provider. But Barclays here only has obligations in three ways, did it properly carry 
out the transaction as instructed (yes) did it consider the Chargeback process available and 
treat Mr R fairly in this regard (yes) and did it consider its obligations under S75 fairly (yes). 
And it should be remembered that Barclays wouldnt have liability for breach or 
misrepresentation in this instance other than for this particular legislation.
I think that Mr R hasnt lost out here as I think Barclays made a fair decision in not taking the 
chargeback issue further. Im satisfied the necessary relationship (DCS) isnt in place here 
so Barclays cannot be held liable for any breach or misrepresentation by the online seller. 
And I think Barclays correctly applied the cost of the gold chain to Mr Rs credit card 
account. So I dont think I can fairly require Barclays to refund Mr R for it. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Barclays Bank UK Plc 
trading as Barclaycard.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman