DRN-3477554
The complaint
Ms Os complaint is about a second charge secured loan she has with an unregulated 
lender (P), and which is administered by Kensington Mortgage Company Limited trading as 
Acenden. Shes unhappy with the administration of the loan regarding:
Not receiving loan statements or information for many years. As such, she believes the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 requires that Acenden should remove the charges and fees 
applied to the account since the last compliant statement was issued.
The balance of the account being higher than she expected it to be.
Acenden not responding to correspondence.
Ms O is represented in her complaint. For ease, I will refer to all comments made by either 
Ms O or her representative, as having been made by her. 
What happened
Ms O arranged a second charge secured loan with a lender in 2007. The loan was 
administered by the lender until September 2016, when it was sold on to P. P wasnt 
regulated at that time and has not subsequently become so. So it employed a regulated 
financial services business  Acenden - to administer the loan on its behalf.
From 2018 onwards Ms O raised various complaints relating to the loan. The original lender 
responded to the first complaint and Acenden the later ones. Each of the complaint response 
letters issued by Acenden contained referral rights to this service and explained to Ms O that 
she needed to make any such referral within six months of the letter.
Acenden didnt consent to us considering the complaint issues that had been raised and 
responded to in 2019. Ms O wanted all of her complaint considered and so the matter of our 
jurisdiction was passed to me for consideration. I issued a decision that we could only 
consider the aspects of Ms Os complaint relating to: 
her not receiving loan statements or information from the point Acenden took over 
administering the loan in September 2016; and
Acenden not responding to correspondence.
The complaint was returned to the investigator for the merits of these parts of the complaint 
to be considered. 
Acenden provided copies of the annual statements it had issued to Ms O. As the annual 
statements were due in May each year, the first of them was issued in May 2017. It provided 
copies of statements from each year since 2017.  The statements were correctly addressed 
to Ms Os home, which is also the mortgaged property. The statements included information 
that I would expect; balances, payments made, interest applied, the repayment basis and 
remaining term.
Ms O confirmed that she didnt remember receiving an account statement in 2016. She also 
said that there had been a history of letters being delivered to the wrong address. She said 
she had some evidence of letters addressed to her neighbours being delivered to her home, 
but she didnt provide a copy of that evidence. Ms O also provided correspondence with the 
original lender from 2017 raising concerns about the transfer of the loan to P and the 
consequences of that transfer. 
Our investigator considered the information provided and concluded that annual statements 
had been issued to Ms O. As they had been addressed correctly, she considered that they 
were most likely delivered. As such, she didnt think Acenden had done anything wrong in 
this regard. In respect to the email chain Ms O had provided as evidence that 
correspondence was being ignored, the investigator accepted that there had been delays in 
responses being provided. However, she wasnt persuaded that the delays in receiving 
responses had disadvantaged Ms O, as the complaint had already been responded to and 
referral rights to this service had been given.
Acenden accepted the investigators view, but Ms O didnt. She provided copies of letters 
detailing why she didnt consider the statements issued by the original lender were compliant 
with the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Due to the errors listed, Ms O concluded that no interest 
should have been charged on the account for the periods of those statements, and all 
subsequent statements showed incorrect balances and so were also non-compliant.  It was 
also questioned why, if payments were missed in 2008 and 2010, why notices of sums in 
arrears were not issued. This would again mean that the loan agreement was not 
enforceable and Ms O was not liable for any interest or charges during the period of 
non-compliance.  She said that while Acenden was not responsible for the breaches 
detailed, it was bound by the consequences of the breach, i.e. when it took over 
administering the loan it should have checked what the previous lender had done, identified 
errors and recalculated the interest applied to the loan from the outset to remove that 
charged during periods of non-compliance. 
Our investigator responded by reiterating that we couldnt comment on the actions or 
omissions of the original lender in this complaint. As such, we would not consider whether 
the balance of the loan account was correct when it was transferred to P. We would only 
work from that point on and whether the information provided by Acenden was correct. 
Ms O maintained that the P and, therefore, Acenden should have taken account of the 
previous breaches of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 when administering the account, 
including when producing statements from September 2016 onward. As agreement couldnt 
be reached, it was decided that the complaint should be referred to an ombudsman for 
consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms O has said that she didnt receive loan statements after Acenden took over administering 
the loan. Acenden has, however, been able to provide the statements it sent to Ms O on 
each anniversary after it took over the administration of the loan. The statements contained 
the information I would expect to be contained in them.
I have examined these documents and I am satisfied that the were correctly addressed. 
While I accept that some letters do go astray in the postal system, the majority of post is 
correctly delivered. I note that Ms O has said she has evidence that there have been historic 
problems with her post. However, she hasnt provided any evidence, such as 
communications with Royal Mail about the matter, that this was the case. In the 
circumstances, given the statements were correctly addressed, I consider it more likely than not that the documents were delivered to Ms Os home address. As such, I dont uphold this 
part of the complaint. 
Ms O has said that she considered there were mistakes made with the administration of the 
loan by the original lender. As I explained in my previous decision, I cant comment on the 
actions of the previous lender in this decision. Ive considered the position Ms O has put 
forward, but I dont think it would be an appropriate way for this service to view the 
complaint. This service wouldnt expect an administrator, upon being appointed, to check 
that a previous lender or administrator had completed all administrative tasks correctly and, 
if not, remedy any historic errors. That said, this doesnt mean that the argument isnt 
something a court might be persuaded by, and I wouldnt want to deter Ms O from pursuing 
that option if she wished.
Ms O provided an email chain addressed to Ps solicitors starting in August 2020 and ending 
in December 2020. It appears to be Ms Os representative setting out why it didnt agree with 
the complaint response, although it was not sent to the department that issued that 
response. I have to accept that a substantive response was not provided to Ms Os further 
comments, but they were acknowledged, and Ms O was told why a response was not 
forthcoming prior to the referral of the complaint to this service. This was not ideal, but as our 
investigator said, I dont consider the lack of further response prejudiced Ms Os position. 
Indeed, having responded formally to the complaint, Acenden didnt have to provide a further 
response at all. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Ms O to accept or reject my decision before 
12 July 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman