DRN-2744890
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy Hastings Insurance Services Limited automatically renewed his car 
insurance policy and took the full premium from his account. He would like compensation for 
the trouble and upset this caused. 
What happened
On 1 September 2020 Hastings sent Mr N a reminder that his policy was due to renew on 
30 September 2020. On 29 September 2020 Mr N sent an e-mail to Hastings asking it not to 
renew his policy. But the policy still automatically renewed, and the full premium was taken 
from his bank account. So, he made a complaint. 
Hastings considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. It said it was within its rights to 
automatically renew the policy and it had made Mr N aware it would do so. It also said it 
explained to Mr N in its reminder in September 2020 what steps he could take it he wanted 
to cancel his renewal. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said Hastings had 
explained to Mr N his policy would be automatically renewed unless it was told not to do so. 
And she was satisfied Mr N sent his e-mail to an unmonitored customer service mailbox, so 
it wasnt acted upon by Hastings. The investigator said Mr N was told to call if he didnt want 
his policy to automatically renew and Hastings had returned his money when he asked it to. 
So, Hastings hadnt treated Mr N unfairly. 
Mr N disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said he sent an e-mail asking for 
his policy not to be renewed as per Hastingss instructions, but his money was still taken 
from his account. And he didnt agree that his e-mail was sent to an unmonitored mail box 
because there were no warnings telling him not to respond to Hastingss e-mail. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Ill explain why below.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome.
Mr N says Hastingss automatic renewal process is unfair. I note that he previously raised a 
complaint about Hastings automatically renewing his policy. So, Im satisfied he is aware this 
is part of Hastingss process. And I dont consider it unfair for car insurance policies to be 
automatically renewed, as long as the customer is clearly made aware that this will happen. 
Information on automatic renewals can be found in the terms and conditions of Mr Ns policy. 
I note in Hastingss letter  which it sent to Mr N by e-mail dated 1 September 2020 - it said 
the policy would renew on 30 September 2020 and if he didnt want this to happen he could 
contact it by phone. Mr N then replied to Hastings e-mail saying that he didnt want his 
policy to renew. But Hastings has said this was sent to an unmonitored mailbox. And Ive 
seen evidence that e-mails sent to the address Mr N sent his e-mail to, are bounced back 
with an automated message to say the mailbox is unmonitored. 
Its not uncommon nor do I consider it to be unfair for insurers to have unmonitored 
mailboxes. The sole use of these e-mail accounts is to send information about policy 
renewals, cancellation and arrears. And I note, in this instance, Hastings made it clear Mr N 
could log into an online account to manage his renewal or speak to it over the phone. 
Ive seen that once Mr N contacted Hastings following the renewal his money was returned 
with no cancellation charges. Which is what Id expect to see in circumstances such as this. 
As a result, I dont believe Mr N was treated unfairly here. So, Im not going to ask Hastings 
to do anything more here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman