DRN-2194833
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Lynden Ltd trading as FindYourPPI (FYP), are charging him for a 
successful claim for mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
In July 2019, Mr H instructed FYP to do a free PPI check, after hed heard their advert on his 
local radio station. He completed his details in FYPs online portal and electronically signed 
the Letters of Authority (LOAs) FYP needed. The LOAs gave FYP the authority to proceed 
with any claims if PPI was found.
In August 2019, FYP contacted Mr H to let him know theyd found PPI, and they asked him 
for further information that the PPI providers would usually need to be able to progress a 
claim. But Mr H didnt provide this information. In December 2019, PPI provider B told Mr H 
that a mis-sold PPI claim had been successful and awarded him compensation. FYP then 
invoiced Mr H for their fee.
Mr H complained that FYPs radio advert was misleading, and that they didnt have any 
authority to pursue any claims on his behalf. FYP didnt agree, but they did reduce their fee 
as a gesture of goodwill. Mr H didnt accept this, and he brought his complaint to the Claims 
Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman service) for investigation.
Our investigator said that that the radio advert FYP played in Mr Hs local area made it clear 
that FYP would charge a fee for their service. He also said that the terms and conditions Mr 
H agreed to made it clear that FYP would automatically make a claim where PPI had been 
found. So he didnt think FYP had done anything wrong.
Mr H didnt agree with the investigator. He confirmed that the advert he heard was broadcast 
on his local radio station, and he says the advert definitely stated that the initial PPI check 
was free. And because of this, he didnt read any of the paperwork before he signed it. He 
asked that an ombudsman investigate the adverts played on his local radio in the weeks 
before he instructed FYP, and then make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent 
commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the 
right outcome.
FYP have provided copies of the three adverts they used from 7 June to 5 July 2019, which 
were broadcast on the station Mr H says he heard the adverts. Ive listened to these adverts 
and they say the initial trace is free, you pay nothing unless/until you receive a refund. The 
adverts also explained that FYP charged a fee of 20% plus VAT on successful claims, and 
how it was possible to make a claim without using FYP and without charge.
Based on what Ive seen, I believe Mr H heard some or all of these adverts. They explain 
that the initial PPI check is free, and I havent seen anything to show me that Mr H was 
charged anything for the PPI check. So I dont think these adverts were misleading.
The adverts also referred to a website, which Mr H used to instruct FYP on 17 July 2019. 
Ive also seen a copy of the online sign-up process on this website, which also explained that 
FYP wouldnt charge for the PPI check, but would charge for any successful claims. 
Ive seen a copy of the LOAs Mr H signed. These all clearly state, due to the closeness of 
the 29 August PPI deadline, in the event of PPI being found, I also give consent to {FYP} to 
act on my behalf in relation to mis-sold financial products and claims against the Finance 
Company as instructed. FYP have explained they did this to ensure customers didnt miss 
out on being able to claim. Because of when Mr H initially instructed FYP and when the 
deadline for making new PPI claims was, I dont think this was unreasonable.
The terms and conditions Mr H agreed to explained that Mr H was under no obligation to 
pursue your claims with us and can shop around. They also explained that our service in 
tracing PPI Claims is free. But if you choose to proceed in allowing us to reclaim your 
compensation, by signing our agreement form, you are agreeing to our fees of 20%+VAT.
Mr H has said he didnt read any of the paperwork that he signed. Even though he ticked an 
online box to confirm that he had. This was his choice. But, because he chose not to read 
anything, this doesnt mean that hes not bound by the terms he agreed to accept.
Ive not seen any evidence that Mr H pursued the claim against PPI provider B, or any other 
PPI provider himself, after being told by FYP what PPI policies hed been sold. And hes not 
said that he did so. Nor did Mr H tell FYP that he no longer wanted them to act for him. I 
accept that he didnt respond to their requests for further information, but I dont consider 
disengaging with FYP to be the same thing as cancelling his instructions.
Unlike his other PPI providers, PPI provider B were able to complete their investigation into 
the sale of Mr Hs PPI policy without the additional information FYP asked for. Ive seen a 
copy of the letter PPI provider B sent to Mr H on 27 December 2019. This says that PPI 
provider B made their decision based on the information provided by {Mr H}, the information 
provided by {FYP} and our internal system evidence. They also sent a copy of this letter to 
FYP. 
Because of this, and as the only information Im aware that Mr H provided was on the LOA, 
Im satisfied that the claim against PPI provider B was only successful because of the work 
FYP did. So theyre entitled to charge their success fee.
FYP charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they 
actually did. This means that any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for 
free. And they didnt charge Mr H for the PPI check, or for any claims that were 
unsuccessful. This is exactly what their radio adverts said theyd do. 
Where a claim was successful, FYPs fee may be more or less than the value of the work 
they actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. Just because 
FYPs fee is higher than the value of the work theyve done for Mr Hs claim against PPI provider B doesnt make their fee unjustified. So I wont be asking them to reduce their fee 
any further or waive it.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about Lynden Ltd trading 
as FindYourPPI.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman