DRN-1143539
 
 
The complaint
This complaint is about the early repayment charge (ERC) on Mr Hs mortgage account with 
Barclays Bank Plc. Mr H says that hes been given inaccurate information by Barclays about 
the date when the ERC will end. Mr H says that, under English law, he considers this 
overrides the terms of the mortgage contract. He wants Barclays to waive the ERC.
What happened
In May 2015 Mr H purchased a property with the aid of a mortgage from Barclays. The 
mortgage term was over 32 years, with the first ten years on a fixed rate of interest until 
31 March 20215. 
The mortgage offer, dated 23 March 2015, states at section 10 that if the mortgage is repaid 
before 31 March 2022 there will be an ERC of 6% of the amount repaid, and if it is repaid 
before 31 March 2025 there will be an ERC of 3% of the amount repaid. Section 11 of the 
mortgage offer allowed for overpayments not exceeding 5% per annum without incurring an 
ERC.
In 2018, and on several occasions since then, Mr H has asked Barclays about when the 
ERC will end. Hes been told in error that it will end in 2022. As a result, Mr H says that he 
has made plans to repay his mortgage after 1 April  2022, and wants Barclays to waive any 
ERC which hed be required to pay up to 31 March 2025. 
Barclays has acknowledged that its made a mistake and given Mr H incorrect information 
about the end date of the ERC. Barclays has explained that this has happened because 
when staff members look at the account details on its system, they see only the information 
about the first part of the ERC which ends on 31 March 2022.
Barclays has offered Mr H a total of £300 compensation for these mistakes. But Barclays 
says that, even though Mr H has been given incorrect information, this doesnt override the 
mortgage contract. Barclays has also pointed out that the annual mortgage statements show 
clearly that an ERC will apply until 31 March 2025.
Mr H complained to us, where an investigator looked at the complaint. He didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld. Although he accepted Barclays had made a mistake, he 
thought the compensation offered was fair. The investigator agreed with Barclays that the 
incorrect information does not cancel out the terms of the contract.
Mr H disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He maintains no court of law would find against him.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I confirm Ive read everything Mr H has 
sent us, including the extracts of legal cases hes researched on the internet which he 
believes support his complaint. Its important to explain that were not a court, and although 
we take account of the law, my overriding duty is to decide whats fair and reasonable, as 
provided for in our enabling legislation, the Financial Service and Markets Act 2000.
Its not disputed that the contract Mr H entered into in 2015 provided for an ERC to be 
applied until 31 March 2025. I think if Mr H had read the mortgage offer, hed have 
understood that to be the case, as the terms are quite clear. Mr H accepted the mortgage 
offer, which is a legally-binding contract.
Ive also noted that the annual mortgage statements confirm the end date for the ERC as 
being 31 March 2025. So Im satisfied that there is no ambiguity in these documents about 
the end date of the ERC.
But Mr H believes that Barclays should waive any ERC on the mortgage after 1 April 2022. 
He says that he made plans to repay the mortgage after that date, relying on what Barclays 
had told him (in error) about the end date of the ERC being 31 March 2022. But now he 
knows the correct position and that the ERC applies until 2025, Mr H says his plans have 
been affected.
Barclays has accepted that it made numerous errors over a period of time in relation to the 
information it gave Mr H. Because Barclays has accepted its errors, I dont need to 
investigate who is at fault. But where mistakes have been made, I have to put Mr H back in 
the position hed have been in if the mistakes hadnt been made.
If Barclays hadnt made these mistakes, Mr H would have been told that the ERC applied 
until 2025, in line with the terms of the contract. By being given incorrect information, Mr H 
has been caused disappointment, trouble and upset. But hes incurred no actual financial 
loss, because Im satisfied that the incorrect information doesnt override or alter the terms of 
the mortgage contract. Mr H is, and always has been, required to pay an ERC if he repays 
the mortgage before 31 March 2025. 
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that the compensation already offered by Barclays (a total 
of £300) is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. This compensates Mr H for the 
disappointment of being given incorrect information. Im satisfied he didnt find out later that 
this information was incorrect; I say this because Im satisfied already knew, from the 
mortgage offer and annual statements, when the ERC was due to end.
In the circumstances, I can find no basis on which it would be fair or reasonable to order 
Barclays to waive any ERC if Mr H decides to repay his mortgage during the period the ERC 
applies. 
I appreciate this isnt the answer Mr H was expecting. He asked for  his complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman with a legal background and I confirm I am a solicitor. Ive noted 
Mr Hs arguments about specific performance, implied covenants about good faith and 
dealing, and the various legal authorities hes quoted from his online research. But Im 
afraid I dont share Mr Hs opinion that Barclays is bound to waive any ERC after 31 March 
2022 or that its letters create a legally-binding variation to the mortgage contract..
Im conscious that Mr H is likely to disagree with my opinion. If he rejects my decision, Mr H 
is free to pursue his grievances against Barclays through the courts, if he wishes to do so. 
Mr H might want to take legal advice from a solicitor before embarking on any legal action.My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because Im satisfied the compensation 
totalling £300 already offered by Barclays Bank PLC is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
This decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of Mr Hs complaint, 
which means Ill be unable to enter into any further consideration of the merits of the 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2020.
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman