DRN-1776976
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclays) closed his 
credit card account without giving him due notice.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mr A and Barclays, so there is no need for me to repeat it here in any detail. 
Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its of direct 
relevance to the issues I need to deal with. 
Mr A opened a credit card account with Barclays in January 2019. On the 7 October 2019 he 
was told by an advisor that his card had been blocked and a new one was being issued to 
him. However, on the 9 October Barclays decided to close his account without notice. 
Barclays said they closed the account in line with its terms and conditions and following a 
commercial decision based upon him no longer meeting their lending criteria and having 
missed payments and exceeded his credit limit.
Mr A disputed Barclays reasoning and complained asking for his account to be re-instated
Mr A was unhappy with Barclayss final response and so approached this service to see if 
we could assist in resolving the dispute. An investigator looked into the complaint, and 
having done so, concluded that Barclays hadnt done anything wrong and had dealt with the 
complaint fairly.
Mr A didnt agree with our investigators view and asked for the complaint to be passed to an 
Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate.  
I have considered both sides views in considering whether Barclays acted fairly and 
reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. 
Where evidence is not complete, I think about what is more likely to have happened in the 
light of the evidence which is available. I must make an independent decision about what I 
think is right for each case, and thats what Ive done here. In this case, I dont think that 
Barclays has done anything wrong and Ill explain why.
So, the issue here turns on the terms of the credit card agreement. Ive looked at these and 
can see that under the section headed Closing your account it provides that Barclays can 
close a customers account by writing to the customer and giving them at least two months 
notice. However, they can also close an account immediately if they reasonably believe that youve broken this agreement regularly or seriously. In these circumstances, there is no 
obligation on Barclays to give reasons for any account closure and it is entitled to rely on the 
agreement it had with Mr A.
In reliance upon this clause Barclays said they looked at the operation of Mr As account to 
see that he exceeded his credit limit in January and October 2019, and he also missed 
Octobers statement payment.
Ive looked at the credit card statements provided and can see that Barclays notified Mr A In 
his October statement that he was over his limit and explaining that future transactions 
would be suspended until his account was brought back within its limit. And, they also 
explained on his November statement that he had missed Octobers payment and as such 
his card had been cancelled.
Ive also considered what Mr A told Barclays about his overall position in October 2019. The 
call recording shows that Mr A told Barclays that he wasnt working and was claiming state 
benefits. He asked for an interest holiday and said he wouldnt be able to make that months 
minimum payment and asked for a two-week extension. I appreciate Mr A states he never 
told Barclays he was in financial difficulties nor that he would be unable to pay his monthly 
payment, but although he never used those words, he was in such difficulty because he 
wasnt able to make the October payment and he no longer had the income he did when he 
opened his account.
Barclays were entitled to review Mr As account and took into account him exceeding the 
credit limit twice, most latterly in October at which time he also missed a payment and was 
not working. I can see how that would then mean Mr A did not meet their lending criteria. So, 
I think Barclays were entitled to then make a commercial decision as to whether they wished 
to continue to lend to Mr A, and having done so decided they did not. 
I have no power to interfere with such commercial decisions, and dont have the power to 
make rules for financial businesses, assess or direct that they change their policy or 
procedures. I only look at what happened in the circumstances of the individual complaint 
and check that Barclays followed its rules and procedures and is applying them fairly to all 
customers. 
So, although I understand Mr A feels Barclays acted unfairly, I cannot say that they have. I 
think they acted within the terms and conditions of the account and taking into account him 
exceeding the limit on his account, missing his payment, and not meeting their lending 
criteria, they were entitled to close his account with immediate effect, because he had 
'seriously' broken the terms of his agreement with them by going over limit and failing to a 
make payment.
I cant therefore say Barclays has acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding 
this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC 
trading as Barclaycard.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman