DRN-2520257
The complaint
R, a limited company, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC removed its overdraft and 
didnt fairly consider an appeal against this.
What happened
R had a long-standing overdraft limit of £15,000 with Barclays. In February 2020 the director 
of R says he found out it had been removed when items were returned unpaid. He contacted 
Barclays and was unhappy with its response and service and that it didnt call him back 
when it said it would.
Barclays says it wanted to review the overdraft facility. It wrote to R on 5 December 2019 to 
ask it to get in touch and it left a voicemail for the director on 20 December 2019. Having 
heard nothing back it decided to remove the overdraft facility. It said that it did this because 
there were limited credits to the account and the balance wasnt fluctuating into credit as it 
would expect with such a cashflow facility. Barclays wrote to R on 27 December 2019 to say 
that the facility would be removed from 26 January 2020 and that any balance would need to 
be repaid. It accepts that it could have provided better service when the director called and 
has offered £50 for this. But that his request to reinstate the overdraft wasnt successful 
because there was no turnover to the account and no basis for an appeal.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld, and that Barclays do more 
than it had offered to. He said that Barclays had shown it had sent correctly addressed 
letters to R. It couldnt be responsible for the postal service or any issues with the directors 
phone service. It hadnt made a mistake in removing the facility and it had provided R with 
the 30 days notice of removing it in line with its terms and conditions. The overdraft letter 
itself had also said it was repayable on demand. He said that it wasnt the role of this service 
to set lending criteria or to review Barclays processes. Hed listened to recordings of calls 
the director had with Barclays. He didnt think that the attitude of any member of staff was 
poor or deliberately unhelpful. But he did think that there were some delays, confusion and 
miscommunication at times. Having said that the staff members the director spoke to outside 
the overdraft renewal team wouldnt have known whether there were grounds for appeal. As 
a result, the amount of compensation offered was reasonable.
The director on behalf of R said that he didnt agree. He didnt receive the untracked letter. 
And R had paid many thousands of pounds in interest and commission to Barclays in the 
past. Its attempts at communication and service were pitiful. There were many means of 
contacting R. And the weak requirements about the regulation of overdrafts needed to be 
improved as these are only there to suit Barclays.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I fully understand the frustration of the director and that as he says the crux of his complaint 
is the poor communication and service. R had existing borrowing on overdraft, was well 
within the limit and had the facility in place for a number of years and was paying a fee for it. 
I can see why the director didnt expect Barclays to take this action without at least speaking 
to him first.
I know hes going to be disappointed when I say that I dont have a reasonable basis to find 
Barclays has made a mistake. We dont have a role in reviewing processes as we arent the 
regulator. Barclays has followed its standard process and explained why it no longer wanted 
to offer an overdraft. As far as Barclays was aware R had received notice of the removal of 
the facility and hadnt responded to its attempts to contact it. I know that the director says he 
didnt receive the second letter or the call. But I have to agree with our investigator that I 
dont think Barclays is responsible for that. And nor can I say that it ought to have taken any 
other steps to contact R. 
Unfortunately, it does seem that even if the director had been in touch any sooner it wouldnt 
likely have made a difference to the decision to remove the overdraft. I can see that there 
were limited credits made to the account over the preceding period and I think Barclays was 
entitled to take this into account. The director was clearly very dissatisfied when he 
contacted Barclays. It accepts that it could have provided a better service and been clearer 
about a call back. And taking this into account I think that its offer to pay R £50 is fair one. I 
appreciate the director will remain dissatisfied with this.
My final decision
Barclays has made an offer to pay R £50. I think that this is fair in the circumstances so my 
decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay R £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman