DRN-2421271
The complaint
Miss C and Mr C complain that Legal & General Partnership Services Limited (L&G) mis-
sold them payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
Miss C and Mr C took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2009. They paid a monthly amount 
for the policy and it offered some protection to Miss C if she was off work due to accident, 
sickness or unemployment for up to 12 months at a time.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss C and Mr C disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. 
Miss C mainly says that she was led to believe the mortgage would not be granted if the PPI 
was not taken out. She said she was pressurised into taking the cover as the mortgage was 
a necessity and the pressure and the potential of the mortgage not completing was the 
overriding factor in taking the policy. Otherwise, she told us, it would not have been taken in 
any circumstances. She said PPI wasnt needed as she had other ways to pay the mortgage 
if she wasnt able to work  and Mr C couldve covered the payments on his own.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss C and Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
I think L&G made Miss C and Mr C aware that the PPI was optional and that Miss C chose 
to take it. Ive taken into account what Miss C and Mr C say about how the advisor sold them 
PPI. But what Miss C and Mr C say isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold this 
complaint. I have to decide what I think is most likely given all the available information and 
taking into account the wider circumstances.
Looking at the paperwork completed at the time of the sale, it appears that PPI was 
discussed and recommended by the advisor. And, although I cant know exactly what was 
discussed when Miss C and Mr C arranged this policy, I think it wouldve been clear from the 
mortgage paperwork that the PPI was optional. 
Ive seen nothing in any of the paperwork that wouldve suggested that taking out PPI was 
required in order to obtain the mortgage they wanted. When they were sent information 
before signing up to the mortgage, Miss C and Mr C wouldve been able to see that it 
specifically said they didnt have to take out any insurance products except for buildings 
insurance. 
And I think they probably understood this at the time because Mr C chose not to take out PPI 
 even though it was recommended to him. Miss C chose to take out a limited amount of 
cover only rather than buying the full amount of benefit recommended.
So I think they were aware that they could decline PPI if they hadnt wanted it at the time.  
As this happened some years ago, its completely understandable if Miss C and Mr C have 
forgotten some of these details now. 
On balance, I think its likely that Miss C took out the amount of cover that reflected her 
wishes at the time, in the knowledge that it was a matter of choice and up to 
Miss C and Mr C to say what, if any, cover they each wanted. 
As L&G recommended the PPI, it had to take reasonable steps to make sure it was suitable. 
Ive taken into account what Miss C and Mr C told us about their financial situation and work 
benefits at the time. 
Miss C cant provide anything to show that she wouldve been entitled to receive as much 
sick pay as she says she wouldve had. It would be very unusual for someone to be 
guaranteed 12 months full sick pay. So I cant uphold this complaint just based on what 
Miss C says. And information recorded at the time suggests she may have had some sick 
pay entitlement  but she wasnt sure how much or how long it would be paid for. So this 
doesnt mean that the PPI was unsuitable. 
The policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months per claim if Miss C had an accident or was 
disabled from working. It wouldve paid out on top of any benefits from her employer. So 
I think the policy offered Miss C a useful benefit in what mightve been difficult circumstances 
for her - especially if she mightve faced extra costs as a result of illness or disability. 
The policy wouldve also paid out if shed lost her job.
Miss C and Mr C told us they had some savings or other insurance worth 12 months or more 
of their pay. 
It looks like they mightve put at least some of their savings towards the cost of buying their 
new home. And the review of their financial situation carried out at the time suggests 
Miss C and Mr C didnt have sufficient savings or other insurance already in place to enable 
them to keep paying the mortgage if they werent able to work. 
And I dont know if theyd always have had savings to rely on if Miss C had needed to make 
a claim. Having PPI meant Miss C and Mr C could rely on being able to keep any savings to 
spend on other things or to provide them with financial security. 
I've taken into account that Miss C and Mr C told us that Mr C couldve covered the 
mortgage monthly repayments on his own as he had two sources of income. But the 
information recorded at the time seems to indicate that Miss C was substantially the main 
earner.
It looks like Mr C had two potential income streams but only provided evidence of income for 
one month in 2009 and the notes indicate that the mortgage application was primarily based 
on Miss Cs income. So I dont think it looks likely that Miss C and Mr C wouldve been able 
to keep on paying the mortgage if only Mr C was in work.Looking at Miss C and Mr Cs circumstances at the time, I think the PPI provided useful 
benefits and it was suitable for Miss C. 
The cost of the policy was shown in a quote illustration that L&G sent Miss C and Mr C. So 
I think they wouldve had an idea of the likely cost before Miss C signed up for it  and Ive 
seen nothing to suggest that Miss C and Mr C found it difficult to afford the policy. If their 
circumstances changed, or if they no longer wanted to pay for the PPI, Miss C couldve 
cancelled this at any time without losing out financially. 
Its possible the information L&G gave Miss C and Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. Ive taken into account that there were some things the policy didnt cover. 
But it doesnt look as if those things applied to Miss C. So, I dont think having more 
information about things the policy didnt cover wouldve put her off taking it out.
Despite what Miss C and Mr C say in response to our adjudicators view this doesnt affect 
my decision. Their mortgage was a major financial commitment and Miss C and Mr Cs 
home wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to date. So, I can see 
why they mightve felt at least some PPI was useful to have. 
Overall its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold. But it 
makes no difference to the outcome. Thats because I think Miss C and Mr C still wouldve 
decided to buy the policy if theyd been better informed as the policy gave them useful 
protection in their particular situation. 
This means they havent lost out as a result of anything that L&G did wrong. So theres 
nothing it needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Miss C 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 February 2021. 
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman