DRN-2895032
The complaint
Ms O complains that the service she received from Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) when 
making a claim on her home emergency cover policy was not acceptable, caused 
unnecessary delays and left her without heating for 2 weeks.
There are several parties and representatives of Aviva involved throughout the claim but for 
the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to Aviva.
What happened
On 21 December 2020 Ms O found that she had no hot water.
Ms O contacted Aviva to register a claim on her home emergency cover insurance and was 
incorrectly told that she should contact another company directly as it was not covered under 
her policy with Aviva.
Ms O contacted the company and they were unable to help so on 23 December 2020 she 
called Aviva again where it apologised for the mistake and arranged an engineer to come 
out the same day. 
An engineer attended on the same day and found a fault with the flue and said he had to 
send a report back to Aviva about the fault.  It was not repaired on that day. Ms O was left 
with hot water but no heating.
Ms O called Aviva several times to check up on progress and was told that the engineers 
report had not arrived. In addition to the repair she needed the engineers report to help her 
progress her claim for her boiler under a separate policy.
On 26 December 2020 Aviva authorised for two temporary heaters as there was still no 
heating. These were supplied but one was not in good working order and had to be 
replaced.
Ms O continued to make frequent calls to Aviva during the Christmas and New Year period 
to chase up progress with the repair to the flue and for the engineers report. 
On 6 January 2021 Aviva confirmed with their engineer contractor that a new flue seal was 
required and that it was covered by the policy.
An engineer attended and replaced the flue seal on 7 January 2021 and left the boiler 
running. Within half an hour of the engineer leaving water started to leak out of the boiler, so 
Ms O had to turn it off again. Mrs O rang immediately and requested that the engineer return 
straight away but this did not happen and she had to wait to the following day. Again with the 
heating turned off.  The engineer returned the following day to sort the issue out and 
reported that a part in the boiler may need to be replaced. This was not covered under Ms 
Os home emergency policy. 
The engineers report was sent to Ms O. Ms O has now had a new boiler installed.
Aviva apologised to Ms O for the poor claims journey she had experienced and the delays in 
providing the engineers report and made a payment of £250 as compensation.
As Ms O was not happy with the Offer of £250 compensation from Aviva, she brought the 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked in to the case and concluded a further payment of £150 should be 
paid to Ms O. As Aviva are unhappy with our investigators view the case has been brought 
to me for a final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
During Ms Os first call to Aviva on 21 December 2020 she was incorrectly told she
wasnt covered under her policy. This meant there was a delay of two days
before a claim was raised and an engineer was instructed to attend.
If this error was not made by Aviva, I think it is likely that the required engineers report would 
have been completed before the Christmas period. This would have enabled Aviva to 
authorise the repair work straight away and the replacement of the flue could have been 
completed before the engineer contractors used by Aviva were closed from 24 to 29 
December 2020, or alternative engineers, who were not closed during these dates, could 
have been instructed to undertake the authorised repair.
Aviva say that although they appreciate there were delays that some of these were out of 
their control (such as contractors closed over a holiday period). Aviva say in this case that as 
the engineers were closed between 24 to 29 December 2020 that they believe they were 
only responsible for the delay for the period between 29 December 2020 and 6 January 
2021. As the insurer Aviva are responsible for any delay in full. 
Ms O should not have had to wait as the engineers who first attended were on holiday. She 
had no heating, it was the middle of winter and she had an elderly relative with her. I dont 
feel that her claim was prioritised by Aviva to be completed in a reasonable time scale.
Aviva did supply temporary heaters on 26 December 2020 and although one was not in 
good working order, as they were purchased brand new from a third party, I cannot hold 
them responsible for this and a replacement was made the day after. 
In addition to the delay in completing the repair to the flue, the delay in Ms O obtaining the 
engineers report caused a delay to progress a claim with her home insurance as they 
required this report as evidence for the claim.     
When an engineer finally attended on 7 January 2021 to replace the flue it was unfortunate 
that after they had left that a new issue with the boiler happened, I understand that Ms O has 
now had a new boiler installed as her home insurance decided that it was beyond repair. 
Therefore, I uphold Ms Os complaint and feel that compensation of £400 is appropriate in 
this case.  
My final decision
 For the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint.I require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Ms O a further £150 as compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
Aviva Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Ms O accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman