DRN-3662399
The complaint
Mr B complains about the way that Fairmead Insurance Limited administered his personal 
income protection insurance policies.
What happened
In 2014, Mr B was sold four income protection insurance policies by a broker. Three of those 
policies were branded as Lifestyle policies. Each of the three policies provided benefit for 
up to 12 months and each provided a potential monthly benefit of £500. The fourth policy 
was a Business Partnership policy, with two named policyholders. This had a deferred 
period of 52 weeks and provided a potential monthly benefit of £1500.
Mr B paid separate direct debits for each policy until May 2021. However, at that point 
Fairmead got in touch with Mr B. It said that prior to 2018, it had allowed policyholders to 
hold multiple Lifestyle policies. But, from 2018 onwards, Fairmead had merged multiple 
Lifestyle policies into one policy. Due to an oversight on Fairmeads part, Mr B had continued 
to hold separate Lifestyle policies until May 2021. It merged the three policies into one policy 
with a total combined monthly benefit of £1500. 
Fairmead told Mr B that it had calculated the premiums he had paid for the three Lifestyle 
policies between 2018 and 2021. It compared these with the premiums it said he wouldve 
paid had it merged them into one policy when it shouldve done. Fairmead said that Mr B 
had paid less for holding three policies than he wouldve done had it merged his policies 
back in 2018. So it didnt think hed been financially disadvantaged in any way. It did pay him 
£100 compensation though to reflect the inconvenience hed been caused.
Mr B was unhappy with Fairmeads administration of his policies. And he queried Fairmeads 
premium calculations. He was concerned too that Fairmead may have maladministered the 
Business Partnership policy. He asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator asked Fairmead for further information about its premium calculations. 
Based on the evidence shed seen, she didnt think Fairmead had shown that Mr B hadnt 
lost out as a result of its oversight in delaying the merger of the three Lifestyle policies. So 
she recommended that Fairmead should refund the difference between each premium Mr B 
had paid for the three policies between 2018 and the policy merger and what he was offered 
in March 2021, together with interest at an annual rate of 8% simple.
The investigator noted that the Business Partnership policy was a separate policy to the 
Lifestyle policies. She thought, given it would pay out after the potential maximum benefit 
under the Lifestyle policies had been paid, that it had been intended to bridge the gap and 
wouldnt form part of the merger.
Fairmead disagreed with the investigator. It provided some further calculations, which the 
investigator challenged. She asked it for further pricing information. However, despite 
providing Fairmead with an extension to gather the information, it failed to send anything 
further to us.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. I note from the complaint form Mr B 
completed that he has concerns that the policies were mis-sold to him. However, Fairmead 
didnt sell the policies to Mr B and so it isnt responsible for what happened at the point of 
sale. If Mr B thinks any of the policies were mis-sold to him, hell need to make a separate 
complaint to the broker.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Fairmead has shown that its treated Mr B fairly and Ill explain 
why.
First, Mr B appears to have accepted the investigators findings in relation to the Business 
Partnership policy. So I dont intend to explore this point in detail. For completeness though, 
the policy documentation Mr B sent us shows that this was a joint Business Partnership 
policy. While it offered income protection benefit, it included a deferred period of 52 weeks 
and doesnt appear to have been a Lifestyle policy. It was also one policy which wouldve 
paid the full monthly benefit of £1500 rather than being split across multiple policies. This 
means that I think this was a separate and distinct policy and wouldnt have been subject to 
the policy consolidation process. 
Its common ground that in 2018, Fairmead changed its policy surrounding the holding of 
multiple Lifestyle policies. It decided that multiple policies would be merged into a single 
policy. As Mr B held three Lifestyle policies, each providing a monthly benefit of £500, his 
policies shouldve been merged into one policy with a total single premium calculated using 
a monthly benefit amount of £1500. However, due to Fairmeads error and oversight, in Mr 
Bs case, this didnt happen until May 2021.
Where a financial business makes an error, it needs to ensure that its mistake doesnt cause 
a consumer to lose out. In this case, Fairmead has provided calculations from its pricing 
team, which it says show that had the merger happened as it should, Mr B would actually 
have paid more for a single policy.
However, like the investigator, I dont think that Fairmeads calculations do clearly 
demonstrate that Mr B benefited from its mistake. On the contrary, Ive looked closely at the 
schedule of direct debit payments Fairmead sent us which shows each of the monthly 
payments Mr B paid for each of the Lifestyle policies between 2018 and policy consolidation. 
And Ive calculated the broad annual payments Mr B made for the three policies. L&G 
charged Mr B £46.13 per month for the consolidated policy from June 2021 onwards. The 
total annual premiums Mr B was charged between the 2018 renewal and the merger of the 
policies in May 2021 do currently suggest that Mr B was paying more for holding three 
policies rather than one consolidated policy.
Fairmead has provided us with contradictory figures as to what Mr B wouldve been charged. 
In its final response letter, it said that Mr B wouldve paid around £1400 in 2018  which is 
more than he actually paid. In its response to our assessment, it said that in 2018, Mr B 
wouldve paid £724.25 for a new policy at renewal. This amount is less than the premium he 
did pay in 2018 for example. 
And the figures it provided for the following years prior to the merger all suggest that Mr B 
wouldve been charged less for one new single policy than he did pay for three Lifestyle 
policies. In 2019, Mr B paid £918.69, in 2020, he paid £826.23 and in 2021, a total amount 
wouldve been due of £527.96. Fairmead said that in 2019, a new policy wouldve cost £652.27 and in 2020, a new policy wouldve cost £587.05.
Whats clear is that Fairmead has given us unclear and conflicting information about what it 
wouldve charged Mr B had the merger happened as it should in 2018. Despite being asked 
for clearer information some time ago, which provides greater detail about the pricing, to 
date, its failed to provide this. On the evidence before me, I cant fairly conclude that 
Fairmead has shown, on balance, that Mr B hasnt suffered a financial loss because of its 
actions. Indeed, the available evidence suggests that he was disadvantaged financially by 
Fairmeads error.
So I need to think about how Fairmead should put things right. Looking at the pattern of Mr 
Bs annual payments, it does appear that his total premiums fell between 2018 and 2021. I 
accept then that its possible that a consolidated policy may well have cost more in 2018, 
2019 and 2020 than it cost in 2021. So strictly, it might be fair for Fairmead to calculate what 
Mr B shouldve actually paid each month during the relevant period had the merger 
happened and pay him the difference between those payments - if its calculations show he 
suffered a loss.
However, Fairmead has told us that its difficult to reconcile calculations of past premiums 
and there have been substantial delays in it providing us with clear, understandable pricing 
information. So I need to think about a pragmatic and fair resolution for both parties which 
will bring this matter to a close. What we do know is that once the merger took place, from 
June 2021 onwards, Mr B was charged a monthly premium of £46.13. In the circumstances, 
I think the fairest and most sensible way forward is for Fairmead to calculate each monthly 
premium Mr B did pay between the point the consolidation ought to have happened and 
compare it with a monthly premium of £46.13. If Mr B paid more for holding three policies 
rather than a single policy priced at £46.13 per month, Fairmead should refund Mr B the 
difference between each monthly premium, together with interest of 8% simple from the date 
each premium was paid until the date of settlement. Fairmead should provide Mr B with a 
breakdown of the settlement.
If however, the calculation shows that Mr B paid less than he wouldve done had the merger 
happened as it should, then Fairmead will not need to refund any premiums. I would expect 
Fairmead to provide Mr B with a clear explanation as to how it calculated these amounts and 
why no refund is due.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct Fairmead Insurance Limited to:
- Calculate the monthly premium Mr B paid for each of the three Lifestyle policies 
between the point the merger shouldve happened and compare this with a 
consolidated monthly premium of £46.13. If this calculation shows Mr B paid more 
than he shouldve done as a result of Fairmeads oversight, then Fairmead must 
refund the difference between each monthly premium he paid and £46.13.
- Add interest to any settlement paid at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date 
each premium was paid until the date of settlement.
If Fairmead considers its required by HMRC to take off income tax from the interest it has 
paid, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give Mr B a certificate showing 
this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman