DRN-4407192
The complaint
Mr P says SOVEREIGN PENSION SERVICES (UK) LIMITED (Sovereign) delayed the 
transfer (to Westerby) of his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) he requested in June 
2021, that the transfer was not completed until March 2023, and that the delay caused him 
financial loss, costs and trouble and inconvenience that he seeks compensation for. 
He also says an illiquid asset and a cash holding remain in the Sovereign SIPP, that he 
wants a resolution to the former, remittance of the latter and closure of the SIPP.
What happened
The Sovereign SIPP contained cash (a total of around £210,000), a holding in the Sussex 
Place Ventures/Regents Park Partners II fund (the SPV fund) and other investments held 
on the Interactive Investor (II) platform. In addition, the SIPP contained an illiquid 
suspended investment held on the Investec platform (the Investec holding), which could not 
be transferred and was not part of the transfer. 
Mr P requested an in-specie transfer of the SIPP to Westerby. The chronology of key events 
is as follows:
In May 2021 he sent an enquiry to Sovereign about investing in the Rainmaking 
Venture Studios (RVS) Convertible Loan Note through the SIPP. It transpired that 
this was not possible, so Mr P decided to transfer his SIPP to Westerby, where the 
RVS investment could be made, and he initiated this the following month.
On 12 July 2021 Westerby confirmed it had posted the discharge form to Sovereign 
and had request transfer of the Sovereign SIPPs cash element. On 30 July 2021   
Mr P sent Sovereign an email giving formal instruction to transfer all cash in the SIPP 
(except around £3,000 that had to remain in the SIPP in connection with the Investec 
holding). He stressed the time sensitive investment opportunity he needed the cash 
for. On 3 August 2021 Sovereign confirmed remittance of the cash was in motion.
On 4 August 2021 Westerby contacted the SPV fund to make enquiries about it. The 
SPV fund sent Westerby the requested information on 6 August 2021. Also on this 
date, Westerby says it sent Sovereign an asset transfer form for the II platform 
account to complete (and that it re-sent this on 14 September).
On 23 August 2021 Westerby confirmed that a new II platform account had been set 
up for Mr Ps Westerby SIPP, and on 27 August 2021 it confirmed receipt of 
transferred cash (a total of £114,124.12).
On 14 September 2021 Westerby confirmed its approval of the SPV fund. It also said 
it had contacted both the SPV fund and Sovereign to obtain necessary 
documentation for the transfer of Mr Ps holding, but it was yet to hear from either. 
On 20 September 2021 Westerby chased Sovereign for the completed II form.
On 8 October 2021 Westerby chased Sovereign again for the completed II asset 
transfer form and referred to its previous communications on the matter. On 14 
October 2021 Westerby asked Mr P to sign a Deed of Adherence related to transfer 
of the SPV fund holding and gave notice that he would also need to countersign a 
Deed of Assignment (once returned by Sovereign) for the purpose of re-registering 
the holding (as part of the transfer). It sent the Deed of Assignment to Sovereign, for 
its action, on the same date. On 21 October 2021 Westerby updated Mr P to say it 
had not received the original Deed of Assignment it sent Sovereign and it asked if he 
had returned the Deed of Adherences signature section.
By the beginning of January 2022, the II form and Deed of Assignment remained 
outstanding from Sovereign. Westerby had been chasing for these documents. It 
chased further on 6 January 2022 but the delays continued. Transfer of the II assets 
was eventually completed on 7 April 2022, but there were further delays to the SPV 
fund holding transfer. During the delay the holding received a dividend distribution. 
Mr P wrote to the SPV fund (and Westerby) on 29 April 2022 giving an update on his 
effort to get Sovereign to address its ongoing delays (he had complained to 
Sovereign about this on the same date). He also instructed that the SPV fund should 
hold the distribution until the SIPP transfer was resolved, and then send the 
distribution to his Westerby SIPP thereafter. 
Sovereign identified a liability related issue with the Deed of Assignment that it was 
unsure about and sought to resolve. Mr P complained to it again, about the ongoing 
delays, on 25 May 2022. In June 2022 he referred the matter to our service. On 9 
August 2022 Sovereign said it had revised the Deed of Assignment to include a 
limitation of liability clause, and it asked if this was acceptable to the SPV fund. 
By 9 August 2022 the remainder cash transfer (of £96,560)  cash from the II 
account  had eventually been completed and received in the Westerby SIPP.
On 9 September 2022 Sovereign signed the Deed of Assignment and forwarded it to 
Mr P for his countersignature. On 14 September 2022 the SPV fund asked for his 
instruction on when to remit the withheld distribution. Sovereign has verified, to us, 
that the SPV fund holding was eventually transferred to Westerby on 12 October 
2022. 
On 16 March 2023, Sovereign confirmed completion of the transfer process.
One of our investigators worked extensively with Mr P and with Sovereign towards a 
resolution of the case. She upheld the complaint, and there was also a concession by 
Sovereign of its responsibility for delays in the transfer process. Based on the undisputed 
delays it caused and the events associated with the transfer, focus rested on determining 
how redress for any resulting financial loss should be calculated for Mr P. This involved 
consideration of the distinct compensation claims he had made and of Sovereigns 
comments and responses to those claims. Overall, the investigators compensation and 
redress recommendations were:
Payment of £750 should be made to Mr P for the distress and inconvenience caused 
to him by the delayed transfer. Sovereign agreed with this. Mr P considered it 
insufficient and referred to details of the considerable time, effort and commitment he 
had to invest into the transfer matter, over a long period of time and to the detriment 
of other aspects of his professional activities and personal life. He also sought a 
penalty against Sovereign for its mishandling of the affair. The investigator reflected 
these points in her views and communications, but she explained our approach to 
compensation for distress and inconvenience  leading to the amount she had recommended  and she explained that it is beyond our powers to issue punitive 
awards in cases.
There was no loss in the SPV fund holding transferred in specie, so she found that 
no redress applies in this respect. Mr P was able to make the RVS investment in 
time, so she found that there was also no loss in that respect.
Compensation is due for financial loss arising from the delay caused to Mr Ps 
investment of the SPV funds dividend distribution (a total of £13,750). The 
investigator was persuaded by his evidence that he would have used the distribution 
to invest in Constellation Software Inc (CSI) so she recommended use of this as the 
benchmark for calculating loss between when the distribution was made and could 
have been invested (but for the delay), and when the holding was eventually 
transferred.
The investigator set out her calculation of a total of 19 weeks and three days in 
delays caused to the transfer of the II assets and said, but for those delays, the 
transfer should have been completed by 24 November 2021. She was persuaded by 
Mr Ps evidence that had the transfer been completed in a timely fashion he would 
have liquidated the assets and reinvested the proceeds in a way that duplicated 
investments made in his Individual Savings Account (ISA). She said the relevant 
ISA investments should be used as the benchmark for calculating loss between 24 
November 2021 (when the II assets should have been transferred) and 8 April 2022 
(when Mr P had access to those assets after their transfer was completed (on 7 April 
2022)).
The investigator said the same benchmark should be used in considering whether (or 
not) there is a loss arising from the delayed II cash transfer.
The investigator did not uphold Mr Ps claim for a refund of legal fees that had been passed 
to him by the SPV fund arising from them instructing lawyers to assist in his holdings 
transfer. He said this cost had resulted from Sovereigns delays, but she said she needed 
evidence that the fees were directly related to the delays, as opposed to fees that arose 
naturally as part of the process to transfer the asset. He was unable to provide such 
evidence, so she was unable to recommend the compensation he sought.
The investigator conveyed, to Sovereign, Mr Ps request for a formal apology. Sovereign 
agreed that such an apology will be issued once the complaint is concluded. 
She did the same with regards to his concern about the Investec holding and the associated 
cash retained in the Sovereign SIPP, and with regards to his desire to close the Sovereign 
SIPP once and for all. Sovereign initially said retention of the cash (which continued to earn 
interest) was needed for the administration of the SIPP, given that it remained opened 
because of the untransferable suspended Investec holding within it. Subsequently and most 
recently it appears to have applied discretion to the matter. It confirmed to us that it will remit 
the cash to Mr Ps Westerby SIPP and will contact Westerby for this purpose. 
However, it maintains that the position on the Investec holding remains as it previously 
stated  it cannot be transferred, it remains in the Sovereign SIPP, Mr P cannot remove his 
interest in the holding and once the relevant fund is either wound up or becomes tradeable 
again it will contact Westerby to check if it can receive a final cash payment. It also said it is 
considering other options to help in the matter and that it will not be raising invoices during 
this period.Also most recently, Sovereign completed and shared its calculations of redress based on the 
investigators recommendations. They were then shared with Mr P. 
Prior to this, it had questioned the reasoning behind some of the recommendations and 
made submissions against some of them, including submissions about what it considered to 
be gaps in the evidence of loss claimed by Mr P and in the evidence of his mitigation of loss 
in the case. It did the same in response to some of the specific dates and calculation 
methods recommended by the investigator. However, in the course of its communications 
with us it also repeatedly referred to its wish to work with the investigator to achieve an 
outcome in Mr Ps best interest. In this context and despite its past questions and 
submissions, it accepted all parts of the investigators recommendations. The final 
calculations it produced reflected this, and presented mainly the following:
Investment of SPV fund dividend distribution  calculation based on the transfer date 
of 16 March 2023; but for the delays the earliest the dividend could have been 
transferred was 29 April 2022; calculation result shows the dividend (£13,750) could 
buy 9.80 units of CSI on the former date and could have bought more, 10.89 units, 
on the latter date; so there is a loss caused by the delay, being the value of the 
difference  1.09 units or £1,677.23.
Reinvestment of transferred/liquidated II assets  calculations based on their total 
transfer value on 24 November 2021, on the ISA investments portfolio benchmark 
and on the notion that reinvestments which would have been made on 24 November 
2021 became possible on 8 April 2022; calculations show that there would have been 
a net gain (of £3,974.82, or £4,278.12 if calculated on a notional value basis using 
the same total investment units for both dates) from reinvesting in the benchmark 
portfolio on the later date compared to reinvesting on the earlier date; so the delay 
did not cause a loss, but instead gains.
Investment of cash (£114,124) transferred on 26 August 2021  calculation based on 
13 August 2021 being the earliest date on which the transfer should have been 
completed, and on the same ISA portfolio benchmark; calculation result shows a loss 
of £2,931.31.
Investment of cash (£96,560) transferred on 8 August 2022  calculation based on 
14 April 2022 being the earliest date on which the transfer should have been 
completed, and on the same ISA portfolio benchmark; calculation result shows a net 
gain of £7,521.50.
Overall, all calculations show that the delays led to Mr P benefiting from a net gain of 
between £6,887.78 and £7,191.08.
Mr P rejected this outcome and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. He said he wanted, as 
a minimum, complete resolution of the Investec holding and the cash remaining in the 
Sovereign SIPP (whereby the cash is remitted to him and the SIPP is closed); compensation 
for distress and inconvenience he has been caused; compensation for his financial losses; 
and an apology from Sovereign.
The matter was referred to an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is a sizeable history to the complaint, as summarised above, and the same could 
reasonably be said about the complaints journey after its referral to us in June last year. 
However, due to the investigators significant work, plus effort and co-operation from both 
parties, the complaint that has been referred to me is distilled and focused only on specific 
aspects of compensation and redress, and then the matters of the Investec holding, the cash 
in the Sovereign SIPP and its closure. 
Between the investigators findings and Sovereigns concessions, the matter of Sovereigns 
liability has been established and is undisputed, so I do not need to address it.
The Investec holding, the cash in the Sovereign SIPP and its closure
I address this issue first because it is relatively straightforward.
Sovereign has confirmed to us on record that it will be remitting the remaining cash in the 
Sovereign SIPP (somewhere around £3,000) to Mr Ps Westerby SIPP. It has also confirmed 
that the cash has continued to earn interest, so there is no question of loss in that respect. 
This resolves his request for such payment. 
It confirmed this to us quite recently, on 20 October 2023, and said it will contact Westerby to 
clarify that it could receive the cash and, if so, it would update Mr P accordingly. If this is yet 
to happen, I expect it will happen shortly, and if Westerby confirms it can accept the cash I 
have no reason to believe that Sovereign will not proceed to transfer it into Mr Ps Westerby 
SIPP as it says it will. As I said in the previous section, Sovereign had initially referred to a 
need to retain the cash for administration of the SIPP, so it appears that its recent decision 
was discretionarily made in order to satisfy Mr Ps request.
The matter of the Investec holding is beyond Sovereigns control. Whilst the underlying fund 
for the holding remains illiquid and suspended, the holding remains as it is within the 
Sovereign SIPP. It is not transferrable and available evidence is that Mr P cannot withdraw 
his interest in it, so it remains his asset. For this reason alone, the SIPP inevitably continues 
to exist. If the underlying fund becomes tradeable again or if it is wound up, Sovereign has 
undertaken to resolve the matter at such point. Until then and despite any exploration, on its 
part, of possible alternatives, there is nothing that it can reasonably be expected to do in the 
matter. As such, I do not find that it has to do anything more.
Compensation and Redress
Distress and Inconvenience Award
The ordeal Mr P experienced is clear to see in the chronology of events and in the 
correspondence that featured during those events. Overall, the process of transferring his 
cash and investment assets took around 15 months to completion, and the SIPP transfer 
process itself took around 20 months to formally be completed. 
I acknowledge that not all of the time during these periods constituted undue and avoidable 
delays. The SIPP was/is a relatively high value asset with different components, and its 
transfer was always going to take some time, within reason. It is also not unusual for such 
transfers to incur some additional time reasonably needed to address complications that 
might arise. Nevertheless, the process should never have taken 15 to 20 months and 
Sovereign accepts this. It is also notable that, broadly speaking, there were avoidable delays 
around late 2021 and early 2022 related to transfer of the II account and then within the 
period of April to September 2022, concerning the SPV fund holdings transfer and Sovereigns execution of the Deed of Assignment.
Like the investigator, I too have given due regard to the information Mr P has shared about 
the impacts of the delays upon him personally and professionally at the time. I do not doubt 
his account, I empathise with what he went through and I note his view that the award of 
£750 is insufficient. However, I consider it a fair award. 
It is evident that, as he has expressed, a significant part of Mr Ps case for the award relates 
to the notion of punishing Sovereign for its mismanagement of the transfer. Our awards for 
trouble, distress, upset and/or inconvenience do not extend to that. Penalties to firms are for 
the industry regulators remit, and are beyond ours. Our awards exist to provide 
complainants with a monetary form of compensation reflecting, as much as we can, the 
impacts of trouble, distress, upset and/or inconvenience suffered as a result of a firms 
wrongdoing(s) in a complaint. This means the focus is on the effects upon the complainant 
and means that the facts in a complaint are important. The assessment must also be 
reasonably balanced to determine a basis for making the award.
In Mr Ps case, he definitely faced impacts from the transfer delays, but that stood in the 
following context  there was timely transfer of the cash he needed for the RVS investment, 
which he accepts was not delayed and which was the main prompt for his SIPP transfer 
request; his invested assets remained invested throughout the process, so it is unlikely that 
there were worries or concerns about them being out of the market in this respect; as I 
address further below, he appears to have had no urgent or immediate plans for the 
remainder transferred cash, so it is also unlikely that there were worries or concerns in terms 
of its reinvestment; there is evidence of meaningful and helpful assistance from a particular 
Sovereign employee throughout the affair, which he has highlighted to us; and there is 
evidence of meaningful assistance from Westerby during the process (especially from 
October 2021 onwards), as he has also highlighted to us. These aspects would not have 
erased the impacts he faced, but they would have softened those impacts. 
The investigator referred to guidance we use which says an award  up to around £750
might be fair where the impact of a mistake has caused considerable distress, upset and
worry  and/or significant inconvenience and disruption that needs a lot of extra effort to sort
out. Typically, the impact lasts over many weeks or months. Overall, and based on the 
facts, I am satisfied that Mr Ps case for the award falls at this compensation level. It 
recognises the considerable distress he endured and the extra effort he was forced to make 
over months in order to resolve the delayed transfer. It also does this with a balance struck 
between what he endured and the wider context summarised above.
For all the above reasons, I endorse the award of £750 to Mr P for the trouble, distress and 
inconvenience the delayed transfer caused him.
Financial Loss
The elements relevant to considering financial loss in this case are as the investigator and 
Sovereign have addressed. Sovereign fully accepted the investigators findings on 
compensation for financial loss and it presented the calculations I summarised in the 
previous section (above). 
I endorse the findings that Mr Ps complaint is upheld and that he is entitled to consideration 
of compensation for financial loss arising from the delayed SIPP transfer. However, the 
calculations show no financial loss. Instead, an overall net gain (across the SIPP) has 
resulted from the calculations, so Sovereign does not have to pay any compensation (for 
financial loss) to Mr P. I address each of the transfer elements, in terms of redress, as 
follows:Cash (£114,124) transferred on 26 August 2021  Sovereigns calculation of redress 
for this element shows a loss. However, its calculation is unwarranted, because there 
is no ground to claim financial loss for this element. To Mr Ps credit, he has made 
clear that he does not pursue such a claim. Sovereigns decision to conduct the 
calculation might have happened because it was unaware of, or had overlooked, this. 
This transfer was the cash that was received in reasonable time (in August 2021) to 
allow him to make the RVS investment. He has confirmed to us that there is no 
financial loss claimed in this respect because that investment was duly made using 
cash from the transfer. I agree. Therefore, there is no financial loss in this element 
and no basis for compensation. 
Cash (£96,560) transferred on 8 August 2022  Sovereigns calculation of redress for 
this element shows a net gain, and I have not seen cause to say there are errors in 
the calculation. In other words, there is no financial loss to compensate for. 
The calculation is based on the ISA portfolio benchmark nominated by Mr P, and 
accepted by both the investigator and Sovereign. It is also based on the assumption 
that, but for the delays, the cash would have been transferred in April 2022. This 
cash was from the II account and April 2022 was the month in which the accounts 
investments were transferred. It is therefore reasonable to conclude that the cash 
transfer, from the same account, should not have been unduly delayed thereafter, 
could have happened in the same month and should not have been delayed up to 
August 2022. This supports the use of a start date in April 2022 (or the use of 14 
April 2022, a week after the II investments were transferred). 
I have considered whether (or not) an earlier start date should apply. Should the II 
cash have been sent even earlier than April 2022 and earlier than II investments? An 
argument can be made for this. Depending on the circumstances, it is possible for 
cash elements in transfers to be sent earlier and/or quicker than investments 
because they are comparatively less complicated to process.
Even if it is found that the II cash should have been transferred earlier than April 
2022 that does not automatically mean the redress calculation should start from the 
identified earlier date. Evidence of Mr Ps financial loss, of his mitigation of loss and 
the credibility of the ISA portfolio as a benchmark were all initially questioned by 
Sovereign. Reasonably so, in my view. A claim about financial loss should be 
substantiated, there is usually a need to address mitigation of loss (unless the 
circumstances of a case say otherwise) within such a claim, and a redress 
benchmark should be credible and relevant to a case. 
There is evidence from Mr P confirming he had some difficulty in substantiating a 
claim for financial loss. He considered the matter hypothetical and could not be sure 
of what he would have done (in terms of investments) at the time, but for the delays. 
The RVS investment stands as an exception to this, because it was a definitive 
pursuit he had at the time. 
Upon further consideration, he referred to duplication of the ISA portfolio as 
something he was likely to have done, but for the delays. I do not have grounds to 
disagree. However, as he acknowledges, this is hypothetical and the implication is 
that he did not have any definite plans at the time to invest the II cash. Therefore, 
there are no grounds to say he would have used the cash to duplicate the ISA 
portfolio earlier than April 2022, and no grounds to consider a loss of investment 
opportunity (using the II cash) prior to April 2022. In terms of mitigation, Sovereigns initial question concerned the fact that the cash 
was not invested after its receipt in August 2022. I understand how this could be 
viewed as a failure to mitigate, but such a view should be balanced with the 
acknowledgement of investments being inherently time sensitive. Opportunities that 
Mr P might have used the cash for at an earlier date would not necessarily have 
remained available in or around August 2022. For this reason, and in the 
circumstances of his case, I am not quite persuaded that he failed to mitigate.
Overall, I am satisfied with the calculation and outcome of this element of redress.
The II investments transferred on 7/8 April 2022  The investigator gave detailed 
treatment to the summing up of Sovereigns delays in this part of the SIPP transfer. 
The delays add to a total of 19 weeks and three days, and it is upon this total that 
she said, without the delays, the transfer should have been completed on 24 
November 2021.
I have considered her calculation and the underlying facts, and I agree with her 
finding. Sovereign accepted the finding. It also accepted Mr Ps hypothesis that he 
would have liquidated the investments and reinvested in a manner duplicating the 
ISA portfolio. It calculated redress using this benchmark and using 24 November 
2021 as the calculation start date. As stated in the previous section (above), both 
calculations show net gains, and I have not seen cause to say there are errors within 
them, so there is no financial loss to compensate for.
The SPV fund holding was transferred in specie. Mr P makes no claim about 
intending to liquidate it and reinvest the proceeds, and no claim for financial loss 
related to the holding  so there is no financial loss to compensate for.
The SPV fund holdings dividend distribution  Sovereign accepted the investigators 
terms for calculating redress for this element. It agreed to use the CSI fund as the 
calculation benchmark, which was Mr Ps nomination. It used the start date of 29 
April 2022 (assuming there were no delays) and it agreed to use 16 March 2023 
(when the SIPP transfer was completed) as the end date. 
As stated in the previous section (above), the calculation resulted in a loss of 
£1,677.23, and I have not seen cause to say there are errors in the calculation. 
However, given that this loss is significantly outweighed by the total net gains in the 
other aspects of the redress calculation, Sovereign said no compensation is due. I 
agree. Mr Ps claim for compensation exists, as a whole, on the basis of the entire 
SIPP and its delayed transfer. Therefore, its components are not to be isolated, and it 
is reasonable to offset between gains and losses across the SIPP in the redress 
calculation.
Mr P has said that the dividend was not transferred into the SIPP until 16 May (not 
March) 2023, having been issued in April 2022. On balance, I do not consider that 
this should affect the calculation. The SIPP was completely transferred on 16 March 
2023; available evidence is that the SPV fund holding had been transferred even 
earlier, in October 2022; the dividend transfer was outside Sovereigns process; the 
dividend was held by the SPV fund, upon Mr Ps request in April 2022, and the fund 
sent it to Westerby when it was instructed to do so; overall and for these reasons, 
any delay between 16 March and 16 May 2023 had nothing to do with Sovereign. 
Furthermore, the calculation start date of 29 April 2022 matches the dividend 
payment in April 2022.
The above analysis leads to the inevitable consideration of whether (or not) Sovereign should have any liability for compensation in this element. It was Mr Ps 
choice to leave the dividend payment with the SPV fund until the SIPP transfer was 
completed, and it was left there even after the SPV fund holding had been 
transferred to the Westerby SIPP. 
He has explained that it seemed illogical to have it sent to the holding in the 
Sovereign SIPP at a time when he was transferring that holding (and the SIPP) to the 
Westerby SIPP. I understand this point, but I have not seen evidence to explain why 
it remained with the fund even after the holding had been transferred to the Westerby 
SIPP. 
Arguments could be made that he failed to mitigate in these circumstances by not 
having the dividend invested as soon as it was available or by not having it moved to 
Westerby and invested once the SPV fund holding had been transferred; and that, for 
such reasons, no compensation should be due. However, I am not minded to 
address this. Even if findings were made upholding these arguments, they will not 
alter the outcome of the redress consideration in the complaint  that there has been 
no financial loss arising from the delayed SIPP transfer.
Putting things right
For the reasons given above my conclusions are that  
Mr Ps complaint is upheld.
Sovereign must pay Mr P £750 for the trouble, distress and inconvenience the 
delayed SIPP transfer caused him.
Mr P is also entitled to the consideration of compensation for financial loss. That 
consideration has been duly completed and the resulting calculations show that, 
overall, he incurred no financial loss as a result of the delayed SIPP transfer, so no 
compensation is due in this respect.
In the event that relevant and fact based grounds subsequently emerge to show, 
conclusively, errors in Sovereigns calculations, and are brought to Sovereigns 
attention, I order Sovereign to accurately recalculate the following heads of 
compensation on the same basis and methods stated and endorsed above  Cash 
(£96,560) transferred on 8 August 2022, The II investments transferred on 7/8 April 
2022, and The SPV fund holdings dividend distribution; to calculate the overall net 
outcome of all the calculations; and if there is a net loss, to pay the net loss to Mr P 
without undue delay.
Mr P has requested a formal apology from Sovereign, and Sovereign has confirmed it will 
issue that apology after his complaint is concluded. I expect that Sovereign will do as it has 
stated, and I have no cause to consider otherwise.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ps complaint and I order SOVEREIGN PENSION SERVICES (UK) LIMITED to 
pay him £750 for the distress and inconvenience he has been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 Roy Kuku
Ombudsman