DRN-2194921
The complaint
Mr N complains about the sale of a mortgage protection policy by ReAssure Limited.
What happened
In 2005, Mr N met with a ReAssure adviser in order to obtain a mortgage. The adviser 
recommended a mortgage, and also recommended that Mr N take out a mortgage protection 
policy. The aim of the policy was to pay a monthly benefit that Mr N could use towards his 
mortgage and bills if he couldnt work because of illness or injury (though the cover then 
changed after two years of a claim being paid). The policy was set up with a deferred period 
of 52 weeks.
In 2019, Mr N complained to ReAssure about the sale of the policy. He said hed been led to 
believe that taking out the policy was a condition of having his mortgage application 
approved. He also didnt think the policy had been suitable for him, as he said hed been 
entitled to a number of benefits from his employer.
ReAssure didnt agree with Mr N that the policy had been mis-sold, and said that the policy 
was optional. Mr N therefore brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought the information from 
the time of sale didnt support that Mr N was led to believe the policy was a requirement of 
the mortgage. And he also didnt think Mr N had shown that his benefit through his employer 
meant the policy had been unsuitable. 
Mr N didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Did ReAssure lead Mr N to believe the policy was mandatory?
Ive looked at the information from the time of sale, and theres no suggestion that taking out 
the policy was a condition of Mr N having his mortgage approved. 
The adviser wrote to Mr N after their meeting with a summary of his demands and needs. 
The adviser stated in that letter that buildings insurance was a requirement of the mortgage 
lender. He didnt say the same for the mortgage protection policy. 
Also, the key facts document for the mortgage confirmed that Mr N was only required to take 
out buildings insurance. 
Mr N says that the adviser sent him a list of information that he needed to provide, and this 
included his GPs details. He says he was asked to provide this information before hed met 
with the adviser and a need identified for the policy. Mr N thinks this supports that he was led 
to believe the policy was mandatory.
Ive looked at this document. Its a checklist which includes information required under three 
separate headings  mortgage, buildings and contents, and protection. The document says 
the information is required to enable the adviser to process the mortgage and related 
insurance with the minimum of delay, and that the customer should bring the items indicated 
when ready to complete the mortgage application. Under the protection heading, it asks for 
the customers doctors details. 
The document is undated, and so its not known if it was given to Mr N before his initial 
meeting with the adviser, or after. Mr N initially met with the adviser on 21 October 2005. 
The adviser made his recommendation for the mortgage protection policy during that 
meeting and sent details of this to Mr N later the same day. I see the mortgage was 
recommended to Mr N on 24 October 2005. However, Mr N confirms that he didnt proceed 
with the mortgage until December 2005. 
As the checklist document refers to the customer bringing in the documents when theyre 
ready to complete the mortgage application, this would seem to suggest that the document 
was provided after the adviser had recommended the mortgage (which would also mean in 
Mr Ns case that it was provided after the mortgage protection policy had been 
recommended). I dont think the document shows that Mr N was asked to provide his GPs 
details before the adviser had established that he had a need for the policy. 
Consequently, I dont think Mr N has shown that it was more likely than not that he was led 
to believe he had to take out the policy in order to secure his mortgage.
Was the policy unsuitable?
Mr N thinks the policy was unsuitable for him, because of the benefits offered by his 
employer. Hes provided this service with some further information about this. 
Ive looked at Mr Ns employment offer. This said that Mr N would be entitled to life 
insurance after two years, he had the option to join his employers private medical trust after 
one year, and that he would be covered by his employers long-term disability scheme after 
two years. 
Im satisfied the existence of the first two benefits wouldnt have meant the policy was 
unsuitable, as they provided different cover to that provided under the policy.
Mr N hasnt provided this service with any details relating to the long-term disability scheme, 
so I dont know if the cover this would have provided after hed been employed for two years 
would have overlapped the cover under the policy. However, Mr N hadnt been in his 
employment for two years when the adviser recommended the policy. That meant he didnt 
have this cover in place when he took out the policy. 
When the adviser met with Mr N, he completed a Client Review document (also known as a 
fact-find). This document recorded information about Mr Ns finances. One section asked 
about existing policies, and the adviser recorded that Mr N didnt have any. It also said that if 
Mr N was unable to work because of accident or sickness, he would be able to cope but 
would need to cut back. 
The adviser then sent Mr N a written summary of his demands and needs. The adviser said 
that if Mr N couldnt work, this would impact his ability to pay his mortgage and bills and, whilst hed be able to cope, he would have to cut back in many areas that could affect his 
lifestyle. Because of this, the adviser recommended the policy.
I see the benefit arranged under the policy covered Mr Ns half of the mortgage, so that the 
remainder could be used towards bills. The policy was also set up with the same term as the 
mortgage. Based on the information available to the adviser, I think this was a reasonable 
recommendation. Theres nothing to support that Mr N told the adviser he was expecting 
some sort of income protection cover after hed been employed for two years that would 
make the policy unsuitable. 
Mr N says that if he was off work, he would have received full sick pay from his employer. 
Theres no mention of how long sick pay would have been paid by his employer in the time 
of sale information, but I see that the policy was arranged with a deferred period of 52 
weeks. That may have been arranged to coincide with Mr Ns sick pay, though it may have 
also been that length of time due to Mr Ns existing savings, or even for affordability (as the 
longer the deferred period, the cheaper the policy). 
I see that ReAssure asked Mr N to provide it with evidence that he was entitled to sick pay 
for longer than 52 weeks, but Mr N didnt do so. I therefore cant conclude that the deferred 
period was unsuitable because of Mr Ns employers sick pay arrangements.
Overall, Im satisfied that the advisers recommendation for Mr N to take out the policy was 
suitable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman