DRN-3344005
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the length of time it took for a repair to be carried out to a motorbike 
supplied to him by BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS).
What happened
Mr C acquired a brand-new motorbike under a 48 month hire purchase agreement through 
BMWFS on 30 April 2019. The motorbike cost around £19,527.96. Mr C paid a deposit of 
£2,458.98 and was required to make 47 monthly repayments of £273.61 under the 
agreement. 
Around late October 2019, the manufacturer wrote to Mr C and told him the motorbike 
needed a repair to its gearbox. Mr C says the letter said hed be contacted by a local dealer 
to have it repaired within 14 days. By January 2020, Mr C said he hadnt been contacted, so 
he contacted a local dealer. Mr C says the dealer told him told it would take some time to 
book in the repair, as it didnt have the necessary parts in stock to carry out the repair. He 
says he was offered a repair in April 2020, but due to restrictions imposed by COVID-19, the 
repair was unable to go ahead. So he complained to BMWFS. 
BMWFS looked into Mr Cs complaint and said it was down to Mr C to arrange the repair 
directly with his supplying retailer. But Mr C hadnt done this. It said when the motorbike was 
booked in for repair, due to COVID-19, unfortunately retailer branches were closed. BMWFS 
said it wouldnt offer Mr C the full seven monthly payments he was claiming for, but instead it 
would offer a refund of four payments totalling £1,094.44. 
Mr C referred his complaint to our service in July 2020. He said the motorbike had been 
repaired on 2 July 2020, but he wanted BMWFS to contribute towards the monthly 
repayments he made whilst he was unable to use it. He said he wasnt aware of BMWFS 
final response to his complaint and if he had been, he would have accepted the offer it had 
made. But given he didnt receive it, he wanted to continue with his complaint. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and thought the motorbike wasnt of satisfactory 
quality at the time it was supplied to Mr C. He said BMWFS should increase its offer and 
refund seven monthly payments instead of four, paying 8% simple interest on any refunded 
amounts and that BMWFS should pay Mr C a further £100 for any trouble and upset caused. 
Mr C agreed with our investigator. BMWFS disagreed and maintained its offer to refund Mr C 
four monthly payments. It also agreed to pay 8% simple interest on the refunded amounts 
and pay Mr C £100 for the trouble and upset caused. It didnt agree to increase its offer to 
refund further monthly payments as it said it had sent the final response letter to Mr C and it 
was his responsibility to contact the retailer to arrange a repair. It said if Mr C hadnt caused 
a delay, the motorbike would have likely been repaired in January or February 2020. So it 
said it couldnt be held responsible for the subsequent delays as a result of the COVID-19 
pandemic.
As BMWFS remained in disagreement, the case was passed to me.
I issued a provisional decision on 15 February 2022, in which I said the following:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr C complains about a motorbike supplied under a hire purchase agreement. Entering into 
consumer credit contracts like this is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider      
Mr Cs complaint about BMWFS. 
In this case, it appears both Mr C and BMWFS accept that the motorbike had a fault with it at 
the time it was supplied to Mr C. BMWFS didnt dispute this in response to our investigators 
view. But, for the sake of clarity, Ill very briefly comment on this. A fault with a motorbikes 
gearbox is potentially serious and it isnt in dispute that this was present at the point of sale. 
It follows Im satisfied the motorbike wasnt of satisfactory quality. Under the Consumer 
Rights Act 2015, as the fault took place more than 30 days after the motorbike was supplied 
to Mr C, BMWFS had once chance to repair the motorbike. Im satisfied it has exercised this 
right as it repaired the motorbike on 2 July 2020. 
Ive gone on to consider what I think BMWFS needs to do to put things right, considering all 
the circumstances. 
In October 2019, the manufacturer of the motorbike issued a recall notice. Neither Mr C nor 
BMWFS have been able to supply our service with a copy of the recall notice issued to Mr C. 
However, Mr C in his testimony has said he received a copy of the recall notice. Recall 
notices are public information. Ive seen a copy of the public recall notice which confirms it is 
being issued because the gears on the motorbike may not perform correctly. It asks the 
recipient of the recall notice to contact their local dealership or the manufacturer, to check if 
the motorbike theyve been supplied is affected. 
Having thought about this, I think its likely the recall notice Mr C was sent by the 
manufacturer, instructed him to contact his local dealership or the manufacturer to arrange a 
repair. 
Mr C contacted a dealership to book in the repair in January 2020. Given that I think its 
likely the recall notice instructed Mr C to book in the repair, I think Mr C caused a delay of 
around two months when he didnt contact the local dealership or the manufacturer upon 
receipt of the recall notice in late October 2019. So I dont think BMWFS should reimburse 
Mr C any payments he made towards his agreement from when he received the recall 
notice, until the date he contacted the dealership to book in the repair. 
Ive gone on to think about whether BMWFS should reimburse Mr C any payments from the 
date he contacted the dealership to book in the repair, until the date the repair was carried 
out.
The repair to the motorbike was initially booked in for April 2020. But it was completed in 
July 2020, due to the restrictions imposed on businesses as a result of the COVID-19 
pandemic. Mr C says BMWFS should have been ready to repair the motorbike at the time he 
contacted it in January 2020 and if it had done, the motorbike would have been repaired 
before the restrictions imposed on businesses as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. 
BMWFS has said if Mr C contacted it earlier, the motorbike would have been repaired in 
January or February 2020 at the latest. 
Ive thought very carefully about what Mr C and BMWFS have said. Ive also seen internal 
emails between the repairing dealership and BMWFS. These emails confirm that the 
repairing dealership is having difficulty sourcing the parts to repair the fault and it suggests it 
hadnt initially been provided with adequate training to enable it to fix the issue with the 
motorbike. The supplying dealership said because of these issues they were, at a loss as to 
how they would be able to honour the work being carried out mid-April.
Having thought about this, I accept there was a delay in sourcing the required tools to fit the 
part and if these had been sourced sooner, Mr C would have had likely had his motorbike 
repaired sooner. But even if Mr C had contacted the dealership when he got the recall notice, I dont think its likely that the motorbike would have been repaired by January or 
February 2020, or even April 2020, given the comments made by the repairing dealership. 
Because of this, I think its likely the repair would have been impacted by the restrictions 
imposed as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. 
I cant hold BMWFS responsible for the restrictions imposed upon businesses as a result of 
the COVID-19 pandemic. But in this case, I dont think the motorbike was of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied to Mr C. So given that I think its unlikely the repair would have 
been completed before the COVID-19 pandemic restrictions were imposed, I dont think its 
fair that Mr C should be required to pay for any use of the motorbike from when he contacted 
the dealership in January 2020, to when the repair was completed in July 2020. 
BMWFS has already agreed to pay Mr C £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused 
following our investigators view. I think this amount is fair and reasonable given Mr C was 
unable to use his motorbike for a number of months whilst it wasnt of satisfactory quality.
My provisional decision 
My provisional decision is that I intend to instruct BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited to do 
the following:
Refund any payments Mr C has made towards the agreement from January 2020 
until 2 July 2020;
Pay Mr C 8% simple interest on these payments from the date of each payment and 
the date of settlement*; and 
Pay Mr C £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
*If BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited considers that it is required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr C a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Responses to my provisional decision
BMWFS didnt provide any further comments to my provisional decision. Mr C accepted my 
provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no new evidence has been provided for me to consider following my provisional decision, 
it follows that there is no reason for me to reach any different conclusion than set out in my 
provisional decision.
Putting things right
For the reasons given in my provisional decision which Ive outlined above, BMW Financial 
Services (GB) Limited should:
Refund any payments Mr C has made towards the agreement from January 2020 
until 2 July 2020;
Pay Mr C 8% simple interest on these payments from the date of each payment and the date of settlement*;
Pay Mr C £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
*If BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited considers that it is required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr C a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Cs complaint. BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited should follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman