DRN-3504659
The complaint
Q complains Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) unfairly declined a claim it made on its marine 
insurance policy. 
Q is being represented in bringing its complaint by its broker. But for ease, Ill refer to all 
comments and actions as being those of Q, unless otherwise stated. 
What happened
In July 2018, Q bought a boat, and contacted Lloyds to add it to its existing insurance policy. 
This was done on 30 July 2018. The insurance for the new boat started on 31 July 2018. 
Unfortunately, on the same day, Qs boat was destroyed in a fire. 
Q was involved in a legal claim over ownership of the boat at the time of loss. It was decided 
in those proceedings that Q was the legal owner at the time of the loss, and so had an 
insurable interest. 
So in late 2020, once court proceedings had finished, Q made a claim under the policy for 
the loss of the boat. Lloyds declined it. It said the fire had happened in the early hours of the 
morning on 31 July 2018 but cover on the policy wasnt confirmed until a few hours later. So 
it said whilst Q was the legal owner, the boat wasnt on cover when the damage happened, 
and so a claim wouldnt be successful. 
Q complained to Lloyds, but it didnt agree to change its position, so it brought its complaint 
to our service. 
Our investigator thought Lloyds should consider the claim, as if the policy was in force. She 
said Q had sent over all the documents needed to start the policy to the broker the day 
before the loss, and the schedule of insurance said cover started on 31 July, it didnt specify 
a time. So she thought the fair and reasonable outcome was for Society of Lloyds to 
consider the claim as if the policy was in force at the time of loss.
Lloyds didnt accept that. It said the legal position was that cover didnt start until it was 
accepted by Lloyds and the insurance premium paid. And as that was after the loss 
occurred, it shouldnt be required to consider the claim. 
In May 2022, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. In it I said:
Lloyds has quoted the Marine Insurance Act 1906 as reason for declining the claim. It
quotes the following below as part of the Act:
"When a contract is deemed to be concluded.
A contract of marine insurance is deemed to be concluded when the proposal of the assured
is accepted by the insurer, whether the policy be then issued or not; and, for the purpose of
showing when the proposal was accepted, reference may be made to the slip or covering
note or other customary memorandum of the contract."
Lloyds says as the proposal documents hadnt been received or reviewed by the insurers
before the loss, it cannot be concluded the policy was in force.
The timeline of events is as follows. Q asked for a quote from its broker on 30 July, the
broker sent over the proposal documents to Q on the same day. Q returned them to the
broker after 5pm on 30 July. On 31 July, the broker provided Lloyds with the documents just
before 9am, which were reviewed and the boat was confirmed as added to the policy around
midday. I accept that if Lloyds position on the law is correct, then under the Act, the
insurance cover wasnt in place at the time of the loss.
Whilst this service has to take consideration of the law, we are not bound by it. I can depart
from the law in making my decision as this service also considers what is a fair and
reasonable outcome in the circumstances of individual cases.
In this case, it doesnt seem in dispute about when the loss happened, it was after Q took
ownership of the boat and after it initiated the insurance policy. And I havent seen any
suggestions that Q, the broker or Lloyds were aware of the loss of the boat when the policy
was confirmed. It seems no one was aware of the loss until around 2pm on 31 July, after the
boat had been added to the policy. However, I dont think it would be fair in the
circumstances of this case to ask Lloyds to cover the claim.
Ive looked at the timeline to see if Lloyds caused any delays in setting the policy up, but I
dont think it did. It seems to have accepted the boat onto the policy at around midday on 31
July, just a few hours after the broker had provided the completed documents. The boat had
already burnt down at around 5am, before the broker had provided any documents to
Lloyds. So theres been no error on Lloyds part here, which has caused Q to lose out.
Ive also considered the relationship between Lloyds and its broker. Lloyds has said the
broker acts on behalf of the policyholder and had no authority to add the boat to Qs policy
on its behalf. So the document the broker provided to Q, which Q returned on 30 July, was
no more than a proposal. So it cant be argued that the policy had started before the loss
occurred.
I accept that the schedule of insurance says cover starts on 31 July 2018, and it doesnt
specify a time. But Lloyds wouldnt have added the boat onto cover or issued a new
schedule, had it known the condition of the boat at midday on 31 July, when it was added to
the policy. So in the circumstances of this case I dont think it would be fair to ask Lloyds to
treat the boat as on cover when the loss occurred, and settle the claim.
I understand this leaves Q in a difficult position, and whilst I sympathise with it and the
unfortunate timeline of events, Im not satisfied that Lloyds needs to treat the claim as if the
policy was in force at the time of the loss. So it doesnt have to take any further action.Responses to my provisional decision
Society of Lloyds didnt provide a response.
Q did respond. It said in summary:
It had intended to return the form to the broker earlier in the day on 30 July, but due 
to workload wasnt able to do so.
It took the Lloyds four hours to review and process the forms. So even if the form 
had been sent before the end of the business day on 30 July, it still wouldnt have 
been actioned until 31 July. 
The same boat was on cover a month beforehand (for a short time) and this was 
accepted by the insurer.
Qs broker said it had been an agent of the underwriter (not Lloyds) for 25 years, so 
it was also acting as agent for it as well as Q. And consideration should be given to 
trust and honesty between the two parties.
Lloyds accepted the premium and the documents dont show a time the amendment 
was agreed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my outcome remains the same as set out in my provisional decision, for the 
same reasons. I consider many of Qs arguments have already been covered in my 
provisional findings, but where necessary Ill address them below.
Q might have intended to return the form to Lloyds earlier on 30 July. And I accept its 
possible that Lloyds still wouldnt have been able to add the boat to the policy before the fire 
happened in the early hours of 31 July. But I dont think that means Lloyds has acted 
unfairly in not considering the claim. 
Ive already said I dont think Lloyds caused any delays in processing the policy 
amendment. As part of this decision its not my role to comment on the actions of Q or the 
broker, Im only looking at the actions of Lloyds. Taking four hours to confirm cover doesnt 
seem an unreasonable amount of time in the circumstances. And in any event, irrespective 
of how long it took Lloyds to confirm, I still find that the loss happened before it could have 
added the boat to the policy, because the broker didnt provide Lloyds with the necessary 
documents until after the loss had occurred. So Im still persuaded that at the time of the 
loss, the boat wasnt insured by Lloyds.
Q has said Lloyds previously had agreed to cover the boat for a short period of time, and 
this happened around a month before it tried to re-add the same boat to the policy. But Im 
not persuaded this makes a difference to the outcome here. The boat was on cover 
previously, but I dont think it can be argued it was still on cover when the loss happened. I 
accept Lloyds had agreed to cover the boat previously, but thats not in dispute. It also 
agreed to cover it on 31 July. The issue here is that the fire happened before it was on 
cover. And Lloyds wouldnt have offered that cover had it known the fire had happened in 
the early hours of 31 July. So I dont think its reasonable to ask Lloyds to consider the 
claim.Qs broker said it was acting as agent for the underwriter (who is separate to Lloyds) and 
had worked with it for a number of years. The broker hasnt provided anything which 
confirms this is the case. Lloyds has said the broker had no authority to make amendments 
to the policy. In this instance Im more persuaded by what Lloyds has said in relation to this. 
I dont think the brokers relationship of trust and honesty with the underwriter is relevant 
here.
Ive already considered that the schedule issued by Lloyds doesnt specify a time. And Ive 
already set out my reasons as to why this doesnt persuade me that Lloyds should cover the 
boat. Having considered everything again, my findings remain the same as set out in my 
provisional decision. The same also applies to the payment of the premium. It was paid after 
the fire had happened. So no cover had been confirmed, or premium paid, until after the loss 
had already happened.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not going to ask Society of Lloyds to treat the boat as on cover 
and consider the claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman