DRN-2176545
The complaint
Mr S says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1998. Its most likely the sale 
took place in one of the banks branches. The policy was taken out at the same time as Mr S 
applied for the credit card. It gave him protection against accident, sickness and 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to our adjudicators view Mr S asked how we can believe Lloyds without 
evidence. I have weighed up the available evidence from both sides, and as some of it is 
incomplete or contradictory my decision is based on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, on what I consider is most likely given the evidence we do have and what we know 
about how Lloyds sold PPI at the time. As an independent and impartial organisation we 
dont act on behalf of either consumer or banks - theres no benefit for us to find in favour of 
one party over the other.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint because:
Mr S says PPI was never discussed, it was added without his knowledge. And he says the 
bank can only say it believes the correct procedure was followed, but where is the evidence. 
I cant know what was discussed in the meeting. But Ive thought carefully about his 
comments and looked at the available paperwork from the sale.
On his credit card application form Mr S ticked a box indicating that he wanted PPI, and it 
was listed in a section headed Optional Features. Even if an adviser had completed the form 
on Mr Ss behalf, I think its reasonable to expect he would have read it carefully signing. I 
havent been able to find enough other evidence to support his claim that Lloyds didnt follow 
its standard sales process. I accept he has provided his honest recollection of the sale, but I 
also have to consider how long ago the sale was and how that might affect what he 
remembers.
Overall, I think the balance of evidence shows its most likely Lloyds made Mr S aware the 
PPI was optional and he chose to take it.
 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr S, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for him 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Mr S says he was entitled to some 
sick pay, but the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to this and for up to 12 months. It also 
gave him up to 12 months redundancy cover. So, overall, I think PPI wouldve been useful 
to Mr S if he lost his job or was sick and unable to work.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But it seems Mr S chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted 
this type of cover. He wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the policy 
was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr S wouldve made 
a different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think he would still 
have taken out the policy.
It follows I dont think Mr S has lost out because of any problems with the sale.
My final decision
My decision is I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman