DRN-1046791
The complaint 
Mr Ds complaint is about Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. (Mapfre) and its decision to decline his claim under a travel insurance 
policy. 
Background
Mr D took out an annual travel insurance policy with Mapfre online on 18 March 
2019, which he chose to start from 2 April 2019. His trip was due to start 9 April 
2019.
On 1 April, Mr Ds mother fell and she had an operation on 3 April. The next day, the 
family were told that she mightnt survive and her condition was critical. Mr D called 
Mapfre, but was told as his mother fell before the policy started, the claim wasnt 
covered by the policy.
Mr D complained to Mapfre about its decision.
Mapfre said the fall was the original cause of the cancellation and this predated the 
start of the policy. It pointed out that Mr D had been warned when he selected the 
start date online that picking a later date would mean that he wasnt covered until 
then and sent evidence to him of this warning.
Mr D didnt agree and brought his complaint to us  he said that as it wasnt until after 
the policy started that he was told how ill his mother was, the claim should be 
accepted. He also said that he didnt see the warning.
After investigating, our investigator concluded the complaint should not be upheld.
Mr D doesnt agree.
 
Ill now set out my decision and the reasons for it. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided this 
complaint should not be upheld for these reasons: 
A policy starts from its inception date  this is the date that is stated as the start date 
of the policy and this is within the terms and conditions. This isnt always the date 
that the policy is taken out. From the evidence available to me, Mr D himself chose 
the start date of 2 April, even though this meant that he wouldnt have cancellation 
cover until this date for his trip. While the premium was paid earlier, this doesnt 
change the start date and I cant see any evidence that Mapfre was involved in the 
choice of start date. Indeed, the evidence available to me is that when Mr D chose a 
later date, a warning was shown that he wouldnt be covered until that date, and I 
note that another warning is set out clearly in his certificate of insurance which 
confirms the start date.
Ive thought about whether its fair and reasonable for the start date to be applied 
strictly and I think that it is. Mr D chose the date and Mapfre made it clear that cover 
starts from that date only.The events that gave rise to Mr Ds claim happened before the policy started; if the 
fall hadnt happened, Mr Ds mother wouldnt have needed surgery or been so 
unwell. While I understand Mr Ds point that he only cancelled his trip due to being 
told on 4 April the seriousness of the situation, the first event in the chain was his 
mothers fall and this predates the start of the policy. I also note that the medical 
evidence given to Mapfre says that Mr Ds mother had an earlier fall in March, but Mr 
D chose the start date of 2 April, despite being told more than once by Mapfre that 
this meant he wouldnt be covered until this date.
 
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Mapfre Asistencia, Compania 
Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 30 June 2020.
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman