DRN-3632401
The complaint
Mrs P has complained that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, unfairly turned down her 
claim made about something bought using her credit card.
What happened
In 2012, Mrs P, alongside her husband, purchased holiday club membership from a 
business Ill call Business D. This cost £4,800 and was paid in part by Mrs P making a 
payment of £990 using her Halifax credit card.1 But this credit card payment wasnt made 
directly to Business D, rather it went to a different business Ill call Business F.
In 2018, using a professional representative (PR), Mrs P made a claim to Halifax under 
s.75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). In short, Mrs P said Business D made 
misrepresentations at the time of the sale that, under s.75 CCA, Halifax was jointly 
responsible to answer. It also said that Business D had breached the terms of the 
membership, again something Halifax could be jointly liable for under s.75 CCA. 
Halifax responded, but didnt think there was enough to say there had been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation as alleged. But Mrs P didnt agree, so referred a complaint to 
our service that Halifax hadnt properly considered her claim.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but didnt think Halifax needed to do 
anything further. He thought that the claim had been made too late, meaning Halifax had a 
defence to it. PR disagreed and thought it had been made in time. On reflection, our 
investigator agreed, but he thought there wasnt enough to say there had been a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract as alleged. So he concluded that Halifax didnt need 
to do anything more to resolve the complaint.
PR said that Mrs P didnt agree with the view and asked for the matter to be looked at again 
by an ombudsman. It provided substantial submissions detailing problems it said there were 
with Business D membership and argued that this led to a breach of contract. It also 
supplied submissions from counsel titled Generic submissions on behalf of complainants, in 
which it was argued that problems with Business D membership could lead to an unfair 
debtor-creditor relationship under s.140A CCA.
I considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what I thought was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I didnt think Halifax 
needed to do anything further, but for different reasons to our investigator. So I issued a 
provisional decision and invited both parties to provide me anything further theyd like me to 
consider.
I explained that when I decide complaints Im required by DISP 3.6.4 R of the FCA  
Handbook to take into account:
(1) relevant:
1 Although the membership was in the names of Mr and Mrs P, as the credit card used was in Mrs Ps 
name, only she is able to make this complaint
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what [the ombudsman] considers to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
PR brought a claim on Mrs Ps behalf under s.75 CCA and I thought it was helpful to set out 
the relevant legal provisions.
s.75(1) CCA states:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) 
or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against 
the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a 
like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and 
severally liable to the debtor
s.12(b) CCA states that a debtor-creditor-supplier (D-C-S) agreement is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement being:
a restricted-use credit agreement which falls within section 11(1)(b) and is made by 
the creditor under pre-existing arrangements, or in contemplation of future 
arrangements, between himself and the supplier
An agreement is a s.11(1)(b) restricted-use credit agreement if it is a regulated CCA 
agreement used to finance a transaction between the debtor and a person (the supplier) 
other than the creditor.
s.140A CCA states:
(1)The court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it determines that the relationship between the creditor and the debtor 
arising out of the agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement) is 
unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following 
(a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of his rights 
under the agreement or any related agreement;
(c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
(2) In deciding whether to make a determination under this section the court shall 
have regard to all matters it thinks relevant (including matters relating to the creditor 
and matters relating to the debtor).
(3) For the purposes of this section the court shall (except to the extent that it is not 
appropriate to do so) treat anything done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, or in 
relation to,  an associate or a former associate of the creditor as if done (or not done) 
by, or on behalf of, or in relation to, the creditor.
Section 140C CCA says that the reference in s.140A CCA to a related agreement include a 
linked transaction in relation to the main agreement, which is defined in s.19 CCA as:
(1) A transaction entered into by the debtor or hirer, or a relative of his, with any other person (the other party), except one for the provision of security, is a linked 
transaction in relation to an actual or prospective regulated agreement (the principal 
agreement) of which it does not form part if -

(b) the principal agreement is a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement and the 
transaction is financed, or to be financed, by the principal agreement
I thought that the upshot of this is that there needs to be a D-C-S agreement in place for the 
lender (here Halifax) to be liable to the borrower (here Mrs P) for the misrepresentations or 
breaches of contract of the supplier (here Business D). But, on the face of it, there were no 
such arrangements in place at the relevant times as Business D wasnt paid directly using 
the credit card, rather the payments were taken by Business F.
I said that there are ways in which there can be a D-C-S agreement in place, even if the 
supplier isnt paid directly using a credit card. But since our investigator issued their view, the 
law in this area had been clarified by the judgment in Steiner v. National Westminster Bank 
plc [2022] EWHC 2519 (KB) (Steiner).2 Steiner considered whether there was a D-C-S 
agreement in circumstances where Business F took payment on a credit card in relation to 
the purchase of timeshare membership from a business called C. The court considered the 
arrangements between the parties and concluded that, as the payment to C was made 
outside of the credit card network, in that instance there wasnt a D-C-S agreement in place. 
I thought the circumstances of Mrs Ps case were very similar. Here, the same business  
(Business F) took payment for Mrs Ps purchase of Business D holiday club memberships. 
So, based on the judgment in Steiner, I thought a court would come to a similar conclusion 
and say that there was no D-C-S agreement in place and, in turn, no valid s.75 CCA claim.
In response to the investigators view, PR sent submissions alleging that there might be an 
unfair debtor-creditor relationship between Mrs P and Halifax arising out of the purchases.
This wasnt a claim that had ever been raised with Halifax, so it hadnt had the chance to 
consider it. However, I thought it was fair in the circumstances of Mrs Ps case to go on to 
look at that claim and I didnt think Halifax was prejudiced by me doing so. I said that as I 
could only consider how the agreements between Mrs P and Business D affected the 
fairness of the debtor-creditor relationship, if there was a valid D-C-S agreement in place. 
And, as already explained, I didnt think such an arrangement was in place, nor had Mrs P 
suggested there was an unfair relationship for any other reason. I invited Halifax to tell me in 
response to my provisional decision if it didnt think I should consider this part of the 
complaint.
Under the rules set out above, I noted that I must take into account the law, but come to my 
own determination of what is fair and reasonable in any given complaint. Here, I didnt think 
it would be fair to make Halifax responsible for Business Ds alleged failures when the law 
didnt impose such a liability  I couldnt see that Halifax and Business D were connected in 
any way nor was there any other reason to say Halifax should be responsible for 
Business Ds failings.
I followed, therefore, that I didnt think Halifax need to answer the claims made.
Halifax responded to say it had nothing further to add to my provisional decision. Neither 
Mrs P nor PR responded.
2 I had seen Counsels opinion prepared in respect of some of PRs complaints on the subject of D-
C-S agreements. But that opinion predated this judgment, so I didnt think it assisted me hereWhat Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive been given nothing further to consider, I see no reason to depart from my provisional 
decision. So I still dont think Halifax needs to do anything further for the same reasons.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint against Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman