DRN-2633136
The complaint
Miss J is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) didnt update the status 
of one of her defaulted accounts to satisfied when they first should have done.
What happened
Miss J held two loan accounts with NatWest which defaulted but which were satisfied by 
Miss J in 2017.
In 2020, Miss J noticed that one of the defaulted accounts hadnt been updated to show as 
being satisfied on her credit file. Miss J was concerned about this and believed that it had 
impacted her ability to obtain a mortgage. So, Miss J raised a complaint with NatWest.
NatWest acknowledged that they hadnt updated Miss Js credit file appropriately and offered 
£200 compensation to Miss J for the inconvenience she had incurred. NatWest later 
increased this offer of compensation to £500.
Miss J wasnt satisfied with NatWests response as she felt that NatWests error was directly 
responsible for her not being able to obtain a mortgage. So, she referred her complaint to 
this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that it couldnt be said for sure 
that the incorrect information on Miss Js credit file had been the sole reason why Miss J 
hadnt been able to obtain a mortgage. Our investigator also thought that the amount of 
compensation that NatWest had offered Miss J was reasonable in these circumstances. So, 
they didnt uphold the complaint either.
Miss J remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In her correspondence with this service, Miss J has pointed out the difficulty of being able to 
get confirmation from the mortgage provider that the sole reason that she wasnt able obtain 
a mortgage was because the default on her credit file wasnt listed as satisfied. So, I can 
appreciate her frustration at being told that such confirmation would be required in order for 
this service to consider an award for financial loss such as she is seeking.
However, I can only confirm that it would be the case that this service would require 
confirmation as described above. And this is because it wouldnt be reasonable to instruct a 
business to make a payment for financial loss without being able to confirm that the business 
caused that financial loss. And I hope that Miss J can appreciate that were unable to confirm 
that in this instance.
It isnt in dispute that Miss J has incurred distress and inconvenience because of what has 
happened. And I note that NatWest have awarded £500 to Miss J on this basis.
Miss J has stated that this amount doesnt cover the fees that she incurred when applying for 
the mortgage. However, given that it cant be confirmed that Miss J wasnt able to obtain a 
mortgage because of the incorrect information on her credit file, it follows that it also cant be 
confirmed that Miss J incurred fees for a mortgage application that was unsuccessful 
because of the incorrect information on her credit file. 
Compensation is often a subjective issue, and what is considered a fair amount by one 
person may not be considered so by another. But the £500 awarded to Miss J by NatWest 
does feel fair to me here, and I must note that it is commensurate with what this service 
would expect, given the circumstances.
Its difficult then, for me to conclude that NatWest have treated Miss J unfairly or 
unreasonably here  theyve taken the necessary steps to correct Miss Js credit file and 
made an award of compensation for the inconvenience caused which seems reasonable to 
me. And, while I can appreciate Miss J might be frustrated by this conclusion, there isnt 
sufficient evidence available to me to enable me to conclude anything different.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Miss J was wanting, but it follows that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or asking NatWest to take any further action at this time - beyond 
that to which they have already agreed. I hope that Miss J can understand, given everything 
I have explained above, why I have made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman