DRN-3823945
The complaint
Mr K complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) restricted access to his account. He would 
like access to his account and his funds and an apology.
What happened
Mr K had an account with BOS. It was an under 19s account.
Mr K s account was restricted by BOS following a court order in May 2018.
The balance in the account was over £39,000. In July 2021 a Third-party mandate was 
processed by the bank in favour of Mr Ks mother.
On 13 September 2021 a withdrawal of £20 000 was made from the account. It appears the 
money was used to purchase a car.
On 15 September 2021 the bank froze the account.
Following this restriction on the account. Mr K complained to BOS. They said they couldnt 
allow Mr K access to the funds in the account because of a processing delay.
Mr K complained to our service. One of the investigators looked into the complaint. She 
issued her view in March 2022. She didnt uphold the complaint. She thought the bank had 
acted fairly when it restricted Mr Ks account. 
Mr K disagreed with the view and provided the investigator with a copy of the recall of the 
court order. This shows the order was recalled in May 2019. Mr K has said he should be 
entitled to withdraw money from the account.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UK legislation places extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial 
institutions have legal and regulatory obligations they must comply with. They must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. 
I addition to their regulatory obligations BOS has to comply with any order of the court. 
Originally the account was restricted following a court order, and I am satisfied BOS acted 
fairly when they restricted the account.
In response to our investigators view Mr K has mentioned that the court order was recalled 
in May 2019. Mr Ks point is that following the court order recall he should be able to transact 
on the account.
I appreciate not having access to the funds in the account must be difficult for Mr K. And Ive 
carefully considered his comments. 
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from banks and other parties as confidential for a number of reasons  for 
example, if it contains information about other customers or security information. Some of 
the information we have been provided in this case is information that we considered should 
be kept confidential, so I wont be sharing this with Mr K.
I realise Mr K would understandably like access to the funds in the account. But 
notwithstanding the recall of the court order and the £20,000 Mr K was able to access from 
the account in September 2021, I dont think BOS is acting unfairly in restricting Mr Ks 
access to the funds in his account. I say this because BOS have legal and regulatory 
obligations that they must comply with. And as Ive mentioned above UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Its sometimes appropriate for banks 
to limit the access to funds in the account  BOS were entitled to do that in the 
circumstances of this complaint, as they were complying with their wider obligations.
In summary, I know Mr K will be disappointed with my decision but looking at the information 
before me, I can see that in continuing to block the account after the court order, the bank 
was complying with their legal and regulatory obligations. This was a legitimate exercise so I 
cant say BOS was unfair. so, I wont be asking them to do anything here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman