DRN-4518358
The complaint
Mr H complains that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited (Watford) mishandled a 
claim on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a car, first registered in 2009.
For the year from early June 2022, Mr H had the car insured on a comprehensive policy 
branded with the name of an insurance intermediary. Watford was the insurance company 
that was responsible for dealing with any claim or cancellation of the policy.
The policy covered use only for social, domestic and pleasure purposes (SD&P).
The policy documents said that Mr H had four years no-claims discount (NCD).
Mr H reported that on 25 May 2023 (a Thursday), he was driving to work when a third party 
vehicle hit his car.
Much of the complaint is about acts, omissions and communications by the intermediary on 
behalf of Watford. Insofar as I hold Watford responsible for them, I may refer to them as 
acts, omissions and communications by Watford.
Watford declined to cover the claim and said it would cancel the policy.
On 27 May 2023, Mr H sent an email to Watford. He attached evidence that he had made 
prior arrangements to attend a social function after work on 25 May 2023, which was why he 
had been taking the car to work as a one-off instead of his usual journey on public transport.
Mr H complained that Watford wasnt treating him fairly.
By a final response dated 30 May 2023, Watford turned down the complaint. It declined to 
indemnify Mr H and said it had given him seven days notice of cancellation of the policy. 
Mr H brought his complaint to us straight away.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator initially recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think 
that Watfords decision to refuse to indemnify Mr H and cancel the insurance was fair and 
reasonable. The investigator recommended that Watford should:
1. remove the cancellation from all internal and external databases  and amend this as 
notification only if Mr H or the third party driver dont proceed to make a claim on the 
policy;
2. indemnify Mr H in the event that the third party makes a claim against his policy; 
3. reimburse Mr H for any costs he may have incurred as a result of the cancellation  if 
applicable;
4. provide Mr H with confirmation that his NCD is intact  if the third party hadnt made a 
claim against him;
5. reinstate the policy if Mr H wishes to do so, and he hasnt taken out another policy 
elsewhere.
Our investigator changed his opinion. He recommended that the complaint should be upheld 
in part. He thought that the policy excluded the claim in relation to the incident as Mr H had 
been travelling to a place of employment. However, the investigator thought that this was a 
one- off. So he didnt think it was fair or reasonable that the policy was cancelled and has 
been recorded as such on internal and external databases.
The investigator recommended that Watford should:
1. reinstate the policy;
2. remove the cancellation from all internal and external databases;
3. pay Mr H £150.00 compensation for the inconvenience caused by the cancellation;
4. provide Mr H with confirmation his NCD hasnt been affected.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr H   
and to Watford on 29 November 2023. I summarise my findings:
Mr Hs cars MOT certificate expired in late November 2022 and the car failed an 
MOT test on about 22 May before passing a test the same day. That was a few days 
before the accident in May 2023.
Mr H reported that the accident had happened as he was driving the car to his place 
of employment. The policy excluded cover for such travel. So Mr H was in breach of 
that policy exclusion.
Such a breach wouldve been a valid reason for cancelling the policy immediately. So 
it was also a valid reason for cancelling the policy on seven days notice.
So I wasnt minded to find that Watford treated Mr H unfairly either by declining to 
indemnify him or by cancelling his policy. 
Subject to any further information either from Mr H or from Watford, my provisional decision 
was not to uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct Watford Insurance Company 
Europe Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Watford accepted the provisional decision.
Mr H disagreed with the provisional decision. He says, in summary, that:
He did not realise the MOT had expired as he had not been using the car.
When he went to insure the car for the next year, he realised the MOT had expired; 
hence he got the MOT check done in May.
The new policy that was due to start in June included commuting for his new job that 
started in August (1 location). 
The car was used for the social function. 
It is the principle of the cancellation that he disagrees with. He needed the car for the social function.
As for the third party claim, that is ongoing from August 9, normally it takes 6 weeks 
for the other insurer to settle their claims but he thinks they are trying to fight the 
photos, witness statement etc. that he has given. He is not sure as Watford haven't 
told him much else.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
An insurer may have to make a financial outlay in response to a claim by its policyholder or 
by a third party. Where an insurer has received a claim, its common practice for that insurer 
to treat it as an open claim or as a fault claim against its policyholder unless and until that 
insurer has established that it wont have to make an outlay or that it can recover its outlay 
(typically from a third partys insurer but sometimes from its own policyholder).
An open claim or a fault claim will affect the policyholders NCD.
Mr Hs certificate of insurance included the following:
The Policy covers: Use only for Social, domestic and pleasure purposes.
Exclusions: Hiring, racing formally or informally against another motorist, pace-
making, competitions, track days, rallies, trials or tests, speed trials or test, either on
a road, track or at an off road 4x4 event. Travelling to and from a place of
employment or study, commercial travelling, business use, use for tuition, use for hire
or reward for fast food delivery or as a courier, carrying passengers for hire or reward
or employment related purposes, or for any purpose in connection with the motor
trade.
Ive added the underlining. The wording excludes travelling to and from a place of 
employment (which is slightly wider than commuting).
The policy terms included the usual right for the insurer to cancel the policy for a valid 
reason on seven days notice  and the following term:
Alternatively, we have the right to cancel Your Policy immediately, at any time during
Your Policy Period, where there is evidence of fraud or a valid reason for doing so.
We will still send Our cancellation letter to the latest address We have for You and
will set out the reason for cancellation in Our letter. Valid reasons allowing us to
immediately cancel may include but are not limited to:

g. If You are in breach of any of the Terms, Exceptions, Exclusions, Conditions or
Endorsements contained in or endorsed upon this Policy.
From its MOT history, Ive noted that Mr Hs cars MOT certificate expired in late November 
2022 and the car failed an MOT test on about 22 May before passing a test the same day. 
That was a few days before the accident in May 2023.
Mr H reported that the accident had happened as he was driving the car to his place of 
employment. The policy excluded cover for such travel. So Mr H was in breach of that policy 
exclusion.Such a breach wouldve been a valid reason for cancelling the policy immediately. So it was 
also a valid reason for cancelling the policy on seven days notice.
So I dont find that Watford treated Mr H unfairly either by declining to indemnify him or by 
cancelling his policy. Therefore I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Watford to pay 
compensation to Mr H.
The policy wouldve expired anyway in early June 2023. So I dont find it fair and reasonable 
to direct Watford to reinstate the policy.
I see no reason to direct Watford to change its internal records of the cancellation.
Not all cancellations by insurers are recorded on an external or shared database. Watford 
has said that it has amended the record of cancellation on the shared insurance database so 
that it is no longer shared with other members. I accept that statement.
Watford has gone further by saying that Mr H need not declare the cancellation going 
forward. But in my view that is subject to Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA).
CIDRA obliges a consumer to take reasonable care to avoid making a misrepresentation 
when taking out an insurance policy. In particular, the consumer must look carefully at the 
questions asked on behalf of the proposed insurer and give careful answers.
The third party has made a claim against Mr H and Watford has felt obliged to dispute it. 
While it remains open (or in the event that Watford makes an outlay that it cant recover) the 
third partys claim will affect Mr Hs NCD. Thats in line with the usual practice.
Response to the provisional decision
Mr H says he didnt realise that the MOT had expired. However, the car needed a test every 
year and Mr Hs car was about six months overdue. So I consider that Mr H had been 
careless. 
Mr H says that when he went to insure the car for the next year, he found it didnt have an 
MOT, so he got a test done. I accept that the car passed the test before the accident.
Mr H says that the new policy that was due to start from June (2023) covered commuting. 
However that was in anticipation of starting a new job from August 2023. I dont consider that 
the details of the new policy changed the fact that - in May 2023 - Mr H used the car to travel 
to a place where he worked, which the policy didnt cover at that time.
Mr H says the car was used for the social function. However, Ive found that he used the car 
to travel to a place where he worked, which the policy didnt cover.
Mr H disagrees with the cancellation and says he needed the car for the social function. 
However, I consider that he also needed insurance to drive the car to a place of work. Ive 
found that driving to work without such insurance was a valid reason for cancelling the policy 
immediately or on seven days notice.
Mr H says that the third partys insurer is trying to fight the claim but Watford hasnt told him 
much more. However, Mr Hs complaint to Watford (and its final response) were in May 2023 
before there had been enough time for much action on the third party claim. So his complaint 
and my decision dont cover Watfords handling of the third party claim.Conclusion
Overall, I dont find that Watford treated Mr H unfairly by declining his claim and cancelling 
he policy. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Watford to do any more in response 
to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is not to uphold this complaint. I dont direct 
Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman