DRN-3611220
The complaint
Mrs S complains that RCI Financial Services Limited  were irresponsible in approving a hire 
purchase agreement that she says she couldnt afford. She is also complaining that she 
didnt know that she would need to pay a balloon payment at the end of the agreement to 
own the car. 
When I refer to what Mrs S has said, and RCI have said, it should also be taken to include 
things said on their behalf.
What happened
In February 2019, Mrs S entered into a hire purchase agreement with RCI to acquire a used 
car first registered in 2016. The car at the time had travelled approximately 22,655 miles. 
The cash price of the car was around £15,574 and the total amount payable was 
approximately £20,928. Mrs S paid a deposit of around £2,300, which also included the 
value of her part-exchanged old car. The duration of the agreement was set at 49 months. 
There were 48 payments of around £258 and a final repayment of around £6,233. 
Mrs S is unhappy, as she said that she was not aware that she would need to pay a balloon 
payment at the end of the finance agreement. She said she believed that she would have full 
ownership of the car after 49 months. Mrs S said that during the sales process she asked 
how much interest she would need to pay, and said she was told that the amount will be 
about £500. She said she found the price reasonable and accepted the proposal. Afterwards 
the dealership recommended a couple of additional ad hoc services to her which she also 
accepted. She said that when she left the dealership, she only had two documents with her; 
the sales invoice and the car order form. She also said that when she was signing the 
finance agreement, only the signature pages were visible to her. 
In March 2020 Mrs S received an annual statement from RCI by post. She said she was 
confused about the figures on this statement, but she assumed that it was just an admin 
error. She said she did try to call the dealership on multiple occasions but didnt manage to 
get thru as it was the Covid-19 pandemic, so she decided to pursue the matter further after 
lockdown eased. In October 2021, she visited the dealership at which point she said that she 
was provided, for the first time, with a copy of the hire purchase agreement. She said that 
during that visit the manager of the dealership offered her a rebate of around £1,417 from 
the outstanding balance at the time, which was approximately £10,623. RCI have explained 
to our service that this settlement quote included an interest rebate, if she settled the finance 
in full by the set date. 
Mrs S is also unhappy because, as she also told our service, RCI didnt conduct proper 
affordability assessments when they decided to provide her with the finance. She would like 
to be able to keep the car without having to make the final repayment and is seeking 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to her. 
In December 2021 RCI wrote to Mrs S and said that prior to her committing to signing the 
finance agreement, the dealership representative provided her with a Pre-Contract Credit 
Information (Standard European Consumer Credit Information SECCI) document. They 
said, that the declaration she signed on page 2 of her agreement states that by signing, she 
acknowledges she has received a verbal explanation about certain features of the 
agreement, and that a written summary of this explanation has been provided to her to take 
away. And, they said, she has received the SECCI document. 
In this correspondence they go on to confirm that the Annual Percentage Rate (APR) is 
confirmed on page 2 of the SECCI and on page 1 of the agreement as 13.9%, and that the 
£5,354.30 total interest charge is also clearly stated on page 1. They said that page 3 of the 
SECCI and page 2 of the agreement document explain her Right to Withdraw from the 
finance agreement within 14 days of signing, should she be unhappy with any of the terms 
and should she decide not to proceed with it. In addition, they wrote, Mrs S also signed a 
Customer Written Summary, to confirm she received adequate explanation of the finance 
product and understood the terms and conditions of the finance, considered it affordable and 
appropriate in meeting her needs, and that she wished to proceed with the application. They 
also set out that its the customers responsibility to read their finance agreement documents 
fully and to confirm both the accuracy and their understanding of the content. 
In that letter, RCI also said that Mrs S was notified of the outstanding balance of her 
agreement (including the total interest charge) on each of the annual statements they sent to 
her in February 2020 and 2021. They concluded their correspondence by saying that their 
underwriting department confirmed due diligence checks were made at the time of her 
application to establish affordability based upon her disclosed income. And, they said, they 
were satisfied that the written record confirms Mrs S was provided an opportunity to consider 
whether the finance product was affordable and suitable for her needs, and she was made 
aware of all the terms and conditions, including the interest charge, prior to signing the 
document. So, they said, that they dont uphold her complaint. 
Mrs S was unhappy with this, so she brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. She was of the opinion that the 
car repayments appeared affordable, and she didnt think that RCI acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in some other way. 
Mrs S disagreed with the investigator. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
I also want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. But I want to
assure both parties that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on 
something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I 
think are the key issues. Our powers allow me to do this.
Amongst other things, I have considered the rules and guidance for lenders set out in the 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) within the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook. 
When looking at this type of a complaint I need to consider two main questions, to decide 
what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.The first question is:
1. Did RCI complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy themselves that 
Mrs S would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
a. If reasonable and proportionate checks were completed, did RCI make a fair 
lending decision bearing in mind the information gathered and what they 
knew about Mrs Ss circumstances?
b. If reasonable and proportionate checks were not completed, would such 
checks have shown that Mrs S would be able to sustainably repay the 
borrowing?
The second question is:
2. Did RCI act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
And, if I think Mrs S has been disadvantaged in any way by RCIs actions, then I will 
consider what is a fair way to put things right.
Did RCI complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy themselves that Mrs S 
would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
RCI were required to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to assess Mrs Ss 
ability to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way. These, sometimes called affordability 
checks, need to be borrower-focussed (considering Mrs Ss specific circumstances) and, in 
addition to the creditworthiness assessment, to see if she could have afforded to repay the 
borrowing in a sustainable manner. So, RCI needed to consider the impact of any credit 
payments on Mrs S, and not just the likelihood of getting their money back.
There isnt a set list of checks RCI needed to complete. But the checks should have been 
proportionate to the circumstances, and what is reasonable and proportionate will vary 
depending on a number of factors such as, but not limited to the:
- Amount of credit;
- Duration (or likely duration) of the credit;
- Frequency of the repayments;
- Amounts of repayments;
- Total amount payable;
- Total charge for credit; and
- Consumers individual circumstances, including their lending history.
The list above is not exhaustive, and what is considered proportionate may vary as any of 
the above factors (or others) might influence what a reasonable and proportionate check 
ought to be.
The information RCI had on their system at the time also shows that Mrs S was married, her 
residential status was listed as a tenant, and that she was employed as a cashier earning 
£18,000 per annum. RCI have told us that the assessment that was performed on their 
scorecard gave Mrs S a relatively strong score. They said, they assessed her credit profile 
and that no major causes for concern were raised regarding her being able to afford the car. 
They said their affordability check which assessed her monthly rentals against her income 
showed that she was not considered high risk. They also said there was no signs of Mrs S 
potentially being overcommitted. RCI didnt provide us with a copy of Mrs Ss credit file from the time, but Mrs S was able to 
provide our service with a copy of her current credit report. From this I can see that Mrs S 
didnt have any significant credit commitments at the time of taking out the finance 
agreement. Her credit commitments were limited to a current account, two communications 
commitments, and a rental agreement with a housing provider. It seems these were all 
managed fairly, with no adverse information recorded on her credit file. But I think 
considering the amount of the finance being provided and the length of the term it wouldve 
been reasonable for RCI to verify her income at the time. 
Also, I think RCI shouldve taken into consideration Mrs Ss other commitments and 
expenditures such as her day to day living expenses. Outside of Mrs Ss credit 
commitments, they didnt know what other committed expenditure Mrs S had at the time, 
including for things such as food or petrol. So overall, I think it would have been reasonable 
and proportionate to have taken this into consideration too. Hence, I agree with Mrs S that 
RCI didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy themselves that she 
would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mrs S could sustainably repay 
the borrowing?
As Ive concluded that RCI didnt carry out reasonable and proportionate checks, I will now 
consider whether their lending decision likely ought to have been any different if 
proportionate checks had been carried out.
I cant be certain what evidence, information, or what questions RCI would have asked and 
reviewed, had they looked into Mrs Ss other commitments. Mrs S has provided us with her 
bank statements from the time of the loan application, so I have reviewed these to see what 
other commitments she had at the time. Im not suggesting that RCI shouldve asked for 
bank statements from her, as there isnt anything that would lead me to think that this was 
necessary, but I think the statements are a good indicator of what they wouldve found out 
had they asked Mrs S about her other expenditures and about her income. 
From the bank statements, I can see that Mrs S had some direct debits and a standing order 
that she was paying regularly. So overall, she was making payments of around £140 a 
month for these. This included payments to two different telecommunication companies, 
payments for council tax, and payments to a department store for a care cover. Mrs S has 
told us that she lived in a council house, so she didnt pay rent, and that she paid for her 
energy with cash. Our service was not provided with exact amounts for these energy cost, 
but her bank statements show an average payment to a utility company of approximately 
£67 per month over the three months preceding the finance agreement being entered into. 
So together her regular monthly expenses wouldve been approximately £207. In absence of 
anything else, I think most likely, this is the information Mrs S wouldve shared with RCI 
about her expenditure, had they completed reasonable and proportionate checks at the time 
of borrowing. 
Also had RCI asked Mrs S about her income at the time, they most likely would have found 
out that her total incoming on average was above £1,200 a month. This consisted of a job 
income of around £548 a month, plus about £171 a week in work and child tax credit. So 
RCI would have seen that Mrs S was left with more than a £1,000 in disposable income 
each month before acquiring the car in question. And, I think, this would have been sufficient 
to cover the costs of other living expenses such as food, clothing as well as the monthly 
repayments to RCI of around £258, as Mrs S wouldve still been left with over £700 in 
disposable income. Considering all the above I dont think RCI have acted unfairly in lending to Mrs S. I say this 
because I think reasonable and proportionate checks would have still likely shown that the 
financing was affordable for her.
Did RCI act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Mrs S has told us that she was utilising her overdraft when she took out the finance and that 
the money for the down payment was borrowed. So she is of the opinion that, because of 
this, the finance was not affordable at the time. 
But from Mrs Ss statements I can see that she was only in overdraft for short periods, so I 
dont think that alone would be a reason to say that the finance agreement was unaffordable. 
Also, considering that I think reasonable and proportionate checks would have still likely 
shown that the financing was affordable to her, I dont think it was necessary for RCI to have 
verified where the funds for the down payment were coming from. 
Mrs S has also provided us with a copy of her current credit score which she said was low, 
so she shouldnt have been approved for the funding. But its important to note that the credit 
score is from a more current period and there is some additional lending on her credit file, 
which has had an impact on this score. This lending wasnt present at the time of taking out 
the finance agreement in question and, most likely, her credit score was higher at that time. 
Also, as mentioned above, a credit score is only one of a number of things that a lender may 
need to consider before granting finance to an applicant.
Interest on the finance agreement and final repayment
Mrs S has also told us that she is unhappy, as she said that she was not aware that she 
would need to pay a balloon payment at the end of the finance agreement. She said that she 
believed that she would have full ownership of the car after 49 months. Mrs S said that 
during the sales process she asked how much interest she would need to pay and was told 
the amount will be about £500. She also told us that she was not provided with the finance 
agreement and that when she was signing it, only the signature pages were visible to her. 
She also questioned how the actual interest was applied in the finance agreement itself. 
Ive considered all the above, and what Mrs S told our service, as well as the paperwork that 
is available from that time. My role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances before me, and to make my decision on what most likely has happened. So, 
Ive though carefully about all the wider circumstances. Im satisfied Mrs S was aware she 
had entered into a finance agreement of some sort. Whether she actually saw the entire 
finance agreement or not, she was expecting to be bound to an agreement where she would 
have to make payments for the car. She also received the car and was making the monthly 
payments for it, so I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to say she shouldnt be 
responsible for the amount owed to RCI under the agreement. And Ive considered that RCI 
have sent annual statements to Mrs S in February 2020 and 2021. These statements 
confirmed the outstanding balance of her agreement (including the total interest charged). 
Mrs S said that she didnt question this prior to October 2021 due to the national lockdown 
and because she said she couldnt get a hold of the original sales representative. But there 
were a lot of periods where the lockdowns were not in place, and I think it was a very long 
time for her to wait before raising her concerns, considering how unjust she thought the 
sales process was. 
Also, more importantly, I can see that where Mrs S electronically signed the agreement, right 
above her signature on the signature page, it states that she has confirmed that she had 
been provided with an oral explanation of the agreement, has been given sufficient time to 
read the information provided and has confirmed that she had the opportunity to ask further questions. So overall, given she has signed to confirm she has seen and read everything 
and that the agreement she signed makes everything clear, I dont have enough evidence to 
say that the key features of the agreement, most likely, werent made clear to her.
Taking the above into consideration, I can see that the agreement itself clearly explains all 
amounts owing and how the interest is applied. Also, from the copy I have been provided, I 
can see that Mrs S signed the agreement in three different places including the direct debit 
mandate. I know Mrs S questioned why on one occasion she was provided with an unsigned 
copy of the agreement from the dealership, and on another occasion she was provided with 
one from RCI that had her electronic signature. Firstly, it is important to mention that 
electronic signatures are acceptable. Secondly, it is RCI who she entered into the agreement 
with, so it is reasonable that they are the ones that have a copy of the signed agreements in 
question, and therefore are the ones that provided her with the signed copy. 
Overall, I sympathise with Mrs S for the difficulties that she had experienced but taking all of 
the circumstances of the complaint into account, Ive not been presented with anything 
persuasive to make me think it is more likely than not that RCI acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards her. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman