DRN-4478000
The complaint
Mr R complains about Skyfire Insurance Company Limited (Skyfire) cancelling his motor 
insurance policy.
Skyfire are the underwriters (insurers) of this policy. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of their appointed agents. As Skyfire accept they are accountable for the actions of 
their agents, in my decision, any reference to Skyfire should be interpreted as also covering 
the actions of their appointed agents.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to Mr R and Skyfire. In my decision, Ill focus 
mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
Mr R took a motor insurance policy out on 15 November 2022 at 13.23. very shortly after, 
the car was seized by police. The police called Skyfire who confirmed that an insurance 
policy was in place. The car was released by the police. Based on some details that came 
out of that call, Skyfire then referred the policy to their internal investigation team.
Skyfire decided to cancel the insurance policy due to there being no evidence of Mr R 
holding an insurable interest - as they werent satisfied that Mr R was the registered keeper 
or legal owner of the car. They asked Mr R for proof of ownership  such as proof of 
payment or the V5 log book  but he was unable to provide these for a variety of reasons.
Mr R raised a complaint. As Skyfire didnt uphold it and he remained unhappy, he referred 
the complaint to our Service for an independent review. Our Investigator considered the 
complaint and recommended that it be upheld. As Skyfire didnt accept, the complaint was 
referred to me for a decision. I sent both parties a copy of my provisional, intended findings 
and as the deadline for responses has now passed, Ive considered the complaint for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues I 
consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service.
Responses to provisional decision 
Mr R responded to my provisional decision, Skyfire havent done so. Mr R hasnt provided 
any new evidence that would materially change the outcome that Ive reached. Hes said:
He paid cash and there was no online banking involved.
The car was parked on his driveway and the insurer refused anything he told them.
Other customers have been affected by how this insurer treats customers and they 
dont give a fair opportunity for their customers to provide evidence in this type of 
scenario. 
Mr R has been unable to provide supporting evidence of where the cash came from or an 
audit trail showing withdrawals, or any transfers between accounts prior to him withdrawing 
cash. In their final response letter, Skyfire have said Mr R has been unable to provide any 
acceptable proof of purchase and I agree with this. When Mr R spoke to Skyfire after they 
initially raised the issue with him, its been recorded that he told them he had two bank 
accounts (online based) and he took cash out of his savings and count provide proof of the 
money coming out of a bank account. 
Ive seen no evidence to support that Mr R was not given a fair opportunity to respond to 
Skyfires concerns. As previously referenced, even many months later Mr R was unable to 
provide the necessary evidence - so I dont find that hes been treated unfairly or not given a 
fair opportunity by Skyfire. Hes referred to how other customers have been treated by this 
business - but Im only considering how hes been treated in my decision. 
Therefore, my previous findings still stand and Ive amended the reference to online banking 
below. 
Our Investigator focused their assessment on the questions Mr R was asked when taking 
out this policy. But whats really at the heart of this complaint is whether or not Skyfire fairly 
cancelled this policy and if Mr R was given the fair opportunity to demonstrate that he had an 
insurable interest (or other financial interest) in this car before that decision was made.
After they were contacted by the police, Skyfire decided to take a closer look at the risk they 
were insuring here and contacted Mr R. This is fair, reasonable and what Id have expected 
to happen.
When Skyfire spoke to Mr R on 7 December 2022, he told them that hed bought the car 
from a friend on the same day the police had seized it. He was unable to provide any 
evidence or receipts to show how hed paid for the car. Ive noted a private car sale contract 
has been provided along with a photo of a Revolut card with Mr Rs name on it and a Halifax 
account card. Therefore, I dont find Skyfires concerns here to be unreasonable.
Skyfire then gave Mr R ample opportunity to provide a copy of the V5 log book. Various 
excuses were provided as to why this was not available. For example:
On 7 December 2022 Mr R told Skyfire hed been told the V5 was in his name but his 
friend was waiting for it to arrive.
The private sales contract Mr R has provided refers to the V5 document being lost.
In his complaint form to our Service, hes said one of his friends bought the car  but 
the V5 was lost, hed applied for the V5 and was waiting for it to arrive and asked 
Skyfire to wait until it arrived. Ive seen no supporting evidence thus far that Mr R 
made any such request to Skyfire. Instead, the evidence shows that in February 
2023 Mr R was still unable to provide the V5 whilst they looked into his complaint.
Mr R told our Service on 22 June 2023 that he hadnt had the car for a long time as 
hed sold it and cant provide the V5. Id reasonably have expected that given this 
complaint was ongoing, hed have either provided the evidence prior to selling the car or contacted the party who bought the car to obtain the relevant information.
Skyfire have provided evidence that the car in question was sold on 27 October 2022 and 
there is no record of a sale on or around the date Mr R says he bought it. Therefore, Mr Rs 
accounts are undermined by the other evidence in this case.
Given the lack of other persuasive, supporting evidence (particularly proof of payment) and 
the various inconsistencies in Mr Rs accounts, Ive placed little weight on the private sales 
contract provided.
Summary
The purpose of this insurance policy was to put Mr R back in the position hed be in prior to 
any loss or damage claim (indemnify him). 
Skyfire needed to be satisfied that Mr R had an insurable interest in the car. As Skyfire 
werent satisfied that Mr R had reasonably shown evidence that he paid for the car, was the 
owner at the time of policy inception and also failed to satisfy their concerns (when given a 
very fair opportunity to do so) - I find theyve fairly cancelled his policy in line with section 
11.7b of his policy terms and its not something that Id seek to interfere with. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman