DRN-2441517
The complaint
Miss M complains about TSB Bank plcs decision to hold her responsible for a transaction 
she says she didnt authorise. 
What happened
In February 2020, Miss M opened a bank account with TSB.
In March 2020, Miss M travelled to America. She took her TSB debit card with her for 
emergencies but says she never intended to use it due to the transaction fees which shed 
incur. Miss M had an alternate debit card with her issued by another bank which she used.
On 18 March 2020, Miss M told us her rental car had been broken into and some bags were 
stolen. One of the bags which was stolen had Miss Ms debit card in. Miss M cancelled the 
card using her online banking application, however she has explained there was a delay 
from her noticing the bag had been stolen and cancelling the card. The delay was due to 
Miss Ms passport also being stolen so it was important she sorted things out to allow her to 
travel back home to the UK.
On the day Miss Ms debit card was stolen, a transaction was made at a petrol garage in 
America. TSB say the transaction was made using Miss Ms PIN, but Miss M thinks it was 
made using card and signature. The transaction made was a pending payment of £1 and the 
total amount then debited Miss Ms account a few days later.
In the meantime, two further transactions were attempted using CHIP and PIN  however 
these were declined by TSB as the card had been cancelled.
TSB didnt refund the transactions. They are holding Miss M responsible as they couldnt 
evidence when Miss Ms PIN had been compromised. Miss M disagreed and brought the 
complaint to our service.
The investigator found that while the payment was authenticated using CHIP and PIN, she 
didnt think Miss M authorised the payment. However, the investigator came to the 
conclusions that Miss Ms PIN must have been recorded somewhere in her bag which is how 
the thief knew her PIN. Therefore, she felt Miss M has been grossly negligent and thought it 
was reasonable TSB were holding her responsible for the transaction.
Miss M disagreed. She said she didnt have her PIN recorded anywhere and assumptions 
arent conclusive proof. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been 
passed to me to review.
In November 2020, I issued a provisional decision. In it, I said;
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. While Ive reached the same 
outcome as the investigator, Ive expanded on the reasons.
The relevant regulations in place at the time are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
(PSR 2017). PSR 2017 say a payment transaction is regarded as authorised if the payer 
has given consent to the execution of the payment transaction. If a payment service user 
(customer) denied having authorised an executed payment  the payment service provider 
(in this case TSB) must prove the payment transaction was authenticated. And if it is 
deemed that a payment transaction hasnt been consented to, it isnt authorised. 
PSR 2017 goes on to say a payment service provider is required to refund the amount of an 
unauthorised transaction to the payer. There are exceptions to that and the relevant one 
here is whether Miss M acted with gross negligence in not keeping her details safe. 
Negligence is often referred to as a failure to exercise reasonable care. So, I think it fair and 
reasonable to conclude, the use of gross negligence, rather than mere negligence, 
suggests a lack of care, that goes significantly beyond ordinary negligence.
TSB has provided evidence to show that Miss Ms genuine card was used for the disputed 
transaction. This is known by the chip that sits within the card. The transaction was 
authenticated by the correct PIN being entered. So, Im satisfied from TSBs technical 
evidence that Miss Ms genuine card was physically present when the disputed transaction 
was made and that the withdrawal in question was authenticated by Miss Ms correct PIN 
being entered. 
I wont be able to say what happened for certain  Ill need to make my findings based on 
what I think to have most likely happened in the circumstances.
Im satisfied based on the available evidence that Miss M didnt authorise these transactions 
having considered what she said happened. Miss M has provided detailed explanations and 
provided us with evidence of the police report, damage report and her flight tickets. Ive also 
seen that further card and PIN transactions were attempted after Miss M had cancelled the 
card. So, I think its reasonable to accept that an unknown third party used Miss Ms card 
without her consent.
Having made that finding I also need to think about how that person discovered the PIN. 
Miss M has confirmed the PIN was randomly generated by her previous bank  and she 
moved this PIN over to TSB when she opened an account with them. Because of that I dont 
think its likely the PIN would have been guessed first time and I havent seen any 
transactions where the PIN was entered incorrectly so Im satisfied the unknown third party 
would have known the PIN. Miss M says she doesnt know the last time shed used her PIN 
 and that she hadnt used it while being in America. So, I think its unlikely someone could 
have observed her entering it and been able to obtain her card that afternoon.
Because of that, it leaves me in the difficult position to conclude that the only reasonable 
explanation is that Miss M had somehow recorded her PIN in her bag. I fully understand 
what Miss M says about that so I appreciate this will disappoint her. But in the absence of 
any other explanation, I dont see any other likely alternative. Ive thought about what Miss M 
has said about the time between the thief stealing the card and using it  and I agree its 
unusual. However, based on what Miss M has told us, there isnt another reasonable 
explanation to clarify how an unauthorised person could have known Miss Ms PIN.
Miss M was reasonably required under the terms and conditions of her account with TSB to 
keep her personal security information safe. I think a reasonable person would consider that 
it was careless of Miss M to keep her security details in her bag with her card. And I think 
that goes beyond ordinary negligence and was gross negligence on her part. 
I dont think TSB could have done anything to prevent the disputed payment and they did 
stop Miss Ms card when she cancelled it on her mobile banking application. I appreciate 
how strongly Miss M feels about this, so I know my decision will disappoint her but based on 
the evidence Ive received I cant reach any reasonable conclusion here other than to say that I think she is responsible for the disputed payment. And therefore, its unlikely Ill ask 
TSB to do anything differently.
So I didnt think TSB had to do anything to put things right.
Miss M responded to my provisional decision. In summary she said;
She feels like the entire decision has been made on the assumption that her PIN was 
written down.
She is aware of fraudsters being able to clone cards and use a new PIN.
She shared an extract from TSBs fraud refund guarantee which states that they will 
refund customers even if they make an honest mistake. She thinks this should be 
considered.
I asked TSB for their comments regarding the fraud guarantee to see if this is something 
they would consider. TSB responded with the full details of their fraud refund guarantee and 
explained that refunds are considered when customers have fallen victim to a scam.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the additional points Miss M has raised but it hasnt changed my decision 
overall. Ive explained further below.
Miss M feels the decision has been made on the assumption that her PIN was written down. 
In the circumstances of this complaint, I cant say exactly whats happened here and its not 
for the role of this service to establish that. Therefore, I must make my decision based on 
what I think is more likely than not to have happened. Ive thought again about what Miss M 
has said  she didnt need to write her PIN down because she changed it to a memorable 
number. But based on everything that Miss M has told us, I dont think it would be possible 
for an unknown third party to know Miss Ms PIN unless she had written down somewhere 
near her card. I cant reasonably conclude any other explanation. 
Miss M has referred to fraudsters being able to clone cards and overlay the use of the 
original PIN. While I agree with Miss M that this is entirely possible, Ive seen evidence from 
TSBs records that the original card was used, and the PIN was entered correctly. Because 
of that Im not satisfied Miss Ms card was cloned so I cant uphold her complaint on this 
point.
TSBs fraud refund guarantee does state that customers will be refunded if they make an 
honest mistake. Ive considered this guarantee carefully when deciding Miss Ms complaint. 
The guarantee explains that no TSB customer should have to pay for being tricked by a 
scam. It goes on to explain that a refund will be honoured if a customer accidently clicks on 
something they shouldnt, or they share some sensitive information without thinking. I dont 
think thats what has happened in Miss Ms circumstances. Miss Ms card was taken from 
her without her knowledge or authority  so she didnt accidently share any information by 
being tricked by a fraudster or a scam. Ive found that I think it is more likely than not Miss M 
had her PIN recorded somewhere near her card. TSB, like most banks, always advise their 
customers not to record their PIN anywhere. The fraud refund guarantee states that 
customers wont be refunded if they ignore specific advice from TSB about the account 
safety. And as Ive concluded thats what has happened here, it wouldnt be fair for me to 
ask TSB to refund Miss M under the guarantee.I appreciate Miss Ms strong feeling about this, and Im sorry I cant uphold her complaint in 
the way shed like me to. But based on the circumstances of this complaint, and the 
evidence Ive received, I cant fairly ask TSB to do anything differently. And therefore, I wont 
be changing my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman