DRN-4400143
The complaint
Miss K says Salad Finance Limited, trading as Salad Money, irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Miss K took out a £1,000 loan over 12 months from Salad Money on 12 October 2021. The 
monthly repayments were £112.58 and the total repayable was £1,347.48. 
Miss K says she should not have been given the loan, she already had lots of other debts 
and this has caused significant stress. Salad Money says it used open banking to assess the 
affordability of the loan and there was no information to suggest it wasnt affordable.
Our investigator did not uphold Miss Ks complaint. She said Salad Finances checks were 
proportionate and there was nothing to suggest the loan was unaffordable for Miss K. 
Miss K disagreed with this assessment and asked for an ombudsmans review. She said she 
wanted to ensure it was clear her complaint included the fact Salad Finance only defaulted 
her account on the day she complaint to it about irresponsible lending  she feels the two 
are linked.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. Ive 
had this approach in mind when considering Miss Ks complaint.
Salad Money needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps to ensure that it didnt lend 
to Miss K irresponsibly. This means it shouldve carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks to satisfy itself that Miss K could repay the loan in a sustainable way. These checks 
could take into account a number of things such as the loan amount, the repayment amount 
and Miss Ks income and expenditure. 
This means to decide this complaint I need to consider if Salad Moneys checks were 
proportionate; if so, did it make a fair lending decision; if not, what would proportionate 
checks most likely have shown; and finally, did Salad Money act unfairly towards Miss K in 
some other way.
Ive looked at the checks Salad Money carried out. It used open banking to obtain three 
months data on Miss Ks actual financial circumstances. It reviewed Miss Ks incomings and 
outgoings, including what she was spending on her existing credit commitments. It checked 
there was no evidence of financial vulnerability such as frequent gambling or lots of cash 
withdrawals. It also checked that she had no CCJs (county court judgments), a DMP (debt 
management plan) or records of bankruptcy. Based on these checks combined Salad 
Finance concluded the loan was affordable for Miss K.
I think these checks were proportionate given the value, cost and term of the loan. And I find 
that Salad Money made a fair lending decision based on the results. The open banking 
analysis showed Miss K had enough disposable income to afford the loan on a pounds and 
pence basis. And it did not show she was overly indebted. She was spending around 20% of 
her income on credit at the time, and giving this loan increased that to around 26%. The 
checks showed none of the typical signs of financial difficulties such as use of payday loans, 
persistent reliance on an overdraft facility or multiple returned direct debits. In the round I 
think Salad Money acted responsibly.
It follows I do not think Salad Money was wrong to lend to Miss K.
Did Salad Money act unfairly towards Miss K in some other way?
Miss K suggested that the lender only defaulted her account when she complained on 8 
September 2022. But I can find no evidence to support this claim. She was sent a Notice of 
Default on 9 September 2022, but she had been sent a Notice of Sums in Arrears on 8 
August 2022 which evidences the process started prior to her complaint. I am satisfied one 
action did not trigger the other. And Salad Money was entitled to default the account given 
the level of arrears.
My final decision
I am not upholding Miss Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman