DRN-4175142
The complaint
Mr M complains about the service he received from British Gas Insurance Limited after his 
boiler developed a fault.
What happened
Mr M held a Homecare agreement with British Gas. The policy that is relevant to this 
complaint commenced on 9 January 2022 although Mr M had held a Homecare policy with 
British Gas previously.
At the end of March 2022, Mr M experienced problems with his boiler. So, he asked British 
Gas to send an engineer to his home. The engineer that attended Mr Ms property worked 
on the boilers 3 way valve pin and adjusted, stripped and cleaned the gas valve. British Gas 
said the boiler was left fully operational.
On 25 July 2022, Mr M experienced further problems with his boiler. British Gas said these 
problems were unconnected to the previous issues but Mr M disputes this. When an 
engineer attended Mr Ms home on 25 July 2022, they identified that the heat exchanger was 
leaking. 
On 26 July the leaking heat exchanger was removed. Mr M said the engineer attending his 
home fitted a second hand part in order to undertake the repair and observed sludge in the 
system. However, prior to leaving the appointment the engineer left the front casing hanging 
off the boiler, which Mr M said he noticed that evening. He also thought the boiler was still 
leaking.
Mr M turned off his boiler, which left him without hot water, and contacted British Gas to 
request a boiler safety inspection. He was concerned his boiler had been left in an unsafe 
condition. An engineer attended Mr Ms property on 27 July to reattach the front boiler 
casing. They confirmed the boiler was fully repaired and safely operating. 
Mr M said that for around 3 weeks after the boiler repair, he noticed staining to his towels. 
He said some of the staining was permanent and put this down to water which had been 
coloured by rust within the boiler from the second hand replacement part. 
Mr M complained to British Gas. He asked it to reimburse him for the cost of the stained 
towels and compensate him for the inconvenience he was caused by the additional visits by 
engineers to his home, which he thought would have been unnecessary had the work been 
completed properly at the outset. 
British Gas said it spoke with Mr Ms wife on 17 August 2022 to discuss what had happened. 
It said Mrs M confirmed that all issues had been rectified. So, it issued its final response that 
day closing Mr Ms complaint.
In its final response to Mr Ms complaint, British Gas apologised. But it also confirmed an 
engineer had successfully refitted the boiler front panel so there was no further action 
needed. Mr M wasnt happy with the way in which his complaint was handled  he disagreed 
with the outcome and stated his complaint had been closed without consultation with him.
Mr M contacted British Gas to ask it to reopen his complaint. He said this led to him 
spending excessive amounts of time on the telephone and, again, there was poor 
communication by British Gas. So, he referred his complaint to our service.
After we looked into Mr Ms complaint, British Gas offered him £140 compensation. It said 
this was to acknowledge the poor communication Mr M had experienced in raising his 
concerns, the poor workmanship and the inconvenience caused by additional visits.  
Mr M rejected British Gas compensation offer; he said it didnt take into account the cost of 
replacing the damaged towels or inconvenience and time spent on complaining about what 
had happened. But our investigator thought the offer was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances and didnt ask British Gas to take any further action to resolve this complaint. 
British Gas agreed with our investigators assessment of this complaint. But Mr M didnt and 
requested an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our service assesses complaints independently within a fair and reasonable remit  we dont 
act for either a consumer or a business. And I want to assure Mr M and British Gas that, in 
considering this complaint, I thought very carefully about what happened here.  
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. 
My role is to assess whether I think British Gas made a mistake, or treated Mr M unfairly, 
such that it needs to now put things right. I can see Mr M and British Gas have gone to some 
trouble to provide our service with some detailed points about this complaint. I want to 
assure them that Ive read everything theyve sent us. But I hope theyll understand if I dont 
address every comment theyve made in this decision. I intend to concentrate on what I 
consider is key to this complaint.
As I set out in the background to this complaint, Mr M said the problems he experienced with 
his boiler in July 2022 were related to the previous engineer visit in March 2022. He said the 
engineer that attended his property on that occasion failed to undertake a successful repair. 
So, the problem in March continued to cause issues in July. This is disputed by British Gas.
In weighing up what I think is most likely here Ive taken into account business records 
provided by British Gas which show the specifics of all the engineer visits Mr M has had over 
the years. These records confirm an engineer attended Mr Ms property on 28 March 2022 
and that they worked on the 3 way valve pin and adjusted, stripped and cleaned the gas 
valve. This is a separate component located away from the heat exchanger.
I can see that there were three engineer visits after the March attendance. These were at the 
end of July  4 months after the previous issue. There are no records between these dates 
to indicate that Mr M informed British Gas the repair had been unsuccessful or that the 
problem had persisted. And I think if the issue hadnt been resolved its likely Mr M would 
have contacted British Gas to request a further visit or complain. At the end of July, its clear from British Gas records that the boiler wasnt working due to 
the heat exchanger leaking. Records show that this part was removed in order to repair the 
leak and, a day later, the front panel was refixed.
Based on the available evidence, Im satisfied the malfunctioning part in July 2022 was 
different to the gas valve, which had caused issues 4 months previously. Im not persuaded 
the problem in March, or work undertaken at that point, caused the heat exchanger to fair or 
is connected to the issues Mr M experienced in July.
It appears from the evidence that the leaking heat exchanger couldnt be replaced on 25 July 
2022 because the engineer attending that appointment didnt have the part required. Im 
satisfied that an engineer visit took place the following day to effect the repair. I dont think 
this was an unreasonable delay.
Mr M said the replacement part was second hand and introduced rust inside the boiler. He 
said water discoloured by rust came through the hot water taps when in use for about a 3 
week period after the repair, which caused staining to towels used by Mr M and his family.
Ive seen photographs of rust coloured stains to Mr Ms towels. I know he wants me to direct 
British Gas to reimburse him for the cost of the stained towels, but I havent seen any 
receipts showing how much the towels cost. And, even if I had, Im not persuaded theres 
enough evidence to show that a second part rusty part was used in the repair or that the 
staining happened as a result of the repair undertaken by British Gas. So, I cant fairly direct 
it to cover the cost of replacing any towels that were stained.
Its unclear why an engineer left the front casing of the boiler hanging off following the repair 
on 26 July. I think that was poor workmanship and can understand why this caused Mr M to 
have concerns regarding the safety of his boiler. Im satisfied that this issue was resolved by 
British Gas as soon as it became aware. I say this because a safety visit took place within 24 
hours, the casing was fixed to the boiler and it was deemed safe to reuse.
In recognition of the trouble and upset Mr M was caused British Gas has offered to pay £140 
in compensation. Its clear Mr M doesnt feel that fairly reflects his experience here; hes said 
hed be willing to accept £200 compensation in addition to the cost of replacing the damaged 
towels. 
Ive already explained why Im not persuaded the towels were damaged as a result of the 
repair British Gas undertook so Im not going to comment any further on that issue. Ill 
therefore turn to the matter of whether the compensation offered is fair and reasonable.
I think its important to say that when our service considers an award of compensation we 
look at the impact of a business mistake on the consumer. Ive taken into account that Mr M 
was caused unnecessary worry about the safety of his boiler after the front panel was left 
unsecured. He was also without hot water for a day pending the safety visit and had an 
additional engineer visit to refix the boiler cover and confirm the boiler was functioning 
correctly. I accept that this was all frustrating and inconvenient. 
Mr M has also explained in detail the concerns he has about how British Gas dealt with his 
complaint. I can see that our investigator has already informed Mr M that we dont have the 
power to look at how businesses deal with complaint handling  as its not a regulated 
activity under the legislation that governs our service. I cant act outside the law. So, even if I 
did think British Gas hadnt handled Mr Ms complaint well, I wouldnt be able to uphold that 
element of his concerns or make an award.Having had regard to the impact British Gas errors would have had on Mr M, Im satisfied 
that the £140 compensation award offered is fair and reasonable here. Its in line with 
awards made by this service in comparable circumstances and I havent seen enough to 
satisfy me that a higher award is warranted. 
British Gas said it sent a cheque to Mr M for £140 but that was some time ago and its 
unclear whether that cheque was cashed. So, British Gas should ensure that £140 
compensation has been paid to Mr M to resolve this complaint.
 Putting things right
To resolve this complaint Im directing British Gas to pay Mr M £140 compensation for the 
poor service he received. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require British Gas Insurance 
Limited to pay Mr M £140 compensation to resolve his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman