DRN-2609169
The complaint
Mr K complains that Debt Managers (Services) Limited is chasing him for a debt he doesnt 
recognise is his. He wants it to stop chasing him for this debt or provide documentary 
evidence it is entitled to collect it from him.
What happened
Mr K says that he was contacted by DML about this debt. And because hes previously been 
the subject of a fraud, he asked DML for a deed of assignment to prove it was entitled to 
collect the debt. He says that DML has refused to provide this information. But that its 
continued to harass him and ignored a cease and desist letter he sent.
DML told us that it had bought the debt from the previous owners, J, in September 2019. 
And that both it and J had notified Mr K. DML said that since it acquired the debt, it had 
taken account of Mr Ks health concerns and had placed the account on hold or given Mr K 
breathing space. And that it had again placed the account on hold until 8 March 2021 whilst 
the outcome of this complaint was awaited.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She felt that DML 
had provided sufficient information to show that it now owned the debt. And she didnt find 
that it had contacted Mr K in any way that would be recognised as harassment.
Mr K didnt accept this outcome. And said that he wanted to avoid the stress that was being 
caused by him being chased for this debt. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint 
an ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that debt can be a very stressful experience. And Im aware of Mr Ks health 
concerns. And I empathise with the difficulties hes facing.
I accept that if he has been the target for fraud previously, Mr K would want to be particularly 
careful before engaging with any business seeking to obtain money from him.
I hope it might be helpful if I deal separately with the different aspects of Mr Ks complaint. 
Broadly speaking, this concerns whether or not the debt is his; the information hes entitled 
to receive from DML; and the way in which DML has sought to recover the debt.
Its also important that I explain my role here. This service offers an informal, independent 
and impartial dispute resolution service. Its an alternative to a court. And we dont have the 
same powers as a court. But whilst I dont apply the law directly, I do take it into account.
As an example, I cant decide if Mr K is liable for this debt or if its enforceable. Nor can I 
instruct DML to provide him with a deed of assignment.
What Im deciding is if DML has reasonable grounds to believe that he is the debtor and - if 
so - has it acted fairly in the way its sought to recover the money owed.
The terms of Mr Ks initial complaint referred to his wish to see that DML had proof that it 
legally owned his debt and that it had been properly assigned. In other words, the debt itself 
wasnt being questioned. It was more that Mr K was requiring evidence that DML was 
entitled to collect it.
Ive seen letters dated 17 September 2019 from J and DML to Mr K. Js letter notifies him 
that his debt with J has been sold to DML. It also refers to arrangements for the repayment 
of the debt which it said existed between J and Mr K. DMLs letter confirms the assignment. 
Both letters refer to the same reference and debt amount. Ive also seen details of the 
account activity.
Mr K also mentions having completed an income and expenditure form which it seems he 
was sent following a website contact he made with DML. It seems improbable hed be 
providing such information if he didnt accept that he owed the debt.
Im satisfied that DML has reasonable grounds for believing that Mr K is the individual who 
owes this debt and that its entitled to seek payment from him.
Im aware that Mr K has made a number of specific references to what he asserts are 
matters of law. Particularly in relation to his expressed entitlement to a deed of assignment.
Im not able to say where Mr K obtained this information / advice. But Im aware from dealing 
with many complaints of a similar nature, that there is a lot of misleading and inaccurate 
information which is published on such as the internet and social media platforms.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has set out rules which it expects businesses which 
are owed debts to follow. This includes information which a business should provide to a 
customer. 
In terms of notifying a customer that a debt has been assigned the relevant rule is (my 
underlining):
CONC 6.5.2
(1) Where rights of a lender under a regulated credit agreement are assigned to a firm, that 
firm must arrange for notice of the assignment to be given to the customer: 
(a) as soon as reasonably possible;
As the above indicates the FCA requires only that a notice  not the deed  of assignment is 
required.
A High Court case in 2019 (details of which Ive provided separately to Mr K) also held that 
where the two parties to the assignment (being the existing owner and the new owner) 
consider the debt to have been validly transferred  and notify the debtor - that is sufficient 
for the assignment to be considered valid. And for the new owner to acquire the rights to 
collect the debt.
I find that the information provided by DML to Mr K is sufficient to show that it has 
reasonable grounds on which to seek to collect the relevant debt from him.In terms of the manner in which a debt is collected, again there are rules which the FCA sets 
out and businesses are required to follow. In summary, a business is required to treat those 
in financial difficulties fairly and with forbearance and due consideration. And it must take 
additional safeguards if its aware of a customers vulnerability.
There is no fixed means by which this should be achieved. Every situation is different. But it 
wouldnt be unusual for a business to consider putting payments on hold for a period; 
deferring or cancelling interest; agreeing a payment arrangement. This is by no means a 
complete list of options that might be tried.
But before being able to assess the best means to assist the customer the business would 
be expected to obtain details of income and outgoings. This is to ensure that any 
arrangements are affordable and sustainable for the customer.
Ive seen that DML has responded to Mr Ks queries and his health concerns. This has 
meant the account had been on hold or a breathing space offered for most of the past twelve 
months. And during this time Mr K hasnt made any payments. Its also offered to deal with a 
relative of Mr K who made contact on his behalf  provided he gives consent for this.
We wouldnt expect a business to stop contacting him just because Mr K has sent what he 
describes as a cease and desist letter. Ive not been provided with any information which 
shows this letter had any legal force requiring DML to act upon it.
I dont find that DML has done anything wrong in seeking to maintain contact with Mr K. And 
nothing Ive seen in such contact either in tone or frequency would lead me to conclude 
there had been any harassment.
Im aware from some of his comments that Mr K has also sought advice from a voluntary 
advice agency. It may be that this agency is able to assist Mr K with negotiating an 
affordable and sustainable means of repayment. If such a payment arrangement can be 
agreed and maintained, it would substantially reduce the need for further contact over the 
debt. And hopefully this might alleviate some of the distress and concern Mr K is currently 
experiencing.
In summary, I find that DML has reasonable grounds for believing Mr K is the person liable 
for this debt. And its shown forbearance and due consideration in seeking to recover the 
sum owed.
I empathise with Mr K in the difficult situation which he is experiencing. But here, it wouldnt 
be fair and reasonable to find that DML had done anything wrong. Accordingly, Im not 
upholding this complaint.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman