DRN-3135923
The complaint
Mr L complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim under 
his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr L has a home insurance policy underwritten by Lloyds, which covers his contents and 
buildings. Mr L is covered for accidental damage.
He made a claim after his garden wall collapsed. He says this was caused by a younger 
relative who was playing football in the garden and accidentally fell into the wall.
Lloyds commissioned a surveyor to inspect the damage. Their report said the wall had 
collapsed due to gradual deterioration, caused at least in part by poor design. On that basis, 
Lloyds declined the claim.
Mr L complained to Lloyds. And when they maintained their decision on the claim was 
correct, he brought his complaint to us. Our investigator looked into it and didnt think Lloyds 
had done anything wrong.
Mr L disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ls policy covers accidental damage to his property. But it includes exceptions. Its very 
clearly and explicitly stated in the policy booklet that damage is not covered if it arises from 
gradually operating causes and/or from faulty design or workmanship.
Those exceptions are not unusual, theyre very clearly set out in the policy and theres 
nothing inherently unfair or unreasonable about them. Insurance policies generally cover 
unfortunate accidents and unforeseen events. They dont generally cover deterioration due 
to age or lack of maintenance. And they dont generally cover badly designed / constructed 
buildings.
The surveyor appointed by Lloyds noted that Mr Ls wall was around two metres tall and is 
single skin (the thickness is one layer of bricks, laid lengthwise along the length of the wall), 
with piers four metres apart. 
The surveyor also noted that the damp proof course is close to the concrete at the foot of the 
wall, leaving the wall exposed to prolonged dampness after rainfall. And they noted that the 
wall was affected by vegetation from the currently unoccupied site beyond.
Lloyds took that into account when they considered Mr Ls claim. And they also ensured 
Mr L was able to make representations and provide evidence to them.
I cant say Lloyds acted in any way unfairly or unreasonably in the way they considered 
Mr Ls claim or in their decision to decline it.
Put simply, a well built and well maintained wall would not collapse when a person falls into 
it. The wall fell over primarily because it was either badly built or badly maintained - or both.
Mr Ls relative falling into the wall may have been the trigger for the collapse  the straw that 
broke the camels back, if you like. But that accident only served to highlight a pre-existing 
and very serious underlying problem with the wall.
Mr L says the construction was approved by his local authority, although hes not provided 
any evidence of that. And he says the wall on the other side of the garden, built in the same 
way, is still standing.
Government guidance suggests single skin walls, in Mr Ls area, should be less than one 
and a half metres high. The photographs weve been provided with appear to show that the 
wall has effectively hinged over at the point of the damp proof course.
If the other wall in Mr Ls garden was in fact constructed in the same way, I would advise him 
to have a surveyor or qualified builder look at it to ensure that its safe, particularly if the site 
on that side of Mr Ls property is occupied.
Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint. It wasnt unreasonable for Lloyds to conclude that the 
damage to the wall was the result of poor design / construction and/or gradual deterioration 
and was not caused by any insured peril.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman