DRN-3976386
The complaint
Mr N complains Capital One (Europe) plc refused his requests to close his credit card 
accounts after he told them he had a gambling addiction.
What happened
Mr N has two credit cards with Capital One. Hes complained because theyve refused to 
close his accounts despite him telling them, on multiple occasions, that he has a gambling 
addiction.
Capital One investigated Mr Ns concerns but didnt uphold his complaint. While they 
understood why Mr N wanted to close his accounts, they explained that wasnt possible 
while he had outstanding balances. They said his balances would need to be reduced to 
zero before they could process his closure requests, and that he could speak with their 
specialist collections team to discuss repayment options.
Regarding Mr Ns gambling addiction, Capital One also explained that his cards cash limits 
could be reduced to £1 which would affect withdrawals from ATMs, over the counter 
withdrawals, money transfers and gambling transactions. But they couldnt guarantee cash 
transactions would no longer be debited due to the way certain merchants process and 
classify transactions. They also provided the details of organisations who might be able to 
help with his gambling. Mr N remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our Service. 
Our Investigator didnt think Mr Ns complaint should be upheld. He explained Mr N didnt tell 
Capital One about his gambling addiction until September 2021 and was satisfied they 
offered him sufficient support once they were aware.
Mr N disagreed with our Investigator, so his complaint was passed to me for a decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 16 February 2023. In this I explained I was minded to 
uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Mr N and Capital One were both given an opportunity to respond to my provisional decision, 
and both accepted it. Therefore, Ill explain my decision below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Im upholding Mr Ns complaint for the reasons below.
Card ending 7920
Mr N is unhappy Capital One refused his requests to close his account after telling them 
about his gambling addiction.
Ive reviewed relevant contact notes and seen that Mr N first asked Capital One to close his 
account in April 2021. However, he said this was because he was experiencing financial 
difficulties; but didnt need any support. Capital One explained hed need to clear his balance 
before his account could be closed. But when Mr N explained he couldnt afford to do that, 
they offered to give him breathing space. This meant his card couldnt be used, and interest 
and charges wouldnt be applied to his account. Given what Mr N had told them at that time, 
Im satisfied Capital One offered the right thing for his circumstances.
Mr N requested and removed the breathing space from his account, periodically from 
April 2021 onwards. When doing so he either explained he was in financial difficulties, or that 
his financial circumstances had improved. And from the information provided, the earliest 
Ive seen Mr N mentioned his gambling addiction, was in mid-September 2021.
When a customer tells a business, like Capital One, that theyre struggling with addiction, Id 
expect them to explain what support is available. Having reviewed the correspondence from 
Capital One, I dont think they offered the level of support Id expect. I appreciate there were 
occasions when Mr N explained he was getting support from debt management companies. 
But given he would change his mind about closing his account, and wanting access to it, 
I consider Capital One ought to have known he needed more support. They should have 
taken the time to identify what they could do to help; and signposted him to organisations 
who could help him too. This didnt really happen until they issued their final response in 
February 2022.
Mr N wants Capital One to close his account. However, theyre unable to do so because he 
still has an outstanding balance. The terms and conditions of Mr Ns credit card says an 
account can only be closed once any balance is cleared, so I dont consider Capital One has 
treated him unfairly by keeping his account open.
While I dont consider Mr Ns account can be closed just yet, I do think there is more that can 
be done to help him. The terms of Mr Ns account allow Capital One to place restrictions on 
its use. Im aware that his cash limit can be reduced to £1. But this limit can be removed if 
Mr N requests for that to happen, and if Capital One are satisfied this isnt so the card can be 
used for gambling. Capital One has told us it would be unlikely for them to remove a cash 
limit given what Mr Ns told them about his gambling. However, Im not persuaded this would 
go far enough to resolve things for Mr N. Thats because it might not prevent some gambling 
transactions being debited if theyre processed and classified in a particular way by some 
merchants.
I consider Mr N has made it clear he no longer wants access to the credit facility provided by 
this card. Hes also consistently explained how other creditors have helped him by closing 
his accounts and allowing him to repay what he owes. And from what Ive seen theres more 
Capital One can do to support Mr N. 
The terms of Mr Ns account say Capital One As well as closing your account, we can also 
suspend, restrict or cancel use of your account. In April 2021, Capital One mistakenly 
placed a restriction block on Mr Ns account. This meant he was unable to use his card, 
wouldnt be issued replacement cards, and his account would close once his balance 
cleared. I consider this restriction block is the most pragmatic and appropriate way of 
resolving Mr Ns complaint. While his account will still be open, he would have no access to 
the credit facility, and it will close as soon as his balance is repaid. This would mean Mr N 
doesnt need to be concerned about potentially being able to use his card for gambling 
transactions in the future. And given this block was in place before, I see no reason why 
Capital One cant apply it again  particularly given they previously applied it due to their 
understanding of Mr Ns circumstances in April 2021.Had Capital One asked more questions when Mr N mentioned his gambling addiction, Im 
persuaded they could have better identified what support would be the most appropriate for 
his needs. In turn, I consider this would have helped reduce the level of stress and worry 
Mr N has encountered when trying to take pro-active steps in managing his addiction and 
finances. 
Mr N has been open with us about the impact Capital Ones actions have had on his mental 
health. And given the above, its not unreasonable that he feels their actions have 
contributed to an already difficult situation. Because of this, I consider Capital One should 
also pay Mr N £200 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience hes experienced due to 
their mistake.
Ive noted Mr N has asked for his balance to be written-off. While I empathise with his 
situation, I dont consider that would be fair or appropriate in the circumstances. Our Service 
is impartial, so we must be fair to both parties to a complaint. This means I cant ignore the 
fact Mr N opened his credit card account knowing he was obligated to repay any borrowing. 
Additionally, hes had the benefit of the funds he owed, and when reviewing his statements, 
Ive seen his card was mainly used for purchases that dont appear to be related to 
gambling. Because of this, I consider Mr N is still required to repay what he owes. But as 
mentioned above, Capital One should put a restriction block in place so that he cannot do 
further spending with this account.
Card ending 4056
Mr Ns second credit card account was opened at the end of May 2021. This means 
Capital One accepted his application at a time they ought to have been aware Mr N was 
experiencing financial difficulties, and theyd agreed to give him breathing space on his other 
card. 
Our Service has the power to consider issues that may fall outside the complaint points 
weve been asked to investigate. In this case, Mr N asked us to determine whether 
Capital One should have closed his account when he asked them to. However, given this 
credit card was opened after hed told Capital One about his financial difficulties, I felt it 
necessary to investigate whether the lending decision for this account was appropriate.
After raising the above point with Capital One, they agreed they shouldnt have accepted 
Mr Ns application for this second card. To put things right, theyve offered to:
Refund all interest and charges applied to account ending 4056.
Refund any remaining balance following the above refund to bring the balance to £0.
Close this account.
Remove any adverse information (regarding this account) from Mr Ns credit file.
I agree Mr N shouldnt have been allowed to open this credit card, and its only fair 
Capital One does something to put things right. Having considered what theyve offered, Im 
satisfied its a fair and reasonable settlement to resolve this aspect of Mr Ns complaint. 
I should add that we wouldnt ordinarily expect a business to write-off any remaining balance 
to rectify an irresponsible lending decision. Thats because the consumer has benefited from 
the borrowed funds. So, Capital Ones offer goes above and beyond what I may have asked 
them to do. However, I still consider clearing the balance so that this account can be closed 
is fair. Thats because it acknowledges the worry and distress Mr N has experienced when 
trying to manage his finances. It also means, he wont need to worry about this account, or 
the potential impact it may have on his credit file in the future.Given the above, Im upholding Mr Ns complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding Mr Ns complaint about Capital One (Europe) plc.
To put things right, Capital One (Europe) plc should:
For account ending 7920
Place a restriction block on Mr Ns card that prevents him from using it until hes 
cleared the outstanding balance.
Close this account once the balance is cleared.
Pay Mr N £200 in recognition of the distress he experienced as a result of them not 
asking enough questions to ensure the correct support was put in place. This award 
should be paid directly to Mr N.
For account ending 4056
Refund all interest and charges applied to the account.
Following the above refund, Capital One should refund any remaining balance to 
bring the account to £0.
Close this account.
Remove any adverse information (regarding this account) from Mr Ns credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman