DRN-2329252
The complaint
Miss F complains that Bank of Scotland plc didnt complete the transfer of an ISA in line with 
her instructions and didnt tell her that the transfer hadnt been completed. Bank of Scotland 
trades in this case under its Halifax brand.
What happened
Miss F held an ISA with another bank, which Ill call B. In April 2015 she applied to open two 
Halifax ISAs, a fixed rate account with £896 and an instant cash ISA with £2,000. Both were 
to be funded by transfers from the money that Miss F had in her account with B.
The cash ISA was opened successfully. The fixed rate ISA transfer wasnt completed, 
however. Miss F says that she didnt realise there had been any problem until it came to light 
during a mortgage review in 2019.
Halifax looked into what had happened and concluded that the transfer hadnt been 
completed because B held incorrect address details and then because account information 
was missing. It hadnt specifically told Miss F that the account hadnt been opened, but 
neither had it told her that it had been.
Miss F complained to this service. She thought Halifax should have told her that the transfer 
had been abandoned and said that she had lost out as a result. One of our investigators 
considered what had happened and concluded that Halifax hadnt provided the customer 
service it should have done; she recommended that Halifax pay Miss F £100 in recognition 
of that. Halifax didnt accept the investigators findings and asked that an ombudsman review 
the case. 
I did that and, because I thought I was likely to reach a different conclusion from the 
investigator, issued a provisional decision. In summary, I said:
Halifax had never told Miss F that her fixed rate account had been opened. It had 
however written to her on 20 and 30 April 2015 to tell her that it hadnt been opened 
successfully. This was the last communication shed had from Halifax about the 
account. 
Miss F said she hadnt checked her Halifax accounts, and I could see why she might not 
have checked on a five-year fixed-rate account. I noted however that she had continued 
to receive statements from B, from which she would have seen that her balance was 
£2,000 higher than she was expecting. 
It appeared as well that Miss F had continued to draw on the account which was still 
held with B. That wouldnt have been possible if the money had been transferred to a 
fixed-rate account with Halifax. 
Miss F hadnt been able to provide any further information about the account shed 
planned to open, and so it was immediately apparent that she had lost interest  
especially as she drew on the funds.
I concluded, provisionally, that Halifax hadnt treated Miss F unfairly. I invited the parties  
but in particular Miss F  to provide any further comments or evidence by 5 November. The 
bank accepted my provisional conclusions, but Miss F hasnt responded. I have therefore 
reviewed the case again on the basis of what I do have.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason in the circumstances to depart from the view I expressed in 
my provisional decision, or from the reasons I set out. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Bank of Scotland plc to do anything more to resolve 
Miss Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2020. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman