DRN-4388170
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly declined a claim they 
made under their home insurance policy.
UKI is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As UKI has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agents, in 
my decision, any reference to UKI includes the actions of the agents. 
What happened
In February 2022, Mr and Mrs M took out a home insurance policy with UKI to cover the 
property they were purchasing. Around a month after the policy started, they discovered 
water underneath the flooring of a room at the rear of the house. So, they made a claim 
under the policy.
UKI arranged for one of their agents to carry out leak detection. However, they didnt find 
any leaks in the pipework. They believed the water was either coming from the neighbours 
property or the drains. UKI arranged for another company to check the drains, but no issues 
were found with these either. UKI advised Mr and Mrs M to contact it again if they found out 
what the cause was.
In August 2022, Mr and Mrs M complained to UKI about the handling of their claim. They 
said theyd noticed an occasional pool of water in the corner of the room after heavy rain in 
the last few months. That day theyd found a significant amount of water in the room which 
had come from their next door neighbours garden, after their neighbour washed his patio 
the day before. 
Mr and Mrs M were unhappy that UKI had refused to deal with their claim in March. They 
also felt UKI was responsible for the recent incident which had also caused damage to 
contents. They said they wanted UKI to carry out work that would prevent water from 
entering in the future and protect their home. They wanted the room to be watertight. 
UKI said its investigations in March 2022 had ruled out problems with any internal waste 
pipework or external drainage. It had also sent out one of its representatives who had 
reported that there was no insured peril, so it wouldnt be proceeding with Mr and Mrs Ms 
claim.
Mr and Mrs M remained unhappy and asked our service to consider the matter. Our 
investigator was satisfied that there was an insured peril because the policy covered flood 
damage, and flood wasnt defined in the policy. But he didnt think UKI had provided strong 
enough evidence to show that an exclusion applied, which might allow it to reject the claim. 
He recommended UKI deal with the claim and pay Mr and Mrs M £300 for distress and 
inconvenience.
UKI arranged for a survey to be carried out and this took place in June 2023. Following the 
surveyors visit and report, UKI said it still disagreed that it was liable for damage to Mr and 
Mrs Ms property. It said the cause was rainwater or water from the neighbours jet wash via 
either a lack of properly installed DPM or a breach in the structure of the building. It said the 
property clearly didnt comply with building regulations in force at the time it was built 
because it was allowing water to enter.
Our investigator considered the additional information and further points from UKI. He 
reached the conclusion that it was fair for UKI to decline Mr and Mrs Ms complaint based on 
a policy exclusion.  He didnt think UKI needed to take any further action unless Mr and    
Mrs M were able to provide further information to show that the exclusion didnt apply.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed with our investigators outcome. They commented that the most 
recent surveyors had made some findings that others hadnt. They found there was an 
internal wall at the back of the room with a void between the external room. The surveyors 
had commented that a simple solution would be to remove plasterboard and a block from the 
wall to insert a camera to see the point at which the flood was taking place.
Mr and Mrs M also made comments about the reports from the contractors theyd instructed 
to quote for flood prevention and the report from the agent that had carried out the leak 
detection. 
Mr and Mrs M said their property was built earlier than the year UKI had said, and that UKI 
had stated their home wasnt built to relevant building regulations in place at the time without 
any evidence of this being the case.
Mr and Mrs M disputed that the flooding was due to an issue with the design, installation of 
drainage and/or tanking materials. They commented that it had taken almost 20 years for 
this issue to have become apparent. They said they hadnt seen an issue when viewing the 
property and neither had the surveyor. The property was sold via legal documents which 
state from the previous owner that there was no issue with flooding or leaks prior to them 
selling the property. They also provided a link to a case study on our website that they felt 
supported their position.
I issued a provisional decision on 21 September 2023, where I explained why I intended to 
uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Internal damage to room and contents
When a policyholder makes a claim, the onus is on them to show that an insured event 
caused the damage. One of the events listed as being covered in the policys terms and 
conditions is water or oil escaping from fixed water or heating systems and includes water 
escaping from underground drains and pipes. 
After Mr and Mrs M made their claim in March 2022, UKI arranged for investigations to be 
carried out to find out if there was a leak in the pipes or an issue with the drains. As it didnt 
find any issues, it declined Mr and Mrs Ms claim on the basis that the damage wasnt 
caused by an insured peril. It indicated that it would be willing to consider their claim further if 
Mr and Mrs M were able to show what was causing it. But it said it looked like a gradual 
ingress of water, which wasnt covered. I havent seen any evidence to show that the water was coming from a fixed water or heating 
system or underground drains or pipes. So, I think it was fair for UKI to conclude that the 
claim wasnt covered under that event.
The policys terms and conditions say that buildings and contents are covered for storm or 
flood. So, Ive thought about whether or not UKI acted fairly, in not dealing with the claim 
under this peril instead.  
Flood isnt defined in the policy. Where it isnt defined, our service would usually consider 
that a flood has occurred if water had entered the property from any external source and 
built up, regardless of the source of the water. A flood doesnt necessarily have to be sudden 
or violent. It can occur when water enters (or builds up) in a property slowly and steadily, and 
this doesnt necessarily have to be caused by a natural event. 
The report from UKIs agents visit in March 2022 includes a picture of standing water in the 
relevant room. Mr and Mrs M have also provided pictures from August 2022 and March 2023 
to show water had entered the room again. So, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs M have shown that 
insured events have occurred.
If it can be shown that an insured event caused damage, the onus is on the insurer to either 
accept the claim or show, on the balance of probabilities, that an exclusion applies, or a 
condition has been breached.
UKI says Mr and Mrs Ms property doesnt meet the building standards that were in place at 
the time it was built. It says the property doesnt meet the requirement of having proper 
damp proof courses, cavity trays and closures to ensure the water drains outwards.
UKI has referred to the report from the surveyor who visited Mr and Mrs Ms property in June 
2023 which says:
 having not seen any physical water ingress or signs of flowing water in the storage room, 
when water tests were performed that the damage identified by the PH is highly likely to 
have been caused by water ingress via an as yet unknown breach of the building envelope.
The surveyor noted that a section of DPM wasnt sealed and air bricks at the property 
werent at the regulatory height from ground level, which might contribute to an ingress of 
water. However, water didnt come through when the surveyor introduced it to these areas.
Although the surveyor concluded that there was likely to be a breach of the building 
envelope, he wasnt able to tell specifically what this breach was and recommended further 
tests. 
Ive asked UKI if it could explain specifically how the building requirements in place when the 
property was built werent met. However, UKI said it had only mentioned building regulations 
to point out that the property should be watertight, after being advised it had to prove what 
the regulations were when the property was built.
It said it felt it had made the correct decision based on the information it had. Especially 
when Mr and Mrs Ms own contractor had stated the cause of the water damage was due to 
penetrating damp, efflorescent salts due to rising damp, and condensation. None of which 
would be considered a flood, would happen gradually and could only happen if there was an 
issue with the building prior to the date the policy was taken out and was not caused by any 
related peril. I appreciate UKI doesnt think that the damage was caused by a flood. But it hasnt defined 
flood in the policys terms and conditions. And Ive explained why our service would 
consider flood events to have occurred. 
Mr and Mrs M noticed the first pool of water almost a month after they took out the insurance 
policy. The agent who carried out the leak detection survey in March 2022 suggested the 
water ingress could be the result of 3 storms in succession in previous weeks. Subsequent 
ingresses of water appear to have happened quickly. For example, Mr and Mrs M say there 
was a significant amount of water the day after their neighbour washed their patio. So, I think 
its likely that the flood events Mr and Mrs M are claiming for happened after they took out 
their insurance policy with UKI. And I think UKI should have recognised this to be the case.
As Ive said, the onus is on UKI to show that an exclusion applies or a condition has been 
breached, if it wants to decline the claim. The policys terms and conditions contain an 
exclusion which says UKI doesnt cover faulty workmanship, faulty design or the use of 
faulty materials. 
UKI has suggested that the water entered due to either a lack of properly installed DPM or a 
breach in the structure of the building. However, it hasnt determined what specific issue was 
causing the water to enter. The surveyors tests didnt show what was allowing the water to 
enter the building and he said the breach of the building envelope was unknown. This 
means there is no firm evidence to show there was faulty workmanship or a faulty design or 
that faulty materials were used. So, Im not persuaded that UKI has shown that this, or any 
other exclusion, applies to the flood event of March 2022 or the subsequent flood events Mr 
and Mrs M are claiming for. 
As UKI hasnt demonstrated that an exclusion applies, it should accept Mr and Mrs Ms claim 
for internal damage to the room and for damage to contents caused by these flood events.
External damage, allowing the water to enter
Mr and Mrs M also feel that UKI should pay for repairs to their property to make it watertight. 
Theyve referred to a case study on our website where we told a business to pay the cost of 
installing a new system to replace damaged tanking in order to ensure an effective and 
lasting repair to a basement. 
However, for me to direct UKI to cover the cost of these repairs, Id need to be persuaded 
that external damage to their property (which stopped it being watertight) was caused by a 
one-off event covered by the policy. 
The company who carried out leak detection in March 2022 has noted:
Water ingress from subterranean retainer wall. Water has travelled under DPC to the rear of 
the garage and covered the concrete pad with grey waterNo tanking present on exterior 
wall.
Mr and Mrs M have provided a copy of a report from a contractor who visited their property 
in April 2022. This says:
A visual internal inspection of the basement revealed evidence of lateral moisture 
penetration and salt contamination, from natural ground waters and rain water, which is 
creating very damp conditions within the basement, resulting in a breakdown of the masonry 
which is unsightly due to no internal waterproofing productsThe report refers to the presence of penetrating damp, efflorescent salts and condensation 
in their basement. UKI says the salts can take several months to be visible, suggesting that 
this issue was evident before Mr and Mrs M took out the policy. 
UKIs representative who visited the property in August 2022 has noted that neighbours 
have similar issues with their properties and have agreed that a sump and tanking is the way 
to resolve. 
Mr and Mrs Ms contractors recommended installing cavity drainage channels and applying 
cavity membranes and have quoted for these works. Ive thought about whether it would be 
fair to tell UKI to pay for this, and I dont think it would.
Although Im satisfied there were some one-off flood events, where water entered Mr and 
Mrs Ms home, there is persuasive evidence that, aside from those events, there were also 
other water-related issues, such as rising damp. 
There is nothing to show that the external works Mr and Mrs M have been quoted for are 
linked to an insured event. And the evidence supplied by both parties appears to support 
UKIs opinion that these issues were present before the policy started. 
Whilst Im satisfied a flood event occurred in March 2022, I dont think UKI has acted unfairly 
in saying a one-off event isnt likely to have caused the described external damage to the 
property, which stopped it from being watertight. So, I dont think its done anything wrong in 
declining to settle this element of Mr and Mrs Ms claim.
Aside from the one-off events of flood, the expert evidence provided suggests there is an 
issue with Mr and Mrs Ms building which allows water to enter when theres heavy rain or 
when their neighbour uses their pressure washer. However, I dont think it would be fair to 
tell UKI to cover the cost of works to prevent this from continuing to happen, as Im not 
persuaded that external damage was caused by a one-off event covered by the terms of the 
policy.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I do think it would be fair for UKI to settle Mr and Mrs Ms 
claim for internal damage and contents damaged by the specific flood events mentioned 
above. This is because they have shown that flood events occurred and UKI hasnt shown 
that an exclusion applies which allows it to fairly decline their claim.
I set out what I intended to direct UKI to do to put things right. And I gave both parties the 
opportunity to send me any further information or comments they wanted me to consider 
before I issued my final decision.
Responses
UKI said it had nothing further to add and would await my final decision.
Mr and Mrs M said they were thankful that Id agreed there was a flood event at their 
property that UKI needed to cover under their insurance policy but there were a number of 
issues they wanted to raise. 
Mr and Mrs M said they didnt believe there was a defect with the property, as it would have 
been going on for over 20 years and they would have noticed it during their viewings prior to 
purchasing it. 
When they found the standing water, they had no idea what had caused it or where it had 
come from. UKI told them it would remove damaged material from the room and dry it out, but this didnt happen. Mr and Mrs M had to hire a skip and remove the waste themselves at 
their own cost and high levels of ammonia in the water made them sick.
Mr and Mrs M commented that Id referred to it being a one-off flood event in March 2022. 
However, since the massive flood event in August 2022 there have been ongoing flood 
events that occur with heavy rainfall leading to build-up of water in the room in question. 
They provided a photograph of the room after recent heavy rain. They said if UKI had upheld 
the claim in March 2022, this would not be happening.
Mr and Mrs M said they didnt believe there was rising damp or a continuous flooding issue 
prior to them taking out the policy. They disputed the findings of their own contractor who 
visited in April 2022 who suggested rising damp on a visual inspection. Mr and Mrs M said 
there were no signs of this during their visits or the survey that was carried out prior to them 
taking out the policy. They said the findings of the surveyor who visited in June 2023 
suggested marks on the walls were due to a continuous evaporation of flood waters in the 
room and there was no evidence of rising damp.
Mr and Mrs M commented that the surveyor who visited in June 2023 had discovered that 
the back wall of the room in question isnt an external wall. The surveyor had suggested 
further investigations, but UKI had refused, so they still didnt know exactly where the water 
was getting in. They suggested that there was something wrong with the waterproofing on 
the back wall of the property, which Mr and Mrs M believe was damaged in the initial flood of 
March 2022.
Mr and Mrs M said my findings suggested that a flood event could have damaged the 
envelope of the building providing protection from further flooding. They queried why the 
insurer wouldnt be responsible for repairs to ensure that further flood events do not occur if 
its required to cover internal damage from flooding. They referred to the same case study 
theyd commented on previously.
Mr and Mrs M said the decision to replace the flooring and cover other damage to the room 
at this stage, with flooding still occurring, would not be appropriate. They also commented 
about the length of time that had passed since their initial claim and how this had affected 
the room. They said this would be costly for them to repair and they couldnt afford to do so. 
They were concerned that further damage to the propertys structure wouldnt be covered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr and Mrs M are disappointed that I didnt reach the conclusion that UKI are 
responsible for covering the cost of repairing external damage to their property. 
Ive considered everything theyve told our service, but Ive kept my findings to what I believe 
to be the crux of their complaint. Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs M that Ive read and 
considered everything theyve sent in, but if I havent mentioned a particular point or piece of 
evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need 
to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection 
of the informal nature of our service.
As I explained in my provisional decision, when a policyholder makes a claim, the onus is on 
them to show that an insured event caused the damage. If they can show this, then the onus 
moves to the insurer to show that an exclusion applies or a condition has been breached, if it 
wants to decline the claim.Mr and Mrs M have shown that there were flood events in their property that caused internal 
damage. As UKI hasnt been able to say how the water is entering their property, it hasnt 
shown that an exclusion applies which would allow it to fairly decline the claim. This is why I 
concluded that it should settle Mr and Mrs Ms claim for internal damage and damage to 
contents.
Mr and Mrs M have also said that they dont know how the water is entering their property. 
Its clear that the property isnt watertight, as water seems to enter whenever there is heavy 
rain, or their neighbour uses their pressure washer. Mr and Mrs M have suggested that there 
might be something wrong with the waterproofing on the back wall of the property and this 
might have been damaged in the flood event of March 2022. However, I havent seen any 
evidence to show this. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs M dont accept that there was likely to have been water-related 
issues with their property prior to them purchasing it and taking out the policy. However, Ive 
kept in mind that the onus is on the policyholder to show damage was caused by an event 
covered by the policy. And I havent seen evidence to persuade me that the external 
damage was caused by a one-off flood event or any other event thats covered. So, I cant 
say its unreasonable for UKI to decline this part of their claim. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs M are concerned about further damage to their property if the 
external damage isnt repaired. I agree it wouldnt be appropriate to go ahead with internal 
repairs while the building is still allowing water to enter. However, as Im not persuaded that 
UKI is responsible for the external damage, it will be up to Mr and Mrs M to ensure that 
effective repairs are carried out to prevent further damage occurring. 
It will be up to UKI to decide how to settle Mr and Mrs Ms claim for internal damage and 
contents, in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. This might be in the form of a 
cash settlement. If it decides to carry out the repairs itself, then it would make sense for 
these to be carried out after the external work has been completed.
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs M. However, I cant tell UKI to cover 
the cost of repairs to external damage when there isnt evidence to show that this was 
caused by an event covered by the policy. So, whilst I empathise with them, Im not 
persuaded to change the conclusions Ive reached.
 
Putting things right
UKI should:
Accept and settle Mr and Mrs Ms claim for internal damage and contents damaged 
by the flood events, in line with the policys terms and conditions.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and direct U K Insurance 
Limited to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Anne MuscroftOmbudsman