DRN-4309090
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont refund her after she fell victim to a 
scam.
What happened
Mrs S is represented in this case but for ease Ill refer to Mrs S throughout this decision.
The facts of this case are well known to both parties, so I dont propose to go into them in 
any detail. Briefly, Mrs S says she was introduced to an investment opportunity with a 
company Ill call M by her husband. There was another company involved  P  that Mrs S 
describes as a broker. 
A friend of Mrs Ss husband, who had been investing for around a year and had withdrawn 
funds, told him about the opportunity. Mrs Ss husband received monthly reports and emails 
showing the returns he was making, which Mrs S says she saw. Mrs S believed she was 
investing on the basis her money would be used to purchase telecoms equipment for sale at 
a profit. 
Mrs S says that before investing she completed some research, including checking both M 
and P at Companies House, looking at Ms website and reviews, and noted that M sold 
products on the site of a large online retailer. In June 2020 Mrs S invested £2,000 in M and 
then made a further payment of £1,000 on 14 September 2020. She didnt know at the time, 
but she was actually involved in a pyramid scheme. 
This service is aware that Mrs S wasnt the only victim of this scam. Investors like her were 
given access to an app to monitor the progress of the investment and some received 
returns. I can see that Mrs S received a return of £50 in February 2021. 
Mrs S realised she was the victim of a scam and contacted Monzo in November 2022. 
Monzo said that although it hasnt signed up to the Lending Standards Boards (LSB) 
Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) it assessed Mrs Ss claim in 
accordance with it. Having done so, it relied on an exception to reimbursement in the code, 
saying Mrs S didnt have a reasonable basis for believing the investment opportunity was 
genuine. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint recommended that Monzo refund Mrs Ss 
outstanding loss (after taking into account the fact she received £983.34 from the bank that 
received her funds and £50 profit) plus interest. He said third party information received by 
this service confirmed this was a scam. And under the CRM Code Mrs S had a reasonable 
basis for believing it was a genuine investment opportunity for a host of reasons including 
the fact Mrs S was introduced to it by her husband whod received returns (as had the 
person whod referred her husband), the company was registered with Companies House, 
there were many positive reviews and know your customer procedures were followed.  
Mrs S accepted the investigators findings, but Monzo didnt and asked for a final decision, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to consider. In summary, Monzo said that this was 
a pyramid scheme which meant it was unable to reimburse under the CRM Code and that it 
is not aware of the outcome of the police investigation in this case. 
I contacted Monzo informally in August 2022 to explain why I thought it should reimburse 
Mrs S in full. I said that the LSB has confirmed that pyramid schemes are included in the 
type of investment scam the CRM applies to. I also explained why I thought Mrs S had a 
reasonable basis for believing she was investing in a genuine scheme. Monzo didnt reply so 
Im issuing this decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
Ive considered whether Monzo should reimburse some or all of the money Mrs S lost in line 
with the provisions of the CRM Code and whether it ought to have done more to protect Mrs 
S from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited number of 
circumstances. Monzo is relying on the following exception to reimbursement:
- The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate.
It is for Monzo to establish that it can rely on this exception to reimbursement, and I dont 
think it has. Ill explain why.
- Mrs S was referred to the scheme by a trusted person and had received returns. Mrs 
S had also seen the updates her husband received showing the returns he was 
making. This would have been very convincing to Mrs S.
- The family member who referred Mrs Ss husband to M also received returns from M, 
making the investment seem legitimate.
- Mrs S says she had a contract each month, but it was on the app that she can no 
longer access.
- Mrs S was required to provide personal information as would be expected if dealing 
with a genuine company. 
- The app Mrs S had access to looked professional.
- Both M and P are registered companies and Mrs S checked these details before 
investing.
- There were a large number of positive reviews about M at the time and M sold 
products on the site of a large online retailer, helping to persuade Mrs S that M was 
legitimate.
Monzo has said that Mrs S didnt do enough to check Ms authenticity but hasnt discussed 
what more it felt Mrs S could have done. It has also said the deal offered was too good to be 
true. Mrs S has explained that the rate of return was around 10% a month but this figure 
could go up or down depending on performance and the market. While this rate is high, it 
sounds like it wasnt guaranteed and Im mindful that Mrs S had seen that others were 
receiving returns. In the circumstances, I can understand why this would have allayed any 
concerns she might have had. Overall, Monzo hasnt demonstrated that it can fairly rely on an exception to reimbursement 
under the CRM Code so should refund Mrs Ss outstanding loss plus interest as set out 
below.  
My final decision
For the reasons stated, I require Monzo Bank Ltd to:
- Reimburse Mrs S £1,966.66.
- Pay interest on the above amount at the rate of 8% simple from the date of its 
decision not to reimburse to the date of settlement. 
If Monzo Bank Ltd considers it is required by HM Revenue and Customs to take income tax 
from the 8% simple interest award, it should tell Mrs S how much it has taken off. It should 
also give Mrs S a certificate showing this if asked for one, so she can reclaim tax from HM 
Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman