DRN-3569333
The complaint
Miss A complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited, trading as Audi Finance 
(VWFS), didnt do enough to help her when she was experiencing financial difficulties. She 
says she offered to try to clear the arrears, but that VWFS placed the account in default and 
terminated the agreement.
What happened
In August 2020, Miss A obtained a car through a hire purchase agreement with VWFS.
Miss A says she wasnt able to make the monthly payments for a short period of time from 
May 2021. She says she had a more pressing debt that she had to prioritise. She says she 
completed VWFSs forms more than once but that it didnt respond. She says she asked it to 
only communicate with her by email, because she couldnt answer the phone while she was 
working, but that it kept calling her. She says she made a payment in September 2021 and 
that she offered to repay the arrears, but that VWFS terminated the agreement.
VWFS said it tried to contact Miss A on numerous occasions following the missed payments 
from May to September 2021, but that she didnt respond. It sent her a notice of default on 
7 August 2021. It says it continued to try to contact her but, receiving no response, it decided 
to terminate the agreement on 28 October 2021 and instructed its agents to collect the car. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He couldnt see that 
Miss A had responded to VWFS or told it about her circumstances, with the exception of one 
email she sent in August 2021. He didnt think VWFS had acted unfairly in terminating the 
agreement.
Miss A didnt agree. She said, in summary, that:
Shes provided proof that she sent emails to VWFS.
She didnt receive its letters as she was temporarily living at a different address.
She submitted three or four financial difficulty forms to VWFS, but she only received one 
acknowledgement. She told VWFS that she couldnt make the monthly payments and 
needed its support, but it didnt respond.
She told VWFS to only contact her by email. She didnt know it was trying to contact her 
by phone.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When she responded to our investigators view of her complaint, Miss A also provided some 
additional information about her personal circumstances. I wont repeat what she said here, 
for confidentiality reasons, but I want to reassure her that Ive understood what shes told us 
and taken it into consideration in reaching my decision.
Miss A signed a hire purchase agreement in July 2020 and the first monthly payment was 
due in September. The direct debit was returned but, on 12 October, Miss A made a lump 
sum payment of £3,532.80. Im satisfied, from what both parties have told us, that Miss As 
intention was for this lump sum to cover the September payment plus the next seven 
months payments, rather than using it to reduce the future monthly payments or reduce the 
contract term.
I can see a further phone call took place in January 2021. Miss A called to check when the 
monthly repayments would re-start, because shed cancelled the direct debit arrangement 
following the earlier lump sum payment. At this point, Miss A had effectively still over-paid by 
£1,324.80 and VWFS said that, rather than using this to meet the next three months 
payments, it could re-start her monthly payments but at the lower rate of £405.68. Im 
satisfied from what Miss A told us  and the fact that she reinstated the monthly direct debit - 
that she understood and agreed this.
Payments were successfully made by direct debit in February, March, and April 2021. But 
the May direct debit was returned, and no payments were made from May to September 
2021.
VWFS sent three arrears letters to Miss A in June and July. She says she didnt receive 
these because she was temporarily living elsewhere. But I dont find that she told VWFS 
about her temporary change of address, or her financial circumstances. She says she 
completed and submitted VWFSs financial difficulty forms three or four times. But Ive not 
seen evidence that she did this and theres no record of VWFS receiving any details of her 
income and expenditure. I can see that she did ask for a payment deferral in July 2021. But 
VWFS didnt agree to a deferral because the account was in arrears. I dont find this was 
unreasonable in the circumstances  a deferral would have increased the arrears even more 
and potentially put Ms A in a worse financial position. And Im satisfied that VWFS asked 
Miss A to contact it to work out how it could best support her  for example by giving her up 
to 60 days breathing space and agreeing an affordable repayment plan. In making this offer, 
I think it treated her fairly.
Although Miss A did make a payment in September 2021, the account remained in arrears 
and Ive not seen evidence that Miss A contacted VWFS to discuss the arrears or her 
financial circumstances. Whilst Im mindful she was experiencing a difficult time, I dont find 
she made VWFS aware of this. So I dont think it was wrong for it to pursue its collections 
process, including sending her a default notice in August 2021 and terminating the account 
in October 2021 to prevent the arrears increasing any further.
Im satisfied that, from May 2021, VWFS made reasonable attempts to contact Miss A to 
discuss her circumstances and the arrears on the account. And that it contacted her by post, 
phone, email, and text. I cant see that she engaged with VWFS until after it told her the 
agreement had been terminated.
Miss A couldnt take a call from VWFS because she was working. But I dont find she told 
VWFS this until November 2021, after the agreement had been terminated. And that she did 
still ask VWFS to call her on an agreed date, because she did want to speak to somebody to 
resolve things.
Miss A says she offered to repay the arrears. But she only offered to do this after the 
agreement had been terminated.
I am sorry for the position in which Miss A finds herself. But I dont find VWFS has acted 
unreasonably in the circumstances.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman