DRN-3312464
The complaint
T, a company, conplains about a claim it made on the legal expenses section of an Office & 
Surgeries policy, which was declined by DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited.
What happened
Ts complaint concerns a claim it made on its legal expenses insurance policy for help 
defending a criminal investigation against it by Trading Standards in relation money 
laundering from the sale of counterfeit items. 
DAS declined that claim. It said the policy only provides cover when the date of occurrence 
of the insured incident happens during the period of insurance. DAS said the date of 
occurrence was before cover was in place. T doesnt agree. It says, DAS has taken the 
wrong date into account and that the date of occurrence is after cover was in place. 
Our investigator considered Ts complaint and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. T doesnt 
agree so the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
The starting point is the policy terms. They provide cover if the date of occurrence of the 
insured incident happens during the period of insurance. The policy goes on to say the date 
of occurrence is when the insured person commenced or is alleged to have commenced to 
violate the criminal law in question.
As a general rule, you take out insurance cover for something which may or may not happen 
in the future. So, in my judgment, it isnt unfair in principle for a legal expenses insurer to 
exclude claims for things which started to happen before cover began. There are special 
policies available which are designed to cover such disputes, but this isnt one of them.
Ts policy with DAS started in 2019. DAS has said that Trading Standards investigation into 
T started in 2014, which predated cover by at least 5 years. And though T, through its 
representatives, has made submissions about the date of occurrence being in May 2021, 
when Mr R, a Director of T, was arrested and interviewed under caution, after cover was in 
place, Im not persuaded that this represents the date of occurence. Thats because Ive 
seen clear references to criminal allegations against T from 2014 until 2020 in Trading 
Standards financial investigators witness statement.
 
T feels the references to those allegations dont, in themselves, amount to criminal activity. 
But I dont think that matters. The issue here is whether the policyholder commenced or is 
alleged (my emphasis) to have commenced to violate the criminal law in question. So it 
makes no difference whether the allegations were proven. It was enough for there to have 
been allegations of T- or in this case Mr R on behalf of T, violating the criminal law in 
question for DAS to fairly decline the claim. And having considered everything, Im satisfied 
that the problems T experienced with Trading Standards have been ongoing for some 
significant time- and certainly before the insurance cover was in place. 
I also think that DAS acted reasonably when they told Ts representative that If legal 
proceedings are issued and the date the customer first allegedly broke the law is within the 
cover period then we will be able to assist and also to consider your appointment but will 
require full details of the claim to enable us to confirm all policy criteria have been met.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ts complaint against DAS Legal Expenses 
Insurance Company Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman