DRN-2289789
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance PLC (RSA) wont cover the cost of 
replacement parts under his home emergency policy. 
What happened
In October 2019, Mr W contacted RSA informing them that it hadnt carried out a service of 
his boiler. In November 2019, the boiler broke down, which was followed by a period of 
further breakdowns. RSA sent engineers to try and fix the boiler. 
In December 2019, Mr W was advised to replace a pump in the boiler and an engineer 
attended and found that there was sludge and debris in the system. A power flush was 
recommended but this wasnt covered by the policy. So, Mr W instructed another engineer, 
independent of RSA, to power flush the system. He found that the same part needed 
changing and Mr W paid £310 for it to be replaced. 
Mr W asked RSA to cover that cost. RSA refused this request, as it said that the policy didnt 
cover damage caused by sludge. Mr W also told RSA that the radiator valves were leaking 
and he believed it ought to cover the cost of the repair as he was covered. But RSA didnt 
respond. So he complained to RSA on the basis that the annual services that had been 
carried out over the years, had not been done correctly as a filter hadnt been cleaned. 
RSA explained in its final response letter that its engineers had recorded in the job sheets 
that the filter had been cleaned each time it had provided a service. So the claim for the cost 
of the pump had been correctly declined. Mr W then asked about the leaking valves which 
hadnt been addressed. RSA said that the leaking valves were caused by the sludge and so 
this also wasnt covered. So it didnt change its mind and said that there was no guarantee 
that a filter would prevent sludge and the decision to decline the claim had been correct. Mr 
W was unhappy with this and referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that RSA could rely on the terms and 
conditions of the policy, in that damage caused to a boiler or related pipework due to sludge 
wasnt covered. She also said that the evidence showed that the filters had been cleaned 
every time, during the annual services. So, there was nothing further she could reasonably 
ask RSA to do.
Mr W didnt agree with our investigator and maintained that the annual services hadnt been 
carried out properly and RSA ought to refund his costs. Mr W asked for a decision from an 
ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I considered the complaint and I thought the complaint should be upheld in part. I issued a 
provisional decision on 17 September 2020 and asked both parties to send me anything else 
by 17 October 2020. In my provisional decision I said:
I have looked at whether RSA acted unreasonably in declining Mr Ws entire claim. In doing 
so, I have read the policy document and schedule and I have considered Mr Ws comments. 
Having reviewed the policy document, I can see that there are exclusion clauses 
that RSA relied upon to decline the claim. Those clauses relate to the exclusion of 
any damage to the boiler that was caused from sludge, scaling and debris 
amongst other things.  Both parties accept that there was sludge within the boiler, 
that affected the pump. Mr W describes having to get the boiler power flushed. 
Whilst RSA reported that their engineers took photos of the sludge (that were 
shown to Mr W) which was contained within the boiler. 
So, I am satisfied that there was sludge within the boiler that had caused damage 
to the pump. Given that sludge was present, I think it was reasonable for RSA to 
have relied upon the policy terms and conditions, when it declined this part of Mr 
Ws claim. 
I have next looked at Mr Ws claim regarding the leaking valves. RSA declined this part of 
the claim also on the basis that sludge caused damage to them and so its exclusion clause 
applied. 
But, I have looked at the final response letter and the engineers job sheets. I cant see that 
RSA expressly considered the leaking valves despite Mr W requesting this on several 
occasions.  Also, in engineers job sheets I can see no mention of an examination of the 
leaking valves. 
Mr Ws account is that the valves were leaking and the independent engineer advised that 
all the rad valves need changing. In the absence of any direct evidence from RSA that the 
leaks from the radiator valves were caused by the presence of sludge, I am not satisfied that 
it was reasonable for RSA to have declined this part of Mr Ws claim. But it would be helpful 
if RSA could provide the evidence it relied upon to conclude that it was sludge that caused 
the valves to leak. If it does so, I will then reconsider this matter further before I issue my 
final decision.
Finally, I have looked at the level of customer service provided by RSA to Mr W and in 
particular, the delay. My reading of the policy document and schedule is that the annual 
boiler service itself isnt a contract of insurance, but I can look at the overall customer service 
in respect of the handling of the insurance claim. 
With this in mind, I have reviewed the job notes. I can see that in early September 2019, 
RSA wrote to Mr W inviting him to book an annual service for his boiler. It then took around 
two months for RSA to attend for the service to take place and this was only once the boiler 
had eventually broken down and Mr W was left without heating or hot water. 
RSA acknowledged that there were further delays and those delays occurred at a period of 
time of the year when the weather was cold. I can see that there were issues again in 
securing engineers to carry out the repairs. This led to around a further three weeks when 
Mr W and his family were without heating and hot water. So, I think it is reasonable for RSA to pay compensation for the inconvenience caused by these delays in its handling of the 
insurance claim.
As to the level of compensation, when assessing this I have taken into account the length of 
the delays caused and the effect on Mr W and his family. I note that one of his family 
members was ill, which RSA was aware of. So, I think a reasonable level of compensation 
would be £300.   
Putting things right
RSAs main responses are that it had no direct evidence to confirm that the leaking valves 
failed due to sludge. But it said that as sludge was present within the system, it was likely 
that they failed due to the sludge. So it could rely on the terms and conditions of the policy to 
decline this part of the claim too.
Mr Ws main responses were that he had had his heating system overhauled by a local 
engineer who said that the boiler hadnt been serviced for years and this supported his 
opinion that RSA had not properly carried out services of his boiler. 
From the responses to my provisional decision, neither party has objected to the 
compensation awarded in respect of the delays and the effect of them on Mr W and his 
family. Nor has either party objected to the level of compensation. So in the circumstances, I 
still think a reasonable level of compensation would be £300. 
I invited RSA to provide evidence that it relied upon to conclude that the leak to the valves 
was caused by sludge. Unfortunately, this wasnt provided. Instead, it argued that because 
sludge was present within the heating system, it was more likely than not that the leaks to 
the valves were caused by sludge. But what is clear from the evidence is that engineers who 
attended and completed the job records, at no time mentioned that the valves were 
examined and more importantly, didnt mention what caused the leaking valves.
As there is an absence in the job records about any examination of the valves by the 
engineers, I am persuaded on balance by Mr Ws comments that the engineers werent as 
thorough as they ought to have been during the annual services and I am satisfied that RSA 
unfairly declined this part of the claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance PLC to:
Cover the cost of the replacement valves, in line with the policy terms. To any cash payment 
due, should be added 8% simple interest (less tax if properly deductible) from the date Mr W 
paid for the replacement valves to the date of settlement.
Pay £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman