DRN-1984582
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Aviva Insurance Limited has turned down a storm claim 
they made on their home insurance policy.
What happened
In April 2019, Mr and Mrs R noticed some hip tiles had fallen from their roof. They made 
a claim for storm damage on their home insurance policy.
Aviva turned down Mr and Mrs Rs claim. It didnt think the tile damage was consistent 
with storm damage. When Mr and Mrs R complained about Avivas decision, it appointed 
a roofing specialist to inspect Mr and Mrs Rs roof to check for whatd caused the damage.
The roofing contractors report said the damage wasnt down to storm. It had been 
caused by nail fatigue and the nails holding the hip tiles in place rusting over time. So Aviva 
didnt change its decision about the claim. It said the damage was down to wear and tear 
and had happened over time. It explained this wasnt covered by Mr and Mrs Rs policy 
terms.
Mr and Mrs R were unhappy with Avivas decision and asked us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Rs complaint should be upheld. He noted there 
had been storm winds around the time of the claim. While he thought there had likely been 
nail fatigue present at the time of the storm, he didnt think this was the main cause of 
the damage. Thats because the roofers report suggested one of the nails had snapped off 
and that tiles had lifted. So the investigator thought the storm was the main cause of the 
damage. He recommended that Aviva should pay Mr and Mrs Rs claim, together with 
compensation of £100 for the delay in accepting the claim.
Aviva disagreed with the investigator. It said that if the nails had been healthy, the 
winds wouldnt have caused them to come away. And it said the winds had simply 
highlighted an existing maintenance issue.
I issued my provisional decision on 29 May 2020. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I wasnt planning to uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. I said:
When we look at complaints about storm damage, there are three questions that we need 
to ask:
 Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim?
 Is the damage consistent with storm damage?
 Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
If the answer to any of these questions is no then the claim wont succeed.Were there storm conditions on or around the date of claim?
Aviva doesnt dispute that there were prevailing storm conditions around the time of 
the claim. Local wind speeds of 61mph and 50mph were recorded around two weeks before 
Mr and Mrs R got in touch with Aviva. So Im satisfied there were storm conditions around 
the time of the claim.
Is the damage consistent with storm damage?
Generally, Id consider the displacing and breaking of roof tiles during storm winds to 
be consistent with storm damage. So I think the answer to this question is yes.
Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
Ive thought very carefully about this question. Insurance policies are designed to cover one 
off sudden events. Theyre not contracts of maintenance and most home insurance 
policies require a policyholder to look after their homes and maintain them. So most policies 
wont cover damage which is down to wear and tear, or which happened over time.
Aviva initially turned down Mr and Mrs Rs claim on the basis of photos Mr and Mrs R 
sent in. When Mr and Mrs R disagreed with its decision, Aviva appointed an independent 
roofing specialist to investigate the likely cause of the damage. I think this was a 
reasonable response from Aviva.
Ive carefully considered the roofing contractors findings, as the only expert 
evidence available to me. Ive borne in mind the fact they had the chance to inspect the roof 
using camera equipment and based their expert conclusions on what theyd seen.
The report said: On inspection it appears that the nails that hold the hip tiles on the front 
of the property have deteriorated and some have snapped which has allowed some of the 
hip tiles to fall during recent storms. The remaining hip tiles appear to have all been lifted by 
the winds and I assume this would only be down to nail fatigue as well. This is due to the 
nails rusting over time.
I accept that the contractor made reference to some of the hip tiles having been lifted by 
the winds. But I think the contractor qualifies this by saying their assumption would be that 
this lifting would only be due to nail fatigue. This suggests to me that but for the rusted 
and fatigued nails holding the hip tiles in place, its unlikely the tiles wouldve lifted. It also 
seems to me that the contractor suggested the nails had deteriorated and snapped prior to 
the storm  which had then led to them falling from the roof during the high winds.
Currently, this is the only expert evidence I have available to me. Mr and Mrs R havent 
sent me any expert evidence to counter the independent roofing contractors findings. So I 
find this evidence persuasive. The roofing contractor didnt find the storm was the main 
cause of the damage. Based on what Ive seen, it seems the main cause of the damage was 
down to wear and tear over time.
Mr and Mrs Rs policy contains a general condition. This states: Your policy is intended 
to cover you against unforeseen events like fire or theft. It does not cover wear and tear 
or damage which happens gradually over a period of time.
Based on the roofing specialists report, I currently think it was fair for Aviva to decide Mr 
and Mrs Rs claim wasnt covered by the policy.I appreciate Mr and Mrs R have accidental damage cover on their policy. But 
accidental damage relates to damage which was caused suddenly. It isnt designed to cover 
damage which happens over time. As Ive explained above, the roofing expert found the 
damage to Mr and Mrs Rs hip tiles was caused over a period of time. So I dont currently 
think the damage is covered by the accidental damage section of their policy.
I asked both Aviva and Mr and Mrs R to send me anything further they wanted me to look at.
Aviva didnt respond by the deadline I gave.
Mr and Mrs R didnt accept my provisional decision. In summary, they said that the roof 
damage was also for roof tiles thatd been dislodged by the storm winds. The unsettled tiles 
hadnt fallen, which suggested the nails hadnt deteriorated. They also didnt feel it was 
satisfactory for me to base my decision on the contractors assumption that the nails had 
been fatigued. They said roof access to a private roof is limited, which precluded any 
opportunity to mitigate damage. They hoped for a satisfactory outcome to their claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I still think it was fair for 
Aviva to turn down Mr and Mrs Rs claim.
I accept they feel that Avivas roofing contractors report is based on assumptions and cant 
be substantiated. Ive also noted what theyve said about some of the tiles becoming 
dislodged without having fallen.
But it remains the case that the contractors report is the only piece of expert evidence I have 
which explains the most likely main cause of damage. As I explained, the roofing contractor 
felt some nails had deteriorated to the extent that theyd snapped, which had caused some 
tiles to fall. 
The contractor acknowledged that some tiles had been dislodged. But he also put this down 
to the nails rusting over time. He referred to the cause of the tiles being lifted as only being 
down to nail fatigue.
As the roofing contractor had the chance to inspect the roof and investigate the most likely 
cause of the roof damage, I think its fair and appropriate for Aviva to rely on his expert 
opinion to turn down the claim. Mr and Mrs R simply havent provided me any independent 
expert evidence to counter Avivas contractors findings to persuade me that the storm was 
the most likely cause of the damage.
I appreciate it may be difficult for policyholders to inspect their own roofs. But as I set out 
above, insurance contracts arent maintenance contracts. So I wouldnt expect Aviva to pay 
out for issues of general maintenance or wear and tear.
Overall, I dont think Aviva has done anything wrong it needs to put right.
 
 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 August 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman