DRN-3271994
The complaint
Miss S complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont refund payments from her 
account that she says she didnt make.
What happened
Miss S disputes a number of bank transfers made using mobile banking on 1 and 2 February 
2021. These total £1,515. She says that there had already been attempted fraud on her 
account on 27 January 2021, but that money had been returned to her. She had then moved 
her money to a different bank until NatWest told her it was safe.
NatWest said it wouldnt be refunding the online payments. It said Miss S had first contacted 
it on 30 January 2021 about card payments she didnt make. Only one of these payments 
was initially debited and was from a recurring payment that Miss S then recognised. Miss S 
had contacted it on 5 February 2021 to report the online transfers. NatWest said that a new 
device had been registered to her account on 28 January 2021. This has been authenticated 
with a one-time passcode sent to Miss S phone number. Miss S had told it that she hadnt 
given this code or any other to a third party or had any suspicious calls or emails. NatWest 
apologised to her for the time it had taken to look into her fraud claim.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that the evidence 
showed that the device used for the payments was one Miss S had registered with the one-
time passcode sent to her phone. And on 2 February 2021 a further one-time passcode had 
been sent to Miss S and correctly input to verify the payments as they were taking place. He 
said that NatWest had no record of Miss S calling it on 27 January 2021 to report the card 
payments  as she said. And also, the transfers on that day seemed to be from her other 
bank and not to it as she claimed.
Miss S didnt agree. She sent copies of the text messages she was able to find that she 
received from NatWest at the time of the dispute. She said that she didnt authorise these 
payments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if they werent authorised 
Miss S wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of how these payments were made?
- Did Miss S authorise the payments on the account, which might have involved allowing 
someone else to use it as NatWest says.
I want first to give the sequence of events that are relevant to Miss S dispute. Ive taken into 
account the copies of all the text messages she has now provided from NatWest. And I know 
shes done this to try and help us understand what happened.
I think that her genuine transfers to and from her other bank account on 26 and 27 January 
2021 have caused some confusion. Taking these in time order she first made a transfer into 
her NatWest account of £720 at 23:06 on 26 January 2021. On 27 January 2021 she 
transferred £600 back to the other account at 03:55. She then transferred £645 to NatWest 
from the other bank at 11:54 and moved £216 out and then back in within a 20-minute period 
up to 13:56.
Miss S explanation is that she saw pending transactions on her account at NatWest that she 
didnt recognise. And she moved money back out of NatWest to protect this. I can see 
NatWest sent her a text about some of the payments at 12:55 on 27 January 2021 and she 
answered that she didnt recognise them. She says she spoke to NatWest and it told her that 
the payments hadnt debited and if they were to, she could make a claim of fraud. She says 
that this is why the money was put back as she felt it was safe.
On 30 January 2021 Ive seen that NatWest texted Miss S and asked her to call it. She did 
so and Ive listened to the call. During that call she was asked to provide a four-digit security 
number that was texted to her. And I can see that number in her text messages and hear her 
give that number verbally to NatWest. During the call she was asked about card payments 
on the account. She highlighted the ones she didnt recognise. My understanding is that all 
but one of these payments had been blocked when they were requested originally as 
NatWest had suspected they were fraudulent. The only one at the time Miss C didnt 
recognise and was debited was a recurring payment to a business shed used before. 
NatWest contacted that business and it agreed to refund her with the £15 debited. I can see 
that this was credited back and is shown on her statement on 1 March 2021.
Ive seen evidence that the other disputed payments were made after a device had been 
registered on 28 January 2021. That registration required a one-time passcode. And I can 
again see in the messages Miss S has now supplied that one-time passcode sent to her 
phone at 17:21 that day. And as Ive already said above Miss S received messages to her 
phone after that on 30 January 2021.
Miss S also accepts that she made a genuine online bank transfer for £30 on 1 February 
2021 at 08:44. But she disputes a further payment to the same beneficiary for £1 made at 
11:48 and then a series of payments to a different payee she didnt recognise starting at 
14:05 and continuing to the next day. Her bank statement shows that these transfers took 
almost all of the money available in her account. Notably Ive seen that a one-time passcode 
was sent to her phone at 17:29 on 2 February 2021 and input correctly. After this the transfer 
of the majority of the money in dispute was made possible. Miss S says that the other 
payments were made with a different device to hers but in her call with NatWest of 5 
February 2021 about this it disagreed and said that the device was the same for all the 
transfers.
Im satisfied from the audit logs Ive seen and my comments above that the transfers were 
authenticated on mobile banking. The issue is whether Miss S consented to them. She 
hadnt been totally clear about whether shed received the one-time passcodes. But now as 
Ive explained above Ive seen her evidence from her phone showing one of them. Miss S 
though has been clear she didnt give this information to anyone else including by being 
tricked by strange phone calls or say by clicking on a computer link. So, there is no 
explanation of how someone unknown to Miss S would have been able to access her 
account and obtain the one-time passcodes necessary for the disputed payments to have 
been made.NatWest has said that Miss S didnt call it on 27 January 2021. And there was a question 
about the transfers from her other bank and which in total came to about the amount of the 
reported fraud. I read nothing into that. I find Miss S explanation of why she moved her 
money in and out not inconsistent with her understanding then of card fraud on her account. 
I dont need to resolve here how those attempted card payments came to be made. She said 
she believed shed been refunded for these payments and thats how shes put it. In fact, 
these were never applied in the first place having been blocked and these circumstances 
dont really assist me with this complaint. 
Thats because I dont find the pattern of the payments made by bank transfer that were 
disputed ties into her account being taken over online as she says must have happened. All 
her money was transferred away. But this happened after shed been operating her account 
online normally and had received a one-time passcode. And the second passcode would 
also have gone to her phone. She has no explanation for how someone else could have 
received these and accessed her account. And I think its most likely that she either made 
the payments herself or allowed someone else to have access to her account and security 
information to be able to do so. She insists she wasnt tricked into this. And so, on balance I 
find that she did authorise the payments and is fairly responsible for them.
Given whats at stake for her I know that she will be very disappointed when I say that I wont 
be requiring NatWest to do anything more.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman