DRN-3637929
The complaint
Mr M complains that Society of Lloyds has turned down a claim he made on an income 
protection insurance policy.
What happened
On 1 May 2019, Mr M took out a Safeshield income protection policy, which covered him if 
he became unable to work due to accident or sickness. 
In September 2020, Mr M underwent shoulder surgery and was signed-off work until 4 
December 2020. He made a claim on the income protection policy.
Lloyds looked into Mr Ms claim and asked for medical evidence from Mr Ms treating 
doctors. Having considered the evidence, it turned down the claim. Thats because it said Mr 
M had been experiencing symptoms of the condition which had led to the claim before he 
took out the policy. So it said Mr Ms condition was pre-existing. The policy terms and 
conditions specifically excluded pre-existing medical conditions from cover and therefore, 
Lloyds said Mr Ms claim wasnt covered by the contract.
Mr M was unhappy with Lloyds decision and he asked us to look into his complaint. Hed 
undergone shoulder surgery in 2014. But he said that his treating doctors had confirmed that 
the condition which had led to the 2020 surgery was a new and unrelated condition.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. She looked closely at the 
medical evidence Mr Ms treating doctors had sent to Lloyds. She accepted (as did Lloyds) 
that Mr Ms 2020 surgery wasnt related to the surgery or condition hed had in 2014. But she 
noted that Mr Ms consultants had told Lloyds that Mr M had first consulted his GP about his 
new symptoms in July 2019. One consultant said that Mr M had been experiencing 
symptoms for a few months ahead of the July 2019 consultation. And a second consultant 
said that hed been suffering from pain for the best-part of a year. 
On that basis, the investigator thought itd been reasonable for Lloyds to conclude that Mr 
Ms symptoms had existed at the time he took out the policy. As such, she felt itd been fair 
for Lloyds to decide that Mr Ms claim wasnt covered by the policy terms.
Mr M disagreed. He reiterated that his 2020 surgery was unrelated to the 2014 surgery. And 
he questioned whether the investigator had assessed the claim impartially.
So the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr M, I think it was fair for Lloyds to turn down 
his claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mr Ms policy and the available medical evidence, to decide whether Lloyds 
treated him fairly.
Ive first turned to the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mr Ms contract 
with Lloyds. The policy provides cover if a policyholder is unable to work due to accident or 
sickness. Both parties accept that Mr M underwent surgery and was therefore unable to 
work between 17 September 2020 and 4 December 2020.
But Lloyds has also set out a list of things its specifically chosen not to cover, within the 
General Exclusions section of the policy. One of these says that a policyholder cant claim 
under for the policy if:
It is due to a pre-existing medical condition.
A pre-existing medical condition has been defined in the policy as:
Any condition, injury, illness, disease, sickness or related condition and/or associated
symptoms, whether specifically diagnosed or not, for which medical evidence shows 
you knew about or were experiencing symptoms that you would have been aware of 
at the cover increase date or for which you sought or received advice, treatment or 
counselling from any doctor in the months prior to the cover increase date. (Emphasis 
added).
Cover increase date has been defined in the contract as: 
The start date or the date at which the monthly benefit increased or the cover type in
question was last altered, in a way that improves the cover provided by this policy,
whichever is the later.
Lloyds has also defined what it means by the start date. The policy says this is:
The date your cover begins as shown on your schedule as Inception Date.
In my view, Lloyds has made it clear that it wont cover claims where a policyholder was 
experiencing symptoms of the condition causing the claim before the policy was taken out, 
even if the condition hadnt been diagnosed. In my experience, this is a common exclusion in 
medical insurance policies, because insurance is designed to cover unforeseen and 
unexpected events. Its also standard practice for an insurer to request medical evidence 
from a policyholders doctor to help it to assess a claim and check whether or not its 
covered.
In Mr Ms case, the policy terms meant that Lloyds wouldnt cover any claims for conditions 
if Mr M had been experiencing symptoms of those conditions before 1 May 2019  the day 
he took out the policy. Lloyds concluded that Mr Ms 2020 surgery was caused by a pre-
existing condition and so Ive carefully considered the available medical evidence to decide 
whether this was a fair conclusion for Lloyds to draw.
Lloyds asked Mr Ms treating medical team for information about his medical condition. Its 
clear that the treating consultants didnt think Mr Ms 2020 surgery was related to the same 
condition for which he underwent surgery in 2014. Both explicitly stated that the conditions 
were unrelated, and Lloyds doesnt dispute this. The claim hasnt been turned down 
because Lloyds thinks theres a link between the two conditions.However, the medical evidence suggests that on 23 July 2019, Mr M saw his GP with 
symptoms of left shoulder pain. He was referred to a consultant Ill call Mr Z, who he met 
with on 29 July 2019. Lloyds asked Mr Z for information about Mr Ms condition and it asked 
the following question:
How long prior to diagnosis (was the patient) aware of and suffering with symptoms?
Mr Z answered: A few months before he came to see me in 2019.
Lloyds also reviewed a letter that a consultant Ill call Mr Y wrote to Mr Ms GP following a 
consultation on 10 September 2019.  Within the letter, Mr Y stated:
There has been a re-emerging of pain and discomfort in his left shoulder which has been 
bothering him for the best part of a year.
And Mr Ms GP also told Lloyds that Mr M had been aware of and suffering from symptoms 
of shoulder pain for a year before diagnosis of the new, unrelated condition.
Based on the totality of the available medical evidence, it appears that Mr M had been 
experiencing symptoms of shoulder pain and discomfort for the best part of a year before he 
saw Mr Y on 10 September 2019. This indicates that he may have been experiencing 
symptoms of his new shoulder condition from September 2018 onwards, which was some 
months before he took out the policy. This tallies with Mr Zs evidence, which indicates that 
Mr M had been suffering symptoms for a few months before the consultation in July 2019. 
The GP too stated that Mr M had been experiencing symptoms for around a year before 
diagnosis. 
As Mr M took out the policy on 1 May 2019, I dont think Lloyds acted unfairly or 
unreasonably when it relied on the available evidence to conclude that Mr M had been 
experiencing symptoms of the condition which caused the claim before the policy started. So 
I dont think it was unfair for Lloyds to find that Mr Ms claim fell within the definition of a pre-
existing medical condition. And therefore it follows that I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Lloyds to conclude that Mr Ms claim wasnt covered by the policy terms.
Lloyds did acknowledge that it had made administrative errors in the handling of the claim, 
which had caused Mr M some upset. It paid him £50 compensation to reflect this. Mr M 
hasnt complained to us specifically about this point and Lloyds correspondence indicates 
that Mr M accepted this amount. For completeness though, I think £50 was fair 
compensation to reflect the likely impact I think Lloyds minor errors had on him.
Overall, despite my natural sympathy with Mr Ms position, as I appreciate hes been through 
painful surgery and an upsetting time, I dont think Lloyds acted unfairly when it turned down 
his claim. So Im not directing Lloyds to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman