DRN-3466218
The complaint
Mrs C complains Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as Very (Very) acted 
unfairly when dealing with her account with it.
What happened
Mrs C complains about the way Very handled her account after she contacted it to set up a 
repayment plan.
Our investigator has set out a detailed timeline of events which both parties have seen. But 
for the sake of conciseness, the key events are set out below:
Mrs C emails Very on 29 July 2021 requesting a reduced repayment plan. Very 
responds asking for Mrs C to complete an income and expenditure assessment;
Mrs C contacts Very again on 2 August 2021 raising her affordability concerns;
The completed income and expenditure form is returned on 3 August 2021. This 
demonstrates that Mrs C does not have sufficient disposable income to meet a 
reduced repayment plan. Very therefore declines Mrs Cs request for a payment plan 
and refers her to a third party debt charity. Very applies a 30 day interest freeze on 
Mrs Cs account;
On the same day  3 August 2021  Mrs Cs makes an online manual payment for 
the full amount of the account;
Interest and charges are reapplied to Mrs Cs account on 2 September 2021;
Mrs C contacts Very next in October 2021 raising concerns with her ability to make 
repayments;
Very stop all interest and charges from November 2021 onwards;
A repayment plan is agreed on behalf of Mrs C with a third party debt charity in early 
2022.
Our investigator recommended that Very refund all interest and charges from the point Mrs 
C contacted Very in August 2021. Very disagreed with this recommendation. It said it offered 
Mrs C sufficient forbearance by giving her a 30 day period of freezing interest and charges. It 
says it did not hear from Mrs C until October 2021 and therefore it was reasonable for it to 
reapply interest charges from September 2021 onwards as she had brought her account 
back up to date with the full payment in August 2021. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so; Im satisfied this complaint should be upheld. This is broadly for the same 
reasons that our investigator set out.
I have carefully considered Verys arguments in relation to this complaint. I acknowledge that 
when Mrs C first contacted it; Very did ask for information about her finances and did apply a 
30 day interest freeze. The income and expenditure which was completed again highlighted 
that Mrs Cs offer for reduced repayments was likely unaffordable and therefore referring her 
to third party debt charities was reasonable. I can also see that Mrs C did not make contact 
with it between August and October 2021.
However, I dont agree that Mrs C making the full repayment in August 2021 demonstrates 
that it was reasonable for Very to reapply interest and charges back onto the account. Very 
has said that this payment was made manually online and therefore there wasnt an 
opportunity for one of its agents to discuss how Mrs C managed to make the payment and/or 
what her financial circumstances were at the time.
But with that being said, Im still persuaded that Very was aware Mrs C was in hardship; and 
that it did have information which suggested she was not a in a position to meet he ongoing 
requirements of the full repayments. Further to this from the account statements it appears 
that Mrs C did not make full payments in September 2021 (for Augusts payments); which led 
to notices of default sums being issued in the end of September 2021. Mrs C then contacted 
Very shortly after this to again raise concerns with her ability to meet repayments. The 
system notes suggest a further notices of default sums issued letter was sent in early 
October 2021.
So, taking this into consideration, Im satisfied that Very was reasonably aware Mrs C was 
experiencing hardship. It was aware in August 2021 via the income and expenditure 
assessment that she did not have sufficient income to meet her repayments sustainably and 
it froze interest accordingly for 30 days. However, it was also aware there were missed 
payments in September 2021 which demonstrated that Mrs Cs position had not improved. 
As such Im satisfied the fair and reasonable approach would have been to continue to 
freeze Mrs Cs interest and charges to enable her more opportunity to come to a suitable 
repayment plan with Very. I note that Very did eventually do this later in November 2021.
Putting things right
As Im satisfied Very shouldve done more to help Mrs C; Im persuaded it needs to do 
something to put things right. In this instance Im satisfied that Very should refund Mrs C any 
interest and charges it applied to Mrs Cs account from the point the 30-day interest freeze 
period ended in September 2021. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Shop Direct Finance Company 
Limited trading as Very. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman