DRN-3664948
Complaint
Miss D has complained that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc (MHCC) rejected her claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Background 
Miss D bought solar panel system (they system) for her home in 2014. The purchase was 
funded by a loan from MHCC, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and 
omissions of the installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, Miss D alleges that the 
installer misled Miss D into believing that the system would be self-funding.
Miss Ds complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She thought that the 
documents from the time of sale (which Miss D signed) made it clear that the benefits of the 
system would not cover the cost of the system and therefore the system would not be 
immediately self-funding in the way Miss D says she was led to believe. So, the investigator 
did not think a misrepresentation had taken place.
Miss D (through her representatives) disagreed for the following reasons:
She reiterated and she was told the system would be self-funding verbally and the 
sales representative deviated from the written contract to secure a sale. 
Miss D placed her trust in the sales representative who was the expert in the field. 
No single document compares cost with benefit, and it wasnt fair to expect Miss D to 
work out complex calculations of the benefit and savings.
The installer used the wrong electricity price to estimate her electricity savings, so 
her annual benefit was overstated. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved by our investigator, Ive been asked to make a
decision.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained
by the investigators, I do not uphold this complaint.
Im satisfied that Miss D was provided with the sales documents, as her representative sent 
us a copy. It seems likely that she wouldve seen this at the time of sale, as she has signed 
the document.
This quote for the sale of the system sets out the annual benefit of £881.64 clearly and the 
figure isnt hidden away in small print, but is, in my view clearly visible. And Miss D has 
signed directly beneath this section  So, I think she wouldve, at the very least, seen this 
when she signed the document. Miss Ds own verbal testimony is that she was made aware 
that the total annual income she could expect from the system was £881.64. 
I can also see that the credit agreement was set up on the same day as the sales quote  
and this set out Miss Ds monthly payment was £111.19. I think its apparent that £881.64, 
wouldnt cover 12 monthly payments of £111.19. 
I understated Miss D says she didnt agree to the credit agreement until weeks after the 
initial quote. However, I can see from MHCCs audit trail that the application was made on 
the same day as the quote, and was signed by MHCC a few days later, indicating it had 
been signed and returned within a few days of creation  which is usual practice for these 
types of the sales. 
The quote document isnt particularly long, the annual benefit is set out clearly and Miss D 
has signed immediately beneath this. The financial details of her credit agreement are also 
set out on the one page where Miss D signed. So, I dont think shed need to wade through 
several documents to see these figures. Additionally, her testimony is that she was made 
aware of the annual benefit. 
Overall, I think the documents are a good reflection of the likely discussions Miss D had with 
the sales representative, and it would have been clear to her that the system would not be 
self-funding in the way she now says she was told it would be. 
If Miss D had been told something different, on being asked to sign these documents, I 
would have expected her to have questioned what she had been told. Ive seen no evidence 
that she did, so I think that suggests that the documents most likely did not contradict 
Miss Ds understanding, at that time. 
I can also see, based on the evidence available, that the system is performing broadly in line 
with the estimates made by the installer both in terms of FITs and reduction of energy bills. 
I understand Miss Ds representatives have said that the installer used an incorrect electricity 
cost rate to work out her anticipated savings during the sale, and similarly MHCC has used 
the same rate to work out her assumed current savings. However, as explained by our 
investigator, usually installers only used the actual rate a customer was being charged if they 
provided bills  otherwise they used a reasonable figure to work out the potential savings the 
system will generate. I havent seen sufficient evidence that the installer made any errors 
here, and I think the rate used was a reasonable one. 
While Ive carefully considered Miss Ds testimony, I find the documents from the time of sale 
to be more persuasive in terms of what information she was likely given at the time of sale. 
So, on balance, I think the evidence suggests that it is unlikely there was a 
misrepresentation or any errors that would enable me to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman