DRN-3281427
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that Santander UK Plc is unable to locate his Personal Equity Plan (PEP) 
invested in the Abbey National UK Growth Unit Trust.  
To put things right, Mr T would like Santander to pay back his money with interest. 
What happened
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
She cant blame Santander for having limited information available and no point of 
sale documents about a sale that took place over 20 years ago. 
Businesses arent required to retain information indefinitely and are obliged to comply 
with data retention laws, therefore she cant blame Santander for not having more 
information.
Despite initially saying that it couldnt find any more information, Santander has found 
the following information about Mr Ts PEP. 
oThe PEP account transaction history confirms Mr Ts monies were invested 
on 8 February 1999. 
oFunds were used to repurchase additional units on 27 November 2003, 
amounting to £598.77.  
Screenshots of Mr Ts holdings provided by Santander also suggest its likely that 
£598.77 was credited to his Instant Savings Account on 4 December 2003, which 
falls in line with his PEP history. 
Mr Ts account history also suggests that £400 was withdrawn from his account the 
next day.
Because risk-based investments can go up as well as down, that might explain why 
the figure is lower than what Mr T invested. Santander might also not have the 
necessary information available to provide a fuller answer. 
Santander have also confirmed that the withdrawal made from branch number 621 
of £400 is Abbey House which theyve confirmed is an indication the transaction was 
done directly to a customers account by post or over the phone.
Although Mr T doesnt have any recollection of this, its likely that the funds from his 
PEP were transferred to his account and hes benefitted from this. 
Mr T disagreed with the investigators conclusion and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
In summary, he said:
He feels like hes being conned. 
If he withdrew £400, wheres the rest of his money?
Were stupid for thinking that he got his money back at £200 less. 
Were biased against him and in favour of Santander 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change her 
mind. In summary, she said:
Whilst Mr T doesnt remember repurchasing the shares for less than what he 
wouldve invested in, given the passage of time, its likely that his memory isnt as 
clear now.  
On the face of the evidence, shes satisfied that Mr T has had the benefit of this 
investment.   
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr T says Im unable to safely 
say that Santander behaved unreasonably. 
In other words, on balance Im unable to say that the PEP still exists or that Santander has 
done anything wrong by not being able to tell Mr T exactly what happened to it.
But before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr Ts strength of feeling about this matter. Im also very sorry that he is 
suffering from ill health at present. 
Mr T has provided submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered 
carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be 
the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My 
role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr T and Santander, and reach what I think is 
an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have 
happened.
Businesses arent required to retain records indefinitely. Theyre not generally required to 
retain documentation beyond six years and if an investment has already been surrendered a 
business is even more unlikely to have any information available. In the circumstances I 
cant blame Santander for not having more information or not being able to provide a more 
definitive answer as to whats happened to Mr Ts PEP.  
In the circumstances, and on balance, Im satisfied Santander has conducted a reasonable 
search and thats why it found key additional information that it hadnt been able to find 
previously. I understand that Santander, like Mr T, wasnt having much luck with the other 
business that took over the investments.  
The documentation provided by Mr T suggests that an investment was made by him in 
February1999, however this evidence doesnt prove  on a balance of probabilities  that the investment still exists 22 years on. So, I dont think Mr T is automatically entitled to the sum 
in question despite his suggestion that he has all the proof.  
Based on what Mr T says, its not clear why Santander was initially suggesting that he 
personally bring the document into branch so that it could investigate the issue. I dont think 
it was necessarily given Mr Ts age and circumstances however this isnt a reason to uphold 
the complaint. 
I appreciate Mr T moved twice since the start of the investment but it wouldve been up to 
him to keep the business up to date with his contact details and/or get in touch if he didnt 
receive any statements at all. 
Im not suggesting that Mr Ts submissions are anything other than what he believes to be 
the truth, but its likely that the money from the investment was probably withdrawn anytime 
between 1999 and 2003/2004  and hes forgotten about it. 
I dont say that just because Mr T is almost 90 years of age but because its almost 22 years 
since the investment was taken out  and 18 or so years since £400 was withdrawn. With all 
the best will in the world, I know that memories fade over time, and its difficult to accurately 
recall what someone may (or may not) have said or done, especially from two decades ago.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr T says, Im unable safely say 
that he hasnt received the funds. In other words, despite what Mr T says, I think its more 
likely (than not), hes had the benefit of the money but is unable to remember what 
happened. 
As an aside, just because the amount at the start doesnt match the amount transferred to 
Mr Ts Instant Savings Account in 2003 and subsequently withdrawn (as pointed out by the 
investigator) doesnt mean he hasnt received the money, albeit less than what hed put in. 
Im mindful that the investigator has already explained to Mr T that risk-based investments 
can go up as well as down, which might explain why the figure is lower than what Mr T 
invested. Furthermore, given the passage of time, Santander may not have all the 
information to provide a better explanation of what happened. 
I appreciate Mr T feels like hes been conned, but I think any suggestion that Santander has 
deliberately held on to his money without his knowledge/consent or has lost his investment is 
unlikely in this instance. 
Mr T may feel that Ive construed a lack of evidence in favour of Santander. But it simply 
comes down to the fact that I have insufficient evidence to reasonably conclude, on this 
occasion, that Santander is at fault. In other words, I cant blame the bank for something if I 
dont have the evidence to support this. 
So, even if what Mr T says is correct  that his investment still exists  I would still need 
evidence to reach this conclusion. And unfortunately for Mr T, the available evidence doesnt 
allow me to reach this conclusion. In other words, despite what Mr T says, Ive no supporting 
evidence that this is the case.
In conclusion, on the face of the available evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr T says 
Im unable to safely conclude that the investment is still available. Ive insufficient evidence 
to dissuade me that the money may not have been taken out and/or received by him 
already. I appreciate Mr T will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. But in the 
circumstances, I cant blame Santander for not being able to provide more information about 
his PEP. 
Whilst I appreciate his frustration, Im not persuaded to require Santander to do anything. On 
the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint and 
give Mr T what he wants. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman