DRN-2290691
The complaint
Mr A complains that Santander UK Plc are holding him liable for a credit card taken out in his 
name which he didnt consent to. And hed like Santander to stop chasing him for the debt. 
What happened
In April 2014 a credit card was taken out in Mr As name with Santander. 
In June 2019 Mr A received a letter from Santander advising him of a missed payment. He 
contacted Santander to complain and advised the bank he didnt take out the credit card. 
Santander didnt uphold Mr As complaint. They thought it more likely than not Mr A took out 
the credit card because:
The card and PIN were both sent to Mr As address.
Correspondence was sent to Mr As address for five years before he noticed.
Its unusual for a fraudster to make payments towards a credit card. 
Mr A didnt accept Santanders conclusion so complained to our service. He explained 
between 2012 and 2019 two other credit cards were also taken out in his name with third 
party banks. And one of the banks had written off the debt. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr As complaint but didnt uphold it. They thought it 
most likely Mr A had consented to taking out the credit card. In summary he said:
The income and employment details on the application are accurate. 
Theres no plausible explanation for how a fraudster could have intercepted all of 
Mr As post. 
Payments were made towards the credit card throughout the period.
He thinks its likely a call made on the 20 June 2019 about accessing online banking 
was made by Mr A.
Mr A didnt accept our investigators conclusions. So its been referred to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator for broadly similar 
reasons.
Mr As unhappy that Santander are holding him liable for a credit card he says he didnt 
consent to. Santander are entitled to hold Mr A liable for transactions carried out using the 
credit card, as per the Consumer Credit Act 1974, only if Mr A consented to taking it out. 
Mr A argues that he wasnt aware the credit card was taken out until June 2019 and 
therefore didnt consent to it. Its important for me to consider what I think most likely 
happened. Because of the time thats passed since the credit card was taken out limited 
information is available to me  so in the absence of concrete evidence Ive reached my 
conclusions based on the balance of probability. And having done so, Im satisfied that its 
fair for Santander to hold Mr A liable for the transactions. I say this because:
Ive looked at the Santander credit card application. Some of the details in the 
application match Mr As correct details including his correct address and date of 
birth. But a different email address and phone number were provided. This means 
that the fraudster needed to be have a certain level of knowledge about Mr A. Mr A 
explains that he lives with his Wife and Mother  and hes confident that neither of his 
family members would have fraudulently taken out the card.
Santander have advised that Mr As credit card and PIN were either sent to his home 
address or collected in branch. Therefore a fraudster would have either needed 
access to Mr As post  or his identification to collect the card and PIN from the 
branch. 
Mr A advises he didnt find out about the credit card until a letter he received in 
June 2019. However Santander have explained that monthly statements were sent to 
Mr As address until June 2015. And Ive seen evidence of a number of other letters 
sent to Mr A prior to June 2019 including late payment, default notices and annual 
statements between 2015 and 2019.  For Mr A not to have been aware of the credit 
card until June 2019, a fraudster would have needed to intercept his post on a very 
regular basis over a five year period. Mr As not informed our service of any 
longstanding issues with his post and I find this highly unlikely. 
Ive seen evidence from Santander that a replacement credit card was sent to Mr A in 
March 2018  and after this card arrived further spending took place. If Im to accept 
Mr As explanation Id need to find a plausible explanation for how a fraudster could 
successfully intercept this card without Mr As knowledge. 
Between August 2014 and May 2018 a monthly payment was made on Mr As credit 
card. I find it strange that a fraudster would choose to make payments towards a 
credit card theyd taken out fraudulently  and Im unable to see the benefit in them 
doing so. These payments continue on a regular basis up until May 2019. In 
June 2019 Mr A complains to Santander that he had no knowledge of the credit card 
application and after this no further payments are received. It find it strange that 
payments to the credit card stop at the same time as Mr A reports the fraud.  
Ive listened to a phone call made on the 20 June 2019 by someone claiming to be 
Mr A and advising theyve been unable to access online banking. Ive compared this 
with a call Mr A had with Santander on the 4 September 2019 when he explained he 
hadnt taken out the credit card. Although I cant be sure its the same caller I think 
theres definitely similarities between the voices. 
For the reasons Ive outlined above, Im satisfied that on balance Mr A consented to taking 
out a Santander credit card in April 2014. And Santander are therefore entitled to hold him 
liable. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman