DRN-3578372
The complaint
Mr D and Mrs D complain about Skipton Building Society and their failure to allow a 
withdrawal from the savings account they held into another nominated account.
Mrs D has acted as representative during this complaint and so, I will refer to the actions 
taken, and comments made by both Mr D and Mrs as Mrs D throughout the decision for 
ease of reference.
What happened
Mrs D held a savings account with Skipton. And in September 2021, Mrs D wanted to 
withdraw the funds of this account into her nominated account with another bank, who Ill 
refer to as L. This nominated account was a joint account.
But Skipton were unable to verify this account using their online verification system. So, they 
asked Mrs D to provide a copy of a bank statement for her account with L. Or, they advised 
they could send Mrs D a cheque with the withdrawal amount. Mrs D was unhappy about this, 
so she raised a complaint.
Mrs D didnt think Skipton acted fairly when refusing to allow the withdrawal into her account 
with L, as shed made several transfers into her Skipton account from this account 
previously. She didnt think the electronic verification system was fair, or fit for purpose, as 
shed lived at the same address for several years and so, she thought this system shouldve 
verified her account with L. Mrs D was also unhappy with the length of time it took her to 
speak to someone at Skipton about this issue. So, Mrs D wanted an apology from Skipton, 
the electronic verification system to be rectified and compensation for the inconvenience 
shed been caused.
Skipton responded and didnt agree. They thought theyd acted in line with the terms of the 
account when only allowing Mrs D to withdraw funds into nominated accounts. And they 
thought these terms made it clear these nominated accounts would need to be verified 
electronically or, if not possible, with hard documentation. And they explained they were 
unable to verify Mrs Ds address electronically due to the information provided by a credit 
reporting company, who Ill refer to as E. So, Skipton didnt think theyd done anything 
wrong. They also recognised the length of time Mrs D may have needed to wait to speak to 
them and provided an explanation as to why, and what they were doing to reduce these wait 
times in the future. Mrs D remained unhappy with this response, so she referred her 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They recognised the 
inconvenience Mrs D had been caused by the situation. But they didnt think this was 
because of anything Skipton did wrong. They were satisfied Skipton had acted in line with 
the terms of their account when attempting to process the withdrawal. And they were 
satisfied Mrs Ds account couldnt be verified electronically due to the information provided 
by E. So, they didnt think Skipton needed to do anything more.
Mrs D didnt agree. And she explained shed checked her credit file which didnt show a 
search by either E or Skipton. But Skipton provided evidence to show this was conducted as 
a soft search, which may not show on a customers credit file. Our investigator was satisfied 
with this, and their recommendation remained the same. Mrs D remained unhappy, so the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mrs D. I appreciate Mrs D 
made deposits into her savings account with Skipton using her account with L. So, I can 
understand why Mrs D would assume shed be able to withdraw funds into this account, as 
Skipton had allowed transactions from it. And I can understand why, when Mrs D realised 
this wasnt the case, shed be left confused and frustrated.
I also recognise how this frustration wouldve been made worse when Skipton made Mrs D 
aware they were unable to verify the account with L electronically, and that shed need to 
provide bank statements for this verification process to be completed. I appreciate this 
wouldve taken time and caused Mrs D inconvenience, and I can understand why Mrs D 
would be reluctant to do so.
But for me to say Skipton should compensate Mrs D for this, Id need to be satisfied this 
inconvenience was caused by something Skipton did wrong. So, Id need to be satisfied 
Skipton failed to act in line with the terms of Mrs Ds account when verifying her account with 
L. Or, if I think they did act within these terms, that it was unfair for them to do so. And in this 
situation, I dont think thats the case.
In the terms of Mrs Ds savings account, it explains that Electronic payments from your 
account can only be made to a nominated account in your name before stating When a 
nominated account is set up or changed, we will verify its in your name by an electronic 
check, or if we cannot, by documentary evidence. If we cannot verify the nominated account, 
withdrawals by electronic payment may be delayed or refused.
It's not in dispute that, at the time Mrs D wanted to withdraw the funds into her account with 
L, this account wasnt listed as a nominated account. While Mrs D had used this account to 
make deposits, Skipton have confirmed these deposits are made without any identify checks 
or verification. So, deposits dont automatically nominate an account for withdrawals. I dont 
think this is an unreasonable stance for Skipton to take as they have a duty to ensure a 
customers funds held with them are safeguarded from fraudulent activity. So, Id expect a 
greater level of security to be placed over withdrawals out of the account they provide.
Ive seen that when Mrs D requested for her account with L to be a nominated account, 
Skipton completed an electronic verification check in line with their process. And Ive seen 
the result of this check, which was unable to verify the account as in Mrs Ds name. Its come 
to light that this is most likely because Mrs Ds account with L is a joint account. So, as the 
electronic verification failed, Ive seen Skipton asked Mrs D to provide documentary 
evidence instead, by the way of a bank statement. And when Mrs D explained the 
inconvenience this would cause, a withdrawal by cheque was offered.I think all of the actions Skipton took fell in line with the process set out in the terms of Mrs 
Ds account. And by offering Mrs D the option of a payment by cheque, I think Skipton took 
reasonable steps to find an alternative method for Mrs D to receive her funds, which is all Id 
expect them to do. Because of this, I cant say theyve done anything wrong here.
But as Ive explained above, as well as acting in line with the terms of the account, I must 
also be satisfied Skipton acted fairly when doing so.
Mrs D doesnt think the results of the electronic verification check were fair. Or that the check 
is fit for purpose. But Skipton have explained the actual result of the check is provided by E. 
And Ive seen Es correspondence with Skipton, where they confirm Mrs Ds account with L 
couldnt be verified. As it was E making this decision, I think Skipton were fair to rely on the 
information E provided and continue with the verification process outside of the electronic 
check.
Im aware Mrs D disputes whether this check was made. But Ive seen evidence to show it 
was. And as it was a soft check of Mrs Ds credit file, these dont always report in order to 
protect a customers credit file from any adverse effect, as the number of credit searches on 
a customers credit file can in some cases influence a lenders decision to lend. So, I dont 
think the check not showing on Mrs Ds credit file is evidence that a check didnt take place.
So, Im satisfied the check took place. And I think Skipton considered the results of this 
check fairly and continued with a reasonable process as laid out in the terms of the account. 
Because of this, I cant say the inconvenience Mrs D experienced was a result of something 
Skipton have done wrong or had control over. This includes the wait time Mrs D experienced 
when trying to speak to Skipton about this, which I think Skipton have fairly addressed with 
an explanation and the steps they are taking to prevent similar situations arising in the 
future. Because of this, I dont think Skipton need to do anything more on this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mrs D was hoping for. And I appreciate this decision 
wont allay her concerns about the actions of E, or the way the actual electronic verification 
checks are ran. But this decision focuses solely on the actions of Skipton. So, any concerns 
about E would need to be discussed and considered separately. And our service itself is 
unable to comment upon, or direct changes to, business processes such as an electronic 
verification check. This would be the remit of the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint about Skipton Building 
Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman