DRN-2415802
The complaint
Mrs C complains Lloyds Bank PLC (trading at the time as TSB) mis-sold her payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mrs C applied by post for a credit card with Lloyds in 1997 and PPI was added to her 
account at the same time. The PPI would have helped with Mrs Cs card repayments for up 
to 12 months for each successful accident, sickness or unemployment claim she made.
Mrs C says she was unaware she had PPI. And she says her sick pay was good so she 
didnt need it.
The adjudicator who looked at Mrs Cs complaint didnt uphold it. Mrs C disagrees and so 
her complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Although Mrs C says Lloyds sold her the PPI in a meeting, I think she probably applied for 
her card by post. I say this because her credit card application form has her name and 
address pre-printed on it. And also Lloyds has told us its format is consistent with a postal 
application.
The copy of the application form Ive got isnt very clear. But I can see theres a section on it 
about PPI and I can see theres a tick beside this section to say Mrs C wanted it. Since Mrs 
C wouldve filled in the application form herself, I think the tick to say she wanted PPI is likely 
to be hers. And if she hadnt wanted PPI, I think she couldve left this section blank and it 
wouldnt have been added. 
Mrs C says she wasnt aware she had PPI but the PPI premiums were clearly set out in her 
monthly card statements so, if she hadnt wanted it, I think she couldve queried it and 
cancelled it. And I understand Mrs C did cancel the PPI in 2004.
Because this was a postal sale of PPI, I dont think Lloyds recommended it to Mrs C. This 
means it didnt need to make sure the cover was right for Mrs C in her particular 
circumstances  so the decision about whether or not to go ahead with it was one Mrs C 
needed to make herself. But Lloyds was under a duty to give her enough clear information 
about the policy for the to be able to make that decision in an informed way.
Its likely some of the information Lloyds gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But, as Ive said, I think Mrs C chose to take it out and so appears to have 
wanted this type of cover. She wasnt affected by any of the policys main exclusions or 
limitations, so I dont think there was anything to stop her claiming the full policy benefit if 
shed needed to. And, although Mrs C says she was the sole earner in her household at the 
time she applied for the card, I havent seen anything to make me think the PPI was 
unaffordable.
Mrs C says she got good sick pay  six months full pay then six months half pay  and so 
didnt need the PPI. But the policy wouldve helped with Mrs Cs card repayments for up to 
12 months for each successful accident, sickness or unemployment claim she made. And it 
wouldve paid out on top of her sick pay. Mrs C says she didnt have any savings or other 
insurance policies she couldve fallen back on if things got difficult. Taking all of this into 
account (as well as Mrs C saying she was the sole earner at the time), I think the PPI 
couldve given her a useful benefit. I accept that, if she was unable to go to work, she 
wouldnt have had the same travel costs but I dont think this wouldve made a material 
difference to her position. 
So all in all I think its unlikely Mrs C would have made a different decision if Lloyds had 
given her clearer information about some aspects of the policy. On balance I think she would 
still have taken it out. That means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold and so Lloyds doesnt 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it shouldve told Mrs C about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mrs C, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think thats fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs C.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mrs C any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman