DRN-3545413
The complaint
Mr R complains that Accredited Insurance (Europe) Limited mishandled his claim on his
motor insurance policy.
Where I refer to Accredited, I include claims-handlers and others insofar as I hold Accredited
responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a four-wheel drive sports saloon car,
made in 1995.
Mr R acquired the vehicle in 2014. He says he spent the next six years re-building it.
Mr R went online and (through a broker) took out a policy for the car from 31 July 2020.
Accredited was the insurance company responsible for dealing with any claim.
On 15 September 2020, fire damaged the car. Mr R made a claim on the policy.
In December 2020, Accredited got a vehicle assessor to provide a report. It said the car had
been modified. It said the car was a total loss.
On 22 January 2021, Accredited told Mr R it was treating the policy as void from the start
because he had misrepresented that the car had no modifications. Accredited said the
broker would return the premium.
Mr R complained to Accredited that it should pay his claim. By a final response dated 27 
January 2021, Accredited turned down the complaint, citing several modifications.
On 9 February 2021, Accredited changed its response. It said that the paint had been 
changed from white to black with the bonnet and roof painted yellow.
Mr R brought his complaint to us in May 2021. He said that Accredited should honour his
claim. He said that there was no yellow paint, only yellow vinyl wrap. He also said the
following:
The main worry now is the insurance company has not released the car it is still sat
in the scrapyard
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that the
addition of the yellow vinyl alone would be enough to conclude a qualifying 
misrepresentation was made. He thought that the actions Accredited took were in line with
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA).
my (first) provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr R   
and to Accredited on 22 April 2022. I summarise my findings:
I found it more likely that - when Mr R took out the policy - the car had paint
modifications including yellow paint.
So I found that Mr R made a careless misrepresentation to Accredited when he said 
there were no modifications.
As Accredited wouldnt have covered a vehicle with modifications to its paint, CIDRA 
allowed Accredited to decline the claim and treat the policy as void from the start.
Subject to any further information from Mr R or from Accredited, my first provisional decision 
was not to uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct Accredited Insurance (Europe) 
Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
my (second) provisional decision
After reconsidering all the evidence, I issued a second provisional decision on this complaint 
to Mr R and to Accredited on 30 May 2022. I summarise my findings:
Notwithstanding the engineers report -  I accepted that the yellow material on the 
bonnet and boot lid wasnt paint but vinyl wrap.
However, the receipt for the wrap showed a despatch date of 27 May 2020. As that 
was about two months before the policy started, I found it more likely that, when Mr R 
took out the policy, the car had yellow vinyl attached.
As Accredited wouldnt have covered a vehicle with modifications including vinyl 
wrap, CIDRA allowed Accredited to decline the claim and treat the policy as void 
from the start. 
Subject to any further information from Mr R or from Accredited, my second provisional 
decision was not to uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct Accredited Insurance 
(Europe) Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Accredited hasnt responded to the second provisional decision.
Mr R disagreed with the second provisional decision. He says, in summary, that:
The manufacturer released the car with yellow vinyl.
He received the wrap and was in no rush to fit it.
He was asked if the car had modifications, looked through the lists, the options were 
not extensive and vinyl wrap should have its own category if it needs to be declared 
but it doesn't. 
The yellow vinyl wasnt permanent.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute
resolution rules (DISP).The effect of one of those rules is that a consumer must first make
a complaint to the financial firm and wait up to eight weeks for a final response before we
can investigate that complaint.
As regards his complaint that Accredited hadnt released his damaged vehicle, theres not
enough evidence that Mr R raised that complaint with Accredited before it wrote its final
response letter response dated late January 2021. That merely said the following:
In light of our final decision, our claims team will be in contact with you regarding
your vehicle and how you wish to proceed.
After the investigators opinion, Accredited told us that it had disposed of the car in early
December 2021. Mr R made a further complaint about that. Accredited wrote a final
response dated mid-March 2022.
So I wont deal with the issue of how Accredited has stored or disposed of the damaged car. 
I will deal only with Mr Rs complaint that Accredited should pay his claim for the pre-fire 
value of the car. 
From the screen shots, I see that the broker asked a question as follows:
has your vehicle been modified?
That question had an explanatory note as follows:
If your vehicle has been changed from the manufacturers standard specification in
any way then please answer Yes. You will then be prompted to list all your 
modifications.
Modifications include changes like alloy wheels, changes to bodywork or engine,
changes to suspension etc
The drop-down options included the following:
Decals or stickers,
nonstandard respray
The broker produced a statement of insurance. it included the following:
Modifications:
Has the vehicle been changed in any way from the manufacturers standard 
specification?
This would include changes to the bodywork (such as spoilers or body kits), changes
to suspension or brakes, cosmetic changes (such as alloy wheels or paint), changes
affecting performance (such as changes to engine management system or exhaust
system) and/or changes to the audio/entertainment system. Note, this is not a full list
of possible changes, all changes made from manufacturer's standard specification
must be disclosed.'
So Im satisfied that Accredited had asked Mr R clearly whether his car had been changed
from the manufacturers standard specification in any way. It gave examples that made it
clear that it wasnt just asking about changes affecting performance, but it was also askingabout cosmetic changes. Im satisfied that it was asking about changes present on the car, 
whether they were permanent or reversible.
From what Mr R and Accredited have each said, I find that Mr R answered that his car had
not been modified.
Mr R has said that he removed the rear seats after he took out the policy in late July 2020 -
only a few days before the incident in mid-September 2020. As there isnt any evidence to
show any other timing, I cant say that he had removed the seats  or made any incorrect
statement about that - when he took out the policy.
When it was made in 1995, the car was painted white. Mr R has said that the car had yellow 
vinyl. But he hadnt said that until after the second provisional decision. And he hasnt 
provided any supporting evidence such as photographs of any other car looking like his did. 
So Im not persuaded that his car had yellow vinyl on the bonnet and boot lid when it was 
built in 1995.
Mr R has said he had it painted black  and told DVLA.
The report of the vehicle assessor included the following:
bonnet and boot lid finished painted in yellow
Accredited sent an email dated 22 January 2021 that included the following:
The vehicle was imported and your policy documents show that this was not 
disclosed. In addition to this you have repainted the vehicle to black and yellow when 
the vehicle was originally white.
So  at that stage  Accredited had mentioned non-disclosure of import as well as of 
modification. But Accredited later clarified that it was non-disclosure of modification that was 
its reason for treating the policy as void.
When Accredited emailed Mr R on 9 February 2021, it mentioned that the paint had been
changed from white to black with the bonnet and roof painted yellow. Mr R replied on 10
February 2021- but he didnt mention the yellow colour at all. 
Later he told us that a yellow wrap had been applied on about 2 August 2020 (just after he 
took out the policy). Mr R sent us a receipt for yellow wrap material.
In response to the first provisional decision, Mr R also sent us undated photographs of the 
car including one with yellow wrap being applied to the boot lid. So  notwithstanding the 
engineers report -  I now accept that the yellow material on the bonnet and boot lid wasnt 
paint but vinyl wrap.
However, the receipt for the wrap showed a despatch date of 27 May 2020. As that was 
about two months before the policy started, I find it more likely that, when Mr R took out the 
policy, the car had yellow vinyl attached.
Im satisfied that Accredited was asking a clear enough question about modifications 
including cosmetic changes. So I find that Mr R made a careless misrepresentation to 
Accredited when he said there were no modifications.
From its underwriting evidence, I accept that Accredited wouldnt have covered a vehicle
with any of the following modifications:seats  removed
paintwork  non-standard
vinyl wrap
Different insurers may have different approaches to deciding what to insure.
I note that Mr R refers to an arson attack whereas Accredited also refers to an attempted
theft. And Accredited has said that the paint made Mr Rs car more attractive to thieves (as
well as increasing the cost of any claim). But I dont consider that this makes any difference
to the outcome. I say this because I accept that Accredited wouldnt have covered a vehicle
with either non-standard paintwork or vinyl wrap.
So I conclude that Mr Rs careless misrepresentation made the difference between 
Accredited covering the vehicle or not. So there was a qualifying misrepresentation
under CIDRA.
As Accredited wouldnt have covered a vehicle with modifications including vinyl wrap, 
CIDRA allowed Accredited to decline the claim and treat the policy as void from the start. 
Keeping in mind CIDRA, I dont find that Accredited treated Mr R unfairly in declining the 
claim. And I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Accredited to pay the claim or to do any 
more in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Accredited Insurance (Europe) Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman