DRN-3429743
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Ikano Bank AB (publ), has rejected the claim she made under section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel system she says 
was misrepresented to her by the supplier (which Ill call S).
Mrs A is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In August 2018, Mrs A purchased a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at her 
home. Mrs A financed the purchase through an interest-free fixed sum loan agreement with 
Ikano that was repayable over three years.
In August 2020, the CMC made a claim on Mrs As behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Ikano. The CMC said that the supplier had made a number of representations about the 
system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had 
induced Mrs A to enter into the contract. 
The CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
The financial benefits from the system would make it a self-funding system which 
would pay for itself through the income and savings it would generate. 
Because the system would pay for itself Mrs A wouldnt be out of pocket. 
Ikano issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mrs A or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
The CMC then referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened and initially upheld the complaint. 
Ikano then made an offer of settlement which the CMC said was not right (this happened a 
couple of times). After some time and having reviewed the complaint again, Ikano withdrew 
its offer. It said the sales contract clearly stated the cost and the first-year benefit of the solar 
panel system. And from this it was clear that the system would not be immediately self-
funding.
Having considered the new arguments made by Ikano, our adjudicator didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld.
The CMC didnt agree with this. Amongst other things, it said that:
Mrs A relied on the verbal representations made by the sales representative and 
placed little reliance on the sales documents. 
Mrs A and her partner had a combined monthly income of around £1,100.00. She 
says that had she been made aware that she would need to contribute a significant 
amount out of her own pocket towards the loan agreement in the first year, she would 
not have proceeded with the purchase. 
Following the sales meeting with the representative and prior to the installation, 
Mrs A was asked to attend the offices of S and to sign a further copy of the purchase 
agreement. No explanation was provided as to why she needed to do this, but the 
figures within it appear different to the ones relied on by the adjudicator.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant  
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit.
As Mrs A paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Ikano agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mrs A could claim against Ikano, the creditor, for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same way she could have  
claimed against S. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is fair in the 
circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mrs A and 
the supplier are deemed to have been conducted by S as an agent of Ikano.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or their agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both The CMC and Ikano. 
These include the credit agreement and order for/sales contract.
The order form is a one-page document which sets out key information about the system,  
the expected performance, financial benefits, and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process (as it appears to have been completed and signed 
during the sales meeting) and is therefore relevant, alongside Mrs As recollection of the 
sale, when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact. 
The CMC has provided a second order form signed after the installation took place. This has 
updated figures about the installation (seemingly based on the actual installation rather than 
the assumptions made beforehand). This shows the expected output of the system is 
2,398 kWh instead of 2,324 kWh. This being slightly more than on the original order form, 
the figures for expected FIT payments and electricity savings are also slightly higher. 
However, given this form was completed after the sale of the system, I dont think it is as 
relevant when considering what is likely to have been said during the sales meeting. The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged (none 
in this case), the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly 
repayments.
Order form/sales contract
The original order form set out the cost of the system alongside the expected first-year 
benefits of the system as follows:
I think the sales contract is clear that the system would cost £5,500.00, of which £5,000 was 
to be funded by a five-year interest-free loan. It refers to this as IFL 5 years IKANO. I think 
Mrs A wouldve understood this given she agreed at the same meeting to part-fund the 
purchase using the interest-free loan over five years from Ikano.
I think it is also clear that the first-year benefit of the system was expected to total between 
£237.90 and £323.60 based on self-consumption rates of 25% and 50% respectively. This 
figure includes FIT payments and the value of electricity savings. 
Self-consumption rate is the proportion of the electricity generated by the system that Mrs A 
would use herself. The cost of the system and its first-year benefits are shown close to each 
other on the order form, just above where Mrs A signed, so these figures couldve been 
compared easily.
I think it is clear from this that the system would not be self-funding. For a five-year interest-
free loan of £5,000, the repayments would be £1,000 per year. This is significantly more than 
the highest potential benefit quoted of £323.60. I think this one-page document was an 
integral part of the sale and these figures would most likely have been discussed with Mrs A. 
So, I think it is unlikely that the salesperson wouldve misrepresented the solar panel system 
in the way Mrs A has alleged.
Self-funding
Mrs A may have been told the system would be self-funding over some period of time  such 
as its expected 25-year expected lifespan. A simple calculation would suggest that the 
system may be self-funding over between 16 and 22 years if the benefit was in line with the 
estimate and remained about the same each year.
However, the FIT payments are linked to inflation, and electricity costs could reasonably be 
assumed to increase over time. So, Mrs A couldve been told that the system was self-
funding over its lifetime (or over a shorter time depending what assumptions were made) 
without it being a misrepresentation. But I think it is unlikely that she was told the system 
would be immediately self-funding or that she would at no stage be out of pocket.
Performance
Ive considered whether the performance of the system is in line with estimate in the order 
form. The order form sets out that the system is expected to produce 2,324 kWh per  year. 
The second order form and the MCS certificate show it is expected to generate 2,398 kWh 
per year. I have looked at Mrs As FIT statements and can see that her system is performing 
as expected  generating approximately 2,440 kWh in the first year. 
Mrs As income
The CMC has suggested that Mrs A wouldnt have agreed to buy the system if she was told 
it was not immediately self-funding. But, it appears she agreed to pay approximately £1,000 
per year in loan repayments when she was told the financial benefit of the system in the first 
year would be between £237.90 and  £323.60. In doing so, she wouldve been expecting to 
make a net contribution in the first year of at least £760. So, I think Mrs A ought to have 
been aware that the system would not be immediately self-funding. 
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im 
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by the supplier that induced Mr A 
to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.
I understand that Mrs A and the CMC are frustrated that Ikano made an offer of settlement 
and later withdrew this. However, given that Mrs A had not accepted the offer, Ikano was 
free to withdraw it at any time. So, this does not change my decision, which is that I do not 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman