DRN-3624222
The complaint
Miss B complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (Shop Direct) irresponsibly 
gave her a running account credit facility that she couldnt afford.
What happened
On 6 August 2015, Miss B applied for a credit account with Shop Direct trading as very. 
She was given an initial credit limit of £600. The credit limit was increased several times  
and decreased twice for a two-year period  and it peaked at a credit limit of £3900 in 
October 2020. 
Miss B complained to Shop Direct in 2020 to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened for her because it wasnt affordable and that Shop Direct ought to have made a 
better effort to understand her financial circumstances.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. Shop Direct 
didnt agree. So, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 15 July 2022, a section of 
which is included below, and forms part of, this decision. In my provisional decision I set out 
the reasons why I didnt agree with the adjudicators view and that it was my intention not to 
uphold Miss Bs complaint. I set out an extract below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive read and considered the whole file, 
but Ill confine my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need to comment 
on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to 
take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
Shop Direct will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Our adjudicators assessment provided a detailed account of all the increases and 
suspensions of credit, and they are summarised above. Neither party has called the 
specifics into question, so, I dont intend to cover them off here. 
Miss Bs complaint is that Shop Direct made credit available that was unaffordable. Shop 
Direct has explained that it carried out a credit check using a credit agency to determine the 
amount of credit it was able to offer, and considered the credit file and Miss Bs 
management of the account with regard to credit limit increases. Its possible that Shop 
Direct failed to make adequate checks before providing Miss B with credit. But even if thats 
true, I dont think better enquiries would have caused Shop Direct to think the initial credit 
limit and the subsequent credit limit increases were unaffordable. 
I say this because the initial credit limit was modest and the maximum monthly payments 
would have been relatively modest. And Miss Bs declared income was not modest. And 
Miss Bs management of her account throughout the increases to the credit limit was largely 
very good. Many of Miss Bs payments were in excess of the minimum payments required. 
And Miss B was not in the habit of using the full credit limit available to her. And when Shop 
Direct felt it was appropriate to lower the credit limit it did so and helped Miss B return the 
account to good order. And I have seen insufficient evidence of financial difficulties in 
accounts outside of this account. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Miss B to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that a 
more thorough affordability check would have led Shop Direct to think that the credit it 
provided Miss B was unreasonable. Further, Im not persuaded that the way Miss B was 
managing her account or what Shop Direct could see of her management of other credit 
ought to have prompted it to have acted differently than it did. 
I know that Miss B will be disappointed with my decision. But I want Miss B to know that I 
considered all the submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not found 
sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 29 July 2022. Neither party have acknowledged receiving the 
decision and, at the time of writing, they have not made any further submissions or made a 
request for a time extension to do so. I think that both parties have had sufficient time to 
make substantive further submissions if either party had wished to. So, I am proceeding to 
my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that theres no new information for me to consider following my provisional decision, I 
have no reason to depart from those findings. And as Ive already set out my full reasons for 
not upholding Miss Bs complaint, I have nothing further to add. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman