DRN-2445746
The complaint
Mrs H complains Currencies Direct Ltd (CD) mishandled the clearing of her euro cheque 
resulting in a loss in the exchange rate. 
What happened
Mrs H says she was purchasing a property in the UK and needed to send funds from her 
French bank to facilitate this. Mrs H says she sent a cheque for Euro 200,000 to CD so this 
could be converted into sterling for the property purchase. In error CDs clearing bank 
processed the cheque for only Euro 200. Mrs H says it took over a month for CD put matters 
right during which time the exchange rate went against her. Mrs H says CD were unhelpful in 
dealing with the problem and she had to contact the CEO of CD to progress the complaint. 
Mrs H wants compensation for the issues she has faced and for CD to be penalised for the 
way they have dealt with the problem.  
CD says they have apologised for the inconvenience caused but the error was made by their 
clearing bank and not them and suggested Mrs H raise the issue with them.
Mrs H wasnt happy with CDs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator agreed that CD could have handled the complaint better but didnt uphold 
Mrs Hs complaint that CD were responsible for the exchange rate loss she had incurred. 
The investigator felt that CD should pay £100 in compensation for the poor service provided 
during the course of Mrs Hs complaint. 
Mrs H wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.   
I sent both sides a provisional decision, where I said: 
Ive considered all of the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to a different outcome to that of the investigator and I will 
explain how I have come to my decision.
When looking at this complaint I considered if CD were responsible for the delay that caused 
the exchange rate to go against Mrs H in this transaction. I have also looked at whether CD 
could have handled the issue of the incorrectly processed Euro cheque better, once it was 
brought to their attention.
I can see that it would have been upsetting for Mrs H to find out the cheque she sent to CD 
had been incorrectly processed at a time she was purchasing a property  which in itself is a 
stressful time without any added problems. 
What happened here is Mrs H sent a cheque for Euros 200,000 to CD for processing and 
this was received and banked by CD on 30 December 2019. There were then issues with 
the bank CD used to clear the cheque as they processed this as only Euros 200. From what 
I have seen it was Mrs H who brought this to CDs attention, and it wasnt until 13 January 
2020 the matter was escalated to the clearing bank used by CD, which would only have 
compounded the issues Mrs H faced.
CD have provided this service with a timeline of events surrounding the clearance of the 
cheque. This shows emails had been sent to their clearing bank to chase the progress 
leading up to the formal complaint lodged by Mrs H in late January 2020. In this timeline, CD 
confirm the date in which Mrs H would have had access to the funds if the correct amount 
was allocated. This would imply because the amount wasnt allocated correctly, a delay in 
its clearance had resulted. What actually happened was Mrs H received the cleared Euros 
on 14 February 2020 rather than the 10 February, which as explained by CD was the last 
day of the six-week period it would have normally taken to clear the cheque and be made 
available to Mrs H. This date was also confirmed to her in an email from CDs Client Account 
Manager on 21 January 2020. 
Its worth mentioning that an error was made initially when clearing the cheque which was 
not of Mrs Hs making. From the timeline provided to this service from CD this shows if Mrs 
H had access to the funds on 10 February 2020, she would have had the opportunity to 
convert the Euros into sterling at a more preferable rate than she actually received. I am 
satisfied a delay occurred as direct result of the incorrect processing of the cheque and this 
seems to have been accepted by CDs CEO in an email to Mrs H when he offers to provide 
you with the option to exchange your Euros to Pounds at a rate that we would have offered 
you early in January and goes on to say  I apologise for the anxiety that this matter has 
caused which, as you say, is a result of a processing issue which was not of your making. I 
say this as I cant see why the CEO would have offered this solution otherwise. 
On balance, I am satisfied the fair and reasonable outcome here would be for CD to pay Mrs 
H the difference between the exchange rate she eventually traded at and the exchange rate 
on 10 February 2020, detailed in the time line of events email, CD provided to this service. I 
say this because the 10 February 2020 would have been the date Mrs H would have 
reasonably expected to have access to the funds from the euro cheque. While I understand 
an adjustment has been offered previously to Mrs H by CD and not taken up, as Mrs H says 
her complaint had already been lodged with this service, the exchange rate refund needs to 
be specific to the dates mentioned above, for the reasons I have given.
Mrs H is also unhappy with the service she received once the issue had been raised with 
CD. I agree with the investigator here that while our role isnt to punish or fine CD, or any 
financial institution, as thats a matter for the Financial Conduct Authority, I can see the 
complaint wasnt handled as well as it could have been. CD could have been more proactive 
at the start of the problem and not simply suggest to Mrs H she should contact their clearing 
bank to resolve the issue. This has also been accepted by the CEO in his email to Mrs H on 
21 February when he confirms CD have a problem with their clearing bank to address. I feel 
the amount offered of £100 is a fair amount to recognise the inconvenience caused to Mrs H 
and this has been acknowledged by CD. 
While CD will be disappointed with my decision, I uphold the complaint by Mrs H. 
Both Mrs H and CD responded to my provisional decision, so the case has been passed 
back to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I gave both Mrs H and CD until 17 January 2021 to accept or reject my provisional decision. 
Mrs H has accepted my provisional decision, however, CD have said I have implied an 
exchange rate that was unachievable to them on 10 February 2020. I have considered this 
compared to the high and low exchange rates they have since quoted of between 1.1844 
and 1.1760. Its important to stress that in my provisional decision, I used the exchange rate 
provided in the timeline of events CD provided to this service, where CD said, If the funds 
were allocated (after 6 weeks) on 10/02/2020 the client would have received £169,923.53- 
based on CD being credited the correct amount. While this exchange rate sits close to the 
best exchange rate on that day and perhaps only available for a short period of time, I dont 
feel this is unreasonable given the issues Mrs H has experienced. 
In view of this I see no need to change or add to my provisional decision and so my final 
decision remains the same.
Putting things right
I instruct Currencies Direct Ltd to pay Mrs H £2,823.53 which is the monetary difference 
between the exchange rate she received and that of the exchange rate of 10 February 2020, 
detailed in their time line of events email provided to this service. In addition, Currencies 
Direct Ltd should pay £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct Currencies Direct Ltd to pay Mrs 
H  £2,823.53 which is the monetary difference between the exchange rate she received and 
that of the exchange rate of 10 February 2020, detailed in their time line of events email 
provided to this service. In addition, Currencies Direct Ltd should pay £100 for the trouble 
and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman