DRN-2523055
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc trading as Post Office Financial 
Services delayed sending them an application form which meant the interest rate on the 
account had reduced.
What happened
Mr and Mrs O phoned Post Office on 2 May 2020 and asked it to send them an account 
application form to open an account paying 1.25% interest. They say they were told an 
application form would be sent but by 16 May 2020 they hadnt received it and contacted 
Post Office again. Mr and Mrs O say they did receive the application form and applied for the 
account but by that stage the interest rate had reduced to .7%. They would like Post Office 
to honour the initial interest rate.
Post Office doesnt accept it made a mistake and says the current situation has meant its 
taken longer to process such matters and the account terms and conditions make clear that 
the interest it pays depends when the application is received. It also says that it followed the 
regulators guidance by concentrating on essential services at the time and not non-essential 
matters such as opening new accounts. Post Office says Mr and Mrs O could have rejected 
the account and removed the money.
Mr and Mrs O brought their complaint to us and our investigator upheld it. She thought Mr 
and Mrs O were told on 2 May 2020 the application form would be sent to them and would 
take about five days but that there were some delays with the mail. The investigator thought 
if the application had been sent out as agreed that it likely the account would have been 
opened in time and that Mr and Mrs O were given incorrect information when they called 
again on 16 May 2020 that the application was sent out on 4 May 2020. The investigator 
recommended Post Office pay £150 compensation which equates to the loss of interest.
Post Office doesnt accept that view and says it doesnt make any difference that Mr and Mrs 
O were told the application was sent out when in fact it wasnt and the interest rate that is 
applied depends on the date the application was received.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I have come to the overall view that I uphold this complaint but for slightly 
different reasons to those of the investigator and I propose to award a slightly lower amount 
of compensation. I dont think those slight differences require a provisional decision and can 
see that both sides have been given information about my decision which they both disagree 
with.
I have listened to the three calls between the parties. Im satisfied Mr O called Post Office on 
2 May 2020 and was told he couldnt open the account over the telephone. And that he was 
told he could open the account online which he explained he didnt wish to do. Post Office 
explained the application would be sent out and would take about five days but there was a 
delay with the mail. It is clear Mr and Mrs O didnt receive the application by 16 May 2020 as 
Mr O called Post Office again. Im satisfied he was told the application was sent out on 4 
May 2020 and the post was slightly slower at this time.
I have also looked at Post Office records and can see that the application form was not sent 
to Mr and Mrs O on 4 May 2020 despite being told that when they called. The application 
was sent some three weeks after it was first requested and after it seems the interest rate 
had been changed. I appreciate Post Office says these were difficult times and that delay is 
not relevant and wouldnt make a difference.
I accept that Post Office would have had difficulties running its business in May 2020 and 
that it may have focused as the regulator told it on essential services and not on such 
matters as opening new accounts. I also accept Post Office makes clear that it doesnt 
guarantee an interest rate until an application is received. But I dont think those are the key 
issues here. Im satisfied Post Office ought to have explained the possibility of a delay to Mr 
and Mrs O and they could have considered alternatives ways of opening the account.
I think the main issue here is that Mr and Mrs O were given incorrect information during the 
call of 16 May 2020. Im satisfied they were told the application had been sent out on 4 May 
2020 and that was not correct. I think it ought to have been clear that wasnt the position and 
it wasnt until the third call that I think Mr and Mrs O were told the correct reason for the 
delay which was a backlog of applications.
So, I intend to order compensation for the misleading information Mr and Mrs O were given 
and the inconvenience they were caused and intend to order Post Office to pay £100 
compensation for what took place. I accept what Post Office say that Mr and Mrs O could 
have closed the account within 14 days of opening it and I also accept that if Mr and Mrs O 
had been given the correct information about the delays in opening new accounts they may 
well have not been able to open the account by the time the interest rate changed. I say that 
as I dont think it likely Mr and Mrs O would have opened the account using any other 
method than by sending the application by post.
Overall, I think that if Post Office had been clearer in its communication with Mr and Mrs O 
and told them it was not prioritising new account opening and that there would be delays 
then there could be no criticism of it. But for the reasons I have explained I find it did mislead 
Mr and Mrs O and so must have caused them some distress but mainly inconvenience. I 
dont think Post Office should compensate them for any loss of interest.
Putting things right
I intend to order Post Office to pay £100 compensation which I think is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc 
trading as Post Office Financial Services to pay Mr and Mrs O £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman