DRN-2802608
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 2000.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. Santander disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive considered what Santander has said, but Ive still decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ls 
complaint. This is because Santander recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs L, but I dont 
think it was suitable for them. I say this because, at the time the PPI started, Mrs L suffered 
from a number of long-term and potentially serious medical conditions and it was quite likely 
that any sickness claim she made under the policy would have been linked to one of these. If 
Mr and Mrs L had been advised of this limitation, I dont think theyd have taken the policy. 
Santander has asked for evidence of when the medical conditions were diagnosed. But I 
dont think it is necessary to ask for this. Mr and Mrs L have been consistent in their account 
of the medical conditions, and I believe they have given us an accurate account. 
 
Putting things right
Santander should put Mr and Mrs L in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander 
should:
Pay Mr and Mrs L the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year. 
If Mr and Mrs L made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander UK Plc to take off tax from this interest. 
Santander must give Mr and Mrs L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if 
they ask for one.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. 
I require Santander UK Plc to pay Mr and Mrs L compensation in accordance with the 
calculation of redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 November 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman