DRN-3586697
The complaint
Ms N  a director of company N  complains about the level of service received from The 
National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) under its business 
insurance policy. 
Reference to NFU include their agents. 
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to all parties so I wont repeat it here in detail. In 
my decision Ill mainly focus on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome I have. 
In summary, Ms N took out business insurance on behalf of N. In 2019, she added 
engineering insurance and inspection. This meant N was covered for breakdown of selected 
items of machinery, and inspections to meet statutory requirements. 
Ms N says NFU breached Ns policy conditions by failing to carry out an inspection of the 
boiler in 2019. She says it later broke down due to a manufacturer defect. But, as an 
inspection hadnt taken place, the manufacturer declined to assist under the warranty. Ms N 
also says N suffered significant losses because of the boiler breakdown, and NFUs failure to 
carry out the inspection when they should have. 
Ms N also says she was given wrong information by NFU when she contacted them to book 
the inspection. She says she was told she didnt need an inspector to attend whilst the boiler 
was serviced. NFU disputes this aspect. 
NFU says there was an oversight. Their agent should have called Ms N to arrange the 
inspection but failed to do so. They say, however, Ms N didnt state when the inspection was 
due, when she added engineering insurance and inspection to Ns policy. And in any event, 
its unlikely N would have made a successful claim under the warranty. They paid N £200 
compensation by way of an apology for the way things were handled. 
NFU also say they incurred over £3,000 when working on the boiler, and the inspection 
eventually took place around March 2020. They told Ms N she could raise a claim for the 
boiler breakdown on Ns behalf, which she didnt want to do at that stage for several 
reasons. As Ms N thought NFU treated N unfairly, she brought a complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Whilst he felt NFU could have 
handled things better, the policy says N was responsible for complying with statutory 
requirements for inspection  which N didnt do. And NFU wasnt responsible for Ns 
consequential losses because the lack of an inspection wasnt the cause of this. 
N didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide, so the case was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres a great deal of correspondence on this complaint and several issues have been 
raised. I will, however, focus on the issues which are  in my opinion  relevant to reaching a 
fair outcome to this complaint. That isnt meant as a discourtesy, it simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service. 
Before I set out my findings, I must explain I havent considered the concerns raised 
regarding how Ns subsequent claim was handled and settled. NFU responded to Ns 
complaint in July 2020 regarding the lack of inspection carried out in 2019, and the impact 
Ms N says this had on N. They explained N could raise a claim for the boiler breakdown 
which N later went on to do. This was settled after NFUs July 2020 final response letter 
answering this complaint. 
As such, should N remain unhappy about the way NFU handled and settled the claim, Ms N 
would need to raise a separate complaint with NFU on Ns behalf. As explained above, Ive 
only considered the lack of inspection in 2019 and the impact Ms N says this had on N. 
The policy terms 
Ms N says she added engineering insurance and inspection to Ns policy to ensure the boiler 
and pressurised vessels were inspected annually to comply with statutory requirements. She 
says when the boiler inspection was due, she contacted NFU, but was told an inspector 
didnt need to attend. Ms N says she challenged this several times but was told the same. 
It's disputed whether Ms N was given this wrong information. Ms N says it happened during 
calls to NFUs agent on their mobile  which arent recorded. NFU says theyve been unable 
to locate any recordings. Having considered this point, Ive no reason to doubt Ms Ns 
testimony she was given incorrect information. Nor have I seen any supporting evidence that 
undermines it. I say this because the agent says they cannot recall this  whereas Im more 
persuaded by Ms Ns consistent testimony on this aspect. 
Importantly, however, Ms N says this information surprised her, as she says the previous 
insurer N held this cover with always insisted on an inspector attending during a service. So, 
whilst Ms N says she was told by NFU this didnt need to happen, I think Ms N ought to have 
been reasonably aware that wasnt the case  based on her awareness of Ns statutory 
requirements, and her experiences with Ns previous insurer. 
Ive also considered the policy terms which say NFU will undertake the inspection during the 
period of insurance. However, they also state the following:  
Special Conditions
 
3. Responsibility for ensuring compliance with statutory requirements for inspection and/or 
testing of PLANT rests with YOU. YOU are responsible for identifying which items require 
inspection and for preparing, at YOUR own expense, such items for inspection. 
This means it was Ns responsibility for ensuring compliance with statutory requirements for 
inspection. So, even in the most likely event Ms N was provided with incorrect information 
here, Im satisfied the onus was on N to ensure it complied with statutory requirements 
regarding inspection. 
On balance, I think Ms N was most likely aware of these requirements being a company director and given her previous experience with another insurer. She had also emailed NFU 
to confirm her engineer would arrange for the inspection to take place once contacted. 
Where I think NFU let N down was their failure to contact Ms N to arrange the inspection. 
However, with that said, Ms N  on behalf of N  should have been reasonably aware of the 
statutory requirements when the policy amendment was made in July 2019. I also havent 
seen strong supporting evidence that demonstrates NFU were made aware when the 
inspection was due  which I understand was around the time N changed this cover over to 
NFU. 
In any event, Ms N says the boiler failed due to a manufacturer defect. And the manufacturer 
declined to assist as no valid inspection certificate was in place. So, Ive gone on to consider 
whether Im satisfied  had the inspection taken place when Ms N says it should have  this 
would have made a material difference to the outcome of this complaint. 
Whether NFU prejudiced Ns position  
Ms N said within an email in March 2020 the manufacturer would have declined to assist N 
initially due to scale, but this wouldnt have been correct. She thinks the breakdown occurred 
as the result of a manufacturer defect. 
Around March 2020, NFU said it wasnt possible to conclusively determine the root cause of 
the boiler breakdown. But said, given its age, it was unlikely due to a defect associated with 
how it was manufactured in 2015. Further, they said the faults wouldnt have been detected 
during an inspection given where they were occurring, and they werent identified during the 
2019 service in any event. They say the failure to inspect the boiler when Ms N says it 
should have taken place had no bearing on Ns ability to pursue a claim against the 
manufacturer, as Ms N would have held previous service and inspection records  including 
the inspection undertaken by NFU, in March 2020. 
So, whilst the evidence suggests the manufacturer didnt assist due to there being no valid 
inspection certificate, I havent seen strong supporting evidence that persuades me the 
manufacturer would have accepted a manufacturing defect caused the breakdown  had the 
inspection taken place when N says it should have. And therefore, the manufacturer would 
have completed repairs and covered all Ns consequential losses under the warranty. 
Ns other financial losses 
Ms N has submitted costs on behalf of N she thinks NFU are responsible for reimbursing. Ms 
N says these are consequential losses resulting from the boiler breakdown. But I dont agree 
NFU are responsible for reimbursing these costs. I say this because Im not satisfied NFU 
were responsible for the failure of the boiler  because they didnt cause it to breakdown. 
Nor do I find their failure to inspect the boiler when Ms N says it should have happened 
resulted in the faults occurring. So, whilst Im sorry to disappoint N, I wont be directing NFU 
to reimburse these consequential losses following the boiler breakdown  because NFU 
werent responsible for causing it to breakdown. 
Summary Overall, I find NFU let N down when failing to make contact to arrange the inspection. 
However, the policy says N was responsible for ensuring compliance with statutory 
requirements  not NFU. 
Further, even in the most likely event that Ms N was given incorrect information, the 
evidence suggests  in my view  Ms N ought to have been reasonably aware of Ns 
statutory requirements in any event. And, importantly, I havent been persuaded the 
manufacturer would have resolved both the boiler breakdown and Ns consequential losses 
if the inspection took place when Ms N says it should have. 
NFU paid N £200 compensation by way of an apology given the way things were handled. 
Overall, I cant agree NFU failed to acknowledge their mistake, or didnt take reasonable 
steps to put matters right. So, I wont be directing NFU to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman