DRN-3937839
The complaint
Miss A is unhappy that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) declined a 
claim under a group income protection insurance policy she had the benefit of. 
What happened
In mid-2017, Miss A became absent from work and was signed off by her GP with stress at 
work. She had the benefit of a group income protection policy (the policy) through her 
employer at the time, which can pay out a percentage of her salary after shed been off work 
for 52 weeks (the deferred period). As Miss A didnt return to work, a claim was made on 
the policy. 
L&G linked the time Miss A had been off work from mid-2017 to previous bouts of sickness 
for similar reasons in 2016, meaning the deferred period ended in May 2018. 
L&G declined the claim towards the end of 2018 on the basis that Miss A wasnt 
incapacitated as defined by the terms of the policy. It concluded that Miss A wasnt suffering 
from a clinical psychological condition of such severity preventing her from performing the 
essential duties of her own occupation; instead, it was her perceived work issues which 
prevented a return to work. 
Unhappy, Miss A complained to our service. Ultimately, our investigator didnt uphold her 
complaint. He concluded that the medical evidence didnt show that Miss A was incapable of 
performing her occupation  for any employer - during the entirety of the deferred period. 
And L&G acted reasonably by declining the claim. However, because L&G hadnt obtained 
medical records from Miss As psychologist, he said that L&G should consider  and 
reassess the claim in light of - any further medical evidence Miss A wished to submit in 
support of the claim.
Subsequently further medical evidence was obtained from Miss As psychologist spanning 
the period 2016 to 2018, which L&G considered along with the original information collected.  
In September 2020, L&G wrote to Miss A directly to confirm that it had maintained its 
decision to decline the claim. It acknowledged that there was reference to Miss A living with 
an eating disorder, but it said it wasnt clear that the eating order diagnosis itself was causing 
her absence from work during the deferred period. It concluded that the information still 
pointed towards the significant difficulties shed experienced with her former employer as the 
main reason for absence during the deferred period. And that it hadnt been established that 
Miss A was unable to perform the duties of her occupation, with any employer during the 
entirety of the deferred period. 
Miss A didnt think this was fair, so she brought a further complaint to our service. And our 
investigator ultimately concluded that L&Gs decision to again decline the claim in light of the 
further medical evidence was fair and reasonable. 
Miss A didnt agree, and she raised points in response to our investigators view, which our 
investigator responded to. Miss A wanted more time to obtain further evidence about her 
eating disorder and the impact it had on her during the deferred period in conjunction with 
her other symptoms. 
Our investigator said that any further evidence obtained now wouldnt be relevant to the 
complaint being investigated by our service and that would need to be sent to L&G directly.
Because Miss A didnt accept our investigators view but wanted more time to provide further 
medical evidence, the situation reached an impasse. So, our investigator notified the parties 
that the complaint would be referred to an Ombudsman to decide and provided a final 
deadline for any information to be sent to our service for me to consider. No substantive 
evidence was received. However, in mid-March 2023, Miss A did provide further comments 
to be considered.
So, I now need to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
L&G has an obligation to handle claims fairly and promptly. And it mustnt unreasonably 
decline a claim.
Given Miss As more recent comments to our investigator, in response to his view, I think its 
important to clarify that Ive considered whether L&Gs decision to decline Miss As claim  
as set out in its letter dated September 2020  is fair and reasonable. And when doing so, 
Ive considered the available evidence from the time relied on to make that decision. 
Ive also thought about whether L&G reasonably ought to have done anything more before 
making that decision  such as obtaining any other medical evidence available at the time. 
And Ive taken on board all of the comments Miss A has made including her recent 
submissions. 
Was Miss A incapacitated during the deferred period?
Subject to the remaining terms of the policy, the financial benefit under the policy will be paid 
each month if a member is incapacitated throughout the deferred period. And, importantly, 
when making a claim, its for Miss A to demonstrate that she met the definition of incapacity 
as defined by the policy terms. 
Under the policy (in conjunction with the policy schedule): 
Incapacity (for the first five years of the claims duration) means a specific and 
diagnosed illness that prevents the member from following the essential duties of 
his/her own occupation, and where the member isnt being paid for any other 
occupation or self-employment of any kind.  
Essential duties are those that are normally required for the performance of the 
members own occupation and cannot be reasonably omitted or modified.
Im satisfied that Miss A was signed off by his GP as being unable to work due to stress at 
work/work-related stress during the deferred period. Thats a relevant consideration here but 
the fact that Miss A was signed off by her GP doesnt automatically mean shes 
incapacitated. Theres a specific policy definition that needs to be met. 
Im not a medical expert. So, Ive relied on all the evidence available to me when considering 
whether L&G has fairly concluded that Miss A was incapacitated as defined by the policy. And having considered the medical evidence, Im satisfied that L&G has acted fairly and 
reasonably here. Thats because I think its fairly concluded that it wasnt illness preventing 
Miss A from carrying out the essential duties of the role but rather the workplace issues 
shed reported. 
All in all, Im satisfied that the evidence supports that the workplace issues were the main 
trigger for Miss A initially being off work sick for an extended period. And its unlikely those 
underlying issues wouldve have existed if Miss A was doing the essential duties of the role 
at a different employer. Ill explain why.
When signing Miss A off work sick in May 2017, the GP records reflect that: you 
were the victim of workplace bullying last year after challenging your boss last year. It 
seems that the event last week has highlighted there has been little support or 
change and despites work being aware, there has been no challenge to this person. 
You are feeling very anxious and panicky, like last year 
The other entries in Miss As GP notes during the deferred period support that she 
remained off work due to work related issues. For example, in February 2018, its 
reflected that shes been off work due to stress at work and was being bullied at work 
 and that shed been advised by her psychologist to have a full year off work. And 
although there are some other medical issues mentioned in the notes, theres nothing 
to suggest that these (in isolation or in conjunction with work-related issues) were the 
reasons which caused her to be off work during the entirety of the deferred period. 
And her GP certificates during this time relate to stress at work/work-related stress. 
The occupational health report from July 2018 (so a few months after the end of the 
deferred period) reflects that Miss A had been diagnosed with anxiety and stress 
which she attributes to work and a relationship with a senior colleagueshe does 
not report any past medical history and does not report any personal stressors. The 
report concludes: given the nature of her absence it appears that her recent ill health 
is most likely an acute stress reaction to the situation at work and so with the 
satisfactory resolution she will then be fit to begin a phased return to work. 
Miss As psychologist has prepared several letters dated between 2016 and 2018  
some of which were produced during the deferred period. A letter dated March 2018 
reflects that as a consequence of the extended bullying and accusations [Miss A] 
experienced at her workplace, [Miss A] has required long term psychological therapy 
to work through the trauma and stress related to these experiences. And in June 
2018, so shortly after the end of deferred period, the psychologist says Miss A is still 
working on improving her confidence and self esteem after the issues with her 
employers. We have agreed that the only way now for [Miss A] to begin to get her 
confidence back is to gradually get back into practice of being in employment. 
However, this is very difficult in the context of on-going work disputes.
The psychologist does also confirm that Miss A has a long-standing eating disorder, 
and it appears that this is why Miss A first began seeing the psychologist. However, 
theres nothing to suggest that Miss A wasnt able to carry out the essential duties of 
her role because of this. Miss A was initially able to work whilst receiving support 
from her psychologist about her eating disorder. 
Miss As psychologist also says in a letter dated September 2017 that Miss A does 
still turn to her eating disorder when emotions become overwhelming and feel 
unmanageable.  And in a letter dated January 2018 its reflected that due to 
complicated interpersonal dynamics currently occurring in [Miss As] life, she is 
struggling at times to manage deep core beliefs that cause emotional distress and 
that she manages this emotional distress with the eating disorder behaviours. So, whilst Miss As eating disorder may have become worse during the deferred 
period, her eating disorder isnt mentioned on the GP certificates as a reason for her 
being unable to work during the deferred period  or mentioned as the reason in her 
GP notes from this time. Nor does Miss A mention this as a reason when answering 
the question as to why shes absent from work in the claim form dated June 2018. 
She says she was absent due to stress caused by bullying. 
I appreciate what Miss A has said about not wanting to disclose her eating disorder 
to her employer and thats why its not referred to on her GP certificates. However, I 
dont think L&G has reasonably relied on what the medical evidence shows. 
Considering the totality of the evidence, including whats been said by the psychologist, I 
dont think its unreasonable for L&G to conclude that Miss A didnt meet the policy definition 
of being incapacitated. And based on everything the psychologist has said, I dont think L&G 
ought reasonably to have requested any further information from the psychologist before 
declining the claim again. 
I know Miss A will be very disappointed by my decision. And I can see shes been through a 
very difficult time. I hope that it helps Miss A to know that this complaint has been carefully 
considered by someone independent of the parties. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Miss As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman