DRN-1716443
The complaint
Mr E complains on behalf of E about incorrect information National Westminster Bank Plc 
gave about a business banking current account.
What happened
Mr E is a director of E which is a limited company that has loans and business banking 
facilities with Natwest. Mr E has been dealing with this complaint.
In late 2019 Mr E contacted Natwest to discuss moving E's business banking current 
account elsewhere as he was unhappy with the service he was receiving. He was given 
conflicting information about whether E was allowed to do this as it has loans with Natwest. 
Mr E complained to Natwest who gave E their final response to the complaint. Mr E 
remained unsure of what E was allowed to do and emailed Natwest for clarification. Mr E 
didn't hear back from Natwest and came to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into what happened. They thought Natwest should pay E 
£100 for the time and inconvenience caused by the wrong information; to which Natwest 
agreed. They also explained to Mr E that it was possible for E to move its business banking 
current account elsewhere as long as it kept a 'feeder account' with Natwest for the loan 
repayments. Mr E remained unhappy saying the £100 was below his expectation due to the 
time, stress and aggravation caused over a long period of time.
Our investigator considered what Mr E said, but still felt the £100 was fair for what 
happened. Mr E said he was unhappy as E has had to pay a monthly fee that he says E 
could've got cheaper elsewhere. Mr E asked that an ombudsman review the complaint so it 
has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There's no doubt Mr E was given incorrect information when he asked about moving E's 
business banking current account to another bank. He was told this wasn't possible as E has 
some loans with Natwest. He should've been told this was allowed, as long as he left a 
'feeder account' with Natwest from which the loan repayments could be debited.
I can understand why Mr E was confused by the information he was given and sought 
independent advice about what E was able to do. Natwest apologised for the wrong 
information, and I agree with our investigator that some compensation is due for the trouble 
caused. 
It's important to note that the account is in the name of E. Even though Mr E has been 
dealing with the problem, it is impact on the business entity of E that I must consider, and not 
Mr E personally.When thinking about compensation payments for when something has gone wrong, one of 
the things to consider is how long it took a business to fix the problem and deal with the 
complaint. Here Mr E first contacted Natwest on 5 November with his query. On 21 
November Natwest issued their response to the complaint. So whilst Mr E was put to some 
trouble in that time, Natwest took 16 days to deal with the problem and issue their final 
response on the complaint. 
Looking at this timeframe I think Natwest dealt with the problem in a timely manner. 
When E got the final word from Natwest Mr E was still not clear about the situation. He 
emailed Natwest who say the email was never received, and that's why there was no 
response. At the same time Mr E brought the complaint to our service.
Since coming to our service Mr E hasn't taken any action to either move the account for E to 
another bank, or ask Natwest any further questions. Mr E says that during this time E has 
been charged monthly fees by Natwest that would be cheaper elsewhere if the business 
banking current account was moved. I can understand why Mr E might not have wanted to 
go back to Natwest again due to the wrong information he had been previously given.
Looking at the final response from Natwest I think it makes clear that the loan agreements 
for E say that customers must have a 'feeder account' with the bank. It doesn't say E has to 
keep its business banking current account with Natwest. So from that time E was aware the 
business banking current account could be moved. Whilst the response could be clearer in 
other areas, I'm satisfied Natwest gave E the correct information about the need to keep a 
'feeder account'. Because of this I don't think Natwest should repay any fees E has incurred 
since the final response was issued.
Putting things right
I agree Natwest made a mistake by giving incorrect information when Mr E first contacted 
them about E's accounts. I think Natwest then dealt with the matter promptly, gave the 
correct information and apologised for what had happened. Bearing in mind I must consider 
the effect only on E, and not Mr E personally, I think the £100 Natwest has agreed to pay is 
fair compensation for this complaint.
My final decision
National Westminster Bank Plc has agreed to pay E £100 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc should pay E £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2020.
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman