DRN-3604749
The complaint
Mr G complains about the transfer of pension benefits from a defined benefits (DB) 
occupational pension scheme, to a personal pension. Mr G says he was advised to transfer 
by Simpson Kelly Associates Ltd (SKA)  who this complaint is about - and another 
financial business (which Ill call Firm R). Mr G believe that the advice provided was 
unsuitable for him, which has resulted in a financial loss.
What happened
In June 2017 Mr G met with SKA to discuss his pension and retirement needs. Mr G says he 
was recommended to SKA by a friend. 
SKA completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Gs circumstances and objectives 
at the time. This records that Mr G was considering a possible transfer of his DB pension 
scheme benefits. Because SKA didnt hold the relevant permissions from the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) to advise on the transfer of his benefits in his DB scheme, it said 
Firm R would provide Mr G with advice.
In July 2017 Firm R sent Mr G a suitability report in which it recommended he transfer out of 
his DB scheme to a personal pension plan. Mr G accepted the recommendation and an 
amount of around £142,000 was transferred to a new personal pension and it was invested 
in a cautious managed fund. Firm R charged Mr G around £4,200 for its advice, and Firm R 
paid around £1,900 to SKA as an introducer fee. 
Following the transfer, SKA provided Mr G with ongoing advice and servicing of his pension.
In 2021 Mr G complained to both SKA and Firm R about the advice. SKA said it hadnt 
provided Mr G with any advice to transfer his pension  it said it had referred him to Firm R. 
Mr Gs representative asked our service to consider Mr Gs complaint. In summary they said 
SKA did advise Mr G to transfer his pension. They said Mr G had no contact with Firm R, yet 
despite that, the transfer went ahead. They said that, regardless of whether SKA provided 
advice, SKA should be held jointly responsible for the advice on the basis that a joint venture 
existed between SKA and Firm R  a position supported by both the courts and the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They werent persuaded that SKA had
advised Mr G to transfer his pension. They said the responsibility for the advice was Firm Rs 
and they were satisfied that Mr G had only transferred his pension because Firm R advised 
him to do so.
Mr Gs representative didnt accept this, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to not uphold it. My reasons are set out below.
Firstly I can see that Mr Gs representative has referred to previous decisions, the wider 
relationship between Firm R and SKA as well as legal cases in support of its argument. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. And I do 
so with regard to the particular facts and circumstances of Mr Gs complaint  each case is 
determined on its own merits. So what I determine to be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this complaint could be different to what a court might decide. I also want 
to be clear that Im only considering the individual facts and circumstances of Mr Gs 
dealings with SKA. I wont be considering SKAs alleged acts or omissions in other cases 
where it introduced individuals to Firm R. And I wont be considering the acts or omissions of 
Firm R in its dealings with Mr G because this complaint is about SKA  its not about Firm R.
My understanding of Mr Gs representatives position is that SKA should be held liable for 
the advice and resulting financial loss suffered by Mr G. It says this is because Mr G had no 
real contact with Firm R and it says SKA verbally advised him to transfer his pension. It says 
this interaction with SKA persuaded Mr G to go ahead with the transfer. It also argues there 
was a joint venture between SKA and Firm R, and it says SKA should be held liable because 
it failed to treat Mr G fairly, have regard to his best interests and manage conflicts of 
interests. 
Did SKA advise Mr G to transfer?
Im satisfied SKA did not hold the necessary permissions from the FCA to advise on the 
transfer of defined-benefit occupational schemes. For this reason it referred Mr G to Firm R, 
which did hold the necessary permissions for it to provide advice on the transfer. The referral 
was something that it could do, and in the circumstances Im satisfied it was necessary.
Having considered all of the available evidence, Im not persuaded that SKA advised Mr G to 
transfer his DB scheme benefits. Im satisfied it was Firm R, which provided the advice to 
Mr G to transfer out of his DB scheme in 2017 and it is this busines, which is solely 
responsible for the advice it gave Mr G.
It's not disputed that Mr G met with SKA. It completed a fact-find document to record 
information about Mr Gs circumstances and objectives as well as making an assessment of  
and documenting Mr Gs attitude to investment risk. I also think its likely there was a 
discussion about Mr Gs retirement objectives, which went as far as talking about the generic 
advantages and disadvantages of pension transfers  something SKA has said was likely 
the case. But I think this is as far as things went. And I dont think the completion of these 
documents or the nature of Mr Gs interaction with SKA demonstrates that SKA gave Mr G 
advice to transfer his pension.
In my view, the evidence shows that the remaining work required to put Mr G in a position to 
transfer was completed by Firm R. On 30 June 2017 Firm R sent Mr G a Pension Referral 
and Engagement letter, which said that following the referral from SKA it would be 
responsible for the pension advice given to Mr G. The subsequent suitability letter of 
July 2017, which set out the formal written advice was issued by Firm R. I can see here that 
it also referred to Mr Gs meeting with SKA  but it also said that Mr G had given his permission for all the relevant information to be passed to Firm R to allow it to deal with 
things because he understood SKA didnt have the necessary permissions to assist with the 
pension transfer. Furthermore, the pension application form for the new personal pension 
included Firm Rs details as the adviser and not SKAs. Firm R also provided written 
confirmation to the trustees of Mr Gs DB scheme that it had provided and was responsible 
for the advice to transfer benefits from the DB scheme.
So, taking everything into account Im satisfied the advice Mr G received to transfer his 
DB scheme pension benefits was given by Firm R and not SKA. I also think Mr G wouldve 
understood that it was Firm R, not SKA that was providing him with advice.
Mr Gs representative says that, despite this SKA did provide Mr G with advice to transfer, 
and did so verbally. But having considered the available evidence, Ive not seen anything to 
support what Mr Gs representative says  Im not persuaded that SKA advised Mr G to 
transfer his pension benefits.
It's clear that Mr G met with SKA, and as Ive already said I dont doubt discussions took 
place. I accept its likely SKA hoped that Firm R would recommend Mr G transfer so it could 
become the servicing adviser and receive ongoing fees. Its also possible that Mr G believed 
SKA was advocating for the transfer of his benefits. But I havent seen enough here to show 
that SKA gave Mr G a personal recommendation, either verbally or in writing. In my view, 
and for the reasons Ive given above, the evidence shows that Firm R advised Mr G to 
transfer his pension, not SKA.
Im mindful too that Mr G could not have transferred his pension based solely on his verbal 
interactions with SKA. The trustees of Mr Gs DB scheme required that he get advice from 
an FCA registered adviser. And it was Firm R that provided confirmation of this to them. SKA 
did not produce such a document because it did not provide Mr G with any formal pension 
advice. So, Mr G could not have transferred his DB scheme benefits based on the meetings 
he had with SKA or any verbal advice he feels he was given  he wouldnt have been able to 
meet the trustees requirements.
Ultimately, Im satisfied Firm R gave the advice for Mr G to transfer out of his DB scheme. 
And I dont think SKAs earlier involvement, or the fact it facilitated the completion of any 
paperwork, automatically makes SKA liable for the suitability of the pension transfer advice 
provided by Firm R. It is my view that Firm R remains fully responsible for the advice it gave 
Mr G to transfer.
Mr Gs representative says regardless of whether SKA provided advice Mr G was persuaded 
to transfer based upon his interactions with SKA. But Ive not seen anything to support this 
view. As Ive already said Ive not seen any evidence that SKA provided with Mr G with 
verbal or written pension advice - everything points to Firm R having given the advice, which 
led to Mr G transferring, and that Mr G understood this. There is nothing to show or suggest 
that SKA in any way endorsed a transfer, which might reasonably had led to Mr G placing 
more weight on what it said versus the formal written advice he received from Firm R. 
Nothing Ive seen persuades me that Mr Gs actions were driven purely by the interaction 
with SKA such that, had Firm R advised against the transfer, Mr G wouldve disregarded that 
advice and gone ahead anyway.
In light of what Ive said above, its my decision that it was Firm Rs advice that ultimately 
enabled Mr G to transfer his DB pension scheme benefits. And if this advice was unsuitable, 
I think Firm R alone is responsible for any losses flowing from the transfer.
Did SKA and Firm R embark on a joint venture?Mr Gs representative says a joint venture existed between SKA and Firm R, which 
facilitated Mr G transferring his benefits and that both businesses remain jointly liable for any 
financial loss Mr G has suffered.
For the reasons Ive already set out above, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to hold 
SKA liable for the advice given to Mr G to transfer his pension benefits. Although Mr Gs 
representative states that Mr G was verbally advised to transfer by SKA, Im satisfied Mr G 
transferred his benefits because Firm R advised him to do so, independently of SKAs 
involvement. So, I think Mr Gs losses flow directly from Firm Rs advice, rather than 
because of any interaction he had with SKA before that.
Did SKA treat Mr G fairly or have due regard to his best interests?
Mr Gs representative has suggested that SKA didnt treat Mr G fairly or act in his best 
interests. 
As I have said above, SKA did not have the necessary regulatory permission to advise Mr G 
on the transfer of his pension benefits. So, SKA could not have advised Mr G against 
transferring, based on what it may have generally known about the regulators starting 
position that it isnt usually in a customers best interests to transfer DB scheme benefits 
away from the existing scheme. As SKA didnt have the necessary permissions, it referred 
Mr G to Firm R, which was regulated by the FCA to provide pension transfer advice. I dont 
think SKA could reasonably be expected to carry out further due diligence on Firm R, 
particularly as Firm R had the necessary permissions from the FCA to provide this advice. 
And, as a regulated adviser, it was also required to treat Mr G fairly, act in his best interests 
and provide him with suitable advice.
Overall, Ive not seen any evidence that it was SKAs advice that ultimately led to Mr Gs 
decision to transfer his pension benefits, without the actions of Firm R. Im also not 
persuaded that SKA made an error or treated Mr G unfairly in the role it carried out. Because 
of this, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require 
SKA to pay compensation to Mr G or to take any further action in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Ive decided to not uphold this complaint  so I make no 
award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman