DRN-2614506
The complaint
Mr C complains about the valuation U K Insurance Limited (UKI) placed on his car following 
a claim made on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Cs car was deemed a total loss following an accident. UKI offered Mr C £9,880 in 
settlement of his claim. It said this was the cars pre-accident market value. But Mr C thought 
this didnt take into account the cars specification and immaculate condition. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought UKIs 
valuation had been made correctly according to our approach. And so she thought it was fair 
and reasonable. 
Mr C replied that he thought the guides we use for valuations didnt accurately reflect the 
market. He said he couldnt replace his car with one of the same specification and condition 
with UKIs offer. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come 
to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr C feels frustrated with UKIs settlement offer. I can also understand 
that he wants a fair valuation for his car. He thinks UKI should offer him £1,000 to £1,500 
more in settlement of his claim. 
The investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
I can see that Mr C doesnt agree with our approach. But its one we use to be fair to all 
parties. Mr C wanted us to provide valuations for his car at other times. But we only consider 
the valuation at the point of the accident. This is used to establish the cars market value, in 
keeping with his policys terms and conditions. 
Mr C said he couldnt find a like for like replacement for UKIs valuation. But the policy 
doesnt provide this. In the policy document, market value is defined as:
 the cost of replacing your car with another of the same make and model and of a similar 
age and condition at the time of the accident or loss.
Our investigator thought that UKIs offer was fair and reasonable. So Ive reviewed how she 
came to his conclusion. I can see that she checked the motor trade guides we use for cars of 
the same make, model, age, mileage, condition and specification as Mr Cs car. The above 
average mileage made a significant difference to the valuations. She found that UKIs offer 
was the highest of the valuations she found. 
Mr C has done extensive research into trends in the value of second-hand cars. But we think 
the guides we use take into account likely selling prices. Hes also provided examples of 
similar cars advertised for sale at higher prices than UKIs offer. 
But we dont find advertisements particularly persuasive as these are essentially asking 
prices and arent selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as they 
provide evidence of likely retail selling prices. I can see that UKI passed the examples Mr C 
provided to the motor trade guide it used as a challenge. But I cant see that this led to an 
increase in its valuation. 
So I think UKI valued Mr Cs car fairly and reasonably and in keeping with our approach and 
the policys terms and conditions. So I think its offer in settlement of his claim is fair and 
reasonable and I dont require it to increase this.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman