DRN-4319673
The complaint
Miss B complains that Santander UK Plc failed to properly administer her account leading to 
inconvenience, unnecessary stress and loss of funds.
What happened
Miss B explained that she noticed several transactions she didnt recognise and reported 
them to a Santander branch. Her card was cancelled and re-ordered. The payments were 
passed to the fraud team for investigation.
Miss B then explained that she made several trips to a branch to collect her new card which, 
on each occasion, had failed to turn up. As the card hadnt reached the branch, it was 
cancelled and re-ordered for security reasons. Miss B believes she made about three trips to 
collect her card, although Santander only believe it was twice.
Throughout the complaint, Miss B has said she was inconvenienced by the multiple trips she 
had to make to the branch (which wasnt the nearest due to a closure) and she was also 
recovering from a medical procedure which made the repeated trips difficult for her.
Because Miss B couldnt use her card to withdraw cash, she was told she could only 
withdraw £300 from the branch and did so on three occasions. On the fourth occasion a 
different employee arranged for a larger withdrawal to be made of £2,000. Unfortunately, 
Miss B had the money stolen shortly after leaving the branch.
Santander looked into the fraudulent transactions reported by Miss B where they were 
temporarily refunded to her account. Later, those same payments were redebited from her 
account and latterly refunded (again). At the end of these multiple movements into and out of 
her account, Miss B was put back in the position she was in prior to the disputed 
transactions.
Later, Miss B raised a complaint with Santander concerning the treatment shed received 
with her cards and the activity at the branch. She believed her multiple trips had given a thief 
opportunity to rob her.
Santander looked into Miss Bs complaint and wrote to her with their final opinion, 
confirming that the disputed transactions had been repaid or were about to be repaid. They 
recognised that the first new card had been lost in the post and their records only showed 
two cards had been requested (not three). They didnt think the loss of Miss Bs funds from 
the robbery were their responsibility.
Miss B was left unhappy with Santanders response and brought her complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review. It was looked into by one of our 
investigators who asked both parties for information about the complaint. He reviewed 
evidence provided by Miss B. He later concluded that Santander had let Miss B down and 
recommended they make a payment to her of £200 for the poor service she received. He 
didnt uphold her complaint concerning the loss of the money from the robbery.
Santander responded and offered to pay Miss B £300 for the service she received. Miss B 
later turned this down believing that Santander should be responsible for the funds she lost 
and to pay her higher compensation.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has now been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The disputed transactions originally reported in this complaint have been refunded to Miss B, 
which means I dont need to consider them further. The remaining issues are around 
Santanders service and Miss Bs experience when trying to obtain a new card and cash 
from the branch.
Ill deal with the loss of her money when she was robbed first. I was sorry to hear of this and 
Ive no doubt it was a traumatic experience for Miss B. I understand she believed the 
repeated journeys she had to make contributed to the situation leading up to her loss, but 
unfortunately theres no evidence to support that assertion by Miss B.
I understand it was quite an effort for her to visit the branch repeatedly to withdraw the small 
amounts of cash because she was waiting for her new debit card. Im not fully aware of the 
circumstances leading up to the theft, but as this was once her transaction had been 
completed and shed left the branch, I dont think Santander can be held responsible for it.  
Miss B said she had three failed visits to replace her card, but Santander say it was only 
cancelled once and successfully delivered the second time. Its not clear why Miss B was 
required to collect her card from the branch, rather than have it sent to her home, but she 
clearly feels it was inconvenient and I agree.
There was also an issue with withdrawing cash whilst she waited for her card, resulting in 
multiple trips to the branch until the larger withdrawal was made. Miss B was unhappy with 
how Santander handled this and theyve provided their policy regarding this type of 
withdrawal. In this particular circumstance the lower amount withdrawn £300 is the usual 
limit without a card and any more is at the discretion of the manager. It seems that last 
withdrawal was made with the managers approval after conversations were held about 
scams with Miss B.
I dont think Santander went outside their policy here, but when taking a step back, its 
apparent that Miss B experienced less than ideal service. I think it was an unfortunate series 
of events that resulted in the service she received. Whilst I dont think that Santander 
intended to cause Miss B stress and inconvenience, the cumulative effect of the card delays 
and repeated visits to withdraw cash resulted in her poor experience.
Santander themselves increased the payment recommended by the investigator to £300 and 
I think, in the circumstances, that this is both fair and reasonable. I appreciate Miss B feels 
they should pay her more, but taking all the factors into account, I dont feel a higher 
payment is warranted to recognise the experience she had.
Putting things right
Santander to pay Miss B £300 for the stress and inconvenience caused to her.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Santander UK Plc are required to settle 
the complaint as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman