DRN-3894597
The complaint
Mr C complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank lent to him 
irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr Cs complaint is about a loan provided by Tesco. The loan was taken out in October 2021 
in the sum of £12,000 repayable over a term of 60 months at £215 per month.
Mr C complained that Tesco lent to him irresponsibly.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought that Tesco had carried out 
reasonable and proportionate checks before lending the money and there was nothing in the 
information gathered from the checks which meant that Tesco shouldnt have lent to Mr C.
Mr C didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending 
including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice on our website. Ive 
had this approach in mind when considering Mr Cs complaint.
Tesco needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, 
this means that it shouldve carried out reasonable and proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr C could afford to repay what was being lent in a sustainable manner.
There isnt a set list of checks that a business needs to carry out. Tesco needed to consider 
factors such as the amount of the loan, the amount of the repayments, the cost of the credit 
and the consumers income and expenditure.
I can see that when Mr C applied for the loan, he declared a net monthly income of £2,595. 
Tesco verified this income. Mr C also declared that his monthly mortgage repayment was 
£420 and that he was paying around £276 per month towards his existing consumer credit 
commitments.
Tesco carried out a credit search against Mr Cs credit file. These checks showed that Mr C 
had around £7,275 in existing consumer credit commitments, and a loan/hire purchase 
balance of around £25,425.
Tesco carried out an affordability assessment based on the information it had gathered 
about Mr Cs income and expenditure and assessed the loan as being affordable for Mr C.
Ive thought about whether the checks carried out by Tesco were reasonable and 
proportionate. I havent seen anything in the information gathered by Tesco to suggest that 
further or more detailed checks shouldve been carried out. Im of the view that the checks 
carried out by Tesco were reasonable and proportionate.
Ive gone on to consider whether the decision to approve the loan was fair. Looking at the 
information gathered by Tesco, I cant see anything to suggest that Mr C was experiencing 
financial difficulties, or that he was unlikely to be able to sustainably repay the loan.
Mr C has told this service that he took out further lending at around the same time as the 
loan with Tesco. Ive taken this into account. However, I dont think Tesco wouldve been 
aware of this, because finance providers report to credit reference agencies at different 
times. Theres often a  delay between a  consumer taking out finance and the customers 
credit file being updated with details of that finance. So I cant fairly say that Tesco knew 
about other lending that Mr C took out at around the same time as the loan.
Based on everything Ive seen, Im satisfied that Tesco carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks and that the lending decision was fair. I havent seen any information to 
suggest that the loan was unaffordable for Mr C. Therefore, I dont think that Tesco lent 
irresponsibly.
Im aware that Mr C has told this service about his mental health issues. Mr C says he told 
Tesco about this in 2017. This service has asked Tesco to check its records. Tesco provided 
call details and contact notes. Ive reviewed these, but theres nothing in the information to 
that Tesco was aware of Mr Cs personal situation. So I cant fairly conclude that Tesco did 
something wrong or treated Mr C unfairly.
My findings
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman