DRN-4331702
The complaint
Mr M complains about the service provided to him by Barclays Bank UK PLC in respect of a 
payment dispute.
What happened
On 12 February 2023 Mr Ms current account was debited with the sum of £136.66 in 
respect of a transaction denoted in a foreign currency.
Mr M disputed this payment with Barclays.
On 19 April 2023 Barclays wrote to Mr M to say it had been unable to recover his disputed 
payment and it was unable to give him a refund.
Following receipt of the above correspondence Mr M complained Barclays to say, amongst 
other things, that its 19 April 2023 letter didnt include any specific details regarding the 
dispute or the amount in question [making it] difficult for [him] to understand the reasoning 
behind the [decision to decline his request for a refund].
On 30 May 2023 Barclays issued Mr M with a final response letter (FRL). Under cover of 
this FRL Barclays said it didnt believe it had done anything wrong, but as a gesture of 
goodwill it was prepared to pay him £136.66, the value of the 12 February 2023 disputed 
transaction.
Mr Ms complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded that Barclays 
had dealt with Mr Ms payment dispute and complaint about the same fairly and promptly 
and, having offered Mr M £136.66, it need do nothing further.
Mr M didnt agree and so his complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I can confirm that Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator and 
for the same reasons. There is also very little I can usefully add to what has already been 
said.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome. I would also add where the information Ive got is 
incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, Ive to base my decision on the balance of 
probabilities.
Having regards to the date the disputed payment was debited to Mr Ms account and the 
date of Barclays letter saying it couldnt give him a refund in respect of it, Im satisfied that 
Barclays dealt with Mr Ms disputed payment in good time and in an appropriate manner.
Barclays has said the reason it was unable to give Mr M a refund (in respect of his disputed 
payment) was because the merchant defended its chargeback submission and said a refund 
had already been issued. Now I appreciate I cant say for certain whether the merchant 
issued a refund or not, but Im satisfied that it was entirely reasonable for Barclays to accept 
that was indeed the case and to take the decision to not pursue the matter with the 
merchant, under the relevant chargeback scheme rules, any further  at least initially.
Mr M says that Barclays letter dated 19 April 2023 was unclear and he was unable, from its 
content, to identify why his disputed payment wasnt being refunded to him. But given this 
letter invited Mr M to call or write if he had any questions Im not persuaded that Barclays did 
anything wrong in writing to Mr M on 19 April 2023 in the manner that it did.
As I say above I cant say for certain that the merchant issued a refund as it submitted to 
Barclays in defence of Barclays chargeback submission. But I need make no finding on this 
point, or on whether Barclays should have pursed the matter further with the merchant 
(under the relevant chargeback scheme rules). I say this because of the decision taken by 
Barclays, under cover of its FRL dated 30 May 2023, to offer Mr M a refund of the disputed 
payment itself.
Having regards to the date the disputed payment was debited to Mr Ms account, the date(s) 
Mr M complained to Barclays and the date Barclays offered a full refund of the disputed 
payment amount to Mr M, Im satisfied that Barclays dealt with this matter in good time and 
both fairly and reasonably.
Ive listened to the call Mr M made to Barclays on 27 April 2023. I appreciate Mr Ms 
frustration that Barclays was unable to verify him during this call, due to his account having 
been closed, and that the call was disconnected after being placed on hold. But Im not 
persuaded that the service provided by Barclays to Mr M during this call warrants the making 
by me of any award in favour of Mr M. 
I appreciate Mr M may have incurred costs in making one or more phone calls to Barclays, 
but I see no reason that the cost of these should have to be refunded. I say this because it 
was Mr Ms decision to bank with Barclays (based in the UK) whilst residing abroad, there 
will always be occasions where a consumer needs to call their bank and incur the costs in 
doing so and corresponding with Barclays by email was always an option. 
In summary, Im satisfied that Barclays dealt with Mr Ms payment dispute and complaint(s) 
about the same fairly and reasonably, its offer to pay £136.66 is fair and it had appropriate 
regards to Mr Ms state of health in all its dealings with him.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC must, if it hasnt done so already, pay Mr M 
the sum of £136.66, but it need do nothing further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman