DRN-3318497
The complaint
Miss M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) misled 
her over a payment plan.
What happened
Miss M had a Barclaycard. On the September 2020 statement, her limit was £8,250 and the 
balance was £7,078. The minimum payments due were around £160 a month. Miss Ms 
income was affected by the COVID-19 pandemic and in May 2020  Barclaycard agreed a 
three-month payment holiday under the pandemic support scheme. After this ended, Miss M 
applied online for another payment holiday  in August 2020. This was declined and on 20 
August 2020, Miss M called Barclaycard to discuss the support she needed  as she 
couldnt afford the minimum payments. Barclaycard agreed a payment plan for 12 months  
with no payments and zero interest, but Miss Ms credit file was marked with the payment 
plan.
Miss M complained. She said she was mis-sold the payment plan. She said it wasnt made 
clear on the call that there would be an impact on her credit file. As a result, she was having 
trouble obtaining credit, including a mortgage application.
Barclaycard didnt uphold Miss Ms complaint. They said that their call handler advised Miss 
M of the implications of the payment plan regarding her credit file.  Her statement also stated 
the impact on it. Barclaycard said theyd written to Miss M on 15 October 2020 and the letter 
confirmed the details of the plan and the affect on her credit file.
Miss M brought her complaint to us and our investigator looked into what had happened. He 
said Barclaycard had acted fairly. He thought that it was fair that Barclaycard offered a 
payment plan, and not a payment holiday  as Miss Ms financial difficulties were likely to be 
longer term than the payment holiday scheme was designed for. So  they agreed a 12-
month payment plan with no interest, but with an entry on Miss Ms credit file. He was 
satisfied that the adviser made it clear about that. And the letter dated 15 October 2020 also 
detailed the affect on Miss Ms credit file.
Miss M asked that an ombudsman look into her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M originally asked for a further payment holiday under the pandemic support scheme  
shed had one for three months from May 2020 to July 2020. To explain - in March 2020, 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) announced guidance to lenders in response to the 
effects on customers of the COVID-19 pandemic. All lenders, including Barclaycard, had to 
put in place payment holidays on many credit agreements, including credit cards  to help 
customers who were affected. Customers could ask for a total of two payment holidays, 
each of three months  whereby payments could be suspended. Missed payments would not 
be reported to credit reference agencies, although interest would still be debited to the 
accounts. This support was provided by firms up to the end of October 2020. 
The idea of the payment holiday scheme was to provide short term support for customers 
who were struggling because of the pandemic  where they could reasonably say that they 
were likely to return to work within the next three months. Barclaycard declined to agree to a 
second payment holiday  because Miss M had said her financial difficulties were likely to 
last for more than three months from then. On the call on 20 August 2020  Miss M said that 
if she was optimistic, a return to work might happen in the next six months. And so  I cant 
say that Barclaycard were wrong to decline her initial request and look at other solutions. 
So  on the call on 20 August 2020, thats what Barclaycard did. Ive listened to the call. I 
think the call handler was very clear with Miss M about what she was being offered. Miss M 
said her financial position wasnt likely to improve in the next three months, and it was more 
likely to be at least six months. She said she couldnt manage to pay the minimum monthly 
payment of £160. The call handler went through an affordability assessment with Miss M and 
this showed a negative income (after expenses) of £316 a month. Miss M said she was likely 
to reduce her housing costs by half and so that then meant that a monthly payment of 
£80.75 was affordable. 
The call handler approved the payment plan for 12 months, with zero interest. But  she said 
before the plan was offered that  if we do come to an agreement and find a solution 
available, its likely that the solution will go down as an agreement on your credit file, so that 
will showthat we are able to come to an agreed reduced minimum payment. However, it 
will show as arrangement on your credit file. Are you still willing to (continue)? Miss M asked 
if that was a bad thing and the call handler explained I mean it does show on the credit file, 
so any potential lenders will be able to see that as arrangement but providing you still carry 
on to meet the payments, once thats resolved it will go down as completed, marked as 
completed. She went on to say that an arrangement was better than not paying the card 
instalments at all as that would lead to a default - which was a worse outcome.
The call handler then explained that two qualifying payments were needed, and then a 12-
month plan would be set up. And she read out the terms of the plan : so you need to make 
your two payments on the date we have agreed otherwise your plan may not set, once weve 
received your first two payments your plan will be set up and show as an arrangement on 
your credit file, this could make it harder for you to get credit in the future. Until the plan is 
set and if you miss any payments whilst on the plan, we will report late payments on your 
credit file and this could also make it harder for you to get credit in the future. You are unable 
to spend on the card again. We will review use of your card once the plan ends.Your 
interest will remain reduced to zero for the remainder of the plan, this will begin from your 
next statement.you will receive a letter confirming what we have agreed today and a 
further letter once the plan is set in place. 
The call handler checked Miss Ms understanding and asked, Is that all OK for you? Miss 
M replied, yes thats great thank you. In closing, Miss M said Fantastic, ok thats great. 
Thank you so much for your help youve been brilliant, thankyou.
And so  I think that Barclaycards call handler was clear about the impact on Miss Ms credit 
file. And  she checked Miss Ms understanding of it with her.Barclaycard then wrote two letters to Miss M to confirm the details of the plan  the letter 
dated 21 August 2020 said While were waiting for the two qualifying payments, well 
continue to let the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs) know about any outstanding arrears 
you have on your account This will affect your credit file, but once your repayment plan is up 
and running well update the CRAs. This will still affect your credit file, but it will show that 
youre working with us to repay what you owe. Miss M then made the two qualifying 
payments and in the next letter, dated 15 October 2020, Barclaycard said Well tell the 
Credit Reference Agencies that weve set up a reduced repayment plan for you. This will 
affect your credit file, but it shows that youre working with us to repay what you owe.
And so  for me, the letters clearly set out the impact on Miss Ms credit file.
I appreciate that Miss M feels strongly about what happened, and so will be disappointed by 
my decision  but Im not going to ask Barclaycard to do anything here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman