DRN-1473270
 
The complaint
Miss N says MYJAR Limited gave her loans she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
This complaint is about three loans that Myjar provided to Miss N - heres a table setting out 
details: 
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Highest
Repayment
1 23/11/2018 14/12/2018 3 £200.00 £101.65
2 14/12/2018 31/01/2019 3 £275.00 £138.19
3 31/01/2019 Outstanding 6 £925.00 £298.89
 
Miss N mainly says proper checks werent carried out to ensure the loans were affordable. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Ns complaint and thought the loans werent unfairly 
provided. 
Overall, our adjudicator thought that given the loan amounts, what was apparent about 
Miss Ns circumstances and her history with the lender, it wouldnt have been proportionate 
for Myjar to ask Miss N for the amount of information needed to show the lending was 
unsustainable. 
And our adjudicator didn't think that the number of loans Miss N had taken out, the amounts 
shed borrowed or the length of time shed been borrowing from Myjar shouldve alerted 
Myjar to think she was having money problems. 
Miss N disagreed. 
She doesnt believe that Myjar did the right checks, especially for the last loan which was 
such a big amount. And she feels that Myjar shouldve been concerned when she was 
borrowing again as soon as she paid the previous loan. Miss N says her credit report 
showed several payday loans and defaults.
Miss N has asked for a review so this complaint comes to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending  including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. 
Myjar needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, 
this means that each time she borrowed Myjar should have carried out proportionate checks 
to make sure Miss N could repay the loan in a sustainable way. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the borrowers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ns complaint. 
Before lending to Miss N, Myjar asked Miss N for information about her financial situation, 
such as her monthly income and spending, including what she was spending on other credit 
commitments, and it carried out some credit checks. 
Ive looked at each loan in turn and thought about whether it was fair for Myjar to lend to 
Miss N.
loan 1
When Miss N took out her first loan, Myjar had no reason to doubt what she told it about her 
financial situation. 
So Myjar was entitled to rely on the information Miss N provided in response to the questions 
it asked her and what it had discovered about her financial situation from its own checks. 
And looking at the figures that Myjar worked on, loan 1 shouldve been comfortably 
affordable for Miss N. Shed told Myjar that her monthly take home pay was around £1,800. 
So there wasnt anything to suggest that paying loan 1 would be a problem for her.  
At this early stage, Miss N didnt have any track record with the lender that shouldve alerted 
Myjar to any underlying money problems, and I cant see that there was anything in the 
information she provided or the information Myjar had gathered, which meant that Myjar 
shouldve taken steps to enquire further into her financial situation or do more to verify the 
information Miss N had declared. 
So I dont uphold Miss Ns complaint about loan 1.
loan 2
Miss N took out loan 2 the same day she repaid loan 1. 
I dont think that alone was a sufficient reason to make Myjar think that Miss N might be 
having serious money problems or that she would find it difficult to make the repayments she 
had signed up to.  
I cant see that Miss N gave Myjar any indication that her borrowing elsewhere was at the 
stage where it was causing her serious money problems during her application for loan 2. And it appears that Myjars own checks didnt flag up anything that shouldve made it realise 
it needed to probe more deeply into Miss Ns financial circumstances. 
Miss N says that Myjar shouldve done credit checks that showed the full extent of her 
financial situation and so it shouldve realised that she was struggling with debt.
But Loan 2 looked affordable compared with the take home pay Miss N had declared. And 
given what shed told Myjar and what was apparent about Miss Ns circumstances and her 
borrowing history at that time with Myjar, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for 
Myjar to ask Miss N for the amount of information that would be needed to show the lending 
was unsustainable before agreeing this loan.
Overall, I havent seen enough to make me think that the information Myjar had showed that 
loan 2 wasnt affordable for Miss N or that providing loan 2 to her was unfair. 
So Im not upholding Miss Ns complaint about loan 2. 
loan 3
Miss N took out this loan the same day she paid loan 2  this was now the second time that 
Myjar could see she was borrowing again straightaway after paying a previous loan. And this 
time the loan amount she borrowed was a lot more money. 
Miss N feels that Myjar didn't do all the checks she thinks it shouldve done before agreeing 
to lend to her  especially for this loan. 
Myjar had noted down the amount that Miss N had said she was paying per month towards 
other credit commitments  on top of her other spending. 
I do think Myjar should have looked further into Miss Ns financial situation when she took 
out loan 3, given that it was starting to look like the credit information Myjar recorded for 
Miss N might not fully explain her borrowing record with Myjar.
But looking at all the information thats available to me, I havent seen enough to make me 
think that Myjar ought to have decided not to agree this loan had it done so. 
 In coming to my decision, I've taken into account everything that Miss N said in response to 
our adjudicators assessment and I've taken into consideration the credit information shes 
sent us. 
Even if Myjar knew about the other borrowing that Miss N told us about, this wouldnt change 
my overall view. I say this because the extent of Miss Ns other payday lending and the 
default information shown on her credit report isnt enough for me fairly to be able to say that 
a responsible lender who knew this information should have declined her application for 
loan 3. 
Im sorry that Miss N found repaying these loans difficult. And I accept that in reality her 
financial situation wasnt fully reflected either in the information she provided, or the other 
information Myjar obtained.  
But in order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say that Miss N lost out as a result 
of something that Myjar did wrong. And for the reasons I've set out above, based on all the 
information I've seen and been told, I dont think thats the case. I am sorry to disappoint Miss N. But I hope my explanation helps her understand why Ive 
reached my decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 June 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman