DRN-1962473
Complaint
Mr F says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy on a credit card. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Fs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Neither Lloyds nor Mr F know when or how this policy was sold. Lloyds says it was sold 
sometime between the card being taken out in 1993 and 2000. I also havent been given any 
paperwork from the time of sale. The lack of information and evidence available isnt 
unreasonable given how long ago the policy was likely sold. But I have looked at this case 
reviewing what is available from 1993 to 2000. 
Mr F hasnt been able to tell us how the policy was sold and adds that he was unaware he 
even had it. He recalls taking the credit card in branch but says he wasnt told anything 
about the PPI. But Lloyds says it has always made sure the optional nature of the PPI was 
clear and only added to its customers accounts after asking them to agree to it.  
Where there is a dispute like this and I have limited information about a sale, I have to 
decide what I think is more likely based on everything I have seen. 
Lloyds has sent in a sample copy of the credit card branch application from it was using in 
1993, and this shows customers were given an option to add or decline PPI by either 
selecting a yes or no tick box option. But as Ive said above, its not clear whether Mr F took 
the PPI in 1993 at the same time he took the credit card. 
So Ive also thought about what we know of Lloyds usual process from 1993 to 2000. Weve 
seen a number of cases from 1993  2000 and from what weve seen of these cases, 
customers usually had to select PPI  so the optional nature was made clear and customers 
had to agree to take the PPI as part of Lloyds usual process. 
While I have thought carefully about Mr Fs testimony, given what Ive seen, Im afraid I dont 
have enough to say that its more likely the policy wasnt presented as optional to Mr F or that 
he didnt agree to take it. 
As I dont know when or how this policy was sold, I dont know if Lloyds recommended the 
policy. But Lloyds has assessed this case as if it did recommend the policy as this holds it to 
a higher standard  so Ive done the same. This means Lloyds had to check that the PPI 
was right for him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances, I think that it was. For 
example, he was eligible for the policy. Mr F says he was employed with the same employer 
and didnt have any health issues between 1993 and 2000. Based on these circumstances, 
he wouldnt have been affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. He 
also seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Mr F told us he had some sick pay and other means available to help him with his 
repayments if he was unable to work. But this policy wouldve paid out on top of his sick pay 
for up to 12 months if he was unable to work because of illness or injury. It also provided up 
to 12 months of cover for unemployment. This would leave any other means he had, such as 
savings, available to use on other essential expenditure. So, I think he couldve found it 
useful. 
As I dont know what happened when the policy was sold, its possible the information Lloyds 
gave Mr F about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. Mr F says he wasnt given any 
information about the terms and exclusions or how costs would be worked out for example. 
But I think its likely he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And 
as Ive said above, he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions and it seems like it would 
have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So, I 
dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover. 
With all this in mind, I dont think this policy was mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman