DRN-1428877
The complaint
Miss H complains that a car she acquired via a hire purchase agreement with Oodle 
Financial Services Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In January 2019 Miss H acquired a used car under a 36 month agreement with Oodle. The 
car was around 9 years old and had covered mileage of 81,000.
Within the first few weeks, Miss H experienced a knocking noise. She reported this to the 
supplying dealer who looked at the car and said the exhaust heat shield was breaking away 
but advised Miss H not to bother repairing it as it would eventually fall off.
The knocking noise got worse and Miss H took the car to a  different garage who found that 
the shock absorber bolt was cross threaded and not fitted properly. Repairs were carried out 
under warranty.
In March 2019 Miss H experienced further issues with the car and booked it into an 
independent garage to have it checked. They diagnosed several faults and said the car 
needed £600 worth of repairs including the catalytic converter and rear silencer. The 
supplying dealer refused to help and advised Miss H the car was out of warranty. So Miss H 
paid for some of the repairs herself but she couldnt afford all of them.
In May 2019 Miss H noticed the oil warning light was on. She contacted the supplying dealer 
who advised her to get the car serviced. Miss H arranged this and was advised by the 
servicing garage that the car had been overfilled with oil previously and had no anti-freeze in 
the coolant system, only water.
Soon afterwards the engine stopped and wouldnt re-start. Miss H contacted a local garage 
who diagnosed cambelt failure. The car was recovered to Miss Hs home.
Miss H contacted Oodle, who arranged for an independent inspection. The inspection was 
carried out in July 2019 and concluded that the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply.
Miss H didnt agree with the inspection report and complained to this service. She feels that 
because the shock absorber bolt was cross threaded that car was supplied to her with a 
safety issue. She also says the engineer didnt carry out a full inspection of the engine. Miss 
H says that because shes no longer able to use the car shes lost her job and has fallen into 
arrears under the agreement. Shes currently in a payment plan to clear the arrears.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He thought the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the 
point of supply because of the incorrectly fitted shock absorber bolt. He said Miss H had paid 
for several repairs herself and that she should be allowed to reject the car.
Oodle didnt agree. It relied on the inspection report which said the car was of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply. It also said it hadnt seen evidence of the repairs Miss H said 
shed paid for.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Oodle supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied term 
that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a 
reasonable person would expect, taking into account all of the relevant circumstances such 
as, amongst other things, the age and mileage of the car and the price paid.
I would expect a  used car  such as that supplied to Miss H  to have a degree of wear and 
tear. So in order to uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that the car had an 
inherent fault, as opposed to general wear and tear. 
Under the CRA 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months its presumed to be present at 
the point of supply and its generally up to the business to put things right. The business is 
allowed one opportunity to repair the fault. If the repair isnt successful, the consumer can 
reject the car. After 6 months, the burden of proof is reversed and its up to the consumer to 
show that the car had a fault at the point of supply.
Miss H and Oodle disagree about whether the car had a fault at the point of supply. In order 
to reach a decision I need to look at all the available evidence and determine, on the balance 
of probabilities, whether the car was of satisfactory quality.
Ive considered the inspection report and Ive taken into account the information about the 
previous repairs which were carried out.
Its clear that there were issues with the car. Initially there was a knocking noise which seems 
to have been related to the rear shock absorber being cross threaded. The nature of this 
fault means that it was likely to have been present at the point of supply. I can see that the 
supplying dealer arranged for repairs to the rear shock absorber. But its not clear whether 
the repair was successful because Miss H had to take the car back to another garage. It was 
at this point that faults were found with the catalytic converter and rear silencer, as well as 
the oil and coolant system. Soon afterwards the car broke down with cambelt failure. 
Ive taken into account the fact that all of these faults occurred within the first 6 months. So, 
its up to the business to show that the faults werent present at the point of supply. In 
relation to the oil and coolant issues, I think these were likely to have been present at the 
point of supply. Id expect oil and coolant to be checked when a car is supplied by a dealer. 
Id also expect the dealer to check that the car has been serviced at recommended intervals 
and to carry out a service if necessary, before supplying it. I can see that Miss Hs car was 
last serviced in August 2018 at 69,000 miles. Miss H acquired the car in January 2109 with 
81,000 miles. Servicing is recommended once a year or every 12,000 miles. So, I think the 
supplying dealer should have known that a service was due at the point of supply. Its likely 
that the issues with the oil overfill and coolant wouldve been diagnosed and remedied if the 
car had been serviced before Miss H was supplied with it.
The independent inspection report only focusses on the cambelt. It doesnt mention the oil 
overfill or the coolant  possibly because the engineer wasnt made aware. But I think this is 
important because oil can interfere with a timing belt. If oil gets in between the belts teeth it 
can cause the belt to slip or come off. Theres nothing in the independent report to suggest that the engineer inspected the timing belt. This is supported by Miss Hs testimony that the 
engineer didnt remove the timing cover to check the timing belt.
The engineer has concluded that the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply 
because it had passed a MOT at around the date of purchase., he also states that the timing 
belt wasnt due for replacement at the time of purchase. The manufacturer of Miss Hs car 
recommends timing belt replacement every 10 years or 100,000 miles. Ive checked this and 
I agree with what the engineer says about this in his report.
But based on this, I wouldnt expect the timing belt to fail before 100,000 miles or 10 years. 
And at the time Miss Hs car broke down, shed only covered around 86,000 miles. So, I 
think its more likely that other factors were involved which led to the premature failure of the 
timing belt. The engineer alludes to this and mention driving style and a damp environment. 
However, theres no evidence to suggest that Miss H drove the car in such a way as to 
shorten the timing belts lifespan. Further, I dont think a reasonable person would expect to 
have to replace a timing belt in the first 6 months. 
Putting things right
Taking all the available evidence into account, I dont think the car was of satisfactory quality 
at the point of supply. The business has already had an attempt at repairing the car and Miss 
H has had to pay for some further repairs herself. In the circumstances I think its fair to ask 
Oodle to let Miss H reject the car. I appreciate the point made by Oodle that it hasnt seen 
evidence of the cost of repairs paid for by Miss H so Ive said that she needs to provide 
evidence of this in order to have those costs reimbursed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Oodle Financial Services Limited must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Miss H
Reimburse Miss Hs costs of repairs and servicing upon receipt of evidence of the 
same
Refund any deposit paid by Miss H together with 8% simple interest from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
Refund all payments made by Miss H since 1 July 2019 to reflect her loss of use of 
the car since then. Oodle may deduct any arrears from this sum first.
Remove any information from Miss Hs credit file
Pay £200 to Miss H for trouble and upset

Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman