DRN-3569223
The complaint and background
X has complained about packaged bank account charges applied to her account by The Co-
operative Bank Plc (Co-op). She says she was in financial difficulties and felt pressured to 
agree to the packaged bank account and would like all charges and fees applied to her 
account to be refunded.
Co-op considered Xs complaint, but felt that the charges had been applied fairly. Co-op also 
noted that it had previously considered a complaint about packaged bank account fees from 
X in 2015  and so Co-op said that any complaint about the packaged bank account fees 
had been made out of time. X was unhappy with Co-ops response, so she referred her 
complaint to us.
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and agreed with Co-op that any complaint 
about the packaged bank account fees had been made too late. He did though say that he 
felt it was unfair for Co-op to have continued applying overdraft interest to Xs account from 
August 2017 onwards as he felt that, by this time, Co-op should have realised that X was 
experiencing financial difficulties. Co-op didnt respond fully to the adjudicators findings, and 
so the complaint was passed to me for review. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 1 June 2022. In that provisional decision 
I set out why I agreed that we could not look at Xs complaint about the sale of her packaged 
bank account or the packaged bank account fees applied to her account. I also explained 
why I was not intending to uphold Xs complaint about her financial difficulties and the 
overdraft interest applied to her account.
Neither Co-op nor X have replied to my provisional decision. I dont intend to comment 
further on the packaged bank account sale and fees as my provisional decision explained 
my position on that matter. So this final decision will look only at Xs complaint about the 
overdraft interest applied to her account and her financial difficulties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following:
X has said that she has experienced financial difficulties over the years.
Weve set out our general approach  including the rules, regulations and good industry 
practice we consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and 
reasonably when applying overdraft charges and interest  on our website. And Ive referred 
to this when deciding Xs complaint.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
amounts Co-op charged were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to the 
costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a bank charges for services is a 
commercial decision. 
But Co-op wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards X if it applied any interest, fees 
and charges to her account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to have been aware, that she was experiencing financial difficulty. So what I can 
consider here is whether there were instances where Co-op didnt treat X fairly and 
reasonably.
I dont think that Co-op did treat X unfairly or unreasonably though. Apart from the packaged 
bank account fee  which X had been told in 2015 that she could cancel at any time  X 
incurred only small amounts of overdraft interest on her account. And while her account did 
consistently operate in an overdrawn position, the way the account was managed suggested 
that it wasnt her main account. It appears that each month X would receive a payment of 
some benefits into the account, mostly clearing the overdrawn balance, and would then 
transfer the majority of these funds out of the account. There were only limited other 
payments out of the account. With this in mind, I dont think that Co-op would have been 
able to identify from looking at Xs account that she might have been experiencing financial 
difficulties. And in any case, given that she was paying only small amounts of interest to use 
her overdraft facility, theres little that I would expect Co-op to have been able to do to assist 
her at that time.
I accept that this doesnt mean that X wasnt experiencing financial difficulty. But in these 
circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for Co-op to have proceeded adding the 
interest that it did. So as I dont think Co-op unfairly charged X in circumstances where it 
ought to have realised that she may have been experiencing financial difficulty, I dont think 
that Co-op needs to refund any interest.
As neither Co-op nor X has made any further comment following my provisional decision, I 
see no reason to change my findings. So I remain satisfied that Co-op has not treated X 
unfairly and I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Xs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman