DRN-4500949
The complaint
Mr A complains that Black Horse Limited trading as Jaguar Financial Services hasnt 
responded positively to his requests for help and offers of settlement in regard to the balloon 
payment due under his hire purchase agreement. He also thinks that the interest and 
charges applied to his agreement have been excessive.
What happened
Mr A entered into a 48 month hire purchase agreement with Black Horse in April 2019 to 
acquire a used car. Mr A paid a deposit of £1,500 and was required to make monthly 
repayments of around £385 and a final payment of £9,939 if he wished to keep the car.
Mr A says he wrote to Black Horse in June 2023 outlining his financial difficulties. He 
explained that due to long-term health complications he had suffered a substantial decrease 
in his income. He says he included evidence from his mental health advocate, but that Black 
Horse didnt respond to him. Mr A then sent a second letter but still didnt receive a 
response. He says this issue is causing him constant anxiety and he wants a fair resolution 
agreed which recognises the severity of his health conditions.
Black Horse said that it contacted Mr A on 10 July 2023 to acknowledge his complaint and 
said it wasnt able to accept the options he had put forward to settle his agreement because 
these were outside of its business policy. It said it explained options to hand the vehicle 
back, but Mr A wanted to keep the car and noted it had also been damaged. Black Horse 
issued a final response letter dated 4 August 2023. It upheld Mr As complaint as it hadnt 
responded to his letters and awarded him £100 compensation.
Mr A confirmed that he wanted his complaint considered by this service. He didnt think 
Black Horse had treated him fairly by not accepting the offers he put forward and pursuing 
him for the balloon payment.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She noted that Black Horse had explained that 
the options put forward by Mr A werent acceptable and had offered the balloon payment be 
repaid in two payments but that this wasnt affordable for Mr A. She noted the balloon 
payment was an optional payment and didnt think that Black Horse was wrong to explain 
that if this wasnt paid or the car returned that it would likely follow its arrears policy. She 
noted the damage to the car and said that if the car was returned then we would expect 
Black Horse to treat Mr A with forbearance and due consideration in considering affordable 
repayments for the cost of the damage. Regarding the delay in Black Horse responding to 
Mr A she thought the compensation offered was reasonable.
Mr A didnt accept our investigators view. He didnt think it adequately addressed the 
distress, financial hardship and exacerbation of his medical conditions that he had endured. 
He said that despite his communication about his health issues Black Horse hadnt taken 
this into consideration and that under the Equality Act 2010 it was required to make 
reasonable adjustments for customers with long-term health conditions. He didnt think that 
Black Horse had acted in line with the Consumer Credit Sourcebook that required it to 
exhibit understanding and forbearance for customers facing financial difficulties and said it 
hadnt offered feasible solutions for him given his deteriorating financial circumstances and 
health conditions. He said the investigation didnt address his complaint about unfair late 
fees and the interest rate that was charged and that the delay in Black Horse acknowledging 
receipt of the sensitive data he had sent left him anxious and distressed.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. My findings are set out below.
Mr As complaint has two parts. The first is that Black Horse hasnt provided Mr A with the 
support it should have when he explained he couldnt make the final balloon payment. The 
second is that he was charged excessive late fees and interest rates throughout his 
agreement. I have dealt with both parts of this complaint separately.
Final payment of £9,939
Mr A has said that Black Horse hadnt provided reasonable adjustments as required by the 
Equality Act 2010 due to his long-term health conditions. I note this comment, but we are an 
informal dispute resolution service, meaning we dont have the power to decide whether or 
not Black Horse is in breach of the Equality Act 2010, as only a court has the power to do 
this. What we can do is take relevant law and regulation into account when deciding whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of a complaint and I have done this in this decision.
Mr A entered into a hire purchase agreement and was required to make a balloon payment 
at the end of the agreement if he wished to keep the car. If the payment wasnt made, then 
the car would need to be returned. While I understand that Mr A wants to keep the car and 
note his concerns about the damage that happened to the car, it is a choice at the end of the 
agreement as to whether the balloon payment is made, or the car returned.
Mr A wrote to Black Horse in June 2023 to explain his situation and that he couldnt afford to 
make the final balloon repayment. Mr A re-sent his letter and then called Black Horse on 7 
July 2023. On this call, Mr A explained that he had written to Black Horse twice with no 
response and a complaint was logged for him. Black Horse upheld Mr As complaint and 
said a payment of £100 would be made for the upset caused. Given Mr As circumstances 
and his health conditions, I can understand that it was particularly distressing for him that he 
didnt receive a response to his letters, and I note his concern about the sensitive data he 
had included with his correspondence. But as Mr A was able to discuss his issues with Black 
Horse on 7 July, just over a month after the first letter was sent, I find that £100 
compensation for not responding to the letters before Mr A made the call is reasonable.
Mr A wants to keep the car and put forward offers of how to resolve the issue with the 
balloon payment. While we would expect Black Horse to treat Mr A positively given his 
circumstances, it wasnt required to accept the offers Mr A put forward and has explained 
these fell outside of its business policy. Instead, it did provide Mr A with the options available 
to him in regard to voluntary termination or making the final payment over two months. I 
appreciate that these options werent suitable for Mr A but I cannot say that Black Horse 
treated Mr A unfairly by providing him with the options that were available.
I understand that this isnt the outcome that Mr A wants but I cannot say Black Horse has 
made a mistake or treated Mr A unfairly by not accepting his offers in regard to the balloon 
payment and I find the compensation it offered for not responding to his letters was 
reasonable.
Interest and chargesMr A has also raised concerns about the interest and charges that have been applied 
throughout his agreement. Our investigator didnt include this part of the complaint in her 
view and said it could be raised separately. But as Black Horse noted in its case file that 
Mr A had said that he wanted an examination of the interest rates and charges applied to his 
agreement and it addressed this issue within the case file I find I have enough to include this 
aspect of Mr As complaint as part of this decision.
I understand that Mr A is concerned about the interest and charges applied to his 
agreement. I have looked at the agreement Mr A signed, and this clearly set out the interest 
rate being charged and the payment amounts. The agreement terms and conditions then set 
out the charges that would be applied if repayments were missed. Mr A also signed the 
regulatory requirements document confirming that he had been made aware of the key 
features of the agreement including the payments and charges. Therefore, I cannot say that 
Mr A wasnt made aware of the costs involved in the agreement and as he signed this, he 
agreed to the terms.
Black Horse said that during the term of the agreement Mr A requested payment deferrals 
and these were applied on 3 April 2020, 18 May 2020 and 15 June 2020. Black Horse said 
that payment deferrals werent part of its terms and conditions, but these were applied in 
response to the Coronavirus pandemic and the guidance provided by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). It said the guidance allowed businesses to charge interest during the 
deferral periods and the charges it had made were in line with the guidance and that Mr A 
was made aware of these when he applied for the payment deferrals.
I have looked through Mr As payment history and these show him making the monthly 
payments in line with the agreement up to March 2020 when the payment deferrals were put 
in place. He then restarted his monthly payments in July 2020 and made these until July 
2023 when the final repayment was due. I have also looked through the notes regarding the 
payment deferrals and these set out the charges that will be applied at the end of the 
agreement. Given this I do not find I have anything to suggest that Mr A wasnt charged the 
correct interest and fees in line with the agreement. Therefore, I do not find I can uphold this 
part of Mr As complaint.
In conclusion I find that the £100 Black Horse said would be paid in response to it not 
responding to Mr As letters is reasonable and I do not find I have enough evidence to 
uphold Mr As complaint in regard to the interest and charges applied throughout his 
agreement.
Mr A responded to my provisional decision. He said that the late payment charges applied to 
his account were excessive and punitive. He felt that his financial hardship and long-term 
health conditions, which Black Horse was aware off, hadnt been taken into account and that 
the application of such high late payment fees on a vulnerable customers account 
contradicted the principles of fair and considerate treatment.
Mr A asked if the offer to pay the balloon amount over two months was still available as he 
was considering all options. He asked if a longer repayment period would be possible and 
said he was open to discussing and negotiating mutually agreeable terms. He also said that 
he had recently reviewed his account and found that there was an option to refinance his 
agreement. He said this hadnt been communicated to him previously.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I am sorry to hear of the difficult circumstances Mr A has been experiencing both in regard to 
his financial situation and also his physical and mental health. As I explained in my 
provisional decision, I kept this in mind while considering this complaint, but I have also 
needed to establish whether Black Horse has made any mistakes in how it has dealt with 
Mr A and / or whether its actions meant that Mr A was treated unfairly.
Mr A has said that after recently reviewing his account he found an option to refinance his 
agreement which he hadnt been made aware of previously. I note his comment about this 
but having looked at the screenshot Mr A has provided, this sets out that Black Horse will 
decide if this option it available to Mr A after application and that this would involve a credit 
search. 
This complaint is about the actions Black Horse took when Mr A raised his issues with 
making the balloon payment. Having looked through Black Horses responses in July and 
August 2023, I find that Black Horse explained to Mr A that the options he had put forward 
werent acceptable and provided him with the options available to him at that time. These 
included spreading the payment over two months. So, while I note Mr As comments, I do 
not find that Black Horse did anything wrong when Mr A raised his concerns about the 
balloon payment by providing him with the options available to him at that time.  
Mr A has asked whether the offer of payment over two months is still available and whether 
a longer repayment period would be possible. As I have found that Black Horse did offer 
reasonable options to Mr A, I do not require it to do anything further. That said, I would 
expect Black Horse to treat Mr A positively and sympathetically regarding the outstanding 
balance on his account. If Mr A wishes to take the option of the two-month repayment or 
discuss other possibilities with Black Horse, he should do this directly. 
Mr A said that the late payment fees he had been charged were excessive. Looking at the 
amounts he has referred to these appear to relate to the charges made for the payment 
deferral periods. While I understand that Mr A feels these are excessive, Black Horse has 
said these were applied in line with the guidance at the time. It has also explained that Mr A 
was informed of the charges before he could proceed with the payment deferral request. 
Given this, while I note Mr As comment, I find he was made aware of the charges and in this 
case, I do not find I can say Black Horse has done anything wrong by applying these. 
My final decision
My final decision is that the payment of £100 compensation by Black Horse Limited trading 
as Jaguar Financial Services as noted in its final response letter is a reasonable resolution to 
this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman