DRN-1517183
The complaint
Ms O complains about the valuation of her National Savings and Investments Index-linked 
savings certificate.
What happened
Ms O held a three year Index-linked savings certificate (ILSC) with National Savings and 
Investments (NS&I). This ILSC was opened on 8 March 2016 and it matured on 8 March 
2019. When Ms Os ILSC matured it had a value of £20,228.44. This was communicated to 
Ms O by way of a maturity statement, dated 12 March 2019.
But Ms O was unhappy with the value of her ILSC on maturity and complained to NS&I. She 
said shed experienced discrepancies with previous investments and so shed started 
recording her ILSC value on a monthly basis. 
Ms S said, in December 2018, her ILSC was showing a valuation figure of £20,304.56. And 
she also said she had logged into her online account four days prior to her ILSC maturing 
and its value, at that time, had been £20,414.08. As this was around £185 more than the 
maturity valuation she felt NS&I had misled her as to how it calculated the final valuation of 
her ILSC. And she wanted it to explain why her ILSC had lost around £185 in value in the 
four days prior to it maturing. 
NS&I investigated Ms Os concerns but didnt uphold her complaint. It felt it had provided 
accurate and clear information to her regarding how valuations were calculated when the 
ILSC matured. It also didnt feel it had made an error in how it had calculated the final 
valuation. NS&I offered to send Ms O another statement to confirm the value of her ILSC on 
maturity was correct but this was declined. 
Being dissatisfied with NS&Is response to her complaint, Ms O referred it to our service. But 
our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. They thought N&SI had provided clear 
information to Ms O about how it calculated the final valuation figure. They also thought the 
ILSC maturity value was correct. So, they didnt think NS&I had made an error. But Ms O 
disagreed and asked for her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to assess whether I think NS&I made a mistake, or treated Ms O unfairly, such 
that it needs to now put things right. And, having thought carefully about everything she and 
NS&I have said, Im afraid to say that I dont think it did. Ill explain why.
As our investigator explained an ILSC is a fixed term investment which entitled Ms O to 
interest and a return based on the Retail Prices Index (RPI). The final value of the ILSC is 
calculated by adding interest and index linking using the RPI figure, which applies on the 
date the ILSC matures. The crux of this complaint is whether Ms O was provided with sufficient information by NS&I 
about how interest would be calculated on her ILSC. And I've also thought about whether the 
information NS&I provides its customers about valuations is ambiguous and potentially 
misleading.  
Ill address the general information that is contained in the products terms and conditions 
first of all. 
I can see the terms and conditions of Ms Os ILSC outline clearly and in detail how interest is 
calculated and added. They state that, around a month prior to the ILSC maturity date, NS&I 
will contact the customer in writing to inform them of their options. I can see NS&I did this on 
31 January 2019. So, Im satisfied it complied with this part of the ILSC terms and 
conditions. I can also see the terms and conditions explain that any positive index-linking 
will be calculated on each anniversary date.
Ill turn now to the general information made available to N&SI customers on its website.
Having seen screenshots provided by NS&I I can see its website clearly explains the 
valuation is only an estimation, which is intended to give an indication of how much interest 
an investment has accrued as at the valuation date. It gives a notional figure for the index-
linking, which is based on the latest applicable RPI. The website goes on to explain what 
notional index-linking is and that the index-linking is only calculated and added on each 
anniversary. This reaffirms the information already contained in the ILSCs terms and 
conditions.
Looking now at the information Ms O was given that directly related to her ILSC, I can see 
that NS&I sent her correspondence on 31 January 2019 which told her that her ILSC was 
reaching the end of its term. It stated that its estimated value on maturity was £20,414.19. 
But it caveated that figure by explaining the estimated value is based on the Retail Prices 
Index (RPI) for December 2018 published in January 2019. The final value of your Certificate 
will be calculated using the RPI figure that applies at the time it matures. It could be higher or 
lower than the estimate. We'll send you a statement showing the final value shortly after the 
maturity date.
I think NS&Is website, its terms and conditions and the correspondence it sent Ms O 
explained in plain and unambiguous language that any valuations prior to the ILSC maturity 
date were estimated. And I think it was clear that the final value of her ILSC would only be 
calculated at the time it reached maturity. I think Ms O was made aware that her final 
redemption figure could increase or decrease from estimates she had seen prior to the ILSC 
maturity date. And I can see she was provided with a Freephone number she could call if 
she had any queries about her ILSC.  
After NS&Is correspondence of 31 January 2019 it sent her an ILSC maturity statement, 
dated 12 March 2019  as it said it would do. This confirmed Ms Os ILSC had matured on 8 
March 2019 with a maturity value of £20228.44. 
I understand Ms O has doubts about the accuracy of her ILSCs maturity value based on 
previous valuations shes seen online. However, when she recorded the value of her ILSC in 
December 2018 and on 4 March 2019 this was based on the RPI figures that applied at that 
time. 
As NS&I explained, the maturity value is based on the RPI figure that applies at that time the 
ILSC matures  8 March 2019. This explains why the figures Ms O recorded differed to the 
final valuation. I know Ms O feels shes incurred a loss of £185 in interest from 4 to 8 March 2019. But, from the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied the final ILSC valuation figure NS&I 
used here was calculated correctly.
In the overall circumstances of this complaint I think NS&I provided Ms O clear and sufficient 
information about how it would calculate the value of her ILSC on its maturity. And I dont 
believe she was misled. I therefore dont uphold this complaint. 
I understand Ms O feels very strongly about the issues raised in this complaint and I realise 
she will be disappointed with this decision. But it brings to an end what we, in trying to 
resolve her dispute with NS&I informally, can do for her. Im sorry we cant help Ms O any 
further with this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman