DRN-3494348
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard unfairly applied a 
default to her credit card account.
What happened
Mrs B held a credit card account with Barclaycard. In using the account, she allowed her late 
husband to use it too. He had his own card and was a supplementary cardholder. After 
Mrs Bs husband passed away, she received a letter detailing a large outstanding balance. 
Mrs B says she knew nothing about this balance and that it was all accumulated by her late 
husband.
Due to ill health, Mrs B was unable to replay the outstanding balance, so Barclaycard 
eventually defaulted the account and reported the default to the credit reference agencies.
Mrs B complained about this. She didnt think it was fair a default be recorded against her 
credit file for a debt she didnt accumulate. She also complained that the default was 
recorded early and that shes had missed payment markers reported too when she was in a 
temporary agreement with Barclaycard not to pay anything. She thinks Barclaycard should 
help more, especially considering her ill health.
Barclaycard didnt think it had acted unfairly. It said it considered Mrs Bs health, but she 
didnt meet its criteria for writing off the debt. And it said as the credit was given to Mrs B, not 
her husband, the default was correctly reported against her credit file, as were the late 
payments.
Mrs B didnt think this was fair and brought her complaint to us.
An investigator didnt recommend it be upheld. They didnt think Barclaycard had acted 
unfairly.
Mrs B disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. I understand this wont be the answer Mrs B was 
wanting. Ill explain my reasoning.
The credit was taken out in Mrs Bs sole name. Her late husband was a 
supplementary card holder. So, in effect, Barclaycard wasnt lending and money to 
Mrs Bs late husband, it was lending money to Mrs B, who was in turn allowing her 
late husband to use it. As the credit was Mrs Bs alone, she is solely responsible for 
it.
By giving her late husband a supplementary card, Mrs B was in effect authorising him 
to use her credit. So, whether she knew what the credit was being spent on or not, 
she, not her late husband needed to pay it back to Barclaycard.
Barclaycard considered Mrs Bs health when deciding whether to write off the 
balance or not. As she didnt meet its criteria it didnt write the debt off which Im 
satisfied is reasonable.
Barclaycard needed to report accurate data to the credit referencing agencies. So 
even though Mrs B was in a temporary agreement, its done what it was required to 
do by recording missed payments.
The default was applied early, but this hasnt caused Mrs B detriment. This means in 
effect the default will not show on her credit file sooner. Im not persuaded Mrs B was 
in a position to come to an agreement with Barclaycard, so defaulting the account 
was a reasonable course of action. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman