DRN-1087347
 
The complaint
Mr P complains Experian Limited has merged his details with his brother's which has led to 
him being declined credit. 
What happened
Mr P and his brother share very similar names and the same date of birth. In 2017 their 
details became merged in Experian's records. Mr P complained to Experian who agreed it 
had made a mistake. It paid Mr P compensation of around £500 and corrected the details. 
Mr P put a Notice of Correction on his Experian credit file at this time.
Mr P's details were incorrectly merged with his brother's again in 2019. Mr P again 
complained to Experian saying his brother had a poor credit history and this had prevented 
him from gaining credit. Experian again agreed it had made a mistake. It amended its 
records again so his brother's details were no longer linked to him. And it paid him £250 in 
compensation and refunded two months of its monitoring fees totalling just under £30.
Unhappy with this response, Mr P referred the complaint to us. One of our investigators 
looked into the complaint. He agreed Experian had made a mistake, but thought it had done 
enough to put matters right.
Mr P didn't accept this and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. So the 
complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isn't disputed that Experian has made this mistake twice now. Once in 2017 and again in 
2019. Because Mr P and his brother's names are so similar, and they share the same date 
of birth, it's clear why this mistake has occurred. So I need to consider the impact this has 
had.
Mr P has told us that he's been declined credit and wasn't able to go on holiday because of 
Experian's mistake. But he hasn't provided any further evidence of this. Experian has 
provided a record of searches carried out in his name. And there are no record of 
applications for credit during this time. Because of this, I can't see this has caused him a 
financial loss or that he has been declined credit because of this mistake.
However, I have no doubt Mr P has been caused a great deal of frustration by this. 
Especially as it's now happened twice. And I can make an award of compensation to reflect 
any distress and inconvenience caused. I've thought carefully about this, and I think the 
£250 it has offered plus a refund of the two months of fees Mr P paid Experian is a fair 
resolution in the circumstances.Unfortunately, there are no steps we can take to make sure this won't happen again. I hope 
it won't. However, if it does, Mr P would need first to complain to Experian, and may then be 
able to bring a new complaint if he was unhappy with its response. I know Mr P has 
concerns about his data protection rights being breached. As our Investigator explained, he 
can contact the Information Commissioners' Office about this if he wishes to.
Mr P says it is our rule to police the FCA rules. But I'm afraid he is wrong here. Whilst we do 
take into account the FCA rules when making our decisions, including whether they have 
been followed or not, we don't enforce them. We don't have the power to fine businesses for 
breaching them. We look at individual complaints, whether a mistake has been made (which 
may or may not include a breach of rules) and whether any mistake has caused a loss 
or distress and inconvenience. We are able to award compensation for loss and distress and 
inconvenience, but as I've explained, I think the offer Experian has made is fair, and I 
don't intend to ask it to pay anything further.
My final decision
I recognise Mr P feels very strongly about this matter, but my final decision is I don't uphold 
this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman