DRN-4005803
The complaint
Mr V has complained about his car insurer Highway Insurance Company Limited in respect 
of claims he has made for two classic cars, which Ill refer to as E and A.
In handling the claims Highway has used various agents. I may at times refer to the agents 
or Highway. Highway is responsible for the actions of its agents.
What happened
Mr V reported an attempted theft of E to Highway. It began looking into the claim, and took E 
to a garage. But later Highway became concerned about whether an attempted theft had, in 
fact, occurred. It contacted the police but was told the number Mr V had given was not a 
crime reference number. In the circumstances Highway wasnt prepared to continue the 
claim without making enquiries with the police which it couldnt do without a crime reference 
number (CRN). Mr V wasnt happy about that, or how his car was being stored by the 
garage, so he complained. 
Highway said it would look into the claim further once a CRN was provided. Regarding the 
storage of the car it said the car hadnt suffered by being left outside, and it had since been 
covered. Highway wanted to return the car to Mr V, offering to take it to whatever safe place 
he requested. But Mr V wasnt prepared to have the car back.
Whilst the claim about E was in progress, Mr V reported a targeted attack on A. Again 
Highway found the reference number Mr V had provided to it from the police was not a CRN. 
Highway wasnt prepared to progress the claim. Later on, in December 2022, Mr V reported 
an attempted theft of A and after that, whilst Highway was making enquiries, A was taken 
away. It was a parking agent which had taken the car, stating it had been left on the street 
without being taxed or MOTd, so, in the parking companys view at that time, it had been 
legitimately seized. Highway said it did not consider this a theft  but its enquiries regarding 
the attempted theft were continuing.
By this time Mr V had provided two reference numbers to Highway which Highway had 
accepted as being CRNs. These were reported as being related to all the incidents Mr V 
had claimed for. Highway applied for police reports and said it couldnt comment further on 
how the claims might be affected until it had obtained those.
Mr V had complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service around the time of the reported 
targeted attack on A. Whilst our Investigator had been considering that complaint the further 
incidents in respect of A had occurred, and Highway asked that we consider Mr Vs on-going 
dissatisfaction in respect of how it was handling his claims all as part of this one complaint.
Our Investigator looked at each situation claimed about. She felt Highway had acted fairly 
and reasonably, so wasnt minded to uphold the complaint.
Mr V was unhappy. He felt hed presented evidence showing Highway had let him down by 
breaking its contract with him and causing him losses in respect of both cars. Mr V said it 
was unlikely Highway had applied to the police for reports, or theyd have been obtained in 
short order. He said his policy for A had also since been unfairly renewed. His complaint was 
passed for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, with regret for the disappointment I know this will cause Mr V, Im not 
upholding the complaint. I know Mr V feels strongly that he has shown that Highway has 
acted unfairly and, by so doing, has let him down and caused losses. I also appreciate how 
unfair things seem to Mr V, as he believes he has been a victim of a crime regarding these 
cars, and of other serious criminal offences which, whilst unrelated to the cover offered by 
Highway, are all part of a dreadful experience Mr V has reported going through over a 
number of years. But, from what I have seen, I dont think Highway has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably on this occasion. 
When the claim for E was reported to it, Highway acted prudently to take the car subject of 
the theft to a garage whilst its other enquiries continued. However, whilst repairs were 
considered, they werent accepted. And, without a CRN, Highway felt unable to validate the 
claim. What it will take to validate a claim will vary dependent upon the circumstances of 
each incident. But I understand that here Mr V thought his car keys had been stolen from 
him and that the thieves had then returned to check the value of his car (by checking the 
paint finish) and/or steal it, at which point they were disturbed. However, Mr V wasnt entirely 
clear about when the theft of the keys had occurred. And, when the car was examined by 
Highways engineer, no damage consistent with the incident reported by Mr V  for example, 
paint samples being taken  were found. Im mindful that the lack of evidence here, coupled 
with Mr Vs account of the theft might have given Highway cause to decline the claim  but it 
didnt do so, choosing to extend a further opportunity to Mr V to support his claim by 
provision of a CRN. I think, in the circumstances, that was a fair and reasonable thing for 
Highway to do.
I know Mr V thinks Highway allowed his car, E, to be damaged in the months after it was 
taken to the garage. But the photos Ive seen dont persuade me this is the case. I note 
Highway has said it will review Mr Vs concerns in this respect again if, once he has taken 
the car back, he can show it specifically how he thinks it has suffered due to being parked 
outside, uncovered. And I note that Highways garage has offered to return the car to a place 
of Mr Vs choosing. I think thats all fair and reasonable.  
Turning to the claims for A  my view on the first incident is similar to that for E. In short 
Highway couldnt validate the loss, so I can understand why it wasnt prepared to progress 
the claim. And regarding the last claim for A  when it was taken by the parking agent  I can 
also understand Highways position. In short, a parking agent has said they had legitimate 
cause to take A, so that then becomes a civil matter between Mr V and the parking agent  it 
isnt an issue of theft.  
The attempted theft in December 2022 of A is currently on hold with Highway. Whilst the car 
isnt in Mr Vs possession because it was seized after the reported failed theft attempt, 
Highway is waiting for sight of the police report before making a final determination on this 
claim. I think, in all of the circumstances here, its reasonable that Highway wants to see 
what the police know and were told of the incident.    
Whilst Highway has confirmed that before it makes any further decisions on these claims it 
wants to see the police reports, it is taking some time for reports to be provided by the 
police. I am satisfied these have been requested. But Im also aware they can sometimes take a long time to be provided. I can understand why Highway wants these reports before 
doing anything more. In all of the circumstances here, I think that is fair and reasonable. 
I dont think Highway broke any contract terms it had with Mr V, in respect of claims for E or 
A. For any claim an insurer needs, as Ive said, a chance to validate the loss. Sometimes 
that can take a while and the policy doesnt set a timeframe for when that must occur by. 
And until its validated, usually other covers sometimes available to a policyholder  such as 
guaranteed courtesy car  wont be available. 
I know Mr V has concerns about renewal of the policy for A. I appreciate Mr V is worried 
about the renewal, particularly the arrangement in place in respect of the payment. But this 
isnt something this service can just start looking into as part of this complaint about the 
claims for E and A. The Financial Ombudsman Service may be able to look at Mr Vs 
concerns about the renewal, but they must first be addressed to the party responsible for 
renewal. Now whilst that might be Highway, Mr Vs policy is arranged via a broker. So the 
responsible party for the different aspects of renewal, including arranging the premium 
payment, might be the broker or Highway. Mr V should, therefore, speak to his broker and/or 
Highway regarding his concerns in the first instance. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Highway Insurance Company 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman