DRN-3148057
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as S have complained that Weald Insurance Brokers Limited 
didnt provide a copy of the policy document when selling its commercial insurance policy 
which led it to think it was covered for notifiable diseases. 
Mr G, a director of S, has brought the complaint on Ss behalf.   
What happened
Ss commercial insurance policy was due for renewal in September 2019. On                         
2 September 2019 S met with its broker, Weald, to discuss the cover. Following the face to 
face meeting, S took out a policy recommended by Weald.
Weald sent S most of the documents for its new policy, including the Policy Schedule which 
indicated that the policy included cover under an extension for notifiable diseases. However, 
Weald didnt include a copy of the policy document which set out the full terms and 
conditions.  
In March 2020, S got in touch with Weald to enquire about cover for the impact of the Covid-
19 pandemic. Weald ultimately told S that the insurer had confirmed that there wasnt cover 
as its policys definition of notifiable diseases didnt include Covid-19. 
S complained to Weald about the policy being mis-sold and that it hadnt received a 
response to its concerns as quickly as it would have wanted. Weald accepted it had made 
an error in not providing the documents but said it had discussed cover with S and sold an 
appropriate policy. Weald said there had been no cover for disease under Ss previous 
policy and there was no indication S required any wider cover for diseases. Weald said it 
had responded to Ss query straight away on 4 March. They recognised a delay in response 
between 5 and 10 March, relating to clarification S had sought, was unacceptable but said 
they had responded with the insurers position and at that time were dealing with a number 
of enquiries, as well as trying to obtain information from insurers to keep policyholders 
updated.  
Unhappy with Wealds response, S brought its complaint to our service. It said it had asked 
Weald to review the cover it held as it didnt think it had the correct cover. It said it had never 
been provided with a copy of the policy document and the full wording had never been 
mentioned. S explained how the pandemic had impacted both it and Mr G.
S said it was diligent in reviewing its documents and thought it was covered for any business 
interruption and if it had known the limitations of cover it would have asked further questions 
and might not have taken out the policy. 
Our Investigator looked into Ss complaint and recommended Weald pay S £250 
compensation. She didnt think S would have bought a different policy if Weald had provided 
a copy of the policy document but thought not doing so had caused S some inconvenience. 
She didnt think Wealds delay in responding was unreasonable in the circumstances. 
Weald agreed with our investigators recommendation however, S disagreed and asked for 
an Ombudsmans decision. S didnt think it was reasonable for our investigator to have found 
that it wouldnt have done anything differently and that shed considered not having the 
documents as a small inconvenience.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sale of the policy
The Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook says that when selling a policy, a firm 
should specify its customers demands and needs and propose a policy which is consistent 
with those demands and needs. Weald sold Ss policy on an advised basis which means 
they have to take reasonable steps to ensure the suitability of their advice. They also have a 
general duty to provide information that is clear, fair and not misleading. 
Weald accepted that they made a mistake in not providing the policy document. So I 
therefore have to consider the impact of the error on S and what S would most likely have 
done if the Weald had provided the correct information. Ive also considered whether the 
policy was mis-sold.
The document setting out Ss requirements in 2018 says that S wanted cover for business 
interruption caused by damage insured under the material damage section of the policy. S 
didnt have any cover for diseases under the policy it bought in 2018. I understand that S 
wanted to fully review the cover it held under the policy but the notes from the pre-renewal 
meeting held on 2 September 2019 dont indicate that cover for diseases was something that 
was mentioned by S. The business interruption section of these notes shows that the sum 
insured and the indemnity period were discussed but doesnt set out that any other area of 
cover was a requirement.
Despite this, the policy S bought in 2019 did have some cover for losses caused by a 
specified list of diseases occurring at Ss premises. Covid-19 wasnt something that was 
known about in September 2019, so it wasnt known that this new disease might occur and 
might be added to the government list of notifiable diseases. Given this, as well as the lack 
of any evidence indicating cover for disease was a particular concern for S, I wouldnt expect 
Weald to have explained that the policy didnt provide cover for all notifiable diseases at that 
time. I would though have expected Weald to provide S with a copy of the policy document 
to review the terms and conditions.  
The new business schedule says that S has cover for notifiable diseases. From this I 
wouldnt expect S to have known this referred to a specific list of diseases rather than any 
notifiable disease. However, the schedule also says that the schedule, policy, statement of 
facts, endorsements and certificate should be read as one document. This is also repeated 
at the beginning of the statement of facts. The business interruption section of the schedule 
also refers to section B1 of the policy document. So I do think it was clear that there was an 
accompanying policy document which needs to be read alongside the schedule. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Weald specified Ss demands and needs and proposed a policy 
that was consistent with them. I also think Weald took reasonable steps to ensure the 
suitability of their advice, so I dont think they mis-sold the policy to S. However, Weald made 
an error in not sending S the policy document to enable S to review the full cover. While its impossible to know exactly what would have happened if Weald had sent S the 
policy document as it should have done, I have to make a decision based on what I think is 
most likely. With the benefit of hindsight, I understand Ss point that it would have asked 
additional questions about the cover and may not have bought it. But I am not persuaded 
that, at the time the policy was taken out, S would have had the same concerns. While I 
recognise the impact of the pandemic on Ss business, I havent seen enough to lead me to 
reasonably conclude that S would most likely have bought a different policy at that time if 
Weald had provided a copy of the policy document. 
I do think that Weald caused S some inconvenience in not providing the policy documents. 
As S is the eligible complainant I can only consider the impact of the error on S as a limited 
company and not on Mr G as its director. I agree with our investigator that £250 is a fair and 
reasonable amount for Weald to pay S to compensate for this as they quickly confirmed the 
insurers position on the claim and sent a copy of the policy document once the error had 
been realised. 
Wealds response to contact in March 2020
A number of emails were sent between Weald and S on 4 March 2020, so I think Weald 
responded to Ss contact. I can see that S sent Weald an email at 17.58 which it then 
chased up at 12.45 on 5 March. Weald responded to this to say the concerns had been 
passed on to a manager who would be in touch. I can see S then chased this up on             
10 March. Weald has accepted the delay between 5 and 10 March was unacceptable but Im 
not going to require Weald to compensate S for this. I say that because Weald had already 
been clear on the insurers position regarding a claim and I dont think the delay caused S 
enough inconvenience to require compensation.  
 
Putting things right
Im sorry to hear about the impact of the pandemic on S and I recognise this isnt the 
outcome it was hoping for. However, having considered everything very carefully, I think the 
fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is for Weald to pay £250 for the inconvenience 
caused in not providing the policy document after the sale. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Weald Insurance Brokers Limited should pay S £250 to compensate 
for the inconvenience they caused.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman