DRN-4288395
The complaint
Mr Z complains that Wise Payments Limited (Wise) wont refund around £17,000 that he 
lost to an investment scam.
What happened
The details to this complaint are well known by both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. In brief summary, Mr Z fell victim to an investment scam beginning in September 
2022 after he found an advert for a cryptocurrency investment on social media that had 
purportedly been endorsed by a celebrity. He was contacted by a broker (the scammer) 
after registering his interest and decided to invest. 
The scammer instructed Mr Z to download remote access software to his device and talked 
him through opening a cryptocurrency account with Binance, which he was told would be 
needed to trade, as well as an account with Wise in order to send money to the crypto 
wallet. He began investing small amounts initially, and later received an email from what he 
thought was Binance (which was in fact the scammer), saying he had to pay money into his 
account in order to carry out liquidity checks in order to access his money. Mr Z made the 
following payments from his Wise account:
Date Payee Amount Payment method
29 September 2022 Binance £5,000 Payment card
11 October 2022 Binance £5,000 Payment card
11 October 2022 Private individual £6,960 Transfer
Although the payments Mr Z made to Binance were paid to an account in his own name, the 
funds were transferred on from there to the scammers own crypto wallet. Mr Z realised hed 
been scammed when he paid a large amount of money to carry out the liquidity checks but 
didnt receive any funds back. He reported the fraud to Wise but it said it wouldnt refund the 
money he lost as hed authorised the payments. Unhappy with this, Mr Z referred the matter 
to our service.
Our investigator upheld Mr Zs complaint. She thought that Wise ought reasonably to have 
made further enquiries before processing the £6,960 payment made on 11 October 2022 on 
the basis of it being suspicious and thought it could have prevented any further loss if it had 
given a tailored warning to Mr Z about the risks of investment scams. So, the investigator 
recommended that Wise refund this payment, albeit with a 50% deduction in recognition of 
Mr Zs own contribution to his loss. Mr Z accepted the investigators proposal, but Wise 
disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
to uphold it. Ill explain why.
It isnt in dispute that Mr Z authorised the disputed payments he made from his Wise 
account. The payments were requested by him using his legitimate security credentials 
provided by Wise, and the starting position is that firms ought to follow the instructions given 
by their customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Wise should have done more to prevent Mr Z from falling 
victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a firm should reasonably have had 
a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. For example, if it was 
particularly suspicious or out of character.
In terms of the first two payments of £5,000, I dont think these were unusual or suspicious 
enough to have warranted Wise making further enquiries to determine the nature of the 
payments. The value was not significant enough to indicate a risk of financial harm, and they 
were also paid across the space of almost two weeks. Mr Zs account was also newly 
opened on 26 September 2022, so Wise wouldnt have had any account history to compare 
the spending against to determine whether it was unusual or not. At most, Wise wouldve 
been reasonably expected to provide a written warning broadly covering scam risks when 
Mr Z went to make the first payment of £5,000. But Im not persuaded such a general 
warning wouldve likely deterred Mr Z from making the payments in any event.
However, by the time he came to make the payment of £6,960 on 11 October 2022, it then 
meant he had paid over £10,000 from his account in less than 14 minutes, the first payment 
of which was going to a cryptocurrency platform, and the second to a new payee. Wise will 
be aware that making large payments in quick succession can often be indicative of financial 
harm. So, in these circumstances, I think Wise ought fairly and reasonably to have identified 
from the information available to it that there might be an increased risk associated with the 
payment and, in those circumstances it should fairly and reasonably have made further 
enquiries to determine the purpose of the payment and provided a tailored scam warning.
Ive thought carefully about whether a specific investment scam warning would have likely 
prevented any further loss in this case. And on the balance of probabilities, I think it would 
have. If Wise had asked Mr Z to disclose the purpose for the payment he was making, I think 
its likely he would have been upfront about what he was doing. Theres no indication that he 
had been coached by the scammer into misleading Wise, for example, so Im satisfied he 
would have likely disclosed that the purpose of the payment was for an investment.
Wise should have then provided a specific warning to Mr Z covering off the key features of 
investment scams, such as being contacted a broker that has supposedly been endorsed 
by a celebrity, the use of remote access software, promising significant returns as well as 
asking for large sums of money to gain access to their funds. These are all common 
hallmarks of an investment scam, and it was also the exact circumstances of the situation 
Mr Z had found himself in. 
Therefore, if Wise had provided Mr Z with an impactful warning that gave further details 
about how he could protect himself from the risk of fraud, I believe it would have resonated 
with him. He could have paused and looked more closely into the broker before proceeding, 
as well as making further enquiries into cryptocurrency scams and whether it was usual to 
have to pay large amounts of money to show liquidity in order to access funds. Mr Z could 
have discovered that this is a common tactic used by scammers, as well as the various 
regulatory warnings about the risk of cryptocurrency investment scams. Therefore, Im satisfied that a warning to Mr Z from Wise would probably have exposed the scammers 
false pretences and prevented any further losses, such that it should now fairly and 
reasonably refund this money.
However, there is a general principle that consumers must take responsibility for their 
decisions, and I am mindful of the law relating to contributory negligence and the impact a 
finding of contributory negligence may have to reduce the damages recoverable by a 
claimant in court proceedings. 
I have duly considered whether it would be fair and reasonable for Mr Z to bear some 
responsibility by way of contributory negligence, and Im satisfied that he should in the 
circumstances of this case.
First, the returns Mr Z was supposedly receiving seemed to have been far too unrealistic. He 
said, for example, that his deposit of £5,000 resulted in his money increasing in value by to 
£12,000, which ought reasonably to have seemed too good to be true.
Secondly, Mr Z thought he was paying money to his Binance wallet to perform a liquidity 
check yet he was making a payment to a private individual, which ought to have given him 
serious cause for concern that something wasnt right. The scammer told Mr Z that the 
person he was paying would sort the funds into his crypto account. However, it doesnt 
appear that Mr Z questioned this or received a plausible explanation for how this money 
would reach his crypto wallet, or why he wouldnt be able to pay money to his account in the 
way hed been doing previously up until that point. 
Mr Zs representatives have said that he was vulnerable at the time as hed recently had his 
bikes stolen. But while I appreciate this may have been upsetting for him, I fail to see how 
this left him more vulnerable to being scammed. Ive not seen any persuasive evidence to 
suggest that he wouldnt have had an appreciation for what he was doing, nor that he 
wouldnt have been able to protect himself from the risk of being scammed. 
As a result, Im not persuaded he can reasonably be considered as vulnerable in these 
circumstances. So, I think Mr Z did have a role to play in what happened and I think that the 
amount Wise should pay to him in compensation should fairly and reasonably be reduced to 
reflect that role. Given how serious I think Mr Zs concerns about the legitimacy of the 
investment ought reasonably to have been, I think that a fair deduction is 50%.
Finally, I dont think there was anything more Wise could have done to recover the money 
Mr Z lost. I can see it attempted to recall the funds from the recipient account of the £6,960 
payment, but without success. And in terms of the card payments, any chargeback attempt 
would have likely been unsuccessful given the payments were made to purchase 
cryptocurrency, which the merchant would be able to show had been provided to Mr Z. So, I 
dont think there was anything more Wise couldve done to recover the money in these 
circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Wise Payments Limited to:
Refund 50% of the £6,960 payment made on 11 October 2022.
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount from the date the payment was made 
until the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman