DRN-3878045
The complaint
Ms C complains that Central Contracts (S-O-T) Limited (who Ill call Central Contracts) 
didnt provide her with the car she ordered.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was very sorry to hear about what happened to Ms C. I know it will disappoint her, but I 
dont think Central Contracts need to take any further action. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
If Ms C was provided with a false statement of fact (or law) when she agreed to enter into 
the hire agreement, and if that false statement was a significant reason that induced her to 
enter into the agreement, I may think the agreement had been misrepresented to her and, in 
those circumstances I may ask the business to take some action.
Ms C wanted a grey interior but was told shortly before the car arrived that the interior on the 
car that was being delivered, was black.
Central Contracts have suggested they did order a grey interior car and that, regardless, the 
order form and their terms, explained that they couldnt be held responsible for specification 
changes the manufacturer were able to make.
The terms and conditions explain:
Please note that all manufacturers reserve the right to amend the specification of a
vehicle at any time.
It seems unfair to rely on such a term (although I stop short of making that finding), 
especially as Ms C was informed of the change in specification so late in the day, as that 
would seem to distance Central Contracts from any claim that the consumer hasnt been 
provided with what was ordered.
But even if I was to consider the agreement had been misrepresented to Ms C the usual 
remedy for a misrepresentation is to put the consumer in the position they wouldve been in 
had the misrepresentation not been made. 
I can see that Central Contracts have ensured Ms C has been refunded what she has paid, 
and, in those circumstances, I think Ms C has been put back in the position she would have 
been in had any misrepresentation not have happened.
I note that Ms C didnt want Central Contracts to terminate the agreement. But they werent 
obliged to accept the offer of compensation Ms C was suggesting they pay and, as Ms C 
wouldnt accept the car without compensation, I dont think the business were unreasonable 
to end the agreement. 
Ive considered whether it would be fair to tell Central Contracts to refund any costs Ms C 
has incurred as a consequence of not getting the car she wanted. Ms C has explained that 
costs to lease the same car have increased. But theyre not costs that Ms C has incurred, 
theyre costs she may incur if she chooses. Im therefore not minded, in this case, to ask 
Central Contracts to pay them.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman