DRN-4221570
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money provided an 
incorrect redemption figure for their mortgage which was considerably less than they owed. 
Mr and Mrs J said they relied on this figure, and spent money they couldnt really afford.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J told us that in March 2022, Mr J contacted Virgin to ask for a redemption figure 
for their mortgage. They received a redemption figure of a little over £145,000. They applied 
to a different lender to remortgage, but then their solicitors contacted them in June to say the 
redemption figure they had just received was considerably more. Mr and Mrs J owed about 
£90,000 more than Virgin had told them. 
Mr J told us this delayed his remortgage to the different lender, because he and Mrs J had to 
apply again for a larger lending amount. Fortunately, the lender was able to honour the 
interest rate hed previously been offered, on a larger lending amount. But Mr J said hed 
spent money on credit cards, gone on holiday, and made commitments to having work done 
on his home. He now felt this expenditure was much less affordable, because the 
outstanding mortgage was much more than theyd been told.
Virgin has accepted that it sent Mr and Mrs J an incorrect redemption statement, which had 
someone elses mortgage account number, and the wrong balance. Virgin said it was sorry 
this had happened, and it had sent revised statements to Mr and Mrs Js solicitor after this. 
Virgin said it paid £100 in compensation to Mr and Mrs J. And it said it would reimburse Mr 
and Mrs J for any higher charge they had needed to pay before they were able to rearrange 
their remortgage with their new lender. But Mr and Mrs J hadnt sent evidence of that. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said Virgin accepted it had 
made a mistake over the redemption figure it initially sent Mr and Mrs J. It had corrected this, 
and Mr and Mrs J had been able to amend their mortgage application. Our investigator 
thought Virgins offer was fair, and that Mr and Mrs J hadnt experienced any financial loss. 
Our investigator said she wasnt persuaded that Mr Js spending choices could fairly be 
attributed to Virgins error. She said that Virgin had sent Mr and Mrs J regular annual 
statements showing their balance, so she didnt think that Mr and Mrs J could reasonably 
have underestimated the balance by such a degree. 
Mr J replied, to say he didnt agree. He said hed been very shocked that his complaint 
wasnt upheld. He said he had planned his finances to suit what he thought was his financial 
situation, and felt he may have been financially compromised by the mistake his bank made. 
And he said hed followed this up at the time, the lower redemption figure had been 
confirmed by his private banking manager. Our investigator asked Virgin about this, but 
unfortunately it couldnt locate a call where this was discussed. 
Because no agreement was reached, this case then came to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Theres no dispute that Virgin made a mistake in this case, when it issued an incorrect 
redemption figure to Mr and Mrs J. It corrected this when Mr and Mrs Js solicitors requested 
an up to date figure for the purposes of remortgaging. With the second figure being so much 
higher, Mr and Mrs Js remortgage was delayed, but I can see that Virgin offered to cover 
any immediate and direct costs that this might have caused to Mr and Mrs J. They havent 
suggested their payments were higher with Virgin, immediately before their remortgage, than 
they were after. 
I think the payment of £100 which I understand Virgin has made, plus the offer of covering 
any higher monthly mortgage payments that Mr and Mrs J had to make before their delayed 
remortgage away from Virgin took effect, does provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
part of this complaint.
But Mr J says that the greatest impact of the mistake Virgin made was in the financial 
decisions he made, on the basis of the mistaken figure it gave. He said hed committed to a 
number of different items of spending, because he thought his financial position was rather 
better than it was. 
I dont think that the financial snapshot that Mr J has supplied to our service would be 
sufficient for me to say that his expenditure, after he received the mistaken redemption figure 
at the end of March 2022, was entirely different to his usual expenditure. But I havent asked 
Mr J for more information on that. Thats because even if it was, I would still say I dont think 
it would be fair and reasonable to hold Virgin responsible for any financial decisions Mr J 
made, in reliance on the March figure. Ill explain why I reached that conclusion. 
We know Mr and Mrs J were receiving annual statements from Virgin, and the redemption 
figure it sent in March 2022 was entirely inconsistent with those. And, additionally, what Mr J 
said on the phone to Virgin when he first complained about this incorrect figure, makes me 
think that his mortgage balance was also visible to him through an online portal. So the 
redemption figure he received would not have been consistent with that either. 
I know Mr J told us the figure was confirmed by his private banking manager, but 
unfortunately we havent been able to confirm this. Virgin says it doesnt have a record of 
calls during this time. And the recordings Virgin has sent us, also indicate that Mr J was 
previously referred by his private banking manager to the mortgage team for any mortgage 
specific enquiries. 
So, having considered all the evidence in this case, I dont think that it would be fair and 
reasonable to hold Virgin responsible for any financial decisions that Mr J may have made, 
in reliance on its mistaken redemption figure. I know that Mr and Mrs J will be disappointed, 
but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to accept or reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman