DRN-3484097
The complaint
X has complained about the service he was provided by Chase de Vere Independent 
Financial Advisers Limited (Chase de Vere) in relation to his pension, applicable annual 
allowances, and potential further tax liability. He is unhappy with the service received and 
the charges he is expected to pay.
What happened
After initially meeting with a representative of Chase de Vere in October 2020, on 11 
January 2021 X confirmed he was happy to proceed with the pension tax report service 
offered. He signed the Client Services Agreement on 25 February 2021 which outlined the 
pension tax report service charges. 
On 6 May 2021 Chase de Vere provided the Annual allowance report enhanced for the 
three tax years ending April 2021. X didnt receive this until the June but wasnt happy with it 
so raised a complaint. He said the financial report was incorrect and assumed gaps in 
employment when there werent any and had multiple payslips missing. He had supplied the 
payslips requested but assumed that because they were taking a long time to obtain, this 
was the reason why he was called by Chase de Vere and told to stop collecting them.  
Chase de Vere could obtain them from his employers pensions agency. He said the need to 
analyse the payslips, and the implicit cost, wasnt necessary. If Chase de Vere had relied on 
the numbers provided by his pensions office, he would not have been liable for extra tax. 
X said when the incomplete report was produced, he was chased for payment despite 
Chase de Vere not providing the promised service of providing assistance in understanding 
whether he owed tax and to complete the forms. 
Chase de Vere issued its final response to Xs complaint. It said;
After reviewing the case it was clear that a significant amount of time and resource 
had been incurred by Xs adviser and various teams to collect all the information 
needed. The report itself had provided an assessment to calculate the tax due each 
year and the impact of different methods of payment. 
After X had his follow up meeting with his adviser, X believed the report to be 
unbeneficial, complex, unnecessary, and contained information that wasnt relevant, 
so X was reluctant to pay the fee. X believed the advice in the report could have 
been obtained by his employers payroll, but it was confirmed his employers payroll 
couldnt offer financial advice. X believed that it could have been established at an 
earlier stage in that there was no tax liability. But Chase de Vere could only have 
confirmed this after completing the research and to notify him otherwise would have 
been negligent.
Chase de Vere did contact the pensions office about certain matters but there was 
no evidence to suggest that it was agreed that it would provide all pay slips. Once 
sufficient information had been received the report was prepared.
It was for the client to submit the forms by the deadline and X had been chased 
about this. Completion of a second form hadnt been agreed but the figures had been 
emailed to X. It wouldnt be possible for Chase de Vere to provide advice which 
would reduce or fully mitigate Xs annual allowance tax charge. It simply wasnt not 
possible. 
Significant time and resource had been incurred in the case. X had signed the firms 
agreement and agreed to the fee. He had been given a sample report in advance of 
his agreement where he could see the structure and scope of the report. It had 
provided the service it had agreed to. 
X wasnt happy with the outcome and brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
To put the matter right he wanted Chase de Vere to complete the report it had agreed to 
undertake, justify why all of his payslips were necessary when the same conclusion would 
have been reached without this and he wants Chase de Vere to stop threatening him about 
his bill payment.
Our investigator who considered the complaint didnt think it should be upheld. He said;
Producing the report had taken longer than either party had expected.
Chase de Vere had provided a more detailed report which had some discrepancies 
and gaps, but X was advised how to rectify that. Chase de Vere had relied on the 
information it had been given so wasnt at fault. 
By Chase de Vere producing the report in May, in advance of the July deadline, it 
allowed for any discussions or amendments needed. 
Chase de Vere had produced the most comprehensive report considering the time 
constraints and other issues. The work was carried out in line with what had been 
agreed. He didnt think the business needed to do anything further. 
X didnt agree. He said;
He was told by Chase de Vere that analysis of his pay slips was for the best, rather 
than relying on end of year tax returns which other advisers did  and which was a 
service uniquely offered by Chase de Vere. This was used to justify the increased 
price.
Chase de Vere had failed to analyse all his pay slips. It knew up front the number of 
organisations he had worked for and he was told it wouldnt be a problem. But 
because of the COVID outbreak and the number of organisations involved, Chase de 
Vere became impatient and he said he was told to stop providing the pay slips as the 
information could be obtained from the pension office. But this wasnt the case. It was 
clear that Chase de Vere used the end of year tax calculations which X said defeated 
the object of analysis of his pay slips and the increased cost because of that service. 
All information he had provided to Chase de Vere was correct, albeit some pay slips 
were missing.
He provided a copy of the completed forms which he says shows Chase de Vere 
could have obtained the information from the end of year returns all along rather than 
the pay slips. The level of work wasnt needed, and Chase de Vere had deceived him 
about this. 
To hide behind the July deadline for the form, despite his repeated objections, was 
incomprehensible. 
Xs comments didnt change the investigators mind. As the complaint remains unresolved, it 
has been passed to me for decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator, and broadly for the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
My understanding of Xs position is that as he was a contractor within the public services 
sector, he was required to complete a pension valuation to allow him to complete a specific 
form for return to his pension services team. He had to use an approved financial adviser to 
complete the form. After meeting with Chase de Vere in October 2020, in January 2021 it 
was agreed that X would have the more thorough report than the basic service.
Its evident see that gathering the information took a considerable time because X had 
worked within several different parts of the public service sector and P60s, P45s and pay 
slips etc had to be obtained. 
Its clear from the correspondence of 19 October 2020, after the initial meeting, the advisers 
comments were that because of Xs role, and the various employers he had had within the 
public services sector, it meant there was a high probability that the figures supplied to him 
by his employers pension agency werent correct. But this couldnt be guaranteed without 
calculation for each year. After that work, the results would be presented in a report which 
would highlight the tax due, provide analysis for three tax years and what X could expect 
going forward. 
The fee was quoted as being £1,500  later discounted to £1,350  plus VAT but that it was 
almost certain that the report will mean a significant reduction in the tax charge, in all cases, 
many times the cost of the report. It would also be able to guide X through the process of 
correcting the annual allowance figures which would be necessary. 
X initially had concerns at the cost of the service compared to other providers. But Chase de 
Vere explained that it wasnt aware of any provider than carried out the checking of figures 
that it did. Those other businesses offering a similar service relied on the information it was 
given by the pension services of Xs employer and that Chase de Vere had continued to find 
errors in those figures. So, Xs colleagues who were paying for a cheaper service were likely 
overpaying tax which was unnecessary. 
After X confirmed he was happy to proceed with the service Chase de Vere offered, it 
confirmed it was awaiting the outcome of a court judgment that would have a significant 
impact on Xs pension. It was still waiting for this on 22 February 2021 but contacted X to 
say that it would proceed in checking whether the pension information provided by Xs 
employer was correct and would revert back to him to request further information from him. 
Chase de Vere wrote to X in March 2021 with the Client Services Agreement confirming the 
areas of advice it would be looking at  his employment pension report  and that once 
completed, X would be contacted to arrange a time to discuss its details.  
After that I see there was correspondence between Chase de Vere and X seeking some pay 
slips, P45s, P60s and end of year tax computations. In turn X obtained pay slips from his 
various employers. 
The report was sent to X at the beginning of May and on 1 June 2021 Chase de Vere 
emailed X about the report and sought a time to discuss it with him and the accounts department was chasing for the invoice payment. X hadnt received that report, so a further 
copy was sent to him.
X got in touch with Chase de Vere on 21 June as in the report there appeared to be missing 
payslips with an assumption of a break in service  this is not the cause, u informed me that 
missing payslips were obtained from the pension service. Chase de Vere confirmed that 
information was collected from his employers pension agency but this is only as good as 
what is supplied to them. In addition based on the information we have collated, it helps your 
annual allowance by keeping the tax liability down.
On 23 July Chase de Vere emailed X to say the submission for return needed to be done by 
31 July and that the report highlighted the tax charges. It said it was Xs responsibility to pay 
the correct tax at the correct time and Xs employers pension office would not be able to 
give him any tax advice as that was regulated. The pension office then provided information 
on 27 July 2021, but I understand this was incorrect and which Chase de Vere highlighted 
was the reason why its service was important. As a result, the form would need to be 
amended.
Taking all of the above into account Ive considered whether X got the service he was 
offered.
I appreciate X has said Chase de Vere was aware of the number of changes in his 
employment at the outset and so should have taken that into account. But this being the 
case, it appears that Chase de Vere had to carry out a lot more work than it usually did for 
this type of service. It had explained that if offered an enhanced service and that it looked 
into Xs financial circumstances in more detail than other firms  which provided a similar 
service  that X was obliged to employ in order to complete the relevant returns. And in 
order to carry out that work, it required more information  such as the pay slips etc it 
requested from X  the majority of which were supplied.
X has said he was told during a phone call that there was no need for him to obtain further 
pay slips. Chase de Vere completed the report with the information it did have and that had 
been provided by X and his employers pension service. Theres no record of what was 
discussed during the call, but I dont think it unreasonable to conclude that time constraints 
were a factor in Chase de Vere providing such a detailed report in advance of the deadline 
for submission. 
So, I dont think it was unreasonable for the investigator to conclude that producing a report 
in May would have been done in order to ensure there was sufficient time before the July 
end deadline for meetings, discussions and amendments. 
So, I think it likely that Chase de Veres work was time sensitive. But after the extensive work 
that it told us it had carried out, it considered it had sufficient information in order to proceed 
with the report. That report is a 33-page document that includes  amongst other sections  
an annual allowance summary which is then broken down by tax year and a section entitled 
Potential issues identified. This highlighted anomalies in the information it had been 
provided and recommended that this be addressed with Xs pension scheme. 
Chase de Vere has expressed the amount of work it undertook to complete the enhanced 
report from X  over and above what it would normally expect to do. However, I have looked 
to see if Chase de Vere provided the service that it said it would ie to provide an enhanced 
report on Xs annual allowances for pension purposes. And overall, I am satisfied it did. It 
provided the report in a timely manner to ensure it could be reviewed and amended if 
necessary, before the deadline. And the file would suggest this additional time proved to be 
necessary as X then approached his employers pension service who provided some figures, but these proved to be incorrect. So, I think Chase de Veres assessment of the time that 
was needed after the report was produced, in advance of its submission, was necessary. 
So, Im satisfied this did mean that there were time constraints. And I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Chase de Vere to have worked with the information it had so far collected. 
Its clear that because of the court case, it couldnt start any work earlier than it did. And it 
started that work as soon as it could and in advance of the outcome of that case. So, it only 
had between the end of February/early March and the beginning of May  just over two 
months  to complete the report, and I think the report it provided is fit for purpose.
The report provides all of the information Chase de Vere said it would have and has the 
separate section of areas of concern which it highlighted to X.  it also provided the report in a 
timely manner  on 6 May, albeit not being received by X until June. But that was only after 
Chase de Vere had chased X for a meeting to discuss the report. So, I think Chase de Vere 
was proactive and did provide X with the service it set out to. Albeit that service not providing 
the tax status that he may have wanted in that he said, the sole purpose of seeking 
independent financial advice was to prevent an excess tax bill related to my previous 
employments. 
Taking all of the above into account, I think Chase de Vere provided X with the service it said 
it would. It provided the report in a timely manner and for any missing and/or incorrect 
information, it advised in its report how this could be put right or informed X who he would 
need to refer to. And after X had received other information from his pensions office, which 
proved to be incorrect, Chase de Vere made this point and advised the form would need to 
be put right which suggests that its service did add value. 
In conclusion, Im satisfied that Chase de Vere provided the service it promised and 
considering the constraints within which it had to work. I therefore dont uphold Xs 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Xs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman