DRN-4374709
The complaint
Mr E complains Zopa Bank Limited reduced his credit score unfairly.
What happened
Mr E applied for a credit card with Zopa. Mr E checked his credit score and saw it had 
dropped by over 100 points. Mr E was then declined car finance.
Mr E checked his credit file and saw Zopa had placed U markers against his credit card.    
Mr E also contacted a credit file provider and says he was told the U markers had caused 
the drop in his score.
Mr E spoke to Zopa, and it said it would update his credit file within 48 hours, but this wasnt 
done. Mr E complained, and Zopa responded to say the U markers werent adverse markers 
and didnt think they caused the drop in Mr Es credit score.
Zopa said it reports to the credit reference agencies on the 1st of each month and should 
have updated a payment made on the 30th. Zopa agreed to update this payment and offered 
Mr E £50 to compensate for the poor advice he was given on his earlier call.
Unhappy with this response, Mr E brought his complaint to this service. An investigator 
looked into things and thought Zopa had done enough to resolve things. The investigator 
said the U markers had a neutral effect on Mr Es credit score.
The investigator didnt think Zopa had caused Mr Es car finance application to decline. The 
investigator said lots of other factors, like affordability, would also be considered. The 
investigator thought the updated file and the offer of £50 was a fair resolution.
Mr E didnt agree and said since the credit reference agency had confirmed Zopa caused the 
drop, he wanted to be compensated for his declined application. Mr E said once the credit 
file was updated, his score increased, so it must be Zopas fault.
The investigator got a copy of the call Mr E made to the credit reference agency. The 
investigator didnt think this call confirmed Zopa caused the drop because of the U markers. 
Instead, the investigator thought the call confirmed the application Mr E made, along with the 
hard search, caused the drop.
Mr E asked for an ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Zopas explained it recorded a U marker for two months because no payment was due in 
either of those reporting months. A U marker means unclassified or no payment due yet. 
Mr Es credit card payment is due on the 5th of each month. Since Zopa sends information to 
credit reference agencies on the 1st of each month, no payment was due for either month it 
recorded a U.
I think this is correct, the U marker indicates no repayment is due, and no repayment was 
due. I think Zopa was right to record a U marker for both months.
Mr E made a payment on the 30th, and Zopa didnt record this payment in the information it 
sent to the credit reference agencies. I think Zopa should have recorded this payment, even 
though it wasnt due and wouldnt have stopped a U marker being shown.
Zopa agreed to record this payment and has. I think this is a fair outcome.
When Mr E first contacted Zopa it said it would update his file but didnt. I think this was the 
wrong information, Mr Es credit file was accurate, so Zopa didnt need to update anything. 
But this means Mr E was given the wrong information, and Zopas agreed to pay £50 to 
compensate Mr E for the wrong information he was given. I think this is a fair offer.
Mr E says his application for car finance was declined solely because of what Zopa 
recorded. I dont think this is the case, I dont think the U markers caused Mr Es credit score 
to drop.
As the investigator said, any application for credit will take lots of factors into account, 
including, but not limited to, the lenders own credit score, Mr Es available credit, his 
previous and current borrowing and whether he could afford further credit.
I dont think the only reason for the decline was his lowered credit score, and I dont think 
Zopa recording U markers caused the drop.
Ive listened to the call Mr E made to the credit reference agency. In this call the advisor says 
the likely reason behind the drop is the application Mr E made for the Zopa credit card.
This application left a hard search on Mr Es credit file, and this can lower the score. Im 
satisfied Zopa recorded this search because of Mr Es application, so I dont think Zopas 
done anything wrong here.
And the advisor says a newly opened credit account will also cause a temporary drop in 
Mr Es credit score. The newly opened account was Mr Es Zopa credit card.
I think its more likely the application and opening of Mr Es Zopa credit card caused the 
temporary drop in his credit score. Since theres no dispute Mr E applied for the Zopa credit 
card, I cant say Zopas done anything wrong in recording the open credit card.
I know the decline of credit caused Mr E considerable distress and inconvenience and 
Mr Es since told this service of the severe impact this has had on him.
Im very sympathetic to Mr Es current circumstances and the effect the decline has had on 
him personally. But I cant agree Zopa caused the decline of this credit because of any 
errors it made.
I think Zopa recorded the application and opening of the credit card correctly on Mr Es credit 
file. I also think Zopa correctly recorded U markers to show no payment was due for either month.
Because of this, I dont think Zopa needs to compensate Mr E for the declined credit he 
applied for.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and Zopa Bank Limited should pay Mr E £50 to 
compensate him for the incorrect information he was given.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman