DRN-1370909
The complaint
Mr T complains about the way The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) handled his account 
after it identified a potentially fraudulent transaction. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on setting out the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
RBS has explained Mr Ts account was already blocked when it spoke with him on 2 
August 2019 and that the security questions it asked were meant to ensure it was 
talking to the account holder. Im satisfied that RBS decision to leave the account 
block in place after Mr T gave incorrect answers to its security questions was 
reasonable. 
Ive listened to all of Mr Ts calls with RBS and I agree that he was told he could call 
back on 3 August 2019 to discuss his account. But Im satisfied that RBS also 
explained that to remove the account block Mr T had to visit a local branch with 
identification. Overall, I havent found that Mr T was given misleading information 
about what he needed to do to remove the account blocks. 
Mr T has told us he spent 50 minutes travelling to and from the branch as well as 45 
minutes discussing his account. I understand Mr T had to visit a branch which was 
inconvenient, but I have to balance that against RBS obligation to ensure account 
security is maintained. After Mr T gave RBS incorrect answers to the security 
questions he had to visit a branch with identification to remove the block. RBS says 
branch staff have to call its fraud team once identification has been provided in order 
to remove an account block. Whilst I note all of Mr Ts comments, I havent been 
persuaded RBS actions caused him an unreasonable level of inconvenience. 
RBS paid Mr T £35.80 to cover his costs and compensation for any annoyance the 
situation caused. As I havent seen anything that shows RBS made a mistake or 
treated Mr T unfairly by blocking his account and asking him to visit a branch with 
identification, Im not telling it to increase its offer. Im satisfied the £35.80 reflects the 
impact of the situation on Mr T and that RBS dealt with his complaint fairly. 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2020.Marco Manente
Ombudsman