DRN-3955445
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) didnt downgrade their fee-
paying packaged account to a fee-free account.
What happened
In 2020, Mr and Mrs M complained to Lloyds that their fee-paying packaged bank account 
had been mis-sold. On 29 June 2020, Lloyds wrote to Mr and Mrs M to explain Lloyds 
upheld their complaint in part, and also explained how Mr and Mrs M could change their 
account.
Mr and Mrs M say that they tried calling Lloyds to downgrade the account, but say they were 
unable to get through to anyone. Mr and Mrs M say that Mrs M then wrote a letter to Lloyds 
asking for her account to be downgraded, and they say this wasnt actioned either.
The account was then downgraded to a fee-free account on 3 February 2022 after Mr and 
Mrs M contacted Lloyds again.
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint, and they were unable to conclude that 
Lloyds had acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
Mr and Mrs M disagreed and asked for their complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, Im 
unable to uphold this complaint.
Mr and Mrs M say that when they complained in 2020 that their account was mis-sold, they 
say theyd asked for their account to be changed. But when Lloyds responded to Mr and Mrs 
Ms mis-sale complaint, it explained that it was unable to advise Mr and Mrs M what account 
they should change to. The letter explained it was up to Mr and Mrs M to decide what 
account they wanted to change to, if they no longer wanted a fee-paying packaged account. 
The letter then explained that Mr and Mrs M could change their account online, in branch or 
by telephone (telephone lines were open from 7am until 11pm). The letter said that Lloyds 
would write to Mr and Mrs M within 60 days if the account had still not been changed. And 
Lloyds has provided a copy of a letter that was sent to Mr and Mrs M dated 18 November 
2020, reminding Mr and Mrs M that their account was still a fee-paying packaged account 
and that if they wanted to change their account, they could do so by calling or attending 
branch and that there was further information about alternative accounts available online.
As such, Im satisfied that Lloyds made it clear in its response to the mis-sale complaint that 
Mr and Mrs M would need to choose what account they wanted, if they didnt want the 
packaged account that they had complained about. And I think Lloyds took reasonable steps 
to explain how Mr and Mrs M could do this.
Mr and Mrs M say that they were unable to get through to Lloyds on the telephone. I do 
appreciate how frustrating it is to be put on hold for long periods of time. But Lloyds has also 
said that whilst its phone lines wouldve been much busier than usual during 2020 due to the 
pandemic, there wouldve been periods between June 2020 February 2022 where the phone 
lines would not have been so busy. 
So in the circumstances, I cant reasonably hold Lloyds responsible for the long wait times 
that Mr and Mrs M mayve experienced on the phone in 2020. And I cant reasonably hold 
Lloyds responsible if Mr and Mrs M gave up trying to downgrade their account  after all it 
does seem likely that the waiting times in 2021 wouldve been lower compared to what it 
wouldve been like during the height of the pandemic in 2020. 
Mr and Mrs M say they also wrote to Lloyds. Unfortunately, its not clear when exactly they 
wrote to Lloyds, or indeed what address they sent the letter to. And Lloyds has checked its 
records and could find no evidence that it had received such a letter from Mr and Mrs M 
either. 
So based on everything I have seen, Im unable to conclude that Lloyds had received an 
instruction to downgrade Mr and Mrs Ms account to a specific fee-free account and then 
failed to act. 
I say this especially as Mrs M says that when shed written to Lloyds, shed asked Lloyds to 
put my account back to normal. But this would not have been clear enough for Lloyds to 
have actioned in any event, as it does not stipulate which account Mrs M wanted her 
account to be changed to. 
Furthermore, in her conversation with the adjudicator, Mrs M said that it was only in 
February 2022 i.e. when the account was downgraded, that she realised she still had a fee-
paying account. Mrs M said shed thought itd been downgraded when Lloyds issued its final 
response letter in 2020. 
But if this was the case, then this makes me question whether Mr or Mrs M had actually 
asked Lloyds to downgrade the account between June 2020 and February 2022  given that 
Mrs M said she thought it already had been downgraded in June 2020 and only discovered it 
hadnt been, in February 2022.
So overall, based on all the evidence Ive seen, Im unable to say that Lloyds should refund 
the packaged account fees Mr and Mrs M have paid since June 2020.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, Im unable to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman