DRN-3144355
The complaint
Miss K is complaining about how Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) has handled a claim she 
made for stolen jewellery. 
What happened
Miss K was the victim of a burglary in December 2019. She reported this to the police 
straight away and to Ageas after the weekend. Ageas agreed to consider the claim, which 
included all her jewellery, including some inherited or gifted to her.
Miss K made two separate complaints about the way Ageas dealt with the claim. The first, 
was about delays in handling the claim when it asked for evidence that some of the jewellery 
belonged to her. I issued my decision on that complaint in July, so I wont be revisiting here 
anything covered in that complaint.
Miss Ks second complaint is that Ageas has refused to settle her claim, despite her sending 
it all the evidence its asked for and that she has. 
Ageas says there are inconsistencies in the evidence its received and until those can be 
sorted out it will not progress the claim.
Miss K doesnt think thats fair so she asked us to look at the complaint.
In summary our investigator thought Ageas was reasonably asking for evidence of 
ownership and value and that if it thought there were inconsistencies in the evidence 
provided it was entitled to clear these up before it settled the claim.
Miss K doesnt agree so Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold this complaint.  I realise that this will be upsetting for Miss K, so Ill 
explain more about how Ive reached this decision.
I wont comment on every point Miss K has made, although I have thought carefully about all 
shes told us. And first of all, it might help if I explain that its not the remit of this service to 
assess the information Miss K sent to Ageas and say if her claim should be met. That would 
mean we were carrying out the insurers role  and we cant do that. This decision is only 
about whether Ageas has acted fairly and reasonably when considering the claim.
When a claim is made under a policy, as happened here, there are several stages to go 
through. First, Miss K needs to show Ageas that an event shes insured for  in this case 
theft  happened. Ageas agreed to consider the claim under this section of the policy.
In all such claims (especially higher value ones like this one) an insurer is entitled to ask the 
customer to prove they own the items claimed for. Proof is generally things like receipts or 
bank/credit card statements to prove when items were purchased and for how much. But it 
can also be things like photos of someone wearing items or valuations for higher value 
possessions. Sometimes its difficult to show receipts etc  especially if jewellery has been 
inherited or gifted  so insurers may accept a mix of evidence.
I think its fair for Ageas to want to substantiate Miss Ks claim before reaching settlement.
The problem is that Ageas thinks Miss Ks evidence is inconsistent  and in some places 
incomplete. It says it believes that some items included in this claim appear to be very 
similar to items included in a claim she made a few years ago through a different insurer. So 
its asked for evidence that she replaced the items as she says she did. I dont think thats 
unreasonable.
Miss K says she did replace the items, but unfortunately for items included in this claim she 
hasnt kept receipts and the jeweller she used hasnt found any record of the sale. I can see 
why Ageas might not think this is satisfactory. Miss K says Ageas could find out more 
information for itself on this. Ageas did get some paperwork from the previous claim, which is 
where some of the inconsistencies became apparent. I understand Miss K also sent some 
photos  but hasnt been able to provide ones that are digitally time stamped  so when the 
photo(s) were taken cant be established.
Ultimately, its for Miss K to provide proof of ownership, not Ageas. It looks to me as though 
Ageas has already tried to assist Miss K by obtaining evidence from previous claims and that 
seems a reasonable thing for it to do. I know Miss K says shes sent all the relevant 
information and Ageas isnt using it or doesnt seem aware it has it. And she doesnt see why 
she should send it again. That must be frustrating for Miss K, but I havent seen anything in 
Ageas records that suggests its ignored any evidence shes submitted through the channels 
its suggested. If Miss K still thinks Ageas has missed some of the evidence, then the 
simplest solution is that she sends it again in a format Ageas finds acceptable.
In summary, unless Miss K can give Ageas evidence that satisfies any queries it has about 
the claim, I cant say Ageas is unfairly withholding payment. Of course if Miss K can provide 
some additional evidence, Id expect Ageas to take that into account and re-consider her 
claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or my decision before 30 December 2021. 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman