DRN-3781314
The complaint
Mr P complains that Secure Trust Bank Plc trading as Moneyway irresponsibly granted him 
a hire purchase agreement he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
In August 2021, Mr P acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
Moneyway. Mr P was required to make 59 monthly repayments of around £472 and a final 
payment of around £482. The total repayable under the agreement was around £28,314.
Mr P says that Moneyway didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneyway didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which included asking Mr P about his income and 
residential status and checking his credit commitments. It said based on Mr Ps income and 
estimated expenses, the agreement was affordable.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Moneyway didnt 
act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mr P didnt agree and said the agreement was unaffordable as his expenses were higher 
than Moneyway assessed.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Given the overall size of the borrowing, the monthly repayments and the term of the 
agreement, I thought it would have been proportionate for Moneyway to have verified 
Mr Ps income and asked him about this expenditure to ensure it had a clear 
understanding of his regular living expenses. 
Mr P provided copies of his payslips for the weeks leading up to the agreement. 
Based on these, Mr Ps weekly income varied but on average it was around £1,500 a 
month. The repayments therefore accounted for a substantial amount of his income.
Moneyway estimated Mr Ps expenses but I thought it would have been reasonable 
to have asked Mr P about his expenses to get a clear understanding of his specific 
circumstances. Mr P provided information about his expenses at the time, these 
included credit commitments, insurance and rent. Moneyway recorded credit 
commitments of £389. Mr Ps credit report confirmed this. Mr Ps credit file recorded 
further credit commitments including a communications provider, insurance and a 
credit card. Adding in the costs Mr P provided for these items (as well as his rent) 
gave total monthly outgoings of around £1,150. This amount didnt include any 
payments Mr P would need to make towards the running cost of the car (further 
insurance, fuel and maintenance) or any payments for food or other living costs. 
Mr Ps monthly income was around £1,500 so I did not find that the repayments of 
around £472 required under this agreement were affordable.
Mr P accepted my provisional decision. Moneyway didnt provide any further information in 
response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneyway will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Before granting the finance, Moneyway asked Mr P about his income and estimated his 
expenditure based on the information he provided that he was single and living with parents 
and his credit file commitments. But, as I said in my provisional decision, given the overall 
size of the borrowing, the monthly repayments and the term of the agreement, I think it 
would have been proportionate for Moneyway to have verified Mr Ps income and asked him 
about this expenditure to ensure it had a clear understanding of his regular living expenses. 
Therefore, I dont think that Moneyway completed proportionate checks.
Had Moneyway completed reasonable and proportionate affordability checks, I think it would 
have found that the agreement wasnt affordable for Mr P. As I set out in my provisional 
decision, Mr Ps average monthly income was around £1,500 and his expenses around 
£1,050 (excluding the running costs of the car, food and other living expenses). As the 
repayments under the agreement were around £472, I think further checks would have 
shown agreement wasnt affordable for Mr P.
Putting things right
As I dont think Moneyway ought to have approved the lending, it should therefore refund all 
the payments Mr P has made, including any deposit. However, Mr P did have use of the car 
for around four months, so I think its fair he pays for that use. But Im not persuaded that 
monthly repayments of around £472 a month are a fair reflection of what fair usage would 
be. This is because a proportion of those repayments went towards repaying interest.
There isnt an exact formula for working out what a fair usage should be. In deciding whats 
fair and reasonable Ive thought about the amount of interest charged on the agreement, 
Mr Ps likely overall usage of the car and what his costs to stay mobile would likely have 
been if he didnt have the car. In doing so, I think a fair amount Mr P should pay is £270 for 
each month he had use of the car. This means Moneyway can only ask him to repay a total 
of £1,080. Anything Mr P has paid in excess of this amount should be treated as an 
overpayment.
To settle Mr Ps complaint Moneyway should do the following:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Refund all the payments Mr P has made, less £1,080 for fair usage.
oIf Mr P has paid more than the fair usage figure, Moneyway should refund any 
overpayments, adding 8% simple interest per year* from the date of each 
overpayment to the date of settlement. Or;oIf Mr P has paid less than the fair usage figure, Moneyway should arrange an 
affordable and sustainable repayment plan for the outstanding balance.
Once Moneyway has received the fair usage amount, it should remove any adverse 
information recorded on Mr Ps credit file regarding the agreement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneyway to take off tax from this interest. Moneyway 
must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mr P asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Secure Trust Bank Plc trading as Moneyway 
should take the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman