DRN-4009143
The complaint
Mr G complains about the advice he was given by Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada 
(U.K.) Limited (Sun Life) to take out a Free Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution 
(FSAVC) plan. And that it later told him he didnt need to increase his plan contributions. 
What happened
In 1992, aged 27, Mr G was advised by Cannon Lincoln  which Sun Life has since taken 
over and now takes responsibility for  to take out an FSAVC plan, which he still pays into. 
At the time hed been a member of his then employers Armed Forces Pension scheme 
(AFPS75) since he was 18 and expected to work for it until he turned 55. And, in 2005,      
Mr Gs AFPS75 moved over to the AFPS05. 
In February 2020, Mr G complained to Sun Life about the advice he was given to take out 
his FSAVC plan. He said he was advised this, alongside his employers pension scheme, 
would provide him with a pension that was two thirds of his final salary at age 55, but it has 
fallen vastly short of this. Mr G also said that when he was promoted and asked Sun Life if 
he needed to increase his contributions to his FSAVC plan, he was told this wasnt 
necessary as these would automatically increase. And he said hes become aware a loyalty 
bonus is payable as part of his FSAVC plan upon turning 60, which hell miss out on as his 
matured at age 55.
 
In response, in April 2020, Sun Life said it couldnt determine if Mr G had been aware of his 
employers money purchase additional voluntary contribution (AVC) plan at the time of the 
advice, so it would complete a loss assessment. It said this could take about five months to 
do. And Sun Life agreed to add the loyalty bonus to Mr Gs FSAVC plan given his selected 
retirement age is 55.  
In May 2020, Sun Life told Mr G it had instructed an actuary to carry out the loss 
assessment. And then, in February 2021, Sun Life sent Mr G a second final response letter 
explaining that, while it concluded he hadnt suffered a financial loss, it was offering him 
£350 in compensation.
In March 2021, unhappy with this, Mr G responded to Sun Life and referred his complaint to 
our Service adding that, while he received annual statements, he wasnt made aware his 
FSAVC plan wasnt going to perform as expected. He said that if Sun Life had sent him 
warning letters, in the way his endowment provider had, he could have made extra provision.
In April 2021, Sun Life told Mr G it didnt think hed incurred a financial loss, as his pension 
scheme had confirmed there wasnt an in-house money purchase AVC option available to 
him at the time of the advice.
One of our Investigators looked into Mr Gs complaint. She said, in summary, that alternative 
in-house options were available to Mr G at the time of the advice, which Sun Life doesnt 
seem to have considered when it looked to complete its loss assessment. So she said it 
should complete a new one taking these into account, along with the information Mr Gs 
provided about his rank at the time.  
Sun Life clarified that, despite there being no conventional money purchase in-house option 
available to Mr G at the time, its actuary had taken the three AVC options the AFPS75 did 
offer into account. In relation to purchasing added years it said Mr Gs employers pension 
scheme had confirmed that only the missing period between the enlistment date and 
pension start date could be bought. And Sun Life said this wasnt an option for Mr G as he 
anticipated working for his employer until age 55, by which time he would have accrued the 
maximum permissible service for pension purposes. Sun Life also said the Widows Benefit 
AVC wouldnt have led to an increase to Mr Gs particular pension benefits. And that it was 
very unlikely he would have achieved any enhancement to his benefits with the Enhanced 
All Benefits AVC option. 
Sun Life also clarified that, while it doesnt think Mr Gs suffered a financial loss, it offered 
him £350 compensation to make up for the fact the adviser still either failed to discuss his 
alternatives with him in 1992, or at least failed to document that it did, which was an 
omission in its duty of care. And for the frustration caused to him by the time taken waiting 
for the loss assessment. 
I let the parties know my provisional thoughts on Mr Gs complaint, explaining I wasnt 
minded to ask Sun Life to do anything more than what it has already offered. I said Sun Life 
has shown it considered the Enhanced All Benefits AVC option in particular and concluded 
Mr G hadnt experienced a loss after speaking to his pension scheme, the scheme 
administrator and his previous employer. 
I said that, in any case, having carefully considered the matter, Im not currently satisfied     
Mr G would have opted for one of the alternative options if hed been made aware of these 
by the adviser in 1992. Instead, I think its likely he would have still opted for the FSAVC 
plan, for the following reasons.
While Mr Gs employers pension scheme was based on representative pay, being an 
average based on his rank, the final pension with the Enhanced All Benefits AVC option was 
based on actual pay (if higher than the representative pay). In which case, Mr G choosing 
this in 1992 would have meant paying into it knowing he might not receive any additional 
pension in return for his payments. And that for this to be worthwhile in light of the additional
payments hed be making likely depended on him having a much higher actual pay than
his average pay at the time of leaving his employer.
In any case, it seems Mr G had a low to medium risk profile at the time and that he went into
 and remained in  a medium risk fund in 1992, which shows me he wasnt risk averse.
And, while investment returns have been lower than anticipated, the projections were very
positive at the time. So, I think its likely Mr G would have found the FSAVC plan more 
attractive based on anticipated returns than the benefits the Enhanced All Benefits AVC 
option might provide. I also noted that it appears Mr G had no option to purchase added 
years at the time  another alternative to his FSAVC plan  as he expected to accrue the 
maximum permissible service in his employers pension scheme.
In which case, I think its likely Mr G would still have been prepared to take out the FSAVC 
plan at the time, on the basis it may have provided him with higher benefits than the 
Enhanced All Benefits AVC option. And, as Ive said, Sun Life doesnt think Mr Gs suffered 
a loss in any case as a result of not taking this option. So I think Sun Lifes offer of £350 
compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. And Im not asking it to do 
anything more. 
In response, Mr G said that while he accepts he wouldnt have fared better in another plan, 
hes unhappy with Sun Lifes lack of warning that his pension wasnt performing as expected. Mr G said he was told he didnt need to increase his payments and that the annual increase 
would take care of this. Mr G also said he was promised a product at the start and, while he 
might not have fared better elsewhere, he cant now go back and make additional provision. 
Having considered Mr Gs further comments, I said that Sun Lifes told us it hasnt located 
any letters from him making it aware of his promotions or any record of him asking to 
increase his FSAVC plan contributions. So, while I recognise its possible Mr G contacted it 
to ask about this, there isnt enough evidence from the time to support this.
And I havent seen anything to suggest Sun Life was engaged to provide Mr G with ongoing
advice following the sale of his FSAVC plan. So, I think Sun Life was acting purely as the 
plan provider, which meant it was only expected to provide Mr G with accurate information 
about it. This means I wouldnt have expected Sun Life to warn Mr G that his plan was 
unlikely to perform in line with the projections he was given at time of advice in the way hes 
said it should have. Instead Id expect it to have provided him with information about this in 
the form of annual statements, in the way it appears to have done.  
And, while I appreciate Mr Gs said he was sent warning letters for his endowment policy, 
thats a different financial product that was directly linked to repaying his outstanding 
mortgage. And the warning letters for endowments were issued at the request of the then 
regulator. There is no similar requirement for pension providers to issue annual pension 
statements in the same format as endowment warning letters.
For these reasons, I said that even if Mr G did call Sun Life to ask about increasing his 
FSAVC plan contributions, on balance I currently think its likely he would have been given 
information on how his plan worked i.e. been told it was already increasing in line with 
national average earnings (NAE), rather than being advised he didnt need to increase his 
contributions.
I said that it doesnt seem to be in dispute that Mr G was aware his FSAVC plan was set up 
to increase with NAE. And I think he was aware of this given I can see this was clearly ticked 
in his application. I said I recognise Mr Gs contributions might have increased slightly more 
over the same time period  Sun Lifes said this would likely have been around 1% on 
average  if his plan had been set up to increase as a percentage of his salary instead. But 
this isnt a large difference. And it isnt unreasonable that his plan was set to increase in line 
with NAE at the time, as this means it wasnt a flat premium that remained level.
In any case, I said that I dont think the 1% difference is where the shortfall in the value of  
Mr Gs FSAVC plan lies. Even if Mr Gs contributions had increased in line with his salary 
this doesnt mean his plan would have performed in the way hes said he was advised it 
would. This unfortunately hasnt performed as expected due to investment returns, which 
werent guaranteed.
I said that the projections Mr G was given at the time would likely have been based on the 
assumed and regulator approved growth rates. Anticipated investment returns were high in 
1992  industry standard projections for estimated growth rates were 8.5% at the lower, a 
mid-growth rate of 10.75% and a higher growth rate of 13%. But investment returns have 
failed to match those anticipated. From 2014 the respective estimated rates were 2%, 5% 
and 8%. Low interest rates and increases over recent years in the cost of purchasing 
annuities have also had an impact. So, while I understand Mr Gs disappointed with how his 
FSAVC plan has performed and the position hes now in, I cant fairly hold Sun Life 
responsible for this.
So, as previously explained, I think its likely Mr G would still have been prepared to take out 
the FSAVC plan at the time, on the basis it may have provided him with higher benefits in light of his risk profile and the projections which were considered reasonable at the time. And 
that, in any case, Sun Life has said it doesnt think Mr Gs suffered a loss as a result of 
taking this out instead of the Enhanced All Benefits AVC option, even though the latter would 
have meant paying the increased appropriate percentage of his pensionable earnings. 
In response, Mr G maintained that he spoke to Sun Life over the phone about increasing 
contributions to his FSAVC plan. And that, in any case, it still failed to inform him that this 
wasnt performing as expected, when it should have sent him warning letters. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G hasnt provided any new comments or information in response to my provisional 
thoughts, so I see no reason to depart from these. 
While Ive explained why I dont think Mr G would be in a different position now if Sun Life 
had discussed the alternative options to the FSAVC plan with him in 1992, it has offered him 
£350 compensation for its advisers failure to explain these to him in the first place. As well 
as the frustration caused to Mr G by the lengthy amount of time it took to get back to him. 
And I think this is a fair and reasonable amount in the circumstances to make up for the 
customer service hes received. 
For the reasons given above, while I understand Mr Gs disappointment and strength of 
feeling about the matter, Im not asking Sun Life to do any more than this.
Putting things right
Sun Life should pay Mr G the £350 compensation its offered him.
My final decision
Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limiteds offer to pay Mr G £350 
compensation to settle the complaint is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. So my 
final decision is that it should pay him this, if it hasnt already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Holly Jackson
Ombudsman