DRN-2690742
The complaint
Mr S complains Aviva Insurance Limited has unfairly declined a claim he has made under 
his Rent Protection and Legal Expenses policy. 
Reference to Aviva includes agents acting on its behalf in this matter. 
What happened
Mr S has his rent protection policy through Aviva. It was renewed in January 2020, and in 
March 2020, Mr S was notified by his estate agent that his tenant had vacated the premises, 
left the keys and wanted early termination of the tenancy agreement. Mr S didnt agree to 
that. He also submitted a claim for rent arrears as the tenancy agreement was due to run 
until August 2020.
 
Aviva declined the claim as any claim under the policy for rent arrears was only payable until 
the property was re-let or vacant possession was gained.  As Mr S already had vacant 
possession, he didnt have a valid claim under the policy. Mr S was unhappy with the 
outcome and complained. Aviva stood by its decision as it was satisfied it had been declined 
fairly and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
 
Our investigator was also satisfied the claim had been declined fairly, as Mr S had already 
had vacant possession of the property. Mr S disagreed; he wasnt persuaded vacant 
possession of the property could be gained because of the lockdown that the country had 
entered into just days before, the tenant never returned his keys (and neither could he as the 
estate agent was closed) and because of restrictions the property couldnt be let. 
The investigator explained the legislation at the time did allow for house moves and did allow 
for properties to continue to be advertised albeit that viewings would need to be done 
virtually.
 
Mr S has asked for the matter to be reviewed. He has argued that no-one can prove that 
vacant possession was gained, and this has been assumed from an email the tenant sent  
an assumption he says cannot be verified. He has also provided a list of charges from the 
estate agent which includes management fees and premiums for the policy, none of which 
he believes should be charged if the property is vacant. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr S feels strongly about his claim. But I can only ask for a claim to be settled, 
or reconsidered, if I find it has been declined incorrectly (i.e. not in accordance with the 
policy terms and conditions) or if the policy terms and conditions have been applied unfairly 
or unreasonably. 
The starting position is the contract Mr S has with Aviva  the policy document. This sets out 
the level of cover provided and under what circumstances a claim can be made and any 
conditions and/or exclusions which may be applicable. 
The policy provides cover for four contingencies:
Legal expenses  cover the insured for Legal Expenses incurred in connection with 
proceedings for possession of the premises. This isnt applicable as Mr S wasnt 
pursuing the tenant for possession of the premises.
 
Alternative accommodation  cover the insured and any family members for 
accommodation expenses due to the failure of the tenant to vacate the premises at 
the end of the tenancy agreement. This isnt applicable as the tenant had left the 
premises prior to the end of the tenancy agreement. 
Squatters  cover for the legal costs to evict unauthorised occupants who have 
gained unlawful entry to the premises. This isnt applicable as Mr S didnt have 
squatters at the premises.
 
The final insured contingency is Rent Arrears:
The insurer agrees to cover the Insured for Loss of rent where the tenant is in arrears 
by failure to pay rent.
 
Conditions
Cover for Rent Arrears shall cease immediately when the Insured gains vacant 
possession of The Premises of The Premises are re-let, whichever is the sooner.  
The only possible area of the policy Mr S could claim under is rent arrears. However, I 
understand the tenant was fully up to date with their rent at the point they left the property. 
So its questionable whether the rent arrears section of the policy is strictly applicable. But 
even if I thought it was, the conditions set out that cover will cease immediately on vacant 
possession or the premises is re-let, whichever is sooner. As the premises were already 
vacant, there was no cover for rent arrears. 
Mr S has made a number of arguments about vacant possession given the lockdown and 
government guidelines and questions whether the tenant had truly vacated the premises. 
But Mr S has forwarded an email chain from between him and the estate agent which shows 
the property was vacant. On 27 March 2020 Mr S emailed the estate agent the following:
1) I got the keys from under the bin in the back garden: these are not the original 
keys. It seems the tenant has changed the locks.  

5) From the windows, it seems that the flat is empty, no furniture inside, although it is 
possible to see a big rubbish bin left in the kitchen (again overflowing with rubbish): 
this can quickly attract insects and rats.  
And in an email of 30 March 2020, Mr S emailed:
Good Morning
 
We have closed the windows and the gas/water/electricity and removed the rubbish 
left in the kitchen and bathroom. 
It seems clear from Mr S correspondence with the estate agent that the tenant had vacated 
the property, something which he had been able to verify for himself after visiting it. Im therefore satisfied Mr S did have vacant possession of the property and as such there is no 
cover for rent arrears under the terms of the policy. 
Mr S forwarded this email to show that despite guidance being that properties could still be 
advertised (albeit viewings would be virtual) his estate agency was unable to market his 
property or arrange viewings. I understand from this that Mr S believes he should be able to 
claim under his policy either because he wouldnt be able to remarket the premises, or to 
pursue the tenant for the amount due under the remainder of the tenancy agreement. 
However, as set out above, the condition for rent arrears applies to either the earlier of 
vacant possession or the premises being re-let. As I have found Mr S did have vacant 
possession, that his premises couldnt be remarketed wouldnt affect that condition being 
applicable. And the policy doesnt provide cover for rent owed under the remainder of a 
tenancy agreement or for periods when the premises is merely vacant  it doesnt provide 
cover for business interruption, as explained by the investigator; that wasnt cover Aviva 
agreed to provide nor that Mr S had paid a premium for. 
Finally, I note Mr S arguments about the estate agency continuing to charge management 
fees and policy premiums, if the premises was vacant. As found above, Mr S knew the 
property was actually vacant, and if he believes he has been charged for something he 
shouldnt have, he will need to take that up with the estate agency. 
I do accept and understand Mr S was in an unfortunate position that wasnt of his making. 
Nevertheless, Im satisfied the claim has been declined fairly and in accordance with the 
terms and conditions.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman