DRN-1474255
The complaint
Mr R complains that NewDay Ltd (trading as Marbles) gave him the wrong information when 
he called to make a payment on his credit card and went on to unfairly terminate his 
account. 
What happened
Mr R had a credit card with Marbles. The account was in arrears and Marbles sent Mr R a 
statement on 20 August 2019 that said he needed to make a minimum payment of £121.83 
by 16 September 2019. On 20 September 2019 Mr R spoke with Marbles and was told that if 
he made a payment of £5.76 his account wouldnt close in the next 30 days. Mr R made 
another payment, for £448.21, to clear his outstanding balance which went through on 23 
September 2019. 
On 21 September 2019 Marbles wrote to Mr R to say it had taken the decision to terminate 
his account and it blocked the card on 24 September 2019. Mr R complained that he had 
been told the account would remain open if he made a payment of £5.76 on 20 September 
2019 but that hadnt happened. Marbles responded on 21 October 2019 and upheld Mr Rs 
complaint. Marbles agreed that Mr R hadnt been given the right information during his call 
on 20 September 2019, apologised and paid him £65. But Marbles said the decision to 
terminate the credit card was correct and didn't agree to reopen it. 
Mr R referred his case to our service and it was passed to an investigator. She thought 
Marbles had dealt with the complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr R asked 
to appeal so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the information Ive seen, all parties broadly agree that Marbles gave Mr R the wrong 
information when he called on 20 September 2019. Mr R says he thought his credit card 
account would remain open after he cleared the outstanding balance in full and that, as a 
result of Marbles decision, he has lost out on a substantial amount of work. Marbles accepts 
Mr R wasnt given the right information but says the decision to close his account was 
reasonable and in line with the terms. 
I can understand Mr Rs frustration at being given the wrong information by Marbles. I accept 
that he made the payment to clear the outstanding balance on the basis that he would retain 
the use of the credit card. But I have to balance that against the fact Mr R did owe Marbles 
the outstanding balance, his account was around £150 over the agreed credit limit and that 
he had been making reduced payments. In addition, Marbles statement dated 20 August 
2019 required a cleared payment to be received by 16 September 2019 and Mr R didnt 
make a payment until 20 September 2019. I also think its reasonable to note that Mr R didnt lose the money he paid to Marbles as it 
was used to repay the outstanding balance owed. Whilst I agree that the information Mr R 
was given wasnt right, Im satisfied Marbles decision to terminate the account after the 
outstanding balance was repaid was reasonable. 
Mr R says that, due to Marbles mistake, he lost out on income and jobs as he wasnt able to 
purchase supplies. I do understand Mr Rs point, but I dont agree that Marbles decision to 
close his credit card was unfair. Ultimately, Mr R hadnt made a payment by the date of 16 
September 2019 as required which meant Marbles could take the decision to terminate the 
credit card. Mr Rs options from that point were to either clear the outstanding balance in full, 
reach a payment arrangement with Marbles or receive a default due to non payment. Mr R 
made a payment to clear the outstanding balance and Im satisfied Marbles decision to 
terminate the account was reasonable. 
Marbles paid Mr R £65 and apologised that the information he was given wasn't correct. I 
understand Mr R remains upset by how his credit card was closed, but I'm satisfied Marbles 
has dealt with his complaint fairly and that the £65 it paid reflects the impact of the service 
provided. As I'm satisfied Marbles had dealt with Mr R's complaint fairly, I'm not telling it to 
take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman