DRN-1382717
The complaint
Mr D complained that AXA unfairly declined his repair claim under his commercial vehicle 
insurance policy. 
The complaint was brought by his representative, his insurance broker, but for the sake of 
clarity Ill mainly refer to Mr D.
What happened
Mr D said that his telescopic handler vehicle was damaged in an incident involving a wall. He 
wanted AXA to pay for its repair and for his costs of hiring a similar replacement vehicle. He 
also thought that AXA took too long to reach a decision on his claim. 
 
But AXA wouldnt pay his claim because they thought that the damage wasnt accident 
related. So they wouldnt repair his vehicle. They did partly uphold his complaint because 
they accepted that theyd delayed in investigating the damage and deciding on its cause. So 
they offered him £100 in compensation for that. But they didnt think that their delay had 
increased his replacement vehicle hire costs, so they wouldnt contribute to those. 
The investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
AXA had dealt with Mr Ds claim fairly and that they had declined it reasonably and in 
reliance on independent expert evidence. Mr D didnt agree and so Ive been asked to 
decide
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide if or how any vehicle has been damaged, as that is a matter for the experts 
in these situations, the insurers and engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine if 
the insurer has considered all the available evidence and whether they can justify their 
decision that the damage is not accident related. I dont intend to go into the detail of the 
damage here or of the independent experts findings on it, because both Mr D and AXA are 
aware of that. Its not in dispute that there was damage, only what caused the damage. 
Mr D didnt report the damage until a few months after the incident which he said caused the 
damage, and after his policy had lapsed. AXA knew that he had made a damage claim on 
the vehicle against another insurer a few years earlier, in relation to a previous incident. So 
they wanted to check that the current problem wasnt related to the previous incident claim 
or to the vehicles repair. They asked an independent expert engineer/metallurgist (the 
expert) to inspect the vehicle and report on that. The expert concluded that the vehicles 
damage wasnt caused by the current incident, but by wear and tear or by the previous 
incident claimed.
Mr D disagreed because hed had the vehicle repaired after the previous incident and 
regularly serviced it. He said if thered been any problem his garage would have noticed it 
and repaired it. 
Mr Ds garage said:
Although I have no remarks or service information in reference to the rear axle pin, I can 
confirm that the nature of repairs we carried out . would mean a mechanic would 
have been working in close proximity to the pivot pin in the axle. It is very likely that if there 
was substantial wear in the pivot pin it would have been noticed by a mechanic. 
AXA considered this and asked the expert to review his opinion, after looking at all the 
evidence of the repairs and services that Mr D s garage had done over the relevant period.  
The expert analysed this and did another report. He had a garage take the relevant vehicle 
parts apart and he examined them. But he didnt change his opinion. He thought that the 
damage wouldnt have been so developed as to be readily detectable by the garage when it 
did any of the work. He still thought that the damage wasnt as result of the current accident.  
So AXA declined the claim.
 
Mr D thought that it wasnt fair for AXA to rely on the experts evidence rather than Mr Ds 
garages evidence that hed had his car regularly maintained and repaired. He said that the 
experts opinion was only opinion; it was not fact and it was not conclusive proof of what had 
happened or when. 
Its correct that in this type of situation we dont know exactly what happened or when. But 
we expect insurers to make decisions about whats more likely to have happened than not, 
taking into account all the evidence. And we think that insurers are entitled to rely on expert 
opinions about this. In this case the expert is qualified, and his reports are clear, detailed, 
thorough and well-reasoned. And so I think that AXA are entitled to rely on those expert 
reports. Overall, I think that they did a full investigation and took all the evidence into 
account. They also explained to Mr D why they had decided as they did and showed him the 
expert evidence. And so I think that they acted fairly, and I dont require them to pay for the 
vehicles repair. 
Mr D also wanted AXA to reimburse him for the hire charges of a similar replacement 
telescopic handler vehicle while his own was out of use. This amounted to over £16,000.  He 
said that it was more than it had to be because of AXAs delay. 
AXA didnt think that their investigation time was excessive given the thorough investigation 
they undertook. But they accepted that they could have been quicker about investigating and 
repudiating the claim.  So they offered him £100 in compensation for this. I think that amount 
does fairly reflect his inconvenience, and Id expect AXA to pay him that if they havent 
already. 
AXA had at first said theyd review Mr Ds invoices for the hire costs. But that didnt mean 
theyd agreed to pay those costs. They felt that their short delay didnt impact his hire costs 
because hed already hired the vehicle some time before he reported the claim. And their 
records show that they explained that to Mr Ds representative. And as I think that AXA 
werent obliged to pay his repair claim, they also arent required to pay for any hire costs 
arising from that repair claim. And so although I know that Mr D is out of pocket and has 
found the situation frustrating, I dont think that AXA have done anything wrong in declining 
his claim. This means that I dont require them to do anything else. 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
