DRN-3644958
The complaint
Miss L complained because Nationwide Building Society refused to pay her a  £125 
switching bonus when she changed her Basic account to a FlexAccount.
What happened
Miss L said that she contacted Nationwide by chat, about upgrading her Basic account to a 
FlexAccount. She said she asked whether shed be entitled to a £125 switching bonus, and 
was told that she would. Miss L opened a FlexAccount on 14 March 2022.
Miss L wanted to check the time frames for when shed have to move two direct debits to her 
new account. She rang Nationwide and was told that she wouldnt qualify for the £125. Miss 
L told the adviser shed relied on what the chat advisor had said  that shed get the £125 if 
she upgraded from her Basic account and moved two direct debits. She also said the advert 
on Nationwides website was clear that if she upgraded and was already a Nationwide 
member, shed get £125. 
Miss L complained by phone on 15 March. Nationwide checked its chat records for 1 March 
to 15 March, but couldnt find any chat records for Miss L. Nationwide rang Miss L on 29 
March to ask when the chat had happened, but Miss L didnt remember. She said it should 
have been the date when the FlexAccount was opened. This was 14 March. But Nationwide 
still couldnt find any record of the chat.
Nationwide sent Miss L its final response to her complaint on 6 April. It said it had checked 
its system from 1 to 15 March and couldnt find the chat. Miss L had also said that the 
website criteria werent clear. But Nationwide said that the terms and conditions clearly 
showed the criteria that needed to be met to qualify for the offer. It did offer to investigate 
again, if Miss L could provide further specific information, such as the date and time of the 
chat.
Miss L wasnt satisfied and contacted this service. She said it was worrying that Nationwide 
wasnt keeping a record of its chats, and that wasnt professional. She also said shed told 
the phone adviser that shed relied on the advert which clearly said that if she upgraded, 
shed get £125. She said the adviser told her that she hadnt transferred two direct debits, to 
which shed replied that she hadnt done so because shed been told she wasnt eligible for 
the £125. 
Miss L also said Nationwides customer service had been shocking and shed been made to 
feel stupid and incompetent. She said shed also raised a second complaint about 
Nationwides slow response.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Ls complaint. He explained that this service doesnt have 
the power to tell financial organisations to change their policies, as thats the role of the 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. The investigator said that he could see from 
Nationwides internal notes that Nationwide had made every effort to trace the chat where 
Miss L had said shed been told shed get the £125. He also asked Miss L for any keywords 
she could remember, and passed these to Nationwide. Nationwide searched again between 
1 and 15 March 2022 using the keywords Miss L had suggested, but still couldnt find any 
chat with Miss L. Nationwide said that it was still offering a switch incentive, and Miss L was 
welcome to complete a switch to Nationwide and, provided she met all the criteria, would 
then qualify for the £125.
The investigator accepted that Miss L had believed that opening a FlexAccount would qualify 
her for £125. But he looked at the terms and conditions of the switch offer, which required a 
switch from another provider. Miss L hadnt done that, so he could understand why 
Nationwide had said she wasnt eligible.
Miss L wasnt satisfied. She said that Nationwide had made grave errors in not keep an audit 
trail of the chat where shed been told shed qualify. She was disappointed with how both 
Nationwide, and this service, had dealt with things. Miss L asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Miss L was disappointed not to receive the £125 switching bonus, and I can 
understand why shes upset. But in reaching my decision, I have to rely on the available 
evidence, which Ill explain below. 
Terms and conditions
The most important evidence here is the terms and conditions for the switch.  Ive  looked at 
these to see whether Miss L could qualify when she upgraded from a Basic account to a 
FlexAccount.
Nationwides website says, under How do I qualify for the offer?
Youll qualify for this offer if:
5.    you use our Internet Bank to switch a current account held with another provider to a 
FlexAccount, FlexPlus or FlexDirect current account you have with us, or you open a 
FlexAccount, FlexPlus or FlexDirect current account with us through our website, Internet 
Bank or Banking app and switch a current account held with another provider to that account 
as part of your account application.
6.   You must complete a full account switch from a current account held with another 
provider using the Current Account Switch Service. The account you have with another 
provider must be closed as part of the switch. Manual and partial switches do not count 
towards this.
7.  You must transfer a minimum of 2 active Direct Debits from the current account being 
switched to the Nationwide account as part of the switch. 
This makes it clear that customers can only qualify for the offer if they switch and close a 
current account with another provider. So Miss L wasnt eligible for the incentive under the 
terms and conditions, because she wasnt switching an account she had elsewhere, into 
Nationwide.
Chat recordsMiss L says that a Nationwide chat adviser told her that shed qualify, if she upgraded her 
Basic account to a FlexAccount. So, if there were evidence that an adviser had mistakenly 
told Miss L shed qualify, the outcome might be different. So Ive looked to see whether it 
was reasonable that Nationwide couldnt find a chat saying this.
Miss L wasnt able to tell Nationwide when the chat took place. Nationwide searched 
between 1 and 15 March, which I think was reasonable when Miss L opened the 
FlexAccount on 14 March. Ive looked at Nationwides internal notes, and I accept that it did 
genuinely look thoroughly for the chat. 
I also note that Nationwide offered to search again if Miss L could provide any keywords, 
and that it did search again when she did so. Nationwide also provided a different chat with 
Miss L, when she was chasing for a final response letter. So it doesnt appear that there was 
any fault in recording her particular chats. 
So I consider that Nationwide genuinely tried to find any chat there might have been.  I find 
that its more likely than not that if there had been a chat in which Miss L had been promised 
£125 for changing her Basic account to a FlexAccount, it would have been found.
Speed of Nationwides response to Miss Ls complaint
Miss L is also unhappy because she complained on 15 March, and Nationwide sent its final 
response on 6 April. Financial organisations are allowed up to eight weeks to reply to a 
complaint, so Nationwides response met that requirement.
As Nationwides switching terms and conditions dont offer the £125 incentive for customers 
upgrading from a Basic account to a FlexAccount, and theres no evidence that Nationwide 
wrongly told Miss L otherwise, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman