The complaint
Miss W says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) acted irresponsibly 
when it provided loans to her.
What happened 
Sunny gave Miss W 14 loans between March 2018 and July 2019. Not all the loans are 
repaid yet. Heres a table showing loan details for the first 7 loans:
loan date taken date repa
idinstalme
nts amoun
thigh
est* 
repayment
1
23/03/2018 14/09/2018 6 £400 £119.81
2
20/06/2018 06/12/2018 6 £200 £184.81
3
15/08/2018 06/12/2018 6 £150 £234.11
4
14/09/2018 06/12/2018 6 £150 £164.31
5
22/10/2018 06/12/2018 6 £50 £180.25
6
22/12/2018 17/04/2019 6 £200not relevant
7
07/02/2019 14/05/2019 6 £150not relevant
DRN-1825681*approximate combined repayments where loans overlap
When Miss W complained to Sunny it didn't agree it had done anything wrong. But, in order 
to bring her complaint to a close, Sunny made a goodwill offer to write off the outstanding 
balance Miss W owed on her loans and update her credit file to show all the loans were 
settled. 
Miss W didn't feel this went far enough and so she brought her complaint to us. 
Miss W complained that Sunny provided her with loans that she couldnt afford to repay in a 
sustainable way. She told us that she was in a cycle of borrowing and her debt became 
unmanageable which led to financial and relationship problems that have had a lasting 
impact. 
Our adjudicator didnt feel that hed seen enough to say it was unfair that Sunny had 
provided loans 1 - 4 to Miss W. But he thought that loan 5 onwards shouldnt have been 
provided  and he explained how hed come to this view. 
Our adjudicator also gave some detailed instructions about the way he thought Sunny 
should settle the complaint. 
Sunny didnt agree with everything in our adjudicators view letter  but it said that after 
reviewing this complaint it now recognised that it couldve asked Miss W further questions 
about how she was using the loans at the point after which the tenth loan was granted. And 
Sunny offered to uphold the complaint from loan 11 onwards. Sunny sent details showing 
how it had worked out the refund it was willing to pay Miss W in settlement of her complaint. 
We passed this information on to Miss W. The offer falls short of our adjudicators 
recommended settlement and hasnt been accepted. So as the complaint hasnt been 
settled, it comes to me to make a final decision. 
What I've decided - and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss W could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income)  
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Sunny was required to establish whether Miss W could sustainably repay her loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ws complaint.
Ive looked at what it appears Miss W told Sunny about her financial circumstances and the 
repayment amounts she had to make for loans 1  4. Taking this information into account, 
and bearing in mind that this was early on in her lending relationship with Sunny, I dont think 
it wouldve been proportionate for Sunny to ask Miss W for the amount of information that 
would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing these loans. 
These loans all looked affordable for Miss W, based on what shed said to Sunny about her 
finances - even taking into account the combined monthly repayments. So I agree with our 
adjudicator that there isnt enough information for me to be able to say that Sunny shouldnt 
have lent Miss W any of the first four loans. 
Like our adjudicator, I dont agree it was reasonable for Sunny to provide loan 5. At this 
point, I think Sunny shouldve realised that it was clear from looking at Miss Ws borrowing 
history that she was likely having money problems. 
I say this because by the time she asked for loan 5, Miss W already had three other 
outstanding short term loans with Sunny  and now she was asking for further borrowing. 
Ive taken into account that loan 5 was the smallest single loan amount Miss W had taken 
out with Sunny. And looking at the information Sunny had recorded for Miss W, the loan 
mightve appeared affordable  even on top of her other Sunny loans that she was still 
paying. But despite this, I still think that Sunny shouldve realised that Miss Ws borrowing 
record painted a picture of someone struggling with debt. 
Although Sunny had obtained some credit information this doesnt help explain Miss Ws 
borrowing history. So I think Sunny shouldve enquired further and checked to make sure it 
had a proper understanding of her financial situation.If Sunny had done proportionate checks before providing loan 5, it couldve seen that 
Miss W already had a record of borrowing from other high cost lenders and a current 
outstanding loan with another short term lender. So Sunny shouldve realised that regardless 
of what Miss W had told Sunny about her finances, in reality there were clear signs that she 
was having serious problems managing her money. 
Just because Sunny allowed customers to take out up to four loans at any one time doesnt 
mean that it acted fairly when it provided loan 5 to Miss W. I think Sunny shouldve seen that 
the indications were that loan 5 wasnt likely to be sustainably affordable for Miss W and it 
shouldnt have provided this loan to her  or any further loans. 
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Miss W, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. 
Given the particular circumstances of Miss Ws case, like the adjudicator, I think that this 
point was reached by loan 7. I say this because:
Miss W wasnt managing to repay her loans sustainably - she had taken out 7 loans 
from Sunny in around 11 months 
 
although Sunny says it was far too early to consider that Miss W had become 
dependent on these loans, Sunny could see that shed already established a clear 
pattern of paying outstanding loans early and quickly borrowing again. So by loan 7 it 
looked like Miss W probably wasnt using the loans for their intended purpose. 
 
the loan amounts borrowed each time went up and down  but bearing in mind that 
Miss W continued to borrow new loans before repaying her earlier ones, I think this 
indicated that overall her financial circumstances werent improving. And I think the 
signs were that she was struggling with debt and reliant on this sort of borrowing just 
to get by month to month rather than using the loans to cover a temporary cash flow 
problem.  
 
I think that Miss W lost out when Sunny provided loan 7 because:
this loan had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Ws indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time 
 
the number of loans Miss W borrowed was likely to impact adversely on her ability to 
access mainstream credit and so kept Miss W in the market for high-cost loans. By 
loan 7 any further borrowing was likely to be detrimental to Miss Ws credit rating. 
 
So overall, Im upholding Miss Ws complaint about loan 5 onwards.
Putting things right  what Sunny needs to do  
If Sunny has sold the outstanding debts it should buy these back before doing what I have 
outlined below. If Sunny isnt able to buy the debts back then it should liaise with the new 
debt owner to achieve the following:A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Miss W towards interest, fees and
charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything it
has already refunded.
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Miss W which
were considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Miss W originally made the
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld outstanding
loans and treat any repayments made by Miss W as though they had been
repayments of the principal. If this results in Miss W having made overpayments then
these should be refunded with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments,
from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is
settled. Sunny should then refund the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" and move to
step "E".
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in "A" and "B"
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in
a surplus then that surplus should be paid to Miss W. However if there is still an
outstanding balance then Sunny should try to agree an affordable repayment plan
with Miss W.
E. Remove all adverse entries from Miss Ws credit file for loans 5 - 6.
F. The overall pattern of Miss Ws borrowing by loan 7 means any information recorded
about this loan and all the loans that followed is adverse, so Sunny should remove
loans 7-14 entirely from Miss Ws credit file. There is no need to remove any
outstanding loan from Miss Ws credit file until it is repaid, but Sunny should still
remove any adverse information recorded about these loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give
Miss W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Miss Ws complaint about loans 5 - 14. Elevate 
Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) should take the steps Ive set out above to 
put things right. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Miss W to accept or reject my decision before 21 July 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman