DRN-2969854
The complaint
Mr B complains that Monzo Bank Ltd blocked and then closed his account. He also 
complains that Monzo didnt release money paid into his account to him. 
What happened
Mr B had two accounts with Monzo.
On 26 January 2020, £550 was paid into Mr Bs account, which he immediately moved to his 
joint account. Mr B says he sold two mobile phones, one belonging to him and one to his 
girlfriend. Mr B says he advertised both phones on a well-known social media site. And the 
£550 paid into his account was from the person who bought his girlfriends phone. 
On 29 January 2020, Monzo received a notification from another bank saying that their 
customer had been the victim of fraud. The reports explained that after making an upfront 
payment to buy the phone advertised online by Mr B, hed blocked any further contact from 
them and not provided the phone which theyd bought. The sending bank asked Monzo to 
return the funds so that it could refund their customer. 
Monzo placed blocks on Mr Bs account, whilst it investigated the reports from the other 
bank and spoke to Mr B about the £550 payment. This meant he couldnt access the money 
in his account. Mr B gave the bank screenshots of conversations he says hed had with the 
buyer of the phone, which he says shows the transaction was all above board. Monzo 
werent satisfied the screen shots showed Mr B had given the phone to the buyer. So, it 
returned what was left of the £550 (just under £300) to the sending bank. Following this, 
Monzo decided to close Mr Bs account immediately. 
Mr B complained to Monzo. He wants the bank to return the money to him and says it 
shouldnt have sent it back. Mr B says that Monzo's actions caused him a great deal of 
trouble and upset as he needed the money to look after his family. Monzo said it hadnt done 
anything wrong when it blocked and closed Mr Bs account. And had returned the remaining 
funds back to the sending bank. Unhappy with this response, Mr B brought his complaint to 
our service where one of our investigators looked into what happened. 
The investigator said Monzo hadnt done anything wrong when it blocked and closed 
Mr Bs account. And had done so in line with the account terms and relevant regulations. He 
also said that the evidence Mr B provided didnt show hed actually completed the sale of the 
phone.
Mr B disagreed. He said hes out of pocket and without his phone. So, the bank should 
refund him the money it returned and explain why it blocked his account. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill deal first of all with Monzos decision to restrict Mr Bs account whilst it looked into the 
concerns expressed to it by the other bank about the £550. Having looked at all the 
evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances for Monzo to have acted 
in the way that it did. Fraud is a serious matter, and one way banks can help to tackle 
fraudulent payments is by restricting accounts when allegedly fraudulent payments are 
received into them. Monzo has explained that this was its standard procedure, and I accept 
that it was. Thats in line with what most banks would do in the same situation. And it 
enabled Monzo to consider how best to react to the report it had received from the other 
bank about the transaction. So, whilst I accept this caused Mr B inconvenience, I cant say 
Monzo treated him unfairly when it blocked his account. 
Mr B says that the money paid into his account shouldnt have been returned to source. And 
hes now out of pocket. But banks must be able to talk to each other to protect their 
customers when money they believe fraud has taken place. And this is what happened here. 
The other bank told Monzo that the £550 credit paid into Mr Bs account was fraudulent  
that its customers hadnt received anything after sending the money to Mr B. So, after 
looking at what Mr B said about the payment, it returned the money to the other bank. 
Ive looked at the evidence which Monzo relied on to return the money. And I can see that 
the report from the other bank said that Mr B had asked for payment upfront via bank 
transfer, wasnt at the address given to collect the phone and then blocked any contact from 
the potential buyer. Ive looked at the screen shots Mr B has provided. They show a 
conversation taking place on 25 January 2020 about the sale of a phone. All the screen 
shots show is the buyer (of a phone) arriving at an unknown location. Its not clear that this 
was Mr Bs address or what led to this arrangement. Ive not seen any evidence that Mr B 
actually completed the sale, in other words, that he handed over the goods, such as an 
invoice or any evidence of collection by the buyer.
So, Ive not seen enough evidence to conclude Mr B was entitled to the £550 paid into his 
account. And when I weigh everything up, on balance, I cant say Monzo were wrong in 
taking the actions it did in returning the remaining funds to source. And Im not going to ask 
Monzo to return the money to Mr B.
I then turn to the banks decision to close Mr Bs account. Its generally for banks to decide 
whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually 
say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case 
Monzo closed Mr Bs bank immediately. Having looked at all the evidence, in my view that 
wasnt unreasonable. And Im satisfied that the bank acted in line with the account terms and 
relevant regulations. So, I cant say the bank has done anything wrong when it closed 
Mr Bs account without notice.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman