DRN-2931611
The complaint
Mr K complains that for long periods of time Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management 
Limiteds (HLAM) website wasnt working. He couldnt trade and has made a loss as a 
result. He also complains that a wrong price was displayed.
 
What happened
Mr K has an execution only share dealing account with HLAM. He says that, on 9 November 
2020, he couldnt trade for long periods of time during the day. He wanted to sell some 
shares and couldnt until later in the day but, by then, prices had moved against him. He 
estimates the delay in trading caused him losses of around £6,000. He also says that, a 
couple of days later, an incorrect price was showing for one of his shareholdings, which I will 
refer to as M.
HLAM apologised for the inconvenience but said this was due to exceptional levels of 
demand which affected account access for some customers. It said it couldnt guarantee 
continuous ability to trade and that this was set out in the agreed terms and conditions. It 
explained that the incorrect price Mr K was referring to was displayed out of market hours 
and reflected the last trading days closing price. It said prices are always indicative and that 
live quotes  which are available when trading - provide the most accurate prices.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He concluded that 
there were some problems with HLAMs systems on 9 November 2020, but that the terms 
and conditions set out that HLAM wasnt liable for any losses Mr K said he made because of 
his difficulty placing trades. He thought HLAM had provided a clear explanation and hadnt 
treated Mr K unfairly. Our investigator also didnt think HLAM had made an error when it 
displayed the price of M.
Mr K didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
HLAM said its website was down for an hour at around 2.30pm. But he also faced 
problems trading in the morning.
HLAM told him it didnt have enough staff, which led to the failure. And he made losses 
as a result of this failure.
He must have the ability to sell shares when he wants to.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator for the following 
reasons:
HLAMs terms and conditions say (A12):
We cannot guarantee that access to, or trading in, your Accounts via the HL Website, HL 
Mobile Application, by telephone or by post will be available at all times or without delay. You 
acknowledge that the HL Service may be interrupted and the services available may be 
variable in certain circumstances.
On 9 November 2020, trading volumes across world markets increased dramatically 
following positive Covid-19 vaccine news and the US election result. The demand from 
HLAMs customers also surged and unfortunately Mr K was one of the customers who was 
unable to access his online account during the morning. In the afternoon, HLAMs website 
experienced an outage for around an hour when the US markets opened. In the 
circumstances of the unprecedented demand on this day, I dont find it unreasonable that 
HLAM wasnt able to offer its usual level of service.
HLAM offers a phone dealing service if customers cant trade online. But this service was 
similarly extremely busy for the same reasons. Mr K told us that he had to wait around an 
hour before he was able to get through. I fully understand how frustrating this must have 
been. But, again, I dont think the waiting time was unreasonable given the specific 
circumstances here.
It follows that I dont find HLAM is obliged to compensate Mr K for the difficulties he 
encountered in trying to access its dealing service that day, or for any trades he may have 
wanted to carry out.
Mr K says he must be able to trade when he wants to and that HLAM had a staff shortage 
which led to his loss. My role is to resolve individual disputes between businesses and 
consumers. I dont have the power to tell HLAM how it should develop, and stress test, its 
systems, or how it should be staffed. Thats a matter for the regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). In the particular circumstances here, when Mr K tried to access his account 
online and then tried to use the phone dealing service, I dont think it was unreasonable that 
he experienced the problems he did.
Turning to Mr Ks complaint about the price of M shares, Im satisfied with HLAMs 
explanation here. The price Mr K said was incorrect was displayed out of market hours. 
HLAMs terms and conditions say that, If a live quote is not available you will be shown an 
indicative price. The price shown for M shares on 11 November 2020 was the previous 
trading days closing price, which I dont find to be unreasonable. HLAM has explained that, 
if Mr K wanted to place a trade when the market opened, he would have received a live 
price. So I dont find its done anything wrong here.
I do sympathise with Mr K  it must have been very frustrating to face difficulties and delays 
when he wanted to trade. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont find HLAM has treated 
him unreasonably or unfairly in the circumstances it faced that day.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman