DRN-2555946
The complaint
Mr S complains National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) didnt do enough to recover 
money he lost when he fell victim to a scam. He believes NatWest shouldve done more to 
prevent his loss.
  
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised the events 
below.
Mr S disputes several debit card payments made between June and August 2020 to 
a merchant Ill refer to as M.
M is a firm that provides payment solutions for the buying and selling of 
cryptocurrency. 
The service M provides is to deliver the purchasers cryptocurrency to the wallet 
address provided at the time of the purchase.
At the time, Mr S didnt give NatWest a clear version of the events. He gave several 
different reasons for why he was disputing the payments made to M. 
Ultimately, NatWest raised a chargeback for duplicate payments and applied 
temporary credits to Mr S account for the disputed amounts.
The chargeback was contested. M said the 3D secure payment processing systems 
prevents duplications. It said the disputed payments had taken place at different 
times and/or were for differing amounts. It also provided evidence that the 
cryptocurrency was purchased through a wallet held in Mr S name with a Bitcoin 
trading platform, which I will refer to as B. And the cryptocurrency was delivered to 
that wallet.  
The temporary refunds were re-debited as no further admissible evidence was 
provided in support of Mr S chargeback claim. This left Mr S account significantly 
overdrawn. 
Mr S brought his complaint to our service. One of our Investigators, whilst empathetic to the 
situation, didnt think NatWest had made a mistake by not taking his request for a 
chargeback any further. She also didnt think NatWest couldve done more to prevent Mr S 
loss. Mr S disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator for broadly the same 
reasons. It follows that Im not upholding Mr S complaint. Ill explain why.
I note Mr S has given conflicting information about what has happened. He also hasnt given 
clear answers to some of the questions raised, so there are gaps in what we know  which 
naturally casts a doubt and raises concerns about the reliability of Mr S testimony. In this 
situation, my role is to weigh up the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of 
probabilities, whats most likely to have happened. For these reasons, Ive relied and placed 
more weight on the documentary evidence available to reach a view on what happened.   
Mr S version of events is unclear. At times he says he did authorise the payments but was 
tricked into doing so. Other times he has claimed he authorised the first payment and the 
subsequent payments were unauthorised. So the first thing I need to decide is whether, on 
balance, I think he authorised the payments or not.  
The relevant law here is the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and broadly speaking 
Mr S is responsible for any payments that he has authorised, and he isnt responsible for 
unauthorised payments. And having considered all the evidence and information available I 
think, on balance, its most likely that Mr S did authorise all the payments to M. I say this for 
the following reasons:
Evidence from M that the cryptocurrency was purchased through a wallet held in 
Mr S name with B. The details provided were Mr S correct details.
Evidence from M showed that it held Mr S genuine email and sent confirmation of 
the purchases to him. 
In his submissions to this service, Mr S has shared screenshots of communication 
between him and the scammer, which included screenshots of a Bitcoin wallet he 
held with B.
Mr S told our investigator he was asked to make payment by Bitcoin. 
Mr S when questioned told our investigator he saw a company advertised on social 
media that provided support to those looking for teaching opportunities abroad. He 
told her he made payments for tutorials and seminars that would enable him to work 
abroad. Mr S also told our investigator, the individual he was communicating with told 
him the payments hed made had not arrived and asked him to make these again  
which he told her he did. 
Chargeback 
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it will ultimately arbitrate on a 
dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between them after two 
presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so there are limited 
grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. 
I need to be clear that our role in such cases is not to second-guess Visas arbitration 
decision or scheme rules, but to determine whether the regulated card issuer (here NatWest) 
acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or choosing not to present) a chargeback on 
behalf of its cardholder.  Mr S had not provided NatWest with a clear account of what had happened. When he made 
chargeback requests, the reason he gave was duplicate payments. NatWest raised his 
claims. These were defended. M provided evidence that the payments were not duplicates. 
In response to Mr S later claim that hed been scammed and tricked into making the 
payments NatWest explained M is a legitimate payment processing firm. Mr S belief that M 
scammed him in itself doesnt provide it with chargeback rights. It said as Mr S had 
authorised the payments the only claim it could look to raise for these types of payments is if 
the money had not been credited to the intended wallet. It would require evidence of where 
the money was due to be applied and evidence the money has not being applied to the 
wallet in order to see if a chargeback right is present.
It might be helpful for me to clarify that M are not involved in/or responsible for any 
movement of the cryptocurrency from the wallet. The service it provides is delivery of the 
purchased cryptocurrency to the wallet address provided at the time of the purchase. Simply 
put, in these specific circumstances at the point at which M credited the intended wallet it 
had fulfilled the service it was expected to provide. If Mr S was then tricked into sending the 
cryptocurrency from his wallet with B to the scammer - this would be a separate matter  and 
not one that is covered under the chargeback scheme.   
 
I think NatWest tried to assist Mr S by at least attempting chargebacks using the reason 
code for duplicate payments but when these were defended, NatWest had no further 
grounds to pursue Mr S claims. And this is because Ms defence satisfied the requirements 
of the reason code (duplication claims). Ms defence also evidenced that the cryptocurrency 
was purchased through a wallet held in Mr S name with B. It showed the cryptocurrency 
was delivered to the intended wallet and then spent from there by the wallet holder. So, 
declining to pursue the chargeback claims further in circumstances where there were no 
reasonable prospects of success was neither an unfair nor unreasonable exercise of 
NatWests discretion.
Unusual or uncharacteristic activity
Ive carefully considered the activity on Mr S account and I don't think in these 
circumstances NatWest couldve reasonably prevented the payments, as they weren't 
obviously uncharacteristic or suspicious for his account. Further, Mr S had no interaction 
with NatWest at the time of making the disputed payments and M is a genuine merchant. 
Taking this altogether Im satisfied NatWest had no reason to suspect and couldnt possibly 
have known these payments were being made as a result of a scam. 
I know my outcome will come as a disappointment to Mr S but in the end, his losses 
originated with the criminal actions of a scammer with the intent of defrauding him. And it 
wouldn't be fair or reasonable to ask NatWest to refund losses which resulted from the 
actions of a third-party.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I am not persuaded that National Westminster Bank Plc 
acted unfairly or unreasonably with regard to Mr S disputed payments to M, so I am unable 
to uphold this complaint or make any award against the bank.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman