DRN-2189479
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy about how Admiral Insurance Company Limited dealt with a claim on the 
home emergency policy which was part of his home insurance policy.
Reference to Admiral includes its agents.
What happened
Mr A contacted Admiral to report a home emergency because his roof was leaking. Admiral 
arranged for a contractor to visit, but they didnt turn up. Mr A booked another appointment 
for an afternoon several days later. On the day of the appointment, the contractor turned up 
at his house in the morning, so Mr A wasnt there. Mr A contacted Admiral, who said he 
could get his own contractor to carry out temporary repairs. Mr A did this, but he said that 
Admirals delays in dealing with the water leak had led to additional damage. 
Mr A complained to Admiral about the contractors failure to attend appointments and the 
additional damage. He also thought that a call handler for one of the contractors was racist 
when she spoke to him. In response, Admiral said that it didnt think it was responsible for 
the delays or for any subsequent structural damage. It said that although the call handler 
had an impatient tone, it didnt think she was racist. Admiral offered Mr A £25 compensation 
for the first appointment that a contractor failed to attend.
Mr A complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said that Admiral 
failed to turn up at two appointments and could have done more to explain that Mr A could 
get his own contractor. He said that Admiral should pay Mr A £150 compensation.
As Mr A did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
I issued my provisional decision on 17 August 2020. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I was planning to partially uphold the complaint. I said:
Mr A had a roof leak that was causing water to enter his home. He said that when he 
contacted Admiral, it arranged two appointments to carry out a temporary repair. For the first 
appointment, the contractor didnt turn up and for the second appointment, the contractor 
turned up in the morning for an afternoon appointment. 
Ive looked at both Mr As and Admirals account of what happened. Its not in dispute that 
the contractor failed to turn up for the first appointment. Mr A then arranged another 
appointment for a couple of weeks later. He said that it was arranged for the afternoon but 
the contractor turned up in the morning. This differs to Admirals account of what happened, 
which was that, on the day, it contacted Mr A to move the appointment to the next day due to 
the weather. Admiral didnt provide evidence to show that its version of events happened, 
whereas it did provide a phone call from the day of the appointment where Mr A told Admiral 
that the contractor had turned up at the wrong time. I therefore think it is more likely than not, 
as Mr A said, that the contractor did attend but at the wrong time. Although the contractor 
might then have tried to rearrange, it seems that this wasnt just because of the weather. So, 
on that basis, I think Admiral failed to attend two appointments.
So, the next issue is the delays in dealing with the claim. Given that the contractors failed to 
turn up for two appointments, this will have added a delay to dealing with the claim. 
However, looking at the claim from the start, I dont think it is fair to say that Admiral is 
responsible for the delay overall. 
When Mr A registered the claim, he was contacted promptly to make an appointment. But, 
the agreed date was several days away to allow for Mr As availability. When the first 
contractor failed to turn up for the appointment, it seems that Mr A told Admiral that he didnt 
want to arrange a new appointment, although Admiral did say that he could arrange his own 
repair. Several days later, Mr A then tried to make another appointment as he said the 
damage was getting worse. The second contractor then failed to turn up as arranged. But I 
cant see that this meant that Admiral was responsible for the delay between those two 
appointment dates. After the first appointment, Mr A said he didnt want Admiral to send 
anyone else and it was only when the issue got worse that he then asked for a new 
appointment. The key point is that Admiral didnt fail to arrange another appointment when 
the first one was missed - Mr A said that he didnt want anyone else to attend. Admiral had 
also told him that Mr A could arrange the repair himself.
When Mr A then explained that the leak was getting worse, Admiral arranged for someone 
else to attend, who, again, didnt turn up as agreed. Mr A then told Admiral that he didnt 
want any further appointments to be made and that he would sort the leak out himself and 
submit an invoice. Given this, in my view, any delays in the temporary repairs being carried 
out after that date werent Admirals responsibility. So, although Admiral failed to turn up to 
the appointments and this contributed to the delay in carrying out the temporary repair, 
looking at the full circumstances of what happened and why, I think this only accounts for 
two days of the delay.
The next question is whether the delays caused further damage for which Admiral is 
responsible. Given that Ive said that I think there is only a small part of the delay that can be 
directly attributed to Admiral, I also think it is difficult to attribute any additional damage to 
Admiral. Clearly, if the contractors had attended the appointments, the temporary repair was 
likely to have been carried out, but I dont think Admiral was responsible for any damage that 
happened between the missed appointments. This is because Mr A said that he didnt want 
Admiral to send anyone, so that meant Admiral couldnt carry out the repair itself. Im also 
aware that Admiral advised Mr A on several occasions that he could get his own contractor 
and, given his level of dissatisfaction, that he might be better off doing so because he could 
then choose who did the temporary repair and arrange it for a time that suited him. Admiral 
also explained to him on more than one occasion that, although the contractors should have 
attended, it was important to deal with the temporary repair as soon as possible, including 
because this could potentially cause an issue with making a claim on his buildings insurance 
for the permanent repair.
After the second missed appointment, Mr A said he would sort out the leak himself and that 
he didnt want Admiral to send anyone. Admiral confirmed to Mr A that he could do this and 
submit an invoice. Mr A said that he didnt have time to arrange for his own contractor for a 
few weeks but would arrange it when he was able to do so. So, I also dont think it would be 
reasonable for me to say that Admiral was responsible for any additional damage that 
happened after the last missed appointment and before Mr A arranged for the temporary 
repair to be carried out. Mr A had told Admiral that he didnt want it to carry out the repair 
and so its responsibility for dealing with the damage ended, except for refunding any invoice 
that Mr A submitted for the temporary repair.
So, thinking about all of the above, I think that Admiral failed to attend two appointments that 
had been arranged. However, I dont currently think that it was responsible for the overall delays in carrying out the temporary repair or for any additional damage that happened 
before the temporary repair was made.
Im also aware that Mr A thought that a call handler was racist when she spoke to him about 
setting up an appointment. This service isnt a court of law, so I cant make a finding on 
whether Mr A was discriminated against under the Equality Act 2010. However, having 
listened to that phone call, I think the call handler was abrupt and impatient with Mr A and I 
can understand that he was concerned about the manner in which she spoke to him. I also 
note that she closed the claim as she concluded that Mr A didnt want to make an 
appointment for a repair. When Mr A phoned Admiral to complain about the way he had 
been spoken to, I note that Admiral took his concerns seriously and raised a complaint for 
him about this. Admiral also reopened the claim so that Mr A could make another 
appointment if he wanted to. So, Im satisfied that Admiral took Mr As concerns seriously 
and took action as soon as Mr A raised this.
I have thought about what Admiral should do as a result of all of the above. Im aware that 
Mr A wants Admiral to pay for any additional damage and to be compensated for the time he 
took off work, particularly as he is self-employed. As I dont think that any additional damage 
can be attributed directly to Admiral, it follows that I dont think it should pay anything for this. 
In terms of compensation, we dont normally say that compensation should be given for loss 
of earnings or annual leave. Instead, we look at the overall impact. Having thought about 
everything that happened, Im currently of the view that Admiral should pay Mr A £150 for 
the distress and inconvenience of the two missed appointments. To be clear, this is £150 in 
total and includes the £25 already offered.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 16 September 2020.
Admiral accepted the decision and confirmed that it was willing to pay the £150 if Mr A 
accepted the decision.
Mr A asked me to give my view on whether the damage had got worse after he submitted 
the claim, whether I thought he had been treated differently due to his ethnicity and the 
reasons for the amount of compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to maintain my previous decision to partially uphold this 
complaint for the reason that I previously gave in my provisional decision.
Looking at each of Mr As points, the first was about whether I thought the damage got 
worse after the first appointment. Mr A said it had and that he held Admiral responsible for 
this. In my view, I dont think the point is relevant. Even if I agree with Mr As view, as I 
previously explained, after the first missed appointment, Mr A said that he didnt want 
anyone else to attend and only made another appointment when the damage got worse. I 
dont think that Admiral can be held responsible for damage after the first missed 
appointment, as Admiral was not then given another opportunity to deal with the issue until 
Mr A contacted Admiral again to say the damage had got worse and he now wanted 
someone else to attend.
Mr A also asked for my view on the phone call in which he thought he had been treated 
differently due to his ethnicity. This phone call was from a contractor trying to arrange a new appointment. I dont think there was anything in the call that was overt racism, I also dont 
think there was anything in the call that indicated that the way the call handler spoke was 
motivated by racism or an awareness of Mr As ethnicity. In my view, I think the call handler 
got frustrated at having to repeat herself a couple of times at the start of the call and that this 
then helped set the tone for the rest of the conversation. I think there was miscommunication 
in the call and that the call handler could have dealt with this better. But I think that was 
down to poor customer service rather than Mr As ethnicity.
Mr A also asked about the reasons for the level of compensation I said Admiral should pay, 
including because he was concerned about the damage to his property and the phone call. 
As Ive previously explained, I dont think that Admiral can be held responsible for the 
damage. I also havent seen evidence that discrimination was a factor in the phone call 
described above. But I do think that there were some customer service issues, those being 
the two missed appointments and the tone of the phone call. This is what the level of 
compensation reflects and I think is an appropriate amount to recognise the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the parts of this complaint that were within Admirals control.
Putting things right
Admiral should pay Mr A £150 for the distress and inconvenience of the two missed 
appointments and the customer service issues related to the phone call with the contractor. 
To be clear, this is £150 in total and includes the £25 already offered.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is partially upheld. As a result, I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to:
Pay Mr A £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman