DRN-3823960
The complaint
Mr W complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited misled him about the increase to his 
income protection premium.
What happened
In June 2022 Aviva wrote to Mr W to say it had increased his annual premium by 2.4%. He 
disagreed with this, and thought Aviva had increased his premium by 22.3%. He complained 
to Aviva on this basis.
Aviva said the premium had been increased by 2.4% and the remaining increase was due to 
index-linking. Mr W cancelled his policy and then brought a complaint to this service about 
the matter.
 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said the 22.3% increase 
applied to both Avivas review of the premium and index-linking.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy says:
We may review the premium payable under this Policy on the Review Date taking into 
account the actual and expected experience under individual permanent health insurance 
Policies
It also says a review may result in an increase or decrease in the premium.
The policy says the following in respect of index-linking:
Benefit for Incapacity will be reviewed annually at the Anniversary Date in line with the 
General Index of Retail Prices
c. A revised premium will be payable for any increase in Benefit
When Aviva wrote to Mr W in June 2022, it explained it had carried out a review and had 
increased his premium by 2.4%. In the same letter, it also said that Mr Ws policy benefit and 
premiums would automatically increase due to index-linking. However, he could decline this 
increase. 
The financial statement included with Avivas letter explained that Mr Ws premium had 
increased to £37.74. I understand he was previously paying £30.85, so I agree that overall, 
his premium had increased by 22.3%. However, I think it was apparent from Avivas letter 
that two separate increases had taken place.
I do agree it would have been helpful if Aviva had broken down the premium increase to 
reflect that 2.4% of the increase was for the review, and the remaining increase was due to 
index-linking (which Mr W could have declined). But Aviva did ask Mr W to contact it if he 
had any questions. When Mr W did so, Aviva broke down the premium increase for him. 
Although Aviva mistyped one of the figures in error, it did then correct this.
I dont agree with Mr W that Aviva attempted to deliberately mislead him about the premium 
increase. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman