DRN-4029478
The complaint
Mr S complains that Stagemount Limited trading as Quidmarket (Quidmarket) failed to carry 
out proportionate checks before it advanced him loans. 
What happened
Mr S took two loans from Quidmarket, Ive outlined a summary of his borrowing below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(months)monthly 
repayment
1 £300.00 27/07/2020 25/09/2020 5 £108.88
2 £500.00 26/10/2020 26/02/2021 5 £181.23
Following Mr Ss complaint, Quidmarket issued its final response letter (FRL). In summary, it 
said it had carried out proportionate checks which showed these loans were affordable. 
Although, Quidmarket didnt uphold the complaint, as a gesture of goodwill, it offered to 
remove these loans from Mr Ss credit file. Mr S didnt agree and instead referred the 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator who didnt uphold it about loan 1. But the 
adjudicator did uphold loan 2. This is because the credit search carried out by Quidmarket 
showed Mr S had four outstanding payday loans and two of them were in arrears. And so, 
the adjudicator concluded Mr S wouldnt be able to repay this loan in a sustainable manner. 
Mr S accepted the adjudicators assessment. 
Quidmarket didnt agree with the outcome reached about loan 2, and Ive summarised the 
response below:
Mr S provided a copy of his wage slip for loan 2  which showed his income was 
larger than when loan 1 was approved. 
While Mr Ss debts were larger, this was as a result of a new hire purchase 
agreement  excluding this Mr Ss debts had increased by only £81. 
Mr Ss credit search showed he had three active unsecured loans  one of which had 
come out of an arrangement between loans 1 and 2. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Quidmarket had to assess the lending to check if Mr S could afford to pay back the amounts
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate
to the circumstances. Quidmarkets checks could have taken into account a number of
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ss
income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Quidmarket should have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr S. These factors include:
Mr S having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr S having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr S coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr S. 
Quidmarket was required to establish whether Mr S could sustainably repay the loans  not
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr S was able to repay
his loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ss complaint.
Neither Mr S nor Quidmarket appear to have disagreed with the adjudicators findings about 
loan 1. To me, this suggests the loan is no longer in dispute and therefore I will say no more 
about it. Instead, this decision will focus on whether Quidmarket did all it ought to have done 
before advancing loan 2. 
Loan 2
Mr S told Quidmarket that this loan was to be used for car repairs. Quidmarket has shown, 
that as part of the affordability assessment it asked Mr S for details of his income and 
expenditure. Mr Ss income has been recorded as being £2,115 per month. Quidmarket says 
it received a copy of Mr Ss wage slip but a copy of what it received has not been provided to 
the Financial Ombudsman. 
Mr S also declared his monthly outgoings were £200. He declared £50 each for credit 
commitments and other. Finally, he declared £100 for rent. This rent payment does seem 
low but Mr S told Quidmarket that he was living at home with parents  so it may have 
expected to have seen a lower level of costs associated with this. And so, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Quidmarket to have accepted the monthly rent figure. This left disposal income of around £1,915 per month. However, Quidmarket also carried out 
further checks including a credit search (which I go into more detail below) and having done 
that it increased Mr Ss monthly expenditure to take account of the information it received  
Quidmarket believed that Mr S had around £1,252 in expenditure each month. This was 
broken down as £100 for rent, £300 for other living costs and £852 for credit commitments. 
Quidmarket says, on the information it provided this left £1,163 of disposable monthly 
income, but I think taking account of the updated figures it actually left Mr S with £863 a 
month of disposable income. But whatever monthly disposable income figure is used, the 
loan looked affordable. But as Ive said above, Quidmarket also had to consider whether the 
loan was sustainable for Mr S. 
Before this loan was approved Quidmarket carried out a credit search and it has provided 
the Financial Ombudsman with a copy of the results it received from the credit reference 
agency. I want to add that although Quidmarket carried out a credit search there
isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. But what
Quidmarket couldnt do, is carry out a credit search and then not react to the to the
information it received.
The credit check results, indicated that he was regularly using payday and / or instalment 
loans. The headline figures arent particularly concerning, Mr S had debts of £13,231 (but 
most of that was due to a recently opened Hire Purchase (HP) agreement) he was utilising 
109% of his available budget / revolving credit. But Mr S had 13 active accounts and he had 
opened 9 new credit accounts within the six months leading up to the loan being granted. 
It does look like that in 2018 Mr S experienced significant difficulties because a number of 
accounts were defaulted in the year. But that was around two years before this loan was 
approved, so I dont think, Quidmarket wouldve been too concerned by them. 
As part of the affordability check  before this loan was approved, Quidmarket had 
calculated monthly credit commitments of around £852 and I think that was broadly accurate 
given the open accounts and the payments that Quidmarket could see in the credit check 
results. 
The adjudicator upheld the complaint about this loan because of the increase in Mr Ss 
overall indebtedness as well as the number of active payday loan accounts. Ive thought 
about this, and I do agree, that there was concerning information. 
The main increase in Mr Ss overall indebtedness was as a result of him opening a new HP 
account in September 2020  and so while his debt had increased  his monthly credit 
commitments for this facility was £274 per month and it was this that Quidmarket had to take 
into account. The increase of Mr Ss debt on its own wouldnt be a reason to say that 
Quidmarket ought to not have approved this loan. 
But Quidmarket also knew, in addition to the HP loan that Mr S had two active Finance 
House loans  which given the terms are either payday loan or high-cost instalment loans. 
These cost Mr S a total of £344 per month. 
Mr S also had a home credit account  which was being reported as being in delinquency. 
This account entered delinquency in November 2019 but Mr S had been making payments 
towards it, yet the account was still in arrears and was being reported as such. 
There was also an unsecured loan which was subject to an arrangement to pay and this was 
being recorded on his credit file. This loan was for £1,150 and currently Mr S was paying £1 per month towards the balance which as of July 2020 was £809. Mr S making £1 payments 
per month is to be a sign that he was likely having financial difficulties  after all these 
payments are so small, they would be considered as token and would point towards 
financial difficulties. 
So, Mr S had 2 active loans opened in September 2020 as well as having two loan in arrears 
 one of which Mr S was only expected to pay £1 per month towards  this alone, would 
indicate that Mr S was likely having problems managing his money and therefore any further 
lending was likely to be unsustainable for him. 
In addition to the recently opened accounts  which were still active, Quidmarket was on 
notice that Mr S had been using other payday loan companies during and before the time 
that loan 1 was granted. 
Since July 2020 (only three months before loan 2 was granted) Mr S had settled (including 
loan 1) six payday or high-cost instalment loans. In my view, Mr S was clearly returning not 
just to Quidmarket but to other high-cost creditors after these loans had been settled. 
To me, this indicates someone in constant need of credit and wasnt using the loans to plug 
a short-term hole in his finances. In my view, it is more likely than not Mr S was having 
difficulties managing his long-term finances, as he was regularly seeking and then repaying 
payday loans. 
Overall, thinking about the credit check results, I am concluding that Mr S ought to not have 
been advanced loan 2, because the results indicated he was already having problems 
managing his existing commitments. 
I am therefore upholding Mr Ss complaint about loan 2.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Quidmarket should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what
might have happened had it not lent loan 2 to Mr S, as Im satisfied it ought not to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr S may have simply left matters there, not
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, they may have
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to reconstruct now accurately. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Mr S in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Mr S would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Quidmarkets liability in this case for what Im satisfied it 
has done wrong and should put right.
Quidmarket shouldnt have given Mr S loan 2.A. Quidmarket should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr S towards 
interest, fees and charges on the loan, including payments made to a third party 
where applicable, but not including anything Quidmarket have already refunded.
B. Quidmarket should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mr S which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr S originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Quidmarket should pay Mr S the total of A plus B.
D. Quidmarket should remove any adverse information Quidmarket has recorded on 
Mr Ss credit file in relation to loan 2. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Quidmarket to deduct tax from this interest. Quidmarket
should give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Ss complaint in part.
Stagemount Limited trading as Quidmarket should put things right for Mr S as directed 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman