DRN-2097390
The complaint
Ms T complains about five short term loans that she took out with Evergreen Finance 
London Limited, trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk, (EFL), which she said were unaffordable.
What happened
This complaint is about five short term loans EFL provided to Ms T between 
August 2018 and December 2018. The loans were repayable by four to six instalments. All 
the loans have been repaid. Ms Ts borrowing history is as follows:
Loan number Date of 
loanRepayment 
dateLoan 
amount 
1. 9/8/18 28/8/18 £400
2. 4/10/18 5/11/18 £200
3. 6/11/18 22/11/18 £1,000
4. 23/11/18 21/12/18 £1,000
5. 31/12/18 21/6/19 £1,000
EFL in its final response letter said that it assessed the affordability of each loan by 
requesting income and expenditure details from Ms T and performing credit checks. EFL 
said that she had sufficient disposable income to repay the loan instalments. EFL also said 
that Ms Ts salary was in excess of £55,000 and that having a larger than average income 
left Ms T in a better position to repay more creditors. It also noted that Ms T had made 13 
loan applications, but it had only approved five which showed that it undertook reasonable 
checks. EFL also said that Ms T had repaid the first four loans early. But it offered as a 
gesture of goodwill to refund half the interest paid on Loan 5 which amounted to £378.87.
Ms T rejected this offer. 
Our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Ms Ts complaint.  
Ms T disagreed. She said that she was taking out more loans to pay for her other loans 
which were all shown on her credit file. She was confused how the lender could not have 
known she was making a lot of applications as everything was on her credit report. In turn 
her credit score was decreasing.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Ms T 
and to EFL on 16 July 2020.  I summarise my findings:
Id noted that the Financial Conduct Authority was the regulator when Ms T took out her 
loans. The relevant rules and guidance set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook said that 
for all loans EFL needed to check that Ms T could afford to meet her repayments in a 
sustainable manner. This meant Ms T being able to meet her repayments out of her normal 
income without having to go without or borrow further. 
The regulations werent prescriptive about what checks EFL needed to carry out in order to 
reasonably assess whether or not Ms T would be able to meet her repayments sustainably. 
But the regulations said that such checks needed to be proportionate. This suggests that the 
same checks might not be the appropriate thing to do for all consumers, or for the same 
consumer in all circumstances. 
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
  the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
  the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
  the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer had been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable). 
Id noted that EFL had made a number of checks before it lent to Ms T. It asked her for 
details of her income and expenditure. Ms T declared her monthly income as between 
£3,452 and £3,643 and her declared expenditure ranged from £1,266 to £1,466. 
Id also noted that EFL had checked Ms Ts credit file before agreeing to the loans. EFL had 
provided this service with a copy of its credit checks. 
Wed not received a copy of Ms Ts own credit report so I couldnt say there were any 
adverse entries on the report which might have caused the lender additional concerns. 
I could see that Loan 1 was for £400 and was repayable by four monthly repayments with a 
highest repayment of £143.14. Id thought about whether EFLs checks were proportionate 
for Loan 1. I could see that the repayments were relatively modest compared to Ms Ts 
disposable income.  
Id noted that EFLs credit check before Loan 1 showed that Ms T had 13 active accounts 
with a total balance outstanding of £11,897. She had no delinquent or defaulted accounts. 
But there was a county court judgement made in February 2017 which had been satisfied in 
July 2017. Given the length of time since the judgement was made, I thought that EFL might 
have reasonably thought that Ms Ts finances had moved on from whatever situation had 
caused the judgement to be made. I could see that Ms T had one advance against income 
(ie a payday loan) and numerous unsecured loans. And I thought that Ms Ts other 
borrowing might have suggested to EFL that her finances were under pressure. But overall, I 
didnt think the repayment amounts on Loan 1 were so large that its obvious they wouldve 
caused Ms T financial difficulty.On balance, I thought that the checks EFL carried out before agreeing Loan 1 were 
proportionate. And given Ms Ts repayment amounts for Loan 1 and that this was her first 
loan with the lender, I didnt think it wouldve been proportionate for EFL to have asked her 
for the amount of information that would have been needed to show the lending was 
unsustainable.  
So, I didnt think EFL was wrong to give Loan 1 to Ms T
Loan 1 was repaid early, and Loan 2 was taken out around five weeks later. Loan 2 was 
repayable by four monthly repayments with a highest repayment amount of £73.53. I could 
see that the repayment amounts might have appeared relatively modest compared to Ms Ts 
disposable income. 
But Id carefully reviewed EFLs credit checks before the loan. These showed that the 
number of Ms Ts active credit accounts had increased to 15 accounts and 22 accounts had 
been opened in the previous six months. The total amount borrowed had almost doubled to 
£23,102 since the credit check carried out before Loan 1. I thought the larger amount of 
borrowing and the higher number of active accounts might have caused EFL some 
concerns. EFL would also have been aware that the amount of credit commitments declared 
by Ms T wasnt correct and that her declared disposable income was substantially less. I 
could also see that there appeared to be three outstanding advances against income (ie 
payday loans) and numerous outstanding instalment loan accounts (described as unsecured 
loans) some of which might have been short term loans. 
Although EFL didnt need to do full checks when Loan 2 was arranged, it did need to act on 
the information it had.  It ought to have seen that Ms T had at least three short term loans on 
its credit checks before Loan 2. And as Ms T had an annual salary in excess of £55,000, 
having at least three outstanding short term loans and a substantial amount of other 
unsecured borrowing was, I thought, an indication that she was having trouble managing her 
money. As such there was a real risk that Ms T wasnt going to be able to sustainably repay 
Loan 2. So as a responsible lender, I didnt think EFL should have given Loan 2 to Ms T.
Ms T applied for Loan 3 the day after repaying Loan 2 and the loan amount had significantly 
increased to £1,000 to be repaid by six monthly instalments of around £283. Again, the 
repayment amounts might have appeared relatively modest compared to Ms Ts declared 
disposable income. 
But Id again reviewed EFLs credit checks before the loan. These showed that the number 
of Ms Ts active credit accounts had increased to 16 accounts and 27 accounts had been 
opened in the previous six months. The total amount borrowed had increased to £27,157 
since the credit check carried out before Loan 2. I thought the larger amount of borrowing 
and the higher number of active accounts might again have caused EFL some concerns. I 
could also see that there were three outstanding advances against income and numerous 
outstanding instalment loan accounts (described as unsecured loans) some of which may 
have been short term loans. So, for the same reasons as stated above for Loan 2, I didnt 
think that EFL should have given Loan 3 to Ms T.
It appeared that EFL had rejected a loan application for £600 from Ms T after Loan 3. Shed 
repaid Loan 3 early and the day after shed applied for Loan 4 which was again for £1,000. I 
thought that should have suggested to EFL that it was likely that Ms T was having to borrow 
further to cover the hole repaying her previous loan was leaving in her finances. 
Id also reviewed EFLs credit checks before Loan 4. These showed that the number of      
Ms Ts active credit accounts had increased to 17 accounts and 30 accounts had been 
opened in the previous six months. The total amount borrowed had very slightly decreased. I could also see that there appeared to be four outstanding advances against income and 
numerous outstanding instalment loan accounts (described as unsecured loans). So, for the 
same reasons as stated above for Loan 2, I didnt think that EFL should have given Loan 4 
to Ms T.
Before Loan 5, Ms Ts situation shown in EFLs credit checks hadnt improved. There were 
19 active accounts and 34 accounts had been opened in the previous six months. The total 
balance borrowed had again increased. There were also five advances against income as 
well as numerous unsecured loans. I thought that EFL should have seen that Ms Ts 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably and there was a real risk that Ms T wasnt going 
to be able to sustainably repay Loan 5. So as a responsible lender, I didnt think EFL should 
have given Loan 5 to Ms T.
Id noted that EFL said that the repayments were made on the due dates. But the fact that 
the loan repayments were repaid on the due dates didnt mean that they were repaid 
sustainably, or without causing Ms T undue difficulty. 
EFL also said that Ms T had repaid Loans 1 to 4 early and it said that this type of activity was 
usually not indicative of someone who had found their loan repayments to be unaffordable. 
But I thought the fact that Ms T repaid Loans 1 to 4 earlier than planned should have caused 
some concerns to EFL. I thought that might be the sort of behaviour that would indicate that 
someone was facing problems managing their money and needing to refinance loans on a 
regular basis.
Id also noted that EFL said that Ms T appeared to have sufficient disposable income to 
repay her loan instalments. But I thought that EFL should have seen from its credit checks 
before Loans 2 to 5 that Ms T was facing significant problems managing her money and I 
didnt think it was reasonable for EFL to conclude that the repayments were sustainable. 
Subject to any further representations by Ms T or EFL my provisional decision was that I 
intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to order EFL to put things right as 
follows.
putting things right  what EFL needs to do
Refund all interest and charges Ms T paid on Loans 2 to 5;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on such refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
Remove all adverse entries about Loans 2 to 5 from Ms Ts credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires EFL to take off tax from this interest. EFL must give Ms T 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
Ms T responded to my provisional decision to say that she agreed with my decision and she 
had nothing further to add.
EFL hasnt provided any further information in response to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Given that Ms T and EFL have given me nothing further to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold part 
of the complaint and require EFL to pay Ms T some compensation as set out below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this complaint 
I order Evergreen Finance London Limited, trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk, to: 
1. Refund all interest and charges Ms T paid on Loans 2 to 5;
2. Pay interest of 8% simple a year on such refunded interest and charges from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*; and
3. Remove all adverse entries about Loans 2 to 5 from Ms Ts credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires EFL to take off tax from this interest. EFL must give Ms T 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 September 2020. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman