DRN-2497613
The complaint
Mr B complains about the quality of a turbo that he bought using finance provided by Tesco 
Personal Finance PLC (Tesco PF).
What happened
In July 2019 Mr B purchased a turbo from a garage a limited company that I will call W. But 
even after this Mr Bs car was still having problems so W replaced the turbo. A short while 
after this the cars engine failed and had to be replaced. Mr B blames the turbo for this. Mr B 
has since sold the car.
Mr B complained to W and got nowhere. Therefore, he complained to Tesco PF since hed 
used his credit card with it to buy the turbo. Because he used his credit card Mr B thought he 
had the protection offered by Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75). 
Tesco PF was unwilling to take responsibility for what had gone wrong. It took this position 
for two reasons. It didnt agree that Mr Bs transaction was covered by Section 75. Further, it 
also didnt agree that there was an issue with the quality of the turbo. Tesco PF was relying 
on a report from an expert that said there was no manufacturing fault with the first turbo.
Dissatisfied Mr B came to our service.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Bs complaint. He didnt recommend upholding it. He 
was satisfied that the contract had been set up in such a way that it could give Mr B 
protection under Section 75. However, our investigator was not persuaded on balance that 
there was anything wrong with the turbo that Tesco PF ought to take responsibility for.
Tesco PF accepted our investigators recommendation, Mr B did not. In summary, Mr Bs 
stance remained that his engine was fine before the turbo was fitted and would have lasted 
for years but for the turbo. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
As I have already mentioned Mr B used his credit card provided by Tesco PF to buy the 
turbo. Because he used this form of finance to pay W, Mr B suggests that he got the benefit 
of the protection offered by Section 75 and that is what Mr B is relying on in this complaint.
The general effect of Section 75 is that if a consumer has a claim for misrepresentation or 
breach of contract against the supplier, he can also bring that claim against the finance 
provider provided certain conditions are met. 
I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under 
Section 75. Rather, in deciding whats a fair way to resolve this complaint, I have to take 
account of relevant law. Since Section 75 is relevant law Ive thought about it when looking 
at this complaint. But that doesnt mean Im obliged to reach the same outcome as, for 
example, a court might reach if Mr B pursued a claim in court for misrepresentation or 
breach of contract. This is because this service is an informal alternative to the courts.
It appears that Tesco PF no longer suggests that Mr B has no rights under Section 75. I say 
this because it seems it accepted our investigators view and he concluded Mr B could fairly 
and reasonably rely on Section 75 because Mr B was the contracting party with W. That 
being so the only issue that remains for me to look at is the quality of the turbo and whether 
it caused the damage to Mr Bs car because it did not reach the required quality standard.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, which is relevant law too in this complaint, W had to 
provide a turbo that was of satisfactory quality. The relevant law says that the quality of the 
goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory considering any description of the goods, price and all other relevant 
circumstances. Mr B suggest that the turbo was not of satisfactory quality and he gives a 
number of reasons for saying this.
However, there are several difficulties here for Mr B. We have an expert report that says the 
first turbo had no manufacturing fault. By contrast, we have no information from an expert 
saying what most likely caused the engine to fail and pinning it on the turbo. 
Further, Mr Bs car was not brand-new at the time and it was a relatively old car that would 
have needed maintenance and servicing. There can be any number of causes of engine 
failure in an older car including lack of correct maintenance. Moreover, Mr B no longer has 
the car or the engine (which I understand had to be replaced). All this means there is no way 
of checking the cars engine directly with the aim of working out what most likely caused the 
engine to fail. 
Mr B tells us there were inaccuracies in the report, for example about the mileage but I dont 
think that is the clinching argument as Mr B seems to be suggesting. I say this because, the 
key point here is about the quality of the turbo and the inaccuracies Mr B mentions have no 
bearing on this. I also say this because the report was clear the first turbo had no 
manufacturing fault. The car had it seems the same running problems before the turbo was 
installed and when this turbo was installed in it. I think I can reasonably infer that whatever 
was causing the car to have the running problems caused the engine failure. 
However, I dont have to pinpoint the actual cause of the engine failure. What I am looking at 
here is whether it was the turbo that caused the failure in the circumstances. On balance 
therefore, based on the information I have available to me, I think it is more likely than not 
that the whatever made the engine fail was not the turbo.
If follows from what I have concluded above that I find I have no proper basis for asking 
Tesco PF to take any further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2021.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman