DRN-2134170
The complaint
Mr W has complained that his motor insurance provider AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) 
unfairly voided his motor insurance policy and refused to deal with a claim.
What happened
When Mr W first took his policy with AXA in September 2016, he explained that someone 
else helped him with the process, and at the time Mr W told AXA he had two SP30 motoring 
convictions recorded against his licence. Mr Ws policy renewed with AXA automatically in 
September 2017 and September 2018.
In December 2018 Mr Ws vehicle was stolen and he contacted AXA to make a claim. At this 
point it came to light that Mr W had a third SP30 motoring conviction recorded on his licence 
from 1 February 2018 that AXA had not been made aware of.
AXA explained that Mr W should have told it about the third SP30 when his policy renewed 
in September 2018, and that if he had made them aware it would not have renewed his 
policy. AXA therefore decided to void Mr Ws policy and treat it as though it had never 
existed. It also returned the premium Mr W had paid for the policy to him.
Mr W said he wasnt aware he had to disclose the third SP30 to AXA when his policy 
renewed, and he wasnt asked about the information either.
Our Investigator considered Mr Ws complaint and thought the information provided by AXA 
showed that Mr W would have been aware he needed to tell it about the additional SP30. 
As AXA would not have offered Mr W the motor insurance policy had it been made aware of 
the additional SP30 our Investigator thought AXA had acted fairly. Mr W disagreed, he said 
he had never received his renewal emails and that AXA must have been using an old email 
address, and that despite constant requests for AXA to provide documentation by post AXA 
had not done so.
Mr W also explained that AXA delayed sending him documentation by post after it decided to 
void his policy, which resulted in unnecessary legal fees, and that he was able to renew a 
different policy with AXA even though AXA was fully aware of his driving history.
As Mr W didnt agree his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ws third SP30 conviction was added to his driving history in February 2018. 
When Mr Ws motor insurance policy renewed in September 2018, he had a responsibility - 
under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) - to 
take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. And for AXA to take any action at all, 
it needs to show he didnt do this and that he made whats described as a qualifying 
misrepresentation.
As Mr Ws insurance policy was taken out online, I dont think its surprising that his renewal 
information would also be sent to him electronically by email. This is explained in Mr Ws 
insurance policy along with information about checking his information is still correct. 
It states:
We will contact you by email at least 21 days before the end of your period of insurance. If 
you still meet our eligibility criteria, we will seek to automatically renew your policy by using 
the latest details you provided to us. You will also be provided with a renewal invitation which 
you should check via My AXA Account to ensure all your details are still correct and relevant. 
If any changes are required or you do not wish to renew your policy you should let us know 
via My AXA Account before your renewal date.
If Mr Ws email address had changed throughout the period of insurance, and he no longer 
uses the one he provided to AXA, it would be for him to update the information.
The email that was sent to Mr W when his policy was due to renew directed him to check the 
information it held about him and emphasised the importance of keeping his information up 
to date. 
It stated:
Keep your details up-to-date
Please make sure you update your details in your online account at www.axa.co.uk if any 
information has changed. This includes:
 address details
 car details, including modifications and use
 drivers named on the car insurance, or any changes to their details, including full and part 
time occupations, driving licence details and offences including convictions, fixed penalty 
notices or licence endorsements (including those pending)
Because your cover could be affected if anything isn't correct, it's important you keep all 
details up to date while you're insured.
Had Mr W logged into his account he would also have been able to update the information 
AXA held about him and AXA would not have renewed the policy. 
If Mr W didnt have his login details, I think it would have been reasonable for him to contact 
AXA to update his information. He had received the SP30 in the 2017-2018 policy year and 
would have been aware of the change.
I have also looked at the notes held on AXAs system which show each time contact was 
made. I cant see that Mr W made any contact with AXA before the policy renewed.
With the above considered, I think AXA did make it clear that Mr W had to tell it about his 
additional SP30 at his 2018 renewal and he failed to do so. I understand that Mr W has 
another policy with AXA that he was able to continue with even though he had declared all 
three SP30s, but different policies have different conditions, and AXA has shown us that it 
would not have renewed Mr Ws policy had he told it about the SP30 when he should have.Having reviewed all of this information, I think AXA has acted fairly in voiding Mr Ws policy 
and not dealing with his claim.
I understand Mr W has incurred legal fees as AXA had not sent him his policy documents by 
post following him making his complaint within a reasonable time. But it is not a requirement 
to have legal representation to make a complaint, or to bring a complaint to this service. So I 
dont think it would be reasonable to ask AXA to reimburse these costs.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman