DRN-3613018
The complaint
Mr E complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont remove adverse data from his credit file. This 
means he cant refinance his mortgage.
What happened
The term of Mr Es interest only mortgage with Lloyds expired in November 2018 with an 
unpaid balance. Lloyds allowed him time to sell the property or refinance. Mr E says in 
March 2022 Lloyds said it would allow a final four-month extension. 
Mr E says he wasnt able to sell the property for an amount that would allow him to repay the 
Lloyds mortgage and second and third charge loans and leave him some equity. Hes looked 
into refinancing and found a buy to let mortgage that would allow him to repay Lloyds and 
the second charge loan (he says the third charge can remain on the property). However, this 
is only available if Lloyds removes defaults recorded on his credit file in 2020, 2021 and 
2022. He says Lloyds should have warned him that having a payment date at the end of the 
month meant late payments would be recorded when a payment was only slightly late. 
Lloyds said it recorded the late payments correctly. Our investigator agreed, and said Lloyds 
hadnt treated Mr E unfairly. Mr E asked for an ombudsman to look into the matter and issue 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds has to report accurate, complete and up to date information to the credit reference 
agencies. This is so that third parties, such as other lenders, can get an understanding of an 
individuals commitments.
The terms and conditions of Mr Es mortgage require him to make a payment each month on 
or before the payment date. Mr E chose a payment date at the end of each month. This 
meant if the payment was late for any reason it wasnt made until the next calendar month 
and Lloyds recorded it with the credit reference agencies as late. 
I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Lloyds to remove the late payments from 
Mr Es credit file on the basis they arent accurate. Mr Es payments were late. 
Mr E has been told it will be easier for him to re-finance if theres no adverse data recorded 
on his credit file for two years. Mr E says this will also benefit Lloyds as hell be able to repay 
the mortgage. I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Lloyds to remove the late 
payment markers so that Mr E can borrow more and at a better interest rate. As I said, 
Lloyds has to record accurate information. Its for potential lenders to assess this information 
as part of their decision whether to lend to Mr E, how much to lend and at what rate.
Mr Es account had been in arrears at various times before 2020 and Lloyds had written to 
him about this. For instance, Lloyds wrote to Mr E in late 2019 about late or missed 
payments. This letter said his credit file might be impacted. Lloyds sent similar letters in 2020 
and 2021. I think Lloyds made Mr E aware that late payments could affect his credit file.
Mr E says Lloyds didnt explain the risk of having a payment date at the end of the month. 
He says he didnt know that making payments after the payment date  even if it was only 
one day later  would affect his credit file. However, Lloyds has notes of calls with Mr E 
about the arrears on his account. On 5 March 2020 its notes say Mr E was aware the 
account was in arrears and this has an impact on his credit file. Mr E is noted as saying he 
couldnt afford the monthly payments. This discussion happened at about the time Lloyds 
recorded the first of the late payment markers Mr E asks to be removed. A number of 
payments were received late after this. 
I cant see that the payments were late due to an error by Lloyds. Mr E sent the payments 
himself from his bank account, so he was responsible for ensuring they arrived on or before 
the payment date. 
Im sorry if the late payment markers have made it difficult for Mr E to source a mortgage. 
But I dont think Lloyds made an error or treated Mr E unfairly. The terms of Mr Es mortgage 
require him to make a payment each month, on or before the payment date. Mr E didnt do 
this on a number of occasions. I think Lloyds made Mr E aware that his payments were late 
and this could impact his credit file. I dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
to require Lloyds to remove the late payments from Mr Es credit file.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman