DRN-4435576
The complaint
Miss U complains about the issues shes experienced with a car supplied with finance from 
Santander Consumer (UK) Plc.
What happened
In February 2022 Miss U was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale 
agreement with Santander.
In October 2022 Miss U contacted Santander because the police had stopped her and 
seized the car and had advised her that there was multiple finance held against the car and 
that there was a stolen marker placed against it.
Santander advised Miss U that there was an ongoing investigation with the supplying dealer 
and that it had been confirmed that there was outstanding finance on the car.
Miss U didnt get the car back until November 2022. During the intervening period Miss U 
was advised by Santander that she would be reimbursed for the car she hired to keep 
herself mobile. Miss U didnt receive this reimbursement.
Miss U raised a complaint with Santander. It offered reimbursement of £1214.54 for the hire 
car, £62.90 for train fares, £45.50 for one months road tax, a refund of two monthly 
payments of £334.10 each and compensation of £1000 for distress and inconvenience.
Miss U remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that ultimately it was the supplying 
dealer who was responsible for checking for outstanding finance on the car. She said that 
Santander couldnt reasonably have been aware that there was outstanding finance. The 
investigator said that Santander had made a fair offer of reimbursement and compensation.
Miss U said she would accept the compensation and move on. There then followed several 
weeks where Santander said it had processed the compensation payment, but Miss U said 
she hadnt received it. Miss U contacted this service again. She finally received the 
compensation in August 2023. Miss U said that because of the delays in paying her 
compensation she wanted more compensation.
I issued a provisional decision in which I looked at the redress that Miss U had received from 
Santander. I also considered the delay in Miss U receiving her compensation payment of 
£1000 and her request for further compensation.
I said that the investigators view was issued on 20 March 2023 and Miss U accepted it on 
23 March 2023. This service sent confirmation of acceptance to Santander on 23 March. So 
as at 23 March 2023, Santander knew that it needed to arrange a compensation payment to 
Miss U. And because Santander had previously reimbursed some expenses to Miss U, it 
already held her account details. I said that 28 days was a reasonable period within which 
Santander ought to have made the compensation period. I noted that there had been delays 
and that Santander had apologised for these.  I concluded that although Miss U had been 
caused some further frustration by the delays in processing her compensation payment, I 
didnt think it was such unreasonable delay that it warranted further compensation. I said that 
£1000 was a fair and reasonable amount to reflect the distress and inconvenience suffered 
by Miss U in connection with the issues she experienced with the car.
I invited both parties to let me have any further evidence or arguments they wished to raise.
Santander replied and said it accepted my provisional decision. Miss U didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander has accepted my provisional decision and Miss U hasnt raised any further points. 
Ive thought about everything, but I see no reason to reach a different conclusion to that 
which I reached in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman