DRN-2634881
The complaint
Mr P has complained about the decision by Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited 
(LV) to decline his claim under his property owners insurance policy for loss due to theft.
What happened
Mr P owned a property which he let out to tenants.
In July 2019, the police contacted Mr P to inform him they were about to raid the property as 
they suspected the tenants of hiding stolen goods in the house and garage. They advised 
that if the tenant did not let them in, they would need to force entry.
The police eventually were required to force entry but found the tenants had apparently left 
the property and both the house and garage were empty of contents.
Mr P reported to the police that he had possessions in the house and garage which the 
tenants had stolen. He also made a claim for the stolen items under his policy.
LV declined the claim. It said the policy excluded cover for theft by tenants.
Mr P complained to LV about its decision. He said that all the possessions had in fact been 
in the garage which had been locked but which had been broken into sometime before the 
police raid. He said the tenants were not allowed access to the garage and he didnt know 
whether it was them or someone else who had broken in and carried out the theft; he 
changed his statement to the police accordingly. He also raised other reasons why he 
believed the exclusion was not applicable.
LV maintained its decision to decline the claim. It considered that, on the balance of 
probability, the tenants had carried out the theft from the garage. It was satisfied that the 
policy exclusion could be fairly applied.
Mr P was unhappy at LVs decision. He referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. He thought it was 
reasonable for LV to conclude the tenants had likely been responsible for the theft. He 
considered it had been fair for LV to apply the exclusion.
Mr P didnt accept the investigators findings. He considered that the investigator, and LV, 
had placed too much weight on his statements when he first made the claim. He said he had 
re-considered these statements as hed become more informed and he now believed it was 
more likely the theft was carried out by someone other than the tenants. He pointed to 
evidence in support of this, including: the tenant had eventually been found and charged with 
a far more significant theft and was therefore unlikely to have been involved in the relatively 
minor theft which was the subject of the claim; the tenant still hadnt admitted to stealing 
Mr Ps items; the police thought there was insufficient evidence to charge the tenant over the 
theft of Mr Ps items; and the garage was located over 10 metres away from the house and 
was therefore vulnerable to any potential thief. 
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy states that cover is provided for the following:
Theft or attempted theft involving entry to or exit from the Buildings at the Premises by 
forcible and violent means
Excluding  Damage caused by a Tenant or their family occupying the Building or portion of 
any Building for residential purposes
The property defines Damage as:
Loss destruction of or damage to the Property insured
Im satisfied from this that if the theft was carried out by one of his tenants, Mr P was not 
covered for his loss.
Mr P was on holiday when he was contacted by the police about the planned raid. When he 
later made his claim to LV, he stated: 
Tenants  have gone absconding stealing the items from the house and the garage. Most 
of these items were kept in the garage .Tenants broke in into the garage and emptied the 
garage. Items were either sold, destroyed/disposed or stolen by the tenants. Primarily they 
were after making space in the garage so they could hide stolen goods there 
On 26th July 2019, I got contacted by [the] Police that they plan to raid my rental
property as they suspected the tenants are hidden stolen goods in the house and the
garage. Also they mentioned that if the tenant do not allow entry they would need to
break in into the house and the garage.
Mr P also reported the theft to the police at this time and named the tenant as the suspect in 
the theft.
I recognise that Mr P has since reconsidered and says he now believes the tenant probably 
wasnt responsible for the theft. However, I think it is reasonable to place weight on Mr Ps 
original statement. The police had apparently identified that the tenant was using the garage 
to store stolen items. I consider that Mr Ps assumption that the tenant had previously broken 
into the garage and emptied it of its contents to make space for the stolen goods was a 
reasonable one.
After learning that his claim was to be declined, Mr P started re-assessing the information he 
had given to LV. He said that all, rather than most, of the contents were in the garage as 
opposed to the house. He has provided evidence which I consider supports that this was 
likely the case. He has also cast doubt on his original assumption that the tenants were 
responsible for the break-in to the garage. However, I dont find his arguments in this respect 
persuasive.
It is true that the garage is separate from the house. And the police did not have sufficient 
evidence to charge the tenants with the theft of Mr Ps contents (though it should be noted that the threshold of evidence to bring a prosecution is greater than simply the balance of 
probability). I clearly cant be sure who it was who carried out the theft. But I consider the 
likelihood is, as Mr P originally described, that the tenants broke into the garage and cleared 
its contents to make space for the more valuable items they had stolen and for which they 
were eventually charged. I think the other possibility, that another party had broken into 
Mr Ps garage and stolen his items thus fortuitously leaving the space free for his tenants to 
store their stolen items, is less likely. On this basis, I consider it was reasonable for LV to 
conclude that the theft was by Mr Ps tenants and thus to decline the claim.
Mr P has argued that, even if the tenants were responsible for the theft, the claim should not 
be excluded because the tenants were not allowed access to the garage under the tenancy 
agreement. However, if the garage forms part of the insured buildings as defined under the 
policy then theft by tenants is excluded under the policy regardless of whether the garage 
was part of the let property. 
While I sympathise with Mr P over the loss he has suffered, I consider that it was fair for LV 
to decline his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman