DRN-3659261
The complaint
Mrs D and Mr D complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) didnt open a 
fixed deposit at a preferential rate.
What happened 
In February 2020, Mrs D and Mr D held £101,605 on an instant access account with Halifax. 
It had previously been held on a fixed rate saver which matured in November 2018. In 
February 2020, they had an appointment at a branch of Halifax and were told a new fixed 
rate offer was going to be launched soon. They had a second appointment after that  on 28 
February 2020 to open a new fixed rate account. They paid in a cheque for £20,000 drawn 
on another bank. This was used to open a new two-year fixed rate saver at a rate of 1.1% 
p.a. The original deposit of £101,605 remained in the instant access saver at a rate of 
between 0.10% and 0.01% p.a.
Mrs D and Mr D complained. They said theyd explained at the first appointment that they 
wanted to transfer the existing amount of £101,605 to a two-year fixed rate, plus the 
additional amount  which was needed to qualify for the new rate. Theyd been told that their 
details would be passed over to the person taking the second appointment and everything 
would then be set up. They didnt receive statements until December 2020  which showed 
that the original sum remained on an instant access saver, and the fixed rate was only 
applied to the lower amount of £20,000. They said they couldnt attend the branch again until 
September 2021  because the branch was closed and in any case they didnt feel safe to 
go there. When they did go back  they were told everything would be sorted out, but it 
wasnt.
Mrs D and Mr D said that the error was Halifaxs  there had been a communication error 
and Halifax should now pay the loss of interest.
Halifax said it wasnt part of their process to pass over information in the way that Mrs D and 
Mr D expected. The information that had been passed on was their personal details - name, 
contact details, and this said that the purpose of the second appointment was the opening of 
a savings account. Halifax said there wasnt any mention at the second meeting of moving  
£100,000 to the fixed rate saver. Halifax said they hadnt made an error but offered to pay 
£890  which was the additional interest they would be earned on the two-year fixed rate 
saver at the offer rate of 0.55%.
Mrs D and Mr D didnt accept Halifaxs offer and brought their complaint to us. Our 
investigator said Halifax dealt with their complaint reasonably. Halifax had said that there 
wasnt any mention at the second meeting of moving an additional £100,000 to the fixed rate 
saver. And  there wasnt a requirement for them to pass details from the first appointment 
to the second one. But as a gesture of goodwill, Halifax offered to pay the interest that Mrs D 
and Mr D wouldve received on the matured funds at the standard rate offered on the 
account. Hed listened to the recording of the second appointment and the matured funds 
werent mentioned. So, he couldnt say it was Halifaxs error that caused Mrs D and Mr D to 
lose interest. He said that Halifax had offered to pay interest at 0.55% on the matured funds 
 and after discussion with Halifax, this was agreed at £972.12.
Mrs D and Mr D didnt agree. They said that the recording of the first appointment should be 
listened to. They asked that an ombudsman look at their complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to be clear about what Halifaxs offer was at the time. We asked Halifax about 
this and it was:
- The two-year fixed rate of 1.1% per annum would be paid on new funds transferred 
to Halifax, with a minimum addition of £10,000.
- For existing funds already with Halifax, the two-year fixed rate would be 0.55% per 
annum.
Mrs D and Mr D say it was agreed at the first appointment that the new fixed rate would be 
set up for the total amount when they attended the second appointment. Unfortunately, a 
recording of the first appointment isnt available to listen to. But I have listened to a recording 
of the second appointment  and there wasnt any mention of transferring an additional 
amount of £101,605.  The member of staff did say £20,000 going to invest in a single 
payment  which says to me that there was an understanding that only £20,000 was to go 
into the fixed deposit. He also said that the special offer of 1.1% was for new funds 
transferred of £10,000 or more  in other words, the rate was to be paid on money brought 
to Halifax, not on the whole amount.
The staff member also played a regulatory video which included a statement that Halifax 
werent making any recommendations, and that the decision to make the deposit was for the 
customer to make. I heard Mrs D and Mr D agree to that. So  I think its reasonable to say 
that the onus was on Mrs D and Mr D to make their decision and ensure things were as they 
wanted. 
I dont think it would be reasonable to expect Halifax to take an instruction to make a transfer 
of over £100,000 into a fixed deposit and for that to be actioned a number of days later. For 
example, a customers circumstances or their decision may have changed in the meantime. 
So, I can appreciate why Halifax have said what they have here.
And so, in summary  I think Halifax acted reasonably here, and didnt make an error.
But - I think the main point here is that Halifaxs offer for all customers at the time was as Ive 
set out  that the rate of 1.1% pa was only to be paid on new savings transferred into the 
bank. And 0.55% was to be paid on money already with Halifax. And so  Halifaxs offer to 
Mrs D and Mr D to settle their complaint is doing just that  their offer of £972.12 is the 
difference between paying 0.55% on £101,605 and what they received on the instant access 
saver, and for a period of two years. 
So  Halifax have offered to put Mrs D and Mr D in the position they wouldve been in had 
the two-year fixed deposit been set up as theyd intended, and in line with what Halifaxs 
offer was at the time. I dont think this has been explained very clearly to them by either 
Halifax or our investigator, but I think its a very fair offer.
Halifax has already made an offer to pay £972.12 to settle the complaint. Mrs D and Mr D 
should contact Halifax directly if they now wish to accept this.My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. I dont think Halifax needs to do anything else to settle the 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 January 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman