Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a credit 
card in 2002. Mrs C says Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, mis-sold her the 
PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Cs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling the PPI, Barclaycard had to make it clear to Mrs C that she had a choice about 
it. But Mrs C says it wasnt made clear to her that the policy was optional.
Barclaycard has sent us a copy of Mrs Cs application form for the credit card. This included 
a section on optional benefits, with a box to be ticked to show whether she wanted PPI. 
And the box has been ticked.
Based on this, I think Barclaycard did make it clear to Mrs C that she had a choice about the 
PPI. And that Mrs C chose to take it, knowing she didnt have to.
I havent seen clear evidence that Barclaycard gave Mrs C any personalised advice about 
the PPI. So I dont think it recommended the PPI to her. This means it didnt have to check if 
the PPI was right for Mrs C. But it did have to make sure she got the information she needed 
to decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information Barclaycard gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it doesnt 
look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. The policy 
couldve paid out for longer than Mrs C told us she wouldve been entitled to full sick pay. 
And shes told us she didnt have any savings or other means she couldve used to make her 
repayments if she wasnt earning. So the PPI would have been useful for her if something 
went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the 
PPI would have put Mrs C off taking it out.
Which means Barclaycard doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C.
DRN-1062999But Barclaycard has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C because:
 Barclaycard got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI
premium) - so it should have told Mrs C about that. Because Barclaycard didnt tell
Mrs C, that was unfair.
 To put that right, Barclaycard has paid back the amount of commission and profit share
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs C.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mrs C  any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2019.
Alan Millward
Ombudsman