DRN-2899965
The complaint
Mr L complains Zurich Assurance Ltd gave him unsuitable advice to transfer his pensions, 
and its later Pension Review incorrectly calculated this hadnt caused him a financial loss.
Mr L is represented here by a claims management company, but for ease Ill refer only to Mr 
L.
What happened
Mr L had an occupational pension scheme (OPS), which was a money purchase scheme 
with an element of guaranteed minimum pension (GMP). On the advice of a company Zurich 
later became responsible for, Mr L transferred this to a personal pension in 1994.
Soon after, the regulator established an industry-wide review of particular pension business 
carried out between 1988 and 1994, known as the Pensions Review. In 2000 Zurich offered 
Mr L a Pension Review as part of this, which Mr L accepted. Following the review, Zurich 
told Mr L it had assessed whether hed been financially disadvantaged because he 
transferred his pension in 1994. And it had calculated hed not been caused a financial loss 
and there was no cause for concern, but if he was unhappy he could refer his complaint to 
the ombudsman, and would need to do so within six months.
In 2020, Mr L complained to Zurich about the suitability of the 1994 advice and asked for 
details of the calculations it used to conclude Mr L hadnt suffered a financial loss. Mr L 
wanted redress in line with the regulators guidance about how businesses should calculate 
redress.
Zurich said its 2000 Pension Review addressed suitability and followed the regulators 
guidance at that time. That the Pension Review showed Mr L wasnt caused a financial loss, 
and hed been given referral rights to the ombudsman. Zurich said it wouldnt do a further 
review for Mr L.
Mr L brought his complaint about the suitability of the 1994 advice to our Service, and said 
Zurich hadnt carried out the Pension Review correctly. He said hed only recently become 
aware he had cause for complaint because as a layperson, he wasnt aware the 1994 advice 
didnt meet the standards required, so no time limits applied here.
Our Investigator communication with both parties. Zurich said Mr L hadnt evidenced why he 
thoughts its calculations were incorrect. Mr L clarified he thought Zurichs Pension Review 
hadnt properly accounted for the GMP in relation to his pensionable salary in 1994.
Zurich said its Pension Review had accounted for the GMP, as that was the element of 
Mr Ls OPS that fell into the Pension Review. And its calculations showed it accounted for 
this in line with the guidance at that time. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. He thought Zurich had carried out Mr Ls 
Pension Review in accordance with the regulators guidance at that time. And as part of that, 
it had addressed the suitability of the 1994 advice, and considered the GMP. He said Zurich 
wasnt required to carry out a Pension Review again, regardless of updates to the regulators 
guidance.  
Mr L asked for his complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman. He said our Investigator 
hadnt properly addressed the issues and Zurich hadnt carried out the Pension Review 
incorrectly. 
This complaint has now come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L complains the 1994 advice was unsuitable. In this particular case, I think Zurichs 2000 
Pension Review essentially accepted the 1994 advice given to Mr L might have been 
unsuitable, as it looked at whether this advice caused him a financial loss. So theres no 
need for me to consider whether the 1994 advice was unsuitable. 
Zurichs 2000 Pension Review concluded Mr L hadnt been caused a financial loss. But Mr L 
says Zurich didnt carry out the review correctly, as its calculations didnt properly account for 
the GMP in relation to Mr Ls pensionable salary in 1994. 
Ive been provided with a copy of Zurichs calculations and I can see that Mr Ls GMP is one 
of the things those calculations account for. Mr Ls OPS and the personal pension he 
transferred to were both money purchase schemes, so Mr Ls final fund value would be 
based on the contributions hed paid and the investment growth made on those 
contributions. That means Mr Ls pensionable salary at the time of the 1994 advice didnt 
affect the amount of pension Mr L would receive at his selected retirement age.
So based on the evidence Ive been provided with, Im satisfied Zurich accounted for Mr Ls 
GMP as part of its Pension Review. Mr L hasnt provided any other evidence to show why 
Zurichs GMP or other calculations are incorrect, or why he may think Zurich incorrectly 
carried out other parts of its Pension Review. Its also the case that Pension Review 
calculations were subject to supervision and sampling at the time by the regulator. Taking 
everything into account, Im not persuaded Zurich has made an error here.
Its important to note that under the industry wide Pensions Review established by the 
regulator, businesses were only required to conduct the review once, using the standards 
and assumptions the regulator told them to use at the time. This is because the assumptions 
or predictions they used were considered reasonable at the time to assess the future loss. 
The regulator intended that the review would draw a line under any pension mis-selling and 
would put things right at the time. Once a business carried out a Pension Review for a 
customer, they werent required to review it again.
For these reasons, Im not asking Zurich to do anything further here, though I realise this 
isnt the answer Mr L hoped for.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman