DRN-3831504
The complaint
Mr V complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) have declined his 
claim for storm damage to his garden wall.  
 
What happened
Mr V held a buildings insurance policy with LV. 
On 1 November 2021 Mr V made a claim under his buildings policy as he said his garden 
wall blew over during storm conditions in the night.
LV declined the claim straightaway, as they said that the weather conditions at the time were 
insufficient for a storm claim. 
Mr V was unhappy with this and complained, so in February 2022 LV appointed a contractor 
to visit the property and see if they agreed. The contractor viewed the wall and prepared a 
report which attributed the wall falling down to foliage ingress in the mortar, the age of the 
wall, and lack of maintenance.  
  
Mr V brought his complaint to us. He said that he thought it should be covered by the policy.  
One of our investigators has looked into Mr Vs complaint and he thought that LV had acted 
fairly in declining the claim.  
Mr V disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent upheld Mr Vs complaint, and I will explain why.  
Mr Vs policy covers him for loss or damage caused by storm or flood. Storm isnt defined in 
the policy documents, but a storm isnt simply bad weather. It needs to be wind or rain which 
is severe enough to be termed storm conditions ie, violent winds accompanied by rain or 
hail. 
Ive reviewed the evidence provided of the weather conditions for the area on the night in 
question and whilst there was some wind, Im satisfied that it wasnt severe enough to be 
considered a storm. 
And so, as Im satisfied that there was no storm, I dont need to consider whether the 
damage caused was consistent with a storm.
I have also then considered whether LV have treated Mr V fairly in the way they have dealt 
with his claim. 
I can see that Mr V spoke to both his broker and LV in the two days after his wall fell down. 
In the call with LV he was advised that they would be unable to cover the claim due to 
insufficient wind speeds for a storm claim. 
Following that, Mr V sent an e mail to his broker disputing the decision and saying that he 
lived in an area 7 miles from the weather station, and that the location of his house created a 
wind alley. 
He sent a further e mail to the broker asking for an update on 29 November and on at least 
one other occasion to find out what was happening. He then also made a complaint. 
Although these e mails were sent to the broker, I have seen no evidence that LV were made 
aware of the dispute Mr V had raised until 14 February 2022. As soon as they were made 
aware, LV sent out a contractor to undertake a review and examine the damage. 
Unfortunately, by then the wall had been replaced with a fence, and most of the damaged 
brick had been removed as it had been blocking a foot path. 
And so, although there was a delay between the original claim and LV becoming aware of 
Mr Vs dispute and sending a surveyor, I cant fairly say that was LVs fault, or that they 
failed to deal with Mr Vs claim fairly and promptly.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I am not upholding Mr Vs complaint about Liverpool Victoria 
Insurance Company Limited.
     
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman