DRN-3019734
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Yorkshire Building Society blocked her bank account and wont allow 
her access to her funds
What happened
Mrs A has an account with YBS. In May 2021, Yorkshire blocked and reviewed Mrs As 
account. This meant Mrs A couldnt access the funds in the account.  At the time, Mrs As 
balance was just over £22,000.
Mrs A complained to Yorkshire. She said she was struggling to pay her daughters school 
fees and the money in the account was made up of her wages. In response, Yorkshire said it 
hadnt done anything wrong and had acted in line with the account terms and conditions. 
Unhappy with what Yorkshire said, Mrs A brought her complaint to our service where one of 
our investigators looked into what had happened. The investigator said Yorkshire hadnt 
done anything wrong . And had acting in line with its legal and regulatory obligations when it 
blocked Mrs As account and told her she couldnt access the money in her account. So, he 
didnt uphold the complaint.
Mrs A wasnt happy with what the investigator said. She said the money in her account is 
hers and made up of her wages. She explained not being able to have access to the money 
was causing her a great deal of hardship  she was struggling to buy food, her bills, pay for 
her car insurance, and had received a final demand to pay her daughters school fees. She 
wants the bank to allow her access to the money. And provide a proper explanation for its 
actions.
 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, the investigator was right to point out that Yorkshire are strictly regulated and must 
take certain actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. To comply with 
their obligations Yorkshire may need to review/and or restrict a customers access to their 
accounts and the money held within them. 
Having looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied that Yorkshire have acted in accordance with 
these obligations when it blocked and reviewed Mrs As account. And it was entitled to do so 
under the account terms and conditions. And relevant regulations.  It wasnt obliged to tell 
Mrs A why it was carrying out a review, and I dont believe it would be appropriate for me to 
require it to do so. 
Ive no doubt not having a functioning bank account and access to the money in her account, 
has made things quite difficult for Mrs A. So, I can understand why shes found this 
experience with Yorkshire stressful and upsetting. But as Ive explained, banks have a legal 
obligation to comply with various laws and regulations. And having looked at all the 
circumstances and evidence in this particular case, Im satisfied that Yorkshire were 
complying with its obligations when it restricted Mrs As account. So, whilst I accept Mrs A is 
upset and has been inconvenienced by the banks actions, I cant say Yorkshire has treated 
her unfairly when it blocked her account. And I wont be asking the bank to allow Mrs A 
access to her account and the funds held within it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman