DRN-3481940
The complaint
Mrs E and Mr E complain about access to a HSBC Bank UK Plc account being restricted.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mrs E, Mr E and HSBC.
I wont repeat in detail what is already known to all parties here and not in dispute. In my 
decision, Ill mainly focus on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome I have.
Mrs E had an account with HSBC. Mr E and other family members were registered as 
Lasting Power of Attorney (LPA) in 2020. On 12 October 2020, HSBCs system flagged a 
number of transactions that were unusual. HSBC place a block on all accounts in the name 
of Mrs E on 13 October 2020.
Mrs E and Mr E attended a HSBC branch shortly afterwards to speak to a manager. As there 
were underlying concerns, HSBC referred the matter to the Office of Public Guardian 
(OPG). Some arrangements were made to allow access for essential payments.
At the end of October 2020 Mrs Es account proceeds were moved to another bank account. 
A complaint was raised with HSBC and in their final response letter they didnt uphold the 
complaint - but offered Mr E £250 for any distress or inconvenience caused.
Mrs E and Mr E referred their complaint to our Service for an independent review. Our 
investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mrs E and Mr E didnt accept 
the investigators view so the complaint has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those key 
issues I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy 
to either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. However, Ive given 
careful consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
The account restrictions
Its important to say that Ill only be considering if the actions of HSBC in restricting this 
account were fair, reasonable and proportionate  based on the information it had available 
at the point of making that decision.
Given what Ive seen about the change in Mrs Es account spending (two transactions worth 
over £2,000 each), I find it reasonable that HSBC would pause and reflect on the changes. 
As well as having a duty of care towards Mrs E, the account terms allow HSBC to take the 
action theyve taken here when they have concerns about an account. Overall, their actions 
were fair, reasonable and proportionate. A temporary block on the account was 
proportionate and in the interests of protecting Mrs Es funds whilst HSBC looked into things 
further.
HSBC made arrangements for the restrictions to be temporality lifted to allow payments out 
of the account. This was positive and fair. Theres no doubt that HSBC applying the account 
restrictions will have caused inconvenience for Mrs E and Mr E. But this lasted for a total of 
around 17 days and was justified here given their concerns. Ive seen no supporting 
evidence at all that the restrictions on this account lasted for 8 weeks  as has been claimed 
by Mr E. 
I agree completely that it was far from ideal Mrs E having to visit branch during the COVID-
19 pandemic, but Ive also weighed this up against the concerns HSBC had and that no 
supporting evidence has been provided that Mrs E was negatively impacted by having to 
visit branch.
Overall, HSBC dealt with the situation in a timely manner to minimise the impact on their 
customer and have offered fair, reasonable and proportionate compensation relative to the 
impact here. 
OPG referral
Whilst HSBC have a duty of care to Mrs E, they arent the regulator/supervisor of LPA 
arrangements. I consider that their referral to the relevant body was proportionate here. 
Therefore, I dont make any award for any alleged consequential costs incurred as a result. 
It wouldnt be uncommon for a financial business to take such steps where concerns have 
been identified - and my decision hasnt considered any data protection concerns raised by 
Mr E. Such concerns would be best directed towards the Information Commissioners office.
Part of this complaint also concerns the overall time taken by the OPG. HSBC arent 
responsible for those delays and my decision doesnt consider this point. 
Overall, I acknowledge that my decision will likely disappoint Mrs E and Mr E but it brings to 
an end what our Service - in trying to informally resolve their dispute with HSBC - can do for 
them.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman