DRN-1852149
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt do enough to investigate when he 
reported that he had been the victim of a scam. He thinks that Barclays should refund the 
money he lost due to the poor service it provided.
What happened
Mr D saw an online advert for a quad bike. He says that everything looked legitimate and he 
was satisfied that the advert was genuine. Therefore, on 25 April 2018 Mr D made two 
transfers using online banking - one for £2,000 and one for £1,000. When the quad bike 
didnt arrive on the day it was supposed to, Mr D realised that he had probably been 
scammed. He therefore contacted Barclays on 30 April 2018 to see what help it could 
provide. Because the payment that Mr D had made was an international transfer, he was 
advised that hed need to speak to the global payments team rather than the fraud team. 
However, the global payments team were only available until 6pm and so Barclays asked Mr 
D if he could call back the next day.
Mr D then did ring back on 1 May 2018 and Barclays contacted the beneficiary bank the 
same day to try and recall the payments. The beneficiary bank advised that it was unable to 
return the funds.
Barclays told Mr D that it wouldnt be refunding the money to him as he had authorised the 
payments. However, Barclays did offer Mr D £50 compensation for the time it took to deal 
with the issue and not keeping him informed.
Our adjudicator didnt think Barclays should have done more to identify the payments as 
potentially fraudulent in the circumstances. And he felt that Barclays had done enough to try 
and recover the funds from the beneficiary bank. He also thought that the £50 offered by 
Barclays was fair to make up for the way that it had failed to keep Mr D informed. Mr D 
disagrees with the adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account.  And I have 
taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where it has reasonable grounds (although not necessarily proof) for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate the funds of 
its customer (known as the Quincecare duty).    
Regulated firms like Barclays are also required to conduct their business with due 
skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to 
the interests of its customers (Principle 6).  
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have taken 
proactive steps to: 
identify and assist vulnerable consumers and consumers in vulnerable circumstances, 
including those at risk of financial exploitation (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February 2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances); 
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017 Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse  Code of Practice, which a 
number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion, fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.
In this case, I need to decide whether Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mr D when he transferred the £3,000, or whether it should have done more than it did. 
But I dont think the payments were particularly suspicious or unusual enough to say 
Barclays ought to have had concerns that Mr D was being scammed. I dont think it was 
sufficiently suspicious to conclude Barclays ought to have identified that they may be 
potentially fraudulent.
Mr D says he rang Barclays to ask it to stop the payments. But, as mentioned above, Mr D 
made the transactions on 25 April 2018. He didnt call Barclays until 30 April 2018, by which 
time the payments had already gone through.
There appears to be some confusion about the action taken by Barclays which seems to 
have been caused by some administrative errors and the failure to keep Mr D informed. As a 
result, Mr D has been left with the impression that the case hasnt been investigated properly 
by Barclays.
From the evidence Ive seen, it appears that a note had been put on the system on 1 May 
2018 but had not been allocated a reference number and that further updates failed to be 
added to the system. Barclays has also had difficulty in locating the first recall notice that it 
sent to the beneficiary bank. This is probably why Mr D appears to have been told in June 2019 that the £1,000 was unable to be returned but that the £2,000 payment was still being 
looked at. 
There were clearly mistakes in the way Barclays dealt with the case. However, Barclays has 
now provided evidence that it contacted the beneficiary bank on 1 May 2018 to see if the 
funds could be recovered. It sent a recall notice for the £2,000 payment at 3.37pm and one 
at 3.41pm for the £1,000. The beneficiary bank confirmed that it was unable to return the 
funds.
Im satisfied that when Mr D contacted Barclays to say hed been scammed, it contacted the 
scammers bank to see if any of Mr Ds money was still in the receiving account and could 
be retrieved. I appreciate that Mr D first contacted Barclays on 30 April 2018 and was told to 
call back the following day. However, from the evidence Ive seen, the beneficiary bank 
would have been unable to return the funds, even if Mr D had been able to speak to 
someone in the global payments team on 30 April 2018.
Any further investigations into what happened to the money after it left the scammers 
account werent the responsibility of Barclays and it wouldnt have unrestricted access to that 
information. 
Its extremely unfortunate that Mr D has lost money. I understand that the whole experience 
will have been hugely upsetting for him. But in the circumstances, I cant fairly say that 
Barclays should have done more to prevent his loss. I cant hold Barclays responsible for Mr 
D having fallen victim to a scam and I think that Barclays took appropriate steps to help him 
once it knew what had happened. So it would not be fair to ask Barclays to compensate Mr 
D for his loss.
There were errors in the way that Barclays administered the case and communicated with 
Mr D. But Barclays did take the correct action when it was first contacted by Mr D and the 
later errors did not affect whether or not Mr D could get his money back. As such, I consider 
the £50 offered by Barclays is reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint. However, Barclays Bank UK PLC 
should pay Mr D the £50 compensation it offered him now, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2020. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman