The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that their legal expenses insurance policy with another financial 
business was mis-sold by Admiral Insurance Company Limited. They want matters put right.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P had a legal expenses insurance policy with another financial business sold to 
them by Admiral alongside household insurance. They had a legal dispute with their 
neighbour, who they said had dug up part of their drive and put up a fence on their land. Mr 
and Mrs P made a claim under the policy, which was referred to panel solicitors. 
The solicitors advised that the claim had reasonable prospects of success after Mr P 
obtained an expert report. But funding was withdrawn when it was clear that the next step 
was to issue legal proceedings to get an order that the property was put back to the state 
that it should've been in. This was because the likely legal costs might exceed the value of 
Mr and Mrs P's claim; the insurer said that the policy stated in such circumstances funding 
mightn't be provided if it wasn't proportionate to bring the claim and a reasonable person 
wouldn't take the step. Mr P pointed out that nuisance and trespass claims weren't about 
money, and the policy offered cover for claims such as trespass and boundary disputes. Mr 
P felt that the policy had been mis-sold as Admiral's advertising said it would protect 
policyholders with boundary disputes or trespass issues with up to £100,000 of legal cover; 
as such disputes were generally low value from a monetary perspective, he said this meant 
the advertisement wasn't correct as they were likely to be always disproportionate.
Mr and Mrs P complained to Admiral. It said that it was a matter for the insurer and it couldn't 
deal with any complaints about the policy itself. Admiral said that the policy hadn't been mis-
sold because the legal expenses policy was included with the household insurance policy Mr 
and Mrs P had taken out. As Mr and Mrs P needed a particular level of contents insurance 
offered by the policy, only this particular type of contents insurance policy was available from 
Admiral; Admiral said that the legal expenses insurance was an additional extra not actively 
sold to Mr and Mrs P so there couldn't be a mis-selling claim.
Mr and Mrs P complained to us. The investigator's view was that the complaint should be 
upheld. She said that Admiral didn't provide a final response letter to the complaint and didn't 
respond to her queries. The investigator thought that the fair and reasonable outcome was 
for the premium paid for the policy to be refunded and £250 compensation paid for the 
trouble and upset caused by Admiral's conduct, including not properly dealing with the 
complaint.
Admiral accepted the investigator's view. Mr and Mrs P said that their financial losses hadn't 
been addressed as they had taken out a policy and their claim wasn't being dealt with. The 
investigator explained that an ombudsman had dealt with the related complaint against the 
insurer underwriting the legal expenses policy and said that cover for the claim didn't have to 
DRN-1581567be reinstated; she couldn't deal with a point already dealt with in a final decision by an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I'm not dealing with the complaint against 
the legal expenses insurer (this is a separate matter), but only whether the legal expenses 
policy was mis-sold by Admiral. This means arguments about financial loss allegedly caused 
by the policy as applied by the insurer is a matter for the other complaint, which has been 
dealt with by another ombudsman; I can't and won't interfere with that decision.
Financial businesses are expected to treat consumers fairly. Complaints handling isn't a 
regulated activity within the jurisdiction of this service, but the sale of a policy is a regulated 
activity and we can look at whether a financial business has treated a consumer fairly and 
reasonably. 
Also, while this service can't investigate claims of misleading advertising, we can look at the 
advertising to consider whether it gave incorrect information about the policy taken out; 
financial businesses must provide accurate information about policies which they sell. 
One high level principle from the Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook ("ICOBS")  
says that policyholders should be "given appropriate information about a policy in good time 
and in a comprehensible way so they can make an informed decision", while ICOBS 2.2.2 
says "When a firm communicates information ... to a customer it must ensure that it is clear, 
fair and not misleading". While the contents of the policy and its supporting documents are 
crucial as they're the legal documents, advertisements still have to be clear, fair and not 
misleading.
Mr and Mrs P were clear that they wanted to make a complaint about how the legal 
expenses insurance policy had been sold to them by Admiral. I appreciate that it's not 
always understood by members of public that legal expenses policies have to be dealt with 
by another insurer when taken out with policies such as household insurance due to 
regulations, even though the policy will say who has underwritten which section. But I can't 
see from the evidence available to me that Admiral tried to explain the situation; while this 
complaint is about how it sold the legal expenses insurance, it would've been fair and 
reasonable if Admiral had explained fully to Mr and Mrs P why it couldn't deal with all 
aspects of their complaint.
Admiral has accepted the investigator's view without comment. Mr and Mrs P have shown 
this service the information about the policy, which says that up to £100,000 of cover is 
provided, and specially refers to boundary disputes and trespass. I wouldn't expect the full 
policy information to be set out within such a summary, but there's no reference that other 
terms might affect the availability of cover for such claims, even though they can have a 
relatively low monetary value compared to the likely legal costs (and the strength of feeling 
behind such claims). That said, the policy does make it clear that the principle of 
proportionality applies; as Admiral hasn't provided any evidence I am unable to say if the 
policy was available to Mr and Mrs P to read before taking it out, though this is standard 
industry practice.
The refund of the premium paid for the legal expenses policy is the fair and reasonable way 
forward in my view. Mr and Mrs P feel that it's been mis-sold, and Admiral's answer to their 
complaint doesn't make sense as the legal expenses insurance was highlighted as a benefit 
of the household insurance policy. I don't think Admiral's approach to Mr and Mrs P and the 
concerns they've raised is fair and reasonable, which is why I think the refund is the fair and reasonable approach. But Admiral isn't responsible for the actions of the insurer, and 
another ombudsman has dealt with that complaint.
Mr and Mrs P have suffered trouble and upset for a variety of reasons - the distress caused 
by the actions of their neighbour, unhappiness with the conduct of various third parties, and 
disappointment at the withdrawal of legal funding. None of these issues can be addressed 
by this complaint and I can't award compensation for this as Admiral isn't responsible. All I 
can look at is whether Admiral has treated Mr and Mrs P fairly and reasonably, and I don't 
think that it has. It didn't explain matters well to Mr and Mrs P, didn't engage with the 
complaint properly, and it hasn't fully dealt with the mis-selling claim. This has caused Mr 
and Mrs P further trouble and upset. While money never truly deal with trouble and upset, I 
think £250 compensation is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and Admiral Insurance Company Limited 
should refund the premium paid for the legal expenses insurance policy and pay £250 
compensation for the trouble and upset suffered by Mr and Mrs P. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to accept or reject my 
decision before 13 July 2020.
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman