DRN-4256178
The complaint
Mr W complains that Lloyds Bank PLC incorrectly referenced his bank account as a classic 
staff account.
What happened
Mr W complained to Lloyds following receipt of its final response letter for a previous 
complaint hed made. In the letter, Lloyds referred to his account as a classic staff account, 
even though hes never been an employee of the bank.
In its response, Lloyds agreed it had made an error in its letter. The bank apologised and 
offered Mr W £50 compensation. Remaining unhappy, Mr W asked this service to review his 
complaint  hed like £500 compensation for the inconvenience Lloyds caused him.
Our investigator decided that Lloyds had offered a fair resolution to this complaint, as he was 
satisfied the wording in the banks letter was just an error. Mr W doesnt agree, so the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided that Lloyds compensation offer fairly resolves this complaint. 
Ill explain why.
Lloyds already accepts it made an error. Ive seen a copy of the banks records and this 
information clearly shows that Mr Ws account was never a staff account  rather, it was a 
standard classic account. 
Ive also seen a copy of the final response letter Lloyds sent in March, where the bank did 
indeed refer to Mr Ws account as a staff account. However, I think its likely this was simply 
down to human error given theres no records to suggest Mr Ws account was a staff 
account. So I think theres nothing the bank needs to do to correct things.
I cant see that Mr W suffered an unreasonable degree of distress and inconvenience 
because of this error. I know that Mr W experienced some delays with his complaint about 
this issue being addressed, but Im not of the view that this justifies the level of 
compensation Mr W seeks to put things right. In my opinion, the £50 Lloyds has already 
offered fairly reflects the impact of the banks error.
Therefore, I wont be asking the bank to award anything further to Mr W.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman