DRN-3780531
The complaint
Ms B complains that Wirex Limited blocked her account.
What happened
Ms B had an account with Wirex. The service allowed her to hold both money and 
cryptocurrency. In April 2021, Wirex blocked the account. It said it had temporarily limited 
Ms Bs account while it carried out a review.
On 29 May 2021, Wirex completed its review and decided to close Ms Bs account. It asked 
Ms B to provide details of an external crypto wallet to transfer her cryptocurrency to. Ms B 
provided details of a crypto wallet. Wirex says it then sent the outstanding cryptocurrency to 
Ms B on 7 June 2021. Then on 15 July 2021, Wirex said there were outstanding balances  
a combination of euros in her currency account, together with some Wirex WXT tokens. 
Wirex asked for bank details and paid this to her in August 2022.
Ms B thinks shes been treated unfairly. In particular, she says the restrictions on her 
account prevented her selling her cryptocurrency at a time when it peaked in value. 
Dissatisfied, she referred matters to us.
Our investigator looked at all of this and concluded the complaint should be upheld. She 
recommended Wirex pay £200 for the trouble and upset it caused, and pay simple interest at 
8% a year on the amounts transferred to Ms Bs external bank account. Wirex agreed with 
the investigator. Ms B thinks she should receive further compensation in respect of the 
cryptocurrency. As we couldnt resolve matters informally, the complaint has been referred to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Financial businesses like Wirex are subject to a number of legal and regulatory 
requirements. This means they may need to review a customers account at any time  and 
when it does so, it doesnt need to give reasons. And when it does so, it may need to block 
the account. Looking at everything, Im satisfied that Wirex was acting in line with its legal 
and regulatory requirements when it blocked and reviewed the account.
Wirex then carried out its review. I see it took until 29 May before Wirex told Ms B it planned 
to close her account. Id expect Wirex to carry out its review in a timely manner  and in this 
case, I think at least some of this delay was avoidable.
Finally, Wirex decided to close Ms Bs account. The terms and conditions that apply to 
Ms Bs account said that Wirex could terminate Ms Bs account at any time by giving 2 
months notice. In some circumstances, it could close the account immediately. Looking at 
everything, Im satisfied Wirex was able to close the account  though based on what Ive 
seen, its not clear that it had grounds to do so immediately.
Ive therefore gone on to think about whether Wirex needs to do anything to put things right. 
As Ive said, Im satisfied Wirex was entitled to block and then close the account. But I think 
it could have completed its investigation quicker. As a result, Ms B didnt have access to her 
assets for longer than she should have. I also see that Ms B contacted Wirex a number of 
times to ask them to put things right. Finally, although Wirex released some of Ms Bs 
cryptoassets in June 2021, another month passed before it paid the remaining balance into 
Ms Bs bank account. I think if things had happened as they should this would all have 
happened sooner.
Where I decide a complaint should be upheld, any redress I award is intended to put the 
complainant as far as possible in the position theyd be in if things had happened as they 
should have done.
Ms B says that because of Wirexs actions she lost the chance to sell her cryptoassets at 
their peak. Looking at the price of the asset in question, I see that it remained high from 
February to early May 2021, but then rapidly fell in value: by the beginning of June it had 
fallen in value by nearly 40% from its peak.
I dont doubt that, with the benefit of hindsight, Ms B wishes shed been able to sell her 
cryptoassets in April 2021. But that doesnt mean Wirex needs to pay Ms B these losses  
the value of this cryptoasset can rise and fall rapidly, and so this loss would only have 
crystallised if Ms B intended to sell the assets in question.
Weve asked Ms B for details about this. Weve asked her if there was a particular reason 
she intended to sell these assets  and whether she did so once the assets were released. 
But Ms B hasnt provided details about this. Shes also sent us a ledger for her external 
cryptoasset wallet. But this doesnt persuade me she intended to sell the cryptoassets  
indeed, it appears that she may in fact have had more of the cryptoasset in her external 
wallet at this time that she didnt sell. I acknowledge that Ms B says it might have taken 
some time to arrange to open a new account with another crypto exchange, during which 
time the value of the assets might fluctuate further. But based on what Ive seen, its not 
possible for me to conclude Ms B would most likely have sold these assets  or at what price 
she would have done so. Wirex has transferred the cryptoassets to Ms Bs external wallet. 
Im not going to tell it to do more.
Turning to the other assets in Ms Bs account  the euros and the WXT tokens  the 
investigator recommended that Wirex cpay Ms B these if it hadnt already, plus 8% simple 
interest a year from 27 April 2021 to the date Ms B got it back, to compensate her for the 
time shes been out of pocket. Wirex has agreed to this  and confirmed it has already sent 
Ms B these funds. I think if things had happened as they should have done, Ms B would 
have got this payment sooner, so I think its right that Wirex pay interest.
Ms B thinks that she should get interest on the rest of the cryptoassets.  But these assets 
were not money, nor were they converted into money. These are speculative assets  their 
value fluctuates.  And so Im not persuaded it would be fair to award interest.
Finally, Ive considered the service Ms B has received. As Ive said, I think it probably took 
longer than necessary for Wirex to complete its review, and Im not persuaded it was fair to 
close the account immediately. That said, once it completed its review it returned the 
cryptoassets promptly  and Ms B transferred them to an external wallet and so was able to 
do what she wanted with them. The review took, perhaps, a few weeks more than it should 
have. In the circumstances, I award £200 for the trouble and upset this caused.Putting things right
For the reasons above, Wirex should:
Pay Ms B £200 compensation
Pay interest at 8% a year simple on the £185.90 it returned to Ms Bs bank account, 
from 27 April 2021 until 16 August 2022. 
If HM Revenue & Customs requires Wirex to deduct tax from this interest Wirex should tell 
Ms B how much its taken off. It should also send Ms B a certificate if she asks for one, so 
she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold Ms Bs complaint. Wirex Limited should put things right by 
doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman