DRN-4465422
The complaint
Mr L complains that he tried to buy some shares on FinecoBank SPAs platform, but as a 
result of a technical error he couldnt do so. He say that given the share price, he wouldve 
bought and sold those shares at a profit, and therefore FinecoBank has caused him a 
financial loss. 
What happened
On 25 August 2021, at around 9pm, Mr L tried to buy 45,000 shares in a company called 
Salesforce, but the order wasnt executed. He tried again on 26 August 2021 at around 2.30 
and 2.42pm, but both these orders were queued and subsequently cancelled by Mr L before 
they could be executed. 
When Mr Ls orders were queued, he raised the issue with FinecoBank at around 4pm, and 
a few minutes later was told that the issue that had caused the queueing of his orders had 
been resolved. Mr L did not end up buying the shares after this but raised a complaint. 
FinecoBank looked into Mr Ls concerns, but didnt agree to pay the compensation Mr L 
asked for. In recognition of the inconvenience, it offered him some commission free trades. 
Mr L remained unhappy and referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ls complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said the first order wasnt executed because he had placed it after the market 
in New York had closed. Whilst she acknowledged FinecoBanks system clearly suffered 
from a problem on 26 August 2021, this was resolved fairly quickly. She said the fact Mr L 
never ended up buying the shares meant that the loss he was claiming was hypothetical, 
and not something this service would compensate for. She said that if Mr L had bought the 
shares after receiving the email to say the technical problem had been resolved, he would 
still have had an opportunity to make a gain  but he chose not to take that risk. 
Mr L didnt agree. He gave a hypothetical scenario which he said was similar to his. He said 
that whether he bought any share or not after the system error was resolved is irrelevant. 
He said that the fact he wasnt able to trade when he wanted stopped him making a gain or a 
loss. He accepted that when he wanted to trade that was only speculative, but now with the 
pricing data, it isnt speculative that he wouldve made a gain. He concluded by saying that 
FinecoBank didnt fulfil its contractual liability to provide a functioning platform, which he said 
resulted in his loss of investment income  and for that he should be compensated. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint Mr L, but I agree with the investigator and for broadly 
the same reasons. The issue with Mr Ls claim is that the principle of investing requires a 
return thats commensurate, usually, with the risk thats been taken. Mr L is asking for 
compensation for an investment loss he hasnt suffered, because he never bought the asset 
 so he never took any risk. Furthermore, even if I thought there should be some 
compensation, what Mr L is asking for is not in my view fair and reasonable, for the following 
reasons:
The initial order to buy shares wasnt executed because he placed it after the market 
was closed. His second order, had it been executed, wouldve bought the shares at a 
price of around 271, which was very near the high of the day.  
Charts Ive consulted on-line for the following day appear to show a significant drop 
in this share price  this would either suggest Mr L wouldve made a loss, or wouldve 
potentially held on to the shares for longer. Given that Mr L never bought the shares, 
neither of these questions can be answered. Mr L would not have known at the time 
how the share price would move, and Im not persuaded using hindsight is fair. 
For these reasons Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable to ask FinecoBank to 
compensate Mr L for a hypothetical investment loss  and one which, on balance, may not 
have materialised even if Mr Ls second purchase had gone through. 
I would also add that whilst there is an expectation that trading platforms are fit for purpose, 
and allow consumers to buy and sell assets without interruption, there will be occasions 
when that isnt possible. In circumstances such as Mr Ls, a key consideration is the length 
of any disruption and how quickly a firm puts matters right. It seems to me that in this case, 
the disruption was short lived  and yet once Mr L was notified that the platform was trading 
normally, he did not proceed with his transaction. 
I note that FinecoBank has offered Mr L some commission free trades, and whilst I hope this 
is an offer itll still honour, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable to award Mr L 
any compensation or make any money award. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman