DRN-4015437
The complaint
Mr P complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HLAM) didnt give 
him clear enough information about a takeover. He wants HLAM to compensate him for the 
value of the shares hes lost.
What happened
Mr P told us he has a SIPP and ISA account with HLAM. These are execution only accounts, 
meaning HLAM does not provide advice. In his account he had shareholdings of a company 
I will refer to as C.
In 2022, HLAM wrote to Mr P to tell him that thered been a cash offer to take over C by a 
company that Ill refer to as F. Mr P said the communications he received didnt make it 
clear that he might lose the value of his holding if he didnt accept the offer. He said that, 
whilst the letters referred to the possibility of C shares being delisted, HLAM didnt explain 
in clear terms what that meant.
HLAM said it had made clear the potential risk of the shares being delisted and gave Mr P 
ample opportunity to accept the takeover offer if hed wanted to do so.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought HLAM 
couldnt have given Mr P advice on what action to take, but that it had given Mr P clear 
information to enable him to make a decision.
Mr P didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
He was not a professional and HLAM shouldnt have used jargon and expect him to 
understand the implications.
HLAM shouldve provided a warning that delisting meant that the company taking over C 
was under no obligation to purchase his shares or compensate him in any way.
He wants HLAM to buy C shares from him at the offer price, plus interest.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusion as our investigator for the following 
reasons:
Mr P held execution only accounts with HLAM. HLAM couldnt give him advice, including on 
what to do in response to the takeover notice.
HLAM was obliged to provide Mr P with enough information so that he could make an 
informed decision on what to do. But if he wasnt sure about anything, it was his 
responsibility to seek clarification, or to seek the help of a financial advisor.
Im satisfied that the information HLAM gave Mr P about the takeover was reasonably clear. 
And it provided him with a link to the full details of the takeover offer.
In the first communication, dated 9 February 2022, HLAM told Mr P that:
..if the takeover is successful, [F] may attempt to delist or compulsory acquire all remaining 
shares in the company.
I think this should reasonably have put Mr P on notice that, there was a possibility his shares 
would be delisted.
Mr P says he didnt know that delisting would mean he could lose the value of his shares. 
Whilst I accept he didnt understand that, I dont find there was any obligation on HLAM to 
explain the implications in any more detail than it did. I say this because I think it was 
reasonable for HLAM to think an investor would understand that term. And Mr P had the 
opportunity to seek any clarification he needed from HLAM before the offer closed; or to 
seek independent advice.
Im satisfied that HLAMs later communications made it clear when delisting would occur  If 
the offer is successful and [F] gains control of 75% of the C shares, but less than 90%, they 
will delist the shares.
And its communication sent on 8 April, advising of the extended deadline of 13 April, told 
Mr P that acceptances of 53.56% had been received. I think this gave him all the information 
he reasonably needed to decide whether to accept the offer or not.
Im not unsympathetic to the position in which Mr P finds himself. But I dont find HLAM is 
responsible for his loss. It set out the takeover offer terms reasonably clearly, it provided 
Mr P with a link to the full information about the offer, and it provided a contact point for 
further help if he didnt understand anything. I dont find it reasonably needed to do anything 
more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman