DRN-3236674
The complaint
Mr B, on behalf of T, complains about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) 
handled a claim on Ts commercial legal expenses insurance policy. 
Where I refer to RSA, this includes their agents and claims handlers.
What happened
Mr B made a claim on Ts policy to cover its legal costs for a dispute it was engaged in with 
another company.  Mr B says RSA initially mismanaged the claim by failing to tell Ts broker 
they had become the new insurers of the policy, which led to a delay in the claim being 
assessed and accepted. As a consequence, Mr B says T incurred legal costs in dealing with 
the dispute to mitigate its position, for which RSA should be responsible. He also feels that 
RSA took too long to respond to the claim in general.
When the complaint was brought to this Service, Mr B also complained that RSA hadnt 
appointed a barrister for T, despite various requests, but this issue has now been resolved. 
As such I wont be commenting on it further.
RSA accept the claim was initially directed to the previous insurers but say it was correctly 
registered the following day, after which they immediately contacted T. They also say the 
bulk of the costs T is claiming for were incurred before the claim was made and as such 
arent covered under the policy. Despite this, RSA have offered to backdate the costs theyre 
prepared to pay to the point of Ts solicitors drafting instructions to the barrister.
Our investigator considered Ts complaint and concluded that it wasnt clear how much T 
was claiming in costs, why those costs were incurred and whether they were covered by the 
policy at all. He also said he hadnt seen anything that supported RSA delayed dealing with 
Ts claim that meant T had to incur legal fees at all.
Mr B doesnt agree. He says that once Ts brokers notified RSA of the claim, cover for legal 
costs shouldve been provided but that hasnt happened. Rather he says that cover wasnt 
provided until considerably later, and after Ts solicitors were strong armed into agreeing to 
RSAs terms. He feels the process is deliberately designed to avoid covering costs. Because 
of this the matter has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Ts complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
The starting point is the policy terms. They cover any Fees reasonably and properly incurred 
by an Appointed Representative covered more particularly under the Insured Incidents 
sections of the policy (namely 1-5). Appointed Representative covers Ts own 
representatives in some circumstances.
Because Mr B hasnt provided any specific details of the fees T incurred, including the dates 
on which they were incurred, what they were for and why they needed to be incurred before 
the claim was accepted by RSA, I cant say that RSA should pay them. And from the timeline 
RSA have provided, together with supporting documents, I havent seen anything that 
suggests any unreasonable delays were caused by them in assessing the claim or that 
prejudiced Ts position which meant T had to pay for their own solicitors to take particular 
action. 
In his view, the investigator invited Mr B to provide specific details to support Ts position. Mr 
B referred the investigator to the initial documents hed sent in and said he felt the claim 
shouldve been covered from the moment it was notified. I havent seen anything in the initial 
documents provided by Mr B that sets out specific details of the fees incurred, what they 
were for and why they had to be incurred before RSA accepted Ts claim. Because of this, 
and in the absence of establishing any unreasonable delays on RSAs part, I cant say RSA 
need to do anything. 
I note Mr B feels that cover should run from the date on which the claim was made. Whilst it 
makes no difference to the outcome of this complaint, its important to note that the policy 
doesnt cover costs from the date the claim was made. Rather, it states that RSAs written 
consent is required to pay legal expenses and that such consent will only be given if the 
policyholder can satisfy RSA there are reasonable prospects of success. RSA also needed 
to establish whether the claim was one that fell within the Insured Incidents I mentioned 
above. This isnt unusual in legal expenses insurance policies. So, I wouldnt expect RSA to 
offer cover until it was satisfied the claim was one which was covered. In this case RSA have 
offered to backdate costs. They werent obliged to do this. Whilst I appreciate Mr B might 
find it disappointing, I think the offer RSA have made is more than Id expect them to do in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ts complaint against Royal & Sun Alliance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B, on behalf of 
T to accept or reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman