DRN-2322802
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (which Ill call 
MBFS) charged him an additional 16 days hire when he didnt return a vehicle on time.
What happened
In November 2015 Mr C took a car on hire purchase from MBFS. The hire purchase 
agreement was signed by Mr C on 24 November and on behalf of MBFS on 25 November. It 
recorded that the car was to be delivered on 27 November 2015 and that Mr C would have 
to make 48 monthly payments of £572.87, starting one month after the date of the 
agreement.
The hire agreement also said that the period of hire would be 48 months, starting on the date 
of the agreement.
Under the heading Option to Purchase the agreement explained that Mr C could buy the 
car outright and explained how he could do so. That part of the agreement also included (at 
section 11.4):
If you do not exercise this option  this Agreement is terminated and you will cease to be in 
possession of the Vehicle with our consent. You shall forthwith return the Vehicle to us in 
good condition, repair and working order at your own risk and cost at such address as we 
may reasonably specify and deliver up all registration and other documents relating to the 
Vehicle.
Mr C didnt exercise the purchase option, and on 14 November 2019 B (a company engaged 
by MBFS to arrange the return of the car) tried to contact him. It left a voicemail, followed by 
two more over the following week. It also sent a letter on 18 November.
On 25 November Mr C said hed booked a collection date of 30 November, but B was unable 
to collect the car on that date, as it was a Saturday. B left a further voicemail on 28 
November. The car was finally collected on 17 December, but MBFS charged Mr C a further 
£389.44 for the time he had the car after the hire period had ended.
Mr C thought that was unfair. He said it wasnt his fault that he was unable to return the car 
and that he had tried to make arrangements for its collection. He was however unavailable 
for some of the time and said that he hadnt used the car after the hire period; it had always 
been available for collection. He referred the matter to this service, and one of our 
investigators considered it.
The investigator thought that Mr C had tried to arrange a collection date as close as possible 
to the end of the hire period. When his preferred date wasnt available, he was unable to 
arrange an alternative for more than two weeks. The investigator accepted what Mr C had 
said but thought that he had some responsibility to ensure the car was returned. He initially 
recommended that MBFS charge half the fee for which it had invoiced Mr C. In part, that was 
because he thought MBFS had passed the matter to a debt collection agency; in fact, that 
wasnt the case, so he recommended a 30% reduction instead.
Neither Mr C nor MBFS was prepared to accept the investigators revised recommendation, 
and so the case was passed to me for review.
I reviewed the case and, because I was minded to reach a different conclusion from that 
reached by the investigator, issued a provisional decision. I said that section 11.4 of the hire 
purchase agreement placed the onus on Mr C to return the car; it didnt require MBFS to 
collect it. Whilst it had been difficult to arrange a mutually convenient time for the car to be 
collected, I didnt consider that MBFS had been obstructive or was responsible for the delay 
in returning the car.
Mr C responded to my provisional decision to say that MBFS hadnt in fact provided any 
option for the return of the car other than collection by B. It hadnt been possible to book a 
collection date before 17 December. He said too that, even if he wasnt available when the 
car was collected, his wife could have handed over the paperwork and keys  as in fact 
happened. 
Mr C said too that MBFS had instructed debt collectors, and he provided a copy of a letter 
asking for payment. That had been sent after this service began looking at the complaint and 
was subsequently withdrawn. He also provided evidence showing that he hadnt used the 
car after the end of contract, other than to buy fuel before returning it.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, however, I havent changed my overall view from that set out in my 
provisional decision. 
I accept what Mr C has said about his use of the car after November 2019. He took a 
photograph of the odometer on 30 November, showing a reading only six miles less than 
that recorded at collection. He says he drove the car to buy fuel, as he needed to return the 
car with no warning lights showing  including the low fuel light. However, as I noted in my 
provisional decision, it doesnt really make any difference whether he was using the car in 
that period; he remained in possession of it.
I accept too that MBFS did instruct debt collectors to contact Mr C in June 2020. I agree with 
him that this was inappropriate in the circumstances. I think however that the appropriate 
way to deal with that was to end their involvement, and thats what happened.
The main issue here however is the charges levied by MBFS for the late return of the car. Mr 
C says that the delay was because B didnt have capacity to collect it and that MBFS didnt 
in fact offer any options other than collection. 
As I said in my provisional decision, I accept that there were difficulties in arranging 
collection of the car. Mr C acknowledges however that he didnt return voicemail messages 
left in the second half of November. Given that the primary obligation to return the car was 
his, I might have expected him to do so. MBFS calculated the extra charges from 30 
November, but the 48-month term ended on 27 November 2019 (48 months after delivery), 
and arguably on 24 or 25 November. So, arrangements for the collection of the car really 
needed to be made before then.  
I accept that it was difficult to arrange collection of the car, and that those difficulties were 
not entirely down to one side or the other. I dont believe however that MBFS or B were 
obstructive in any way. But, as Ive said, the contract made Mr C primarily responsible for ensuring that the car was returned by the end of November.  
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I dont require Mercedes-Benz Financial Services 
UK Limited to take any further steps to resolve Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman