DRN-3749266
The complaint
Mr G and Ms G complain about the handling of their claim by Fairmead Insurance Limited 
(Fairmead) following a flood, under their home buildings insurance policy.
For ease Ill refer to Mr G throughout my decision. 
What happened
In August 2020 Mr G describes a sewer overflowing on his neighbours property which 
caused two walls in his garden to be destroyed. A number of other properties were affected 
by the resulting flood water, which also entered Mr Gs home. 
The retaining wall with the neighbour where the flood water originated was reduced to rubble 
over a large area. Mr G describes how the remaining structure was dangerous. He paid a 
builder to carry out some emergency repairs to make the area safe. Despite contacting 
Fairmead regularly for months Mr G says nothing was done to rectify the issue with this wall.    
Mr G submitted a complaint in early September 2020 and again in late October. He says his 
first complaint was closed without informing him. He was told to expect a call-back in relation 
to his second complaint, but no call was made. 
Mr G says he has made dozens of phone calls and sent many emails to Fairmead when 
trying to progress matters. He says no-one has kept him informed of whats happening. He 
says when contractors did attend, they werent briefed beforehand. Mr G says he was 
offered a settlement payment for £6,250 at an early stage, which was significantly less than 
the repairs would cost. 
Mr G says the contents of his garden were also damaged by the flood, but no cover was 
provided by Fairmead.
In its response to Mr Gs complaint dated 6 May 2021, Fairmead says it was able to validate 
his claim based on the photos he provided. It appointed contractors who attended within two 
weeks of it registering the claim. An inspection was carried out and the required repair work 
was reported to Fairmeads agent, who was appointed to handle the claim. It says a cash 
settlement payment was offered on its behalf by its agent, which Mr G declined.
Fairmead says its offer was based on calculations by its surveyors using the information 
available to them at the time. It says if Mr G had accepted, this wouldnt have meant his 
claim was closed. It says should any further information have been received regarding the 
work required, its supplier or surveyors would consider whether further payments were 
justified. 
In its letter Fairmead apologised that work to make the retaining wall safe wasnt carried out 
until January 2021. It says it appointed a contractor to assist in project managing the repairs 
and to liaise with the neighbouring parties.       
Fairmead says Mr Gs complaint wasnt handled as it shouldve been due to an 
administrative error. But it says it says it backdated the complaint to 2 September 2020 to 
account for this. It says its contractor was able to dig a trial hole at the beginning of 
December. This was to identify if rebuilding the retaining wall had the potential to undermine 
foundations beneath the neighbouring property. This wasnt found to be the case. But there 
was a need to protect the water authority drainage system from damage. 
Work was authorised to remove rubble to prevent slippage and potential further damage of 
the retaining wall. Fairmead says its contractors attended the site again in February and 
March 2021. It was identified that the cost of repairs would be higher than originally thought. 
It says how the cost liability would be split between the neighbouring properties was disputed 
and this required consideration and discussion. 
In its complaint response Fairmead says the water authority will undergo a review of the 
works that are required following its inspection in April 2021. It says once done it will report 
back to all parties involved so it was known how the claim should proceed. Fairmead says its 
contractors will arrange a start date for the work once all relevant authorisations are received 
alongside that required from the water authority.
Fairmead says the contents out in the garden Mr G claimed for are excluded from cover by 
the terms of his policy. This is why it didnt agree to provide cover for this part of his loss. It 
concluded its complaint response to offer Mr G £750 compensation for the poor level of 
service he received. 
Mr G didnt think this represented a fair outcome to his complaint. He highlighted the long 
delays in his claim progressing, which included putting up a fence to make the area around 
the retaining wall safer. He says his mental health has been affected due to Fairmeads 
continued poor handling of the matter. Because he remained dissatisfied, he referred his 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. She says it was clear Mr G had taken on a 
significant role in liaising with all parties. The claim was complex involving neighbouring 
properties and multiple parties. She thought there were delays outside of Fairmeads control 
in arranging the repair works. Specifically involving the water authority and the other insurers 
for the neighbouring properties. But she thought it was within Fairmeads remit to liaise with 
all parties effectively. She says its communication wasnt to the standard Mr G should 
reasonably expect.   
To acknowledge the distress and inconvenience Mr G had experienced, she thought 
Fairmead should provide compensation. But she felt its offer of £750 was fair and reflective 
of an award this service expects to make in these circumstances.
Mr G didnt agree that this was a fair outcome and asked for an ombudsman to consider his 
complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint. I understand that he has 
very strongly held views about this matter, and this will no doubt be disappointing for him, 
but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. It has taken a long time for the damage caused by the flood in August 2020 to be repaired. 
This wasnt completed within the timeframe of this complaint. I note a further flooding event 
occurred in July 2021, which caused more damage. But for clarity, my decision will look at 
the issues from August 2020 until 6 May 2021 when Fairmead sent its final response letter. 
Anything that occurred after this date is subject to a separate complaint and will be dealt with 
as such. So, I wont comment on anything that occurred after 6 May 2021 in my decision. 
Its clear from the photos provided that there was a significant flood in August 2020. This 
caused the retaining boundary wall Mr G has with his neighbour to collapse. It also caused 
the collapse of the wall on the other side of his garden. There was additional damage to the 
garden as a result of the flooding and kitchen flooring was affected as a result of water 
entering Mr Gs property.
Theres no dispute from Fairmead that Mr Gs policy covers the loss he incurred. So, I 
neednt consider this point further. My remit is to consider whether Fairmead handled Mr Gs 
claim fairly and reasonably from the first notification of loss in August 2020 until 6 May 2021. 
When referring to Fairmead this includes its agents and contractors. 
We expect an insurer to handle all claims effectively and to ensure communication is of a 
good standard. Having read all the information provided, including Fairmeads records, I 
dont think this has been the case here.
As a result of the collapsed retaining wall, a large amount of rubble fell into Mr Gs garden. I 
can see from Fairmeads records there was concern that slippage of the rubble, which was 
partially supporting the ground above, could result in further collapse, including the 
possibility of the neighbours shed falling into Mr Gs garden. 
Mr G has small children and describes how the collapsed wall presented a danger. However, 
despite concerns raised over this no action was taken by Fairmead to mitigate the risk, until 
January 2021. I understand temporary fencing was erected around the area at this time to 
prevent access. I also understand that some of the rubble was removed to help stabilise the 
damaged area of wall.  
Mr G had arranged for a contractor to help make the area safe near to the time he first 
registered his claim. The cost of this was refunded by Fairmead. I think this was reasonable. 
But Fairmead shouldve taken measures far earlier to ensure the area was made safe for Mr 
G and his family. It provided an apology in its complaint response for the time this took to 
arrange. But I cant see that it gave a clear explanation as to why this took so long. 
I can understand Mr Gs frustration and upset at the lack of care taken by Fairmead in 
relation to this point. There has been a long period where his garden was effectively a no-go 
area given the danger posed by the collapsed wall, especially to his young children. I agree 
that an apology and compensation is appropriate to acknowledge this. 
In the period up to 6 May 2021 the repairs to the collapsed retaining wall hadnt begun. This 
was clearly the cause of much distress to Mr G and his family. But I have also considered 
Fairmeads reference to this being a complex claim, caused by the shared responsibility of a 
number of different parties in the repairs. 
It was established that the water authority was responsible for the flood. The presence of its 
sewage pipes meant it had to authorise any works before repairs to the retaining wall could 
commence. Mr G describes how it took seven months before the water authority did 
anything, despite regular contact from him. The records provided by Fairmead detail some 
contact with the water authority. I can see re-routing of a sewage pipe was mentioned in 
April 2021. In June a note says the water authority, will not require any remedial works to their assets in the working area  although they are requesting we provide appropriate 
protection to their existing assets. 
Its unfortunate that the water authorities approach couldnt be identified at an earlier 
juncture so that the repairs could begin. As above, there are some notes relating to 
Fairmeads contact with the water authority. But Id expect to see evidence of more contact 
over the period in question. That said I accept the water authority had a significant role in the 
delay in the repair works commencing. 
In addition to the role of the water authority, responsibility for the damaged walls was split 
between several different parties. I can see that this created additional complication and 
required liaison between those involved. This meant finding agreement on who was 
responsible for what proportion of the damaged walls. I can see Mr G raised concerns 
regarding his responsibility for the retaining wall as part of these discussions. Payments for 
contractors had to be clarified in advance with the parties to ensure liabilities were 
understood and agreed. From the records its apparent that this all contributed to the delays 
and time taken to progress the repairs needed under Mr Gs claim. 
Ive read all the claim notes supplied by Fairmead alongside the detailed account of events 
Mr G has sent. I note he spoke highly of a surveyor appointed by Fairmead to progress his 
claim, and that he felt supported by this individual. But aside from this surveyor, Mr G 
describes extremely poor standards of communication. He wasnt kept updated with what 
was happening, his calls werent returned, when visits were made to his property he wasnt 
told about the purpose of the visits. He also describes the extensive efforts he made to 
contact the various parties involved to try and progress matters.
I acknowledge Fairmeads reference to this being a complex claim given the various different 
parties and liabilities involved, which is why it has taken so long to progress. But I expected 
to see more evidence of contact with Mr G to keep him updated as well as contact with the 
water authority and the other parties in order to progress matters swiftly. I acknowledge 
there were other complexities, including limited access to the site, which added to the issues 
involved in handling the claim. But, based on the records, I dont think Fairmead has shown 
that it communicated as effectively as it should have.   
Ive thought about the impact on Mr G as a result of all of this. He describes a significant 
impact on his mental health. The delays and ongoing frustration with little progress and lack 
of communication meant this was always on his mind. He had difficulty sleeping and 
describes the negative impact this had on his mood, which affected his family life. It also 
meant his family couldnt use areas of their property for a prolonged period. 
Im sorry his claim has taken so long to resolve and has resulted in significant upset and 
frustration for Mr G and his family. I can certainly understand why he feels let down by 
Fairmead given the poor standard of communication and the time taken to progress his 
claim. In these circumstances I think £750 represents fair compensation. As explained, my 
decision only considers what happened up to 6 May 2021. Im aware there are issues that 
continue beyond this date that Mr G has complained about, and these are being dealt with 
separately. But for the period Ive considered I think the compensation offered by Fairmead 
is reasonable. So, I cant fairly ask it to pay more.
Im sorry to hear that Mr G had difficulties obtaining a response though Fairmeads complaint 
handling process. But handling complaints isnt a regulated activity in itself so, I cant 
consider this point.
I acknowledge Mr Gs comments that the compensation set out by our investigator is 
insufficient to act as a disincentive to prevent poor claim handling going forward. I can see our investigator explained that our service is here to resolve individual disputes. Were not 
the regulator and its not within our remit to fine Fairmead or tell it how to operate its 
business. That role is undertaken by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). So, although Im 
sorry Mr G is disappointed, this isnt something I can consider. 
Finally, Ive thought about Mr Gs view that Fairmead falsified evidence to make him accept 
a settlement payment. I havent seen evidence that demonstrates this was the case. I accept 
the amount offered was some way off the final cost needed to complete the repairs. But I 
cant reasonably say this was done to avoid paying the true cost of repairs. In its complaint 
response Fairmead confirms that any further costs relating to the claim wouldve been 
considered.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Ms G to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman