DRN-3190094
The complaint
Mr G has complained that Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) was 
irresponsible in lending to him.
What happened
In February 2019 Mr G took out a loan with Everyday Loans for £5,500. He said the loan 
was to clear his overdraft and credit card debts. The loan was taken out over 48 months with 
an APR of 54.1% and his monthly repayments were £243.37 making the total repayable 
£11,681.76.
Mr G complained that Everyday Loans hadnt properly checked he could afford the loan.
Everyday looked into his complaint and didnt uphold it. It said the checks had been properly 
carried out and it thought the loan was sustainable. Mr G referred his complaint to us. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Gs complaint and thought Everyday Loans shouldnt have made 
the loan. As Everyday Loans disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions 
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Gs complaint. These two 
questions are:
1. Did Everyday Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr G would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr G wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did Everyday Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday Loans to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Gs ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Everyday Loans had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr G undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday Loans to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr G. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Gs complaint.
With regard to the first question Everyday Loans has sent evidence that it obtained and 
reviewed Mr Gs bank statements for one month, one months payslip and a credit search. It 
also checked where he worked. 
Im satisfied that Everyday Loans carried out checks which showed: 
Mr G had outstanding loans totalling £42,276.
He was near to his credit limits on two credit cards.
Hed taken out a loan with a balance of £6,727 only four months earlier.
Mr Gs monthly take home salary was around £2,141 and he wasnt paying anything 
towards rent or a mortgage.
He was spending around £1,000 on credit repayments/fees to financial service 
providers.
Regular expenditure on insurance, utilities and gym membership was around £485. 
Fuel and travel was costing him around £100 per month. 
Mr G spent about £370 per month on food and supermarket shopping. 
As a result of this and other expenditure his overdraft had increased by over £700 in 
one month.
He did a small amount of online gambling.
Everyday Loans said it used statistical data and figures to calculate the living expense 
element of affordability. This calculation takes into consideration the customers income, region, household composition and residential status. They also said they applied a buffer to 
the living expenses amount to accommodate any unexpected minor changes in the 
customers circumstances or one-off additional expenses. It said its affordability calculation 
showed that Mr G would have a monthly disposable income of £243.25 after taking into 
account his Everyday Loan monthly repayments.
I think the checks were proportionate in the circumstances of this case, but I am not 
persuaded Everyday Loans reacted appropriately to the information it gathered to make its 
lending decision. When thinking about the figures, Everyday Loans should have realised 
that Mr G was already paying almost half of his take home pay just on servicing his existing 
debt. In addition his overdraft had increased by £700 in just one month. To me, that was a 
clear warning sign that Mr G was already struggling financially and was over-reliant on 
credit. I think that the fact that he was paying such a significant proportion of his monthly 
income on this was a reason why Everyday Loans couldnt reasonably say it was likely that 
Mr G would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way.
The bank statement Everyday Loans saw showed no returned payments or an unauthorised 
overdraft. But if Mr G continued spending at the same rate with the same overdraft limit, it 
was likely that he would have reached the overdraft limit the following month. It was clear 
that Mr G was spending much more than his income. I can see that in one month the 
transactions made significantly exceeded the amounts received by about £700. 
So, while on the surface the statistical calculation showed Mr G should be able to afford the 
loan, I think looking at his spending patterns there was some doubt as to whether hed be 
able to maintain the repayments over a 48 month period. So, I dont think Everyday Loans 
focussed on Mr G as a borrower and his specific circumstances. I think Everyday Loans 
ought reasonably to have been aware it was unlikely that he would be able to sustainably 
repay the loan over the loan term. In my opinion Everyday Loans should reasonably have 
concluded that it was not appropriate to lend to Mr G.
Ive also thought about whether Everyday Loans acted unfairly in some other way and I 
havent seen any evidence that it did.
Putting things right
If Everyday Loans has sold the outstanding debt, it should buy it back if it is able to do so 
and then take the following steps. If it is not able to buy the debt, it should liaise with the new 
debt owner to achieve the results outlined below:
remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan;
treat any payments made by Mr G as payments towards the capital amount of 
£5,500;
if Mr G has paid more than the capital then any overpayments should be refunded to 
with 8%* simple interest from the date they were paid to the date of settlement;
but if theres still an outstanding balance, Everyday Loan should come to a 
reasonable repayment plan with Mr G;
remove any adverse information about the loan from Mr Gs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. Everyday Loans 
must give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Gs complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
(trading as Everyday Loans) should put things right for Mr G as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman