DRN-3890310
The complaint
J, a limited company, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has insufficient controls and 
checks around the process for sending an international payment.
What happened
The director of J explains that in error an international payment was sent from Js US Dollar 
account in Euros. The intention was to send this is US Dollars and as a result there was a 
difference of £5,000 equivalent. He believes that there should have been system checks to 
warn that this was different to the currency of the account. And says this wasnt picked up in 
a fraud check. He wants J to be compensated for this.
Barclays said it hadnt made any error. It said that it was Js responsibility to select the 
correct currency. And the purpose of the fraud check was to confirm that the payment was 
genuine not to check the currency involved. It said it had noted Js feedback but didnt have 
any plans to change its controls.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He understood from 
discussing the complaint with the director that the default option when he originated an 
international payment was in Euros. And the director believed that the default should be the 
currency of the account and there should be a warning if a currency was selected that was 
different to that of the account. But he thought that J was responsible for checking this 
including a confirmation screen before the payment was sent. It wasnt the role of this 
service to tell Barclays how to operate its systems and processes. And it hadnt made a 
mistake in acting on Js payment instructions.
J didnt agree and wanted the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman given the amount at 
stake. And maintained that Barclays hadnt done enough to stop this happening.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that this was the first payment the director had sent for J in this way. And I note 
that this was a significant amount (over 77,000 in Euros). I dont have reason to doubt that 
the intention was to send this in US Dollars and that the director believed that this would be 
the way the payment would naturally be sent from an account denominated in US Dollars. 
And that he thinks there should have been more opportunities to identify if this hadnt been 
the case.
I need to set out that as our investigator has referred to this service isnt the regulator. So, 
we dont have a role in setting Barclays processes. It isnt in dispute that J created the 
payment instruction and had an opportunity to confirm this. And I think its reasonable that it 
is responsible for that. 
The specifics of what the default currency should be in a drop-down box say or any 
additional checks are a matter for Barclays to determine. And it could reasonably think that J 
had authorised this payment in Euros based on the instruction that J submitted online. The 
fraud check as has been pointed out related to confirming that it was a genuine payment 
instruction and not the currency involved. 
Im afraid I dont find that Barclays made a mistake or didnt act reasonably in sending this 
payment. So, while I understand the impact of what happened for J I dont have a basis to 
require Barclays to do anything further. I know that the director of J will be disappointed by 
this outcome.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman