DRN-4018784
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Santander UK Plc has been unable to help her with a re-discovered 
account passbook.
What happened
Mrs M says she found an account passbook last used in 1999 issued in the name of a 
business later taken over by Santander. She says there was a balance in the account of 
over £2,000 and would like to know where the money went. She would also want its return.
Santander says it keeps records for six years and has checked the account details. It says 
its records show the account closed in 2003 and the money was transferred to a different 
account. Santander says due to the passage of time it cant say what then happened to the 
money but says evidence of a passbook is not evidence the account is still open.
Mrs M brought her complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator explained that banks and building societies were not obliged to hold information 
for this length of time and explained what should happen with dormant accounts. The 
investigator thought searches via lost account services also couldnt locate the account.
Mrs M didnt accept that view and says she has no record of correspondence about the 
account or details of the other account.
I asked both sides for further information and asked for evidence of the searches from 
Santander. I also asked Mrs M to consider a search for the account the money appeared to 
have been transferred into.
Mrs M has confirmed that there is no record of the second account following the search 
request. 
Santander says it can only say the second account closed in 2007.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mrs M will be disappointed by my decision and accept she will have unanswered 
questions that this service cant assist her with.
I am sure Mrs M appreciates that a re-discovered passbook is not evidence that an account 
is still open or that money remains deposited with a bank or building society. I can see the 
investigator has explained that a business is obliged to keep records for six years and has 
explained what happens with dormant accounts.
In this case the passbook was last used in 1999 which is some 24 years ago. I think it likely 
that such a time period may affect a recollection of what happened to an account or to the 
balance in it. I say that as Im satisfied that Santanders records show that the account was 
closed in 2003 and the money transferred to a different account that Mrs M has no 
recollection of. I think on balance it unlikely that the account could have been closed, with 
the money transferred, without some input from Mrs M in 2003, but accept it was about 20 
years ago.
The key issue for me to decide is if Santander has done everything, I would expect, to trace 
either of these accounts. And Im satisfied that it has done so but without any real success in 
being able to say what happened to the money following the account closing in 2007. Im 
also satisfied that Santanders checks appear to mirror the outcome of separate traces 
carried out by Mrs M. So, I think it likely on balance that Santander no longer has the 
balance in the account and that the money was either transferred in accordance with 
instructions or withdrawn. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Santander has fairly tried to trace the accounts and money and that 
it unlikely it now holds Mrs Ms money. I find this now brings an end to what we in trying to 
resolve this dispute informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman