DRN-3799013
The complaint
Miss M and Mr T complain about how AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA) 
dealt with a claim under their home insurance policy for damage to their property from leaks. 
References to AA include their agents who administer the policy and assess claims. 
What happened
In December 2021, Miss M and Mr T contacted AA to tell them about two issues at their 
property and to lodge claims. The first issue was a possible leaking radiator, the second a 
leak from their fridge. However, they say they were told they couldnt claim for two issues at 
the same time. As their property was a bungalow and the flooring covered the extent of the 
property, they were told that by claiming for the leaking radiator, any damage caused by the 
leak from the fridge would be rectified at the same time. Based on this, they made a claim for 
what a plumber had told them was a possible leak from the radiator under the floor, but no 
leak was found.
AA appointed a surveyor to inspect the property, who visited and said the floor would need 
to be replaced. But as no leak was found from the radiator, Miss M and Mr T decided to 
withdraw their claim  but were told by AA their claim had been declined (as it wasnt 
considered to be a one-off event). 
Miss M and Mr T then lodged a second claim for the leak from the fridge. A surveyor visited 
to inspect the property, in their report noting water had leaked out of the fridge door, 
damaging the laminate flooring. But AA subsequently said the issue was an ongoing one 
due to the fridge not standing correctly (and that Miss M and Mr T should have known about 
the fridge leak) so declined the claim. 
Unhappy at AAs position, Miss M and Mr T complained to AA over their handling of the 
claims. But AA didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response, AA said the policy didnt 
cover damage that had been caused gradually over time, pointing to an exclusion in the 
policy terms and conditions. AA also said Miss M and Mr T should have been aware of the 
leak from the fridge whilst it was occurring (as the fridge would have been used daily) and 
the leak from it would have been evident) and so they should have raised the issue earlier. 
Based on this, AA confirmed their decline of the claim.
Miss M and Mr T then complained to this service. They were unhappy at their claim being 
declined and said they were financially out of pocket from having to replace their flooring. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding AA had declined both claims in line 
with the policy terms and conditions and didnt need to take any further action. There wasnt 
evidence of a leak from the radiator, so no insured peril. Our investigator noted that AA 
considered the damage to the floor from the fridge, but thought it wasnt from a one-off 
incident. Our investigator concluded water had leaked from the fridge on a number of 
occasions when the door didnt close properly. So, the damage had occurred gradually, and 
the policy terms excluded damage that happened gradually over time. So, our investigator 
concluded AA had correctly declined the second claim.
Miss M and Mr T disagreed with the investigators view and requested an ombudsman 
review the complaint. In doing so, they raised several points. 
First, AA had sent out surveyors on two occasions to inspect the property (when they first 
contacted AA and then about the leak from the fridge). And in both cases the surveyors 
indicated Miss M and Mr T had a valid claim due to the damage to the flooring. They didnt 
think it was appropriate for AAs claims handling team to decline the claim, given what the 
surveyors had indicated. They also thought AA were using small print to decline the claims 
(and that after declining the first claim, they were likely to decline the second claim). Also, 
theyd told AA about the leak from the fridge (which they subsequently fixed by adjusting the 
fridge to stand correctly) when they first contacted them in December 2021, so it wasnt a 
new leak that AA subsequently considered (when they sent out a second surveyor).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether AA have acted fairly towards Miss M and Mr T.
The main issue in Miss M and Mr Ts complaint is that AA have unfairly declined both their 
claims for damage from leaks. The first, when they contacted AA in December 2021 and 
mentioned two suspected leaks (from a radiator and from the fridge). And the second, 
subsequently, for the leak from the fridge. AA say the damage was caused gradually over 
time (not from a one-off event) and that (in the case of the fridge) Miss M and Mr T should 
have been aware of it happening. 
 
Ive considered both views carefully, but on balance Ive concluded AA have acted fairly in 
declining the claims, based on the exclusions set out in the policy. I know this will be 
disappointing to Miss M and Mr T, so Ill set out why Ive come to that conclusion.
On the first claim, from the evidence and information Ive seen, the suspected cause was 
thought to be a leaking radiator (and the fridge). However, a plumber was unable to locate a 
leak from the radiator, so there wasnt a clear insured peril identified. AA also say the 
damage indicated it had happened gradually. However, given no leak from the radiator was 
found, Miss M and Mr T said they wanted to withdraw the claim  but AA had decided to 
decline it. While there was some confusion over the two actions, from the evidence Ive seen 
AA didnt act unreasonably in their decision to decline the claim  even though Miss M and 
Mr T indicated they were withdrawing it.
On the second claim, specifically for the damage caused by the leak from the fridge, AA 
again declined the claim on the basis that the damage occurred gradually over time. From 
the description of what happened, it appears the fridge was not standing correctly, meaning 
that the door didnt [always] close properly, thereby enabling condensation (water) to leak 
out. AA say Miss M and Mr T should have been aware of this, as they will have been 
opening and closing the door on a daily basis. Miss M and Mr T say they werent aware until 
they removed the underpinning beneath the fridge. 
Ive considered these points carefully, but on balance I think it clear the damage occurred 
gradually over time (up to the first notification of the damage, and then subsequently until 
Miss M and Mr T corrected the standing of the fridge so the door closed properly). I think 
they should have been aware of the issue and that the door wasnt closing properly. 
Having reached these conclusions, Ive then considered the exclusion referred to by AA in 
their final response, AA refer to the General Exceptions section of the policy where theres 
an exclusion that states:The policy does not insure the following:
1. Loss or damage arising from gradually operating causes including 
deterioration, wear and tear, corrosion, rot or similar cause.
I think the wording is clear that damage that occurs gradually  rather than from a one-off 
event or incident  is excluded. Miss M and Mr T, when disagreeing with out investigators 
view, say this is using small print to decline the claims. However, I dont agree. All 
insurance policies contain detailed terms and conditions (including exclusions) and 
consumers are provided with the policy terms and conditions when taking out a policy. So, 
they are aware of what the terms and conditions cover (and they have the option to cancel a 
policy if the terms and conditions dont meet their requirements).
On Miss M and Mr Ts point about the surveyors indicating they had a valid claim (and it 
wasnt appropriate for AAs claims handling team to decline the claims), I dont agree this is 
inappropriate or unreasonable. Its industry practice for surveyors (or loss adjusters) to 
inspect and assess damage caused by incidents and to report their findings and 
conclusions. While they may provide an indication of their findings and conclusions, 
decisions on whether to accept or decline claims are subject to review by claims handling 
teams and a formal decision is made. This may (as in this case) be to decline the claim, 
based on the surveyors report and review of that report. While I can understand why Miss M 
and Mr T feel its inappropriate for this to happen, I dont think its unreasonable (given my 
earlier conclusions about AAs decline of the claims).
On the point about AA being likely to decline the second claim, having declined the first, from 
the case notes Ive seen, AA did consider both claims separately, but came to the same 
conclusion to decline on the grounds of gradual operating cause. But given my conclusions 
above, I dont think thats unreasonable.
Taking all these points together, Ive concluded AA acted fairly and reasonably, in line with 
the policy terms and conditions, in declining Miss M and Mr Ts claims.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Miss M and Mr Ts 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M and Mr T 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman