DRN-3583063
The complaint
Mr R complains about the way AXA Insurance UK Plc handled a claim he made on a travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr R has travel insurance as a benefit of a packaged bank account.
Mr R was due to attend a concert. However, after it was cancelled, Mr R wanted to make a 
claim on his travel insurance policy. So he tried to get in touch with AXAs claims team. 
However, Mr R was kept on hold, without being able to get through. And when he made a 
complaint about the service hed received, AXA delayed sending him a response. Mr R was 
very unhappy with the way AXA had treated him and so he asked us to look into his 
complaint.
AXA got in touch with us to offer Mr R £150 compensation for the service hed received. It 
said it intended to set-up Mr Rs claim as a priority. A few weeks later, AXA looked into Mr 
Rs claim and turned it down. Thats because it said the circumstances werent covered.
Mr R decided to accept AXAs offer of compensation and our complaint was closed by one of 
our investigators. But Mr R didnt receive the settlement within four weeks of accepting it. He 
remained unhappy with the service hed received from AXA. He said hed only accepted the 
offer on the understanding that he wouldnt have to chase-up AXA again, or experience any 
further delays. So he wanted us to revisit the compensation hed been paid.
AXA let us know that itd raised the compensation payment request on 24 June 2022.
Our investigator felt that AXAs compensation award had been fair and reasonable, so he 
didnt think it needed to do anything more.
Mr R disagreed and so the complaints been passed to me to decide. Its important I explain 
that this decision will only consider whether AXA has paid fair compensation for the poor 
service Mr R received when he tried to make a claim. I wont be considering whether it was 
fair for AXA to turn down the claim, as it isnt clear that AXA has had a chance to look into 
that particular point. Im aware that Mr R was also unhappy with the actions of his bank. A 
complaint about that issue has been dealt with separately by this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I think dont think AXA handled this claim as well as it should have 
done, I find the settlement its already paid Mr R is fair compensation to reflect its poor 
service. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. AXA 
accepts that it didnt handle Mr Rs claim as promptly and fairly as it ought to have done. Mr 
R says he spent hours on hold to the claims team waiting to make a claim and when he 
complained about the delays hed experienced; AXA didnt respond to his complaint in a 
timely way. I dont doubt how frustrating this mustve been for Mr R. So I was pleased to see 
that AXA acknowledged its service failings here and offered Mr R £150 compensation.
Mr R accepted AXAs settlement offer and so he entered into a contract with it to conclude 
his complaint. I appreciate Mr R says he did so on the understanding that this matter 
wouldnt take any more effort on his part and that he wouldnt experience any further delays.  
In my view, AXAs overall compensation award was fair and reasonable to put things right. I 
think it was a fair settlement to reflect the material inconvenience Mr R is likely to have 
experienced in trying and failing to get in touch with AXA over a period of some time. Mr R 
accepted the compensation award of £150 on 17 May 2022. I appreciate that AXA didnt pay 
the settlement within four weeks  which wouldve been 14 June 2022. So I understand it 
mustve been very frustrating for Mr R when he had to get in touch with us again to let us 
know the payment hadnt been received. But AXA confirmed itd raised the payment on 24 
June 2022  broadly 10 days after the four-week period was up. And it said the payment 
would clear in around a week. 
It seems to me that while Mr R was put to some further inconvenience in having to chase-up 
the payment, the settlement was delayed by around two to two and half weeks. And I dont 
think the additional delay Mr R experienced during this time was likely to have caused him 
material distress and inconvenience which would warrant me directing AXA to pay him 
anything more. I say that because once Mr R let us know that he hadnt received the 
payment, AXA confirmed within a few days that it had been requested and would be in Mr 
Rs account within around a week. And I dont think the impact of being without the money 
caused Mr R material financial loss. So I find that AXAs payment of £150 compensation was 
fair and reasonable to reflect the trouble and upset I think its handling of Mr Rs claim likely 
caused him.
My final decision
AXA accepts that it provided Mr R with poor service and it was appropriate for it to 
accordingly compensate Mr R. And for the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that 
the £150 compensation AXA has now paid Mr R is fair and reasonable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman