DRN-3355248
The complaint
Mrs S, on behalf of P, complains that Allianz Insurance Plc unfairly declined a claim Ps 
business protection insurance policy.
What happened
P has the benefit of a business protection insurance policy. Mrs S made a claim on that
policy to cover Ps losses arising out of its closure from March 2020 due to the
national government-imposed lockdown intended to control the spread of Covid 19.
Allianz declined the claim because it said P didnt have cover for the losses it was claiming
for. Mrs S doesnt agree. She says this is unfair as P couldnt have predicted it needed cover 
for a pandemic and that it had business interruption cover in place to cover them for 
uncertain risks such as these. She also says P paid for cover for 17 years so Allianz should 
now fund their claim.
Our investigator considered Ps complaint and concluded that it shouldnt be upheld. She
said there was no cover available under the policy for the difficult situation P found
itself in. Mrs S doesnt agree so the matter has been put to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact lockdown has had on Ps 
business. But for the same reasons the investigator set out, I wont be upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
The type of cover P is looking to claim on is business interruption insurance. There are a 
range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering different risks. For 
example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, whilst others 
provide cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional add ons. 
The starting point is to consider the specific policy P took out. As such Ive considered 
every aspect of the policy P holds with Allianz to determine whether there are any sections 
that would require Allianz to meet the claim like the one P is making.
Mrs S has told us that P wasnt able to operate as it normally would have due to the 
government-imposed lockdown.
The policy provides cover for several things, including specified illnesses and damage. Ive 
considered each of them below.
Specified Illnesses
The government-imposed lockdown was intended to control the Covid 19 pandemic. 
Because of this, the most likely section of the policy that would respond is the extension in 
relation to specified illnesses. That section covers:

a any occurrence of a Specified Illness at the Premises or attributable to food or 
drink supplied from the Premises
b any discovery of an organism at the Premises likely to result in the occurrence 
of a Specified Illness
c the discovery of vermin or pests at the Premises which causes restrictions on the 
use of the Premises on the order or advice of the competent local authority
d any accident causing defects in the drains mother sanitary arrangements at the 
Premises which causes restrictions on the use of the Premises on the order or 
advice of the competent local authority
e any occurrence of murder or suicide at the Premises
Specified Illness is defined as:
illness sustained by any person resulting from:
(i) food or drink poisoning or
(ii)Acute Encephalitis, Acute Poliomyelitis, Anthrax, Chickenpox, Cholera, Diphtheria,
Dysentery, Leprosy, Leptospirosis, Malaria, Measles, Meningococcal Infection, Mumps,
Opthalmia Neonatorum, Paratyphoid Fever, Plague, Rabies, Rubella, Scarlet Fever,
Smallpox, Tetanus, Tuberculosis, Typhoid Fever, Viral Hepatitis, Whooping Cough or
Yellow Fever an outbreak of which the competent local authority has stipulated shall be
notified to them.
Having considered the list of illnesses set out, Im not persuaded this section of the policy 
provides P with cover in the current circumstances as Covid 19 isnt one of the specified 
illnesses. When reaching this finding Im mindful that Covid 19 wasnt something Allianz 
might have known about when the policy was drafted, but I dont think that changes 
anything. Thats because there are other policies that do provide cover for the present 
pandemic. These tend to be where they cover all notifiable diseases, which are set out and 
updated on a Government defined list. Ps policy sets out a list of the illnesses which are 
covered by the policy and there is nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover 
for other illnesses, including any new illnesses which might emerge. I think the purpose and 
effect of the policy is to provide cover in the event of these particular illnesses. There are 
many potential illnesses that the policy does not cover. And although Ive considered that 
the policy doesnt specifically exclude Covid-19, I dont think it can or should fairly be read 
as covering any and all illnesses that fall outside of the defined list set out above.
For the sake of completeness Id like to reassure Mrs S that Ive considered her specific 
point that the policy should provide cover in uncertain circumstances such as this. And I 
agree that there are policies that would have provided cover for things like a pandemic but 
this isnt one of them. Generally, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for us to require a 
business to fund a claim for risks it hasnt envisaged- whether or not those risks are 
unpredictable. And whilst I appreciate that Mrs S couldnt have predicted that P might need 
pandemic cover, Allianz cant be held responsible for not covering a claim where the policy 
doesnt provide for it. 
Damage
The business interruption cover under this policy states: 
The Insurer will pay the Insured for Business Interruption by any of the Events operative
under this Policy and not otherwise excluded occurring during the Period of Insurance.
Event is defined as Damage to Property used by the Insured at the Premises for the 
purpose of the Business.Damage is defined as Loss or destruction of or damage.
Nothing in that section extends to damage caused to the business itself by way of a 
Specified Illness, as defined by the policy or any other diseases such as Covid 19, or even a 
government-imposed act. Rather they refer to damage to Property which is defined as 
Buildings, Contents, Landlord's Fixtures and Fittings, Tenants' Improvements, Stock and 
other items shown and/or described in the Schedule. Whilst it might have led to a significant 
loss in revenue, Im not persuaded that Covid 19 caused any damage to Ps property. So, I 
dont think cover is available under this section of the policy.
Overall and for the reasons set out above, I dont think Allianz acted unfairly by turning 
down Ps claim for cover. I know Mrs S feels strongly that the policy shouldve covered P 
and that this decision will be disappointing for her but I hope Ive provided a thorough 
explanation of why it doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of its claim.
In closing, I can assure Mrs S that the outcome of the Supreme Courts judgement on 
appeal from the High Court in relation to business interruption insurance policies in 
January 2021 has had no bearing on the outcome of this particular complaint as the 
subject of this present complaint wasnt being considered by that appeal.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ps complaint about Allianz Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman