DRN-3973986
The complaint
Mr J and Ms R complain about how Ageas Europe Ltd (Ageas) dealt with a claim under their 
home insurance policy for damage to a wall at their property caused by bad weather. 
Ageas use agents to administer the policy and to assess claims. Reference to Ageas 
includes these agents.
What happened
In February 2022, part of the boundary brick wall at Mr J and Ms Rs property collapsed 
during bad weather. They contacted Ageas to tell them about the damage and lodge a claim. 
Ageas said a surveyor (V) would be in contact to visit and assess the damage, which took 
place some four weeks later (due to the volume of incidents caused by bad weather from 
November 2021 to the date of the incident). However, Mr J and Ms R were concerned at 
having an open boundary to their property, particularly as the wall had fallen on an adjoining 
public footpath. To minimise the risks of an open boundary, they arranged for the wall to be 
replaced before the surveyors visit, but with a fence rather than a brick wall (at an estimated 
cost of £2,755  the estimate being provided to Ageas).
A few weeks after Vs visit, Mr J and Ms R received an email from Ageas, declining their 
claim. Ageas said the damaged wall was (in Vs opinion) oversized for a single-skinned brick 
wall. The wall would have weakened over time, so the bad weather wasnt the main cause of 
the damage. Rather, it was the pre-existing issues with the walls construction.
Mr J and Ms R disagreed with Ageass decision and raised complaints with this service (and 
subsequently to Ageas), They said Ageas hadnt considered the wall was reinforced at 
intervals along its length by vertical columns of bricks bonded into (and part of) the wall. The 
wall had been replaced by a fence to minimise the time there was an open boundary to their 
property. Also, had the wall been replaced by a new wall, this would have taken much longer 
(and at significantly higher cost). They wanted Ageas to reimburse the cost of the fence.
Ageas considered the complaint in the first instance but didnt uphold it. They accepted there 
were storm conditions around the time of the incident, but based on Vs conclusion the wall 
was oversized and the storm highlighted the pre-existing issues, they confirmed their decline 
of the claim. They also referred to the policy booklet where it stated claims wouldnt be paid 
where they were the result of wear and tear or anything that happened gradually.
Our investigator then considered the complaint, upholding it and concluding Ageas hadnt 
acted fairly. He didnt think the wall had shown evidence of pre-existing issues or weakness 
before the incident. He also thought Mr J and Ms R hadnt prejudiced Ageass position by 
removing the wall before inspection, as it was reasonable in the circumstances (to mitigate 
the property boundary being left open and to make it secure). Rather, the delay in Vs 
inspection prejudiced Ageass position. To put things right, the investigator thought Ageas 
should reimburse Mr J and Ms R the cost of installing the fence, together with interest from 
the date Mr J and Ms R paid for the fence. He also thought Ageas should pay £100 
compensation for distress caused by the delayed inspection.
Ageas disagreed with the investigators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman review 
the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Ageas has acted fairly towards Mr J and Ms R.
The main element of Mr J and Ms Rs complaint is that Ageas unfairly declined their claim, 
on the grounds that while there were storm conditions at the time of the incident, they 
werent the main cause of the damage. Rather, it was due to pre-existing issues with the 
construction of the wall.
In considering this issue, whether the damage resulted from a storm or from a pre-existing 
issue, there are three key issues we consider:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main (or dominant) cause of the damage?
On the first question, in their final response Ageas said they were satisfied there were storm 
conditions around Mr J and Ms Rs property at the time of the incident, noting a highest wind 
speed of 71 mph. This speed would be consistent with generally accepted definitions of 
storm conditions, so Ive concluded there were storm conditions on the date of the incident. 
On the second question, the photograph Ive seen of the collapsed wall shows the damage 
from the incident. A collapsed wall is something wed expect to see from storm conditions, 
particularly high winds. So, Ive concluded the damage is consistent with that a storm 
typically causes.
The third question is therefore key, given Ageas declined the claim on the grounds that the 
cause of the damage was the pre-existing issue with the wall, particularly the nature of its 
construction (that it was oversized  given its height  for a single-skinned brick wall). Mr J 
and Ms R disagree, saying the wall had reinforcing vertical columns of bricks bonded into the 
wall. Ive considered this issue carefully, together with the report from V and the photograph 
of the wall. Taking all these things into account, Ive concluded Ageas havent acted fairly in 
declining Mr J and Ms Rs claim. Ill set out why Ive come to this conclusion.
First, as a general principle, where a policyholder makes a claim for damage or loss under a 
policy, the onus is on them to show there was an insured event that caused the damage or 
loss. In this case, given my conclusions there were storm conditions at the time of the 
incident, and the damage is consistent with that wed expect to see in a storm, I think its 
reasonable to conclude there was an insured event (storm) that caused damage. 
However, where an insurer relies on an exclusion in the policy to decline a claim (as Ageas 
have done) then the onus is on them to show the exclusion applies. Looking at the available 
information and evidence, I dont think Ageas have done so in the specific circumstances of 
this case, so Ill explain why Ive come to this view.
In their final response, Ageas refer to the following policy exclusion, from the policy booklet:We wont pay for claims that are a result of wear and tear or anything that happens 
gradually.
Ageas also refer to Vs report, which includes the following comments:
The wall was oversized for a single skinned wall.
Due to the construction of the wall the wall would be weakened over time.
The report goes on to conclude the cause of the damage as:
The damaged brick wall is in our opinion oversized for a single skinned brick wall 
and that any adverse weather conditions have only highlighted any pre-existing 
issues with [the] wall.
However, looking at the photograph of the wall, including the collapsed section, Im not 
persuaded by this view. Those parts of the wall that remain standing (both the remaining part 
of the section that collapsed, as well as an adjoining section at the bottom of the garden) 
dont show any obvious signs of deterioration, wear or tear or weakness. Ive also 
considered Mr J and Ms Rs point that the wall was supported at intervals by vertical pillars 
of bricks (so the wall wasnt simply single skinned for its whole length. And Vs report doesnt 
provide any direct evidence to support their opinion the wall had been weakened over time. 
Taking these points into account  particularly given the onus being on Ageas to show the 
exclusion applies  than Im persuaded the storm conditions are, on balance, the main or 
dominant cause of the damage. So, Im not persuaded Ageas have shown the exclusion 
applies. And so, they havent acted fairly in declining Mr J and Ms Rs claim.
Having reached these conclusions, Ive thought about what I think Ageas need to do to put 
things right. Mr J and Mrs R have replaced the wall with a fence, consisting of wooden 
panels and concrete posts and gravel boards. In the circumstances of wanting to secure 
their property, I think theyve acted reasonably. Given the nature of the construction of the 
fence, I agree with their point that the cost (and the time taken to reinstate the boundary) is 
likely to be substantially less than had they (or Ageas, had they accepted the claim) replaced 
the collapsed wall with a new brick wall. 
Mr J and Ms R have provided a copy of the estimate they obtained for removing the 
collapsed wall and erecting the fence (£2,755). I think it reasonable for Ageas to reimburse 
them for the invoiced cost of the work (including any VAT element, on production of a VAT 
invoice) taking account of any policy excess that may apply. My understanding is that Mr J 
and Ms R paid for the work (on completion). On the basis they can evidence the date they 
settled the invoice, then I think it would be reasonable to add interest, at a rate of 8% simple, 
from the date they paid the invoice to the date Ageas reimburse them.
Ive also thought about the distress and inconvenience Mr J and Ms R have suffered from 
the time taken to assess (and decline) the claim  which Ive concluded Ageas acted 
unfairly. Taking all the circumstances of the case into consideration, I think £100 
compensation for distress and inconvenience would be fair and reasonable
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Mr J and Ms Rs complaint. I 
require Ageas Insurance Limited to:Reimburse Mr J and Ms R for the invoiced cost of the work (including any VAT 
element, on production of a VAT invoice) taking account of any policy excess that 
may apply.
Pay Mr J and Ms R £100 in compensation for inconvenience. 
On the basis Mr J and Ms R can evidence the date they settled the invoice, then I think it 
would be reasonable to add interest, at a rate of 8% simple, from the date they paid the 
invoice to the date Ageas Insurance Limited reimburse them.
Ageas Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr J and Ms R accept my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J and Ms R to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman