DRN-3984716
The complaint
Mrs and Mr H complained about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited. They are not happy 
about the way it dealt with a claim under their motor insurance policy.   
For ease of reading any reference to Admiral includes the actions of its agents which it is 
responsible for.
What happened
Mrs and Mr H made a claim under their car insurance policy after being involved in an 
accident. Admiral considered the claim and offered the market value of the car. But Mrs and 
Mr H werent happy about the settlement offer, the fact their car (salvage) wasnt returned to 
them and the poor service provided.
Admiral looked into things for them and increased the market value by around £1,000 and 
offered £150 for the trouble and upset caused in how it had dealt with the claim. As Mr and 
Mrs H remained unhappy they complained to this Service.
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs and Mr H and partly upheld the claim. He thought 
Admiral had offered a fair market value for their car, but that it should allow them to retain 
the salvage and pay an additional £100 compensation. However, it transpired Admiral had 
sold the salvage, so he asked it to pay a total of £750 compensation in acknowledgement of 
the fact that it had disposed of the car when Mrs and Mr H wanted to retain it. 
As Admiral didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both sides have accepted the market value of the car and that the service provided was 
poor Ill focus on the main outstanding issue  that Mrs and Mr H werent allowed to retain 
the salvage. And having done so I think the complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
Admiral have said it didnt allow Mrs and Mr H to retain the salvage as the car was a write 
off. It thought the damage, although medium and not structural, to the front-end was safety 
critical and that the car had mechanical problems in relation to the front suspension and 
steering and so wasnt a viable repair. However, Mrs and Mr H were told they could buy the 
car back as salvage as it was a category N. And given it was a category N there is no reason 
why the car couldnt have been returned to them.
I note Admiral have gone on to say that they didnt want to return the car to Mrs and Mr H as 
it felt it wasnt safe to do so. However, if that was the case I would expect the car to be 
marked as such with the correct category. A category N write-off is uneconomical to repair 
as opposed to being unsafe, so it isnt fair for Admiral to retain salvage (when the consumer 
wants the car back) in circumstances like this. And given it is clear that Mrs and Mr H wanted 
to retain the salvage of the car, which they still owned, I wouldve expected the salvage to be 
returned to them. 
Given all of this, I agree that Mrs and Mr H should be compensated for the car not being 
returned to them when it should have been, especially as they clearly wanted the salvage in 
order to repair the car themselves. I can understand how frustrating Mrs and Mr H found all 
of this and it seems clear that the salvage agent had collected the car before it was finalised 
whether Mrs and Mr H wanted to retain the car or not, so I agree a total of £750 
compensation to cover this and the additional poor service provided seems fair. 
My final decision
It follows for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral 
Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to pay £750 (total) compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman