DRN-3076285
The complaint
Mr H complains that UK General Insurance Limited (UKGI) took too long to repair his heating 
boiler, charged him two fees instead of one and completed the repairs so poorly he had to 
replace the boiler. He wants UKGI to pay him the cost of the boiler and the second fee  
about £1,700.  
What happened
Mr H is being helped with this complaint by a member of his family, but for ease of reading 
Ill simply refer to Mr H.
Mr H had a home emergency policy that was underwritten by UKGI  which means its 
responsible for meeting any valid claims. So although several different businesses have 
been involved in the complaint, Ill refer only to UKGI  again for ease of reading.
Mr Hs tenants reported that the boiler which provided heat and hot water in the property 
they rented from him had broken down. That was in early March 2020. A few days later an 
engineer fixed the boiler and said that if the problem re-occurred two new parts would be 
required. Mr H paid £95 as the policy terms and conditions required.
A few days later the boiler was fixed again  and the new parts ordered. A week after this 
the boiler was still leaking and a further problem was identified which required yet another 
part. Mr H was asked to pay a further £95 for this.
Delivery of the parts was delayed  UKGI says because of COVID-19  and didnt arrive until 
5 May. The parts were fitted on 11 May.
Mr H complained about the delays and UKGI said that, although this had been a difficult time 
for ordering spares, it could have communicated better than it did. It offered Mr H £25 as a 
goodwill gesture to make up for this.
In late August 2020 Mr H contacted UKGI again. He said there were still problems with the 
boiler and when he got an engineer to look at and service the boiler he was told the repairs 
done by UKGI had been done so badly the boiler needed replacing. He says this cost him 
£1,600. He wanted UKGI to pay for this, and return the second £95 hed paid towards the 
repairs.
UKGI said Mr H no longer had a home emergency policy as it had expired in May. But it said 
it would look at any new problems with the boiler if Mr H paid for the visit and any work. Mr H 
didnt want to do that. Mr H then complained, and UKGI said if its repairs had been so poor 
theyd have expected this to be apparent straight away  or at least much sooner than three 
months after they were carried out. And it said its engineers had commented that there had 
been repairs done before it carried out any work in March or May, and that the general 
condition of the boiler was poor. So it didnt think it needed to do any more for Mr H. 
Mr H asked us to look at his complaint. Our investigator thought that there was no evidence 
that UKGIs repairs had led to the failure of the boiler, but thought that £100 was a more 
suitable sum for UKGI to pay to make up for the inconvenience Mr H had suffered.
Mr H doesnt agree and we referred his comments  in essence asking for more 
compensation and the cost of replacing the boiler  to UKGI. UKGI said it thought the initial 
£100 recommended by the investigator was fair.
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to ask UKGI to do more than weve already recommended.  Ill explain why.
I recognise that it took some time from when the first fault was reported to UKGI (in March 
2020) to getting all the faults fixed. It took about two months in all. But I can see from UKGIs 
files that it ordered parts in good time when they were needed, and that it tried to get them 
delivered as soon as it could. But the parts ordered on the 12 and 19 March didnt arrive until 
5 May  and I dont think I can say that was UKGIs fault. I say that because almost 
immediately after the parts were ordered the UK was in lockdown. UKGI says these 
affected deliveries, and we know that to be the case in many areas of business at this time. I 
think the delays were outside UKIs control.
I understand there were some issues about parking permits for visits where parts were to be 
fitted. I appreciate that might have been irritating for Mr H, but I dont think it unreasonable 
for the engineer to want to comply with parking restrictions when working at the property. 
And as this seems to have been sorted out before the parts arrived, I cant say it delayed the 
repairs. 
Turning to Mr Hs decision to replace the boiler, I havent seen anything that links the repairs 
done by UKGI with the eventual breakdown. And I agree with UKGIs comment that, if its 
repairs hadnt worked, then the problems would have re-appeared much sooner than they 
did. So I cant agree its fair for UKGI to pay for the new boiler.
Mr H also asked that one of the two £95 fees he paid be returned to him. From what Ive 
seen, the fees related to two separate faults on the boiler  which were fixed by parts 
ordered at two different times. Im satisfied this means Mr H made two claims and both fees 
were justified in the policy terms and conditions.
Our investigator explained that compensation is only available to Mr H, as hes the policy 
holder rather than his tenants  although of course Mr H can pass on any compensation he 
gets if he so wishes. And its only payable for any unnecessary inconvenience UKGI caused 
 its not meant to make up for the inevitable inconvenience thats the result of making any 
claim.
Taking everything into consideration I think the £100 recommended by our investigator fairly 
reflects the inconvenience UKGI may have caused. 
Putting things right
UKGI should pay Mr H a total of £100 compensation if it hasnt already done so. If its paid 
the £25 it offered in May 2020 it can deduct this from the £100. 
My final decisionMy decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and require UK General Insurance Limited 
to pay Mr H £100 compensation less any amount its already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman