DRN-2662876
The complaint
 Mr P complains Santander UK Plc unfairly delayed him from withdrawing funds he held in 
his account. He says Santander should compensate him for the inconvenience and financial 
loss he experienced.
What happened
 The facts of this complaint are well-known to both parties and were set out by the 
investigator who looked into this complaint previously. I find no need to detail everything that 
happened in this decision. But in summary:
- Mr P sold his property, the proceeds of which credited the account he holds with 
Santander. He decided he wanted to travel, and wanted to withdraw the full amount 
in cash, in £10 denominations.
- Mr P was aware the request was unusual. The reason he wanted all the money in 
cash was private  although he says it wasnt for improper reasons. He says he 
discussed what he wanted to do with his local branch and was told everything would 
be fine - he could withdraw the funds after giving the correct notice.
Mr P went to withdraw the funds but was only allowed to withdraw a much smaller 
amount. The branch didnt hold the sum he wanted in £10 notes. He said he was told 
he could withdraw the rest of his funds by attending other branches.
- Santander froze Mr Ps account to review what Mr P wanted to do. It allowed Mr P to 
withdraw a smaller amount after approximately two weeks. But it froze Mr Ps 
account again when he tried to make a larger withdrawal. Eventually, Mr P was able 
to withdraw his remaining funds a month after his first withdrawal.
- Mr P complained to Santander. He said Santander shouldve performed its checks 
before Mr P went to withdraw his funds. He had been greatly inconvenienced and 
had delayed his plans, causing him financial loss. Santander rejected Mr Ps 
complaint, so he brought his complaint to our service. 
- An investigator upheld Mr Ps complaint. They found:
o Santander has important responsibilities to protect customers from financial 
harm where possible. A very large cash withdrawal can sometimes indicate a 
customer is at risk of fraud or a scam. If Santander hadnt acted, it risked 
serious sanction.
o Santander could freeze Mr Ps account to review what was happening. Mr P 
acknowledged his request was unusual, and said his reasons for wanting the 
funds in cash were private. So, its understandable why Santander wanted to 
investigate things further.
o Considering Santanders actions when reviewing the account, it caused an 
undue delay. If Santander had done things as it shouldve, its likely Mr P 
would have been able to withdraw all his funds earlier than he did.
o Santander should pay Mr P £100 for the inconvenience he was caused by not 
being able to withdraw his funds earlier.
Santander agreed to pay £100. Mr P disagreed. He wants £3000 in compensation, which he 
says represents his financial loss caused by the delay. But he cant provide evidence to 
demonstrate this loss.
Mr P asked for a final decision from an ombudsman, so the complaint was passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I have decided to uphold Mr Ps complaint. But Im satisfied £100 represents fair and 
reasonable compensation. Ill explain why:
- Santander has important legal and regulatory responsibilities to fulfil when providing 
accounts. Part of those responsibilities entail protecting customers from financial 
harm, particularly against the risk of fraud and scams. So, to give its responsibilities 
effect, Santander may need to take reasonable steps when reviewing an account. 
This might mean not acting on a customers mandate during a review or freezing an 
account for a period.
- Im satisfied Santanders decision to block Mr Ps account was reasonable. Mr P 
agreed his request was unusual  and while he wanted to keep his reasons private, 
this doesnt mean Santander shouldnt have look into matters further. The 
consequences of Santander not doing so could have been serious.
- I cant determine what was or wasnt said when Mr P visited various branches of 
Santander. He may have been given incorrect information, but I dont find this means 
Santander ought not have blocked his account or refused his withdrawal requests.
- Santander should ensure it carries out a review efficiently, without causing undue 
delay. But based on all the information I have seen, I find Santander caused undue 
delay when reviewing the account. Had Santander acted when it should have, its 
likely Mr Ps account would have been unblocked sooner.
- So, Mr P would have experienced less inconvenience and stress if Santander hadnt 
taken as long as it did. Im satisfied £100 is a fair and reasonable sum to make up for 
this, remembering my role is not to award compensation to punish or fine Santander. 
Mr P hasnt presented further evidence to demonstrate why I should award a larger 
sum.
- Mr P said the delay caused him financial loss. But he has not provided persuasive 
evidence to demonstrate what those losses were. So, I am not awarding redress based on consequential financial losses Mr P says he experienced.
My final decision
 I have decided to uphold this complaint and I direct Santander UK Plc to pay Mr P £100 for 
the reasons I have given above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman