DRN-4286051
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) has unfairly 
declined his claim. 
What happened
Mr A has a group income protection insurance policy through his employer, underwritten by 
L&G. This would pay a benefit if he was unable to work due to illness or injury throughout the 
deferred period and beyond.  Mr A made a claim which L&G declined as it said there was 
insufficient evidence to show that Mr A was unable to work due to his condition. 
Mr A complained and unhappy with L&Gs response, referred his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think L&G had declined the claim 
unfairly. 
Mr A disagreed and in summary said L&G hadnt reviewed the medical evidence properly.
So the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy would pay out if Mr A was unable to work due to illness or injury which 
prevented him from carrying out the main duties of his occupation. This would need 
to be demonstrated through medical evidence and the onus is on Mr A to prove his 
claim. 
Ive considered all the available evidence including the occupational health reports, 
letters from Mr As consultant and the report from his GP. 
L&G said there was insufficient medical evidence explaining why Mr As condition 
prevented him from carrying out the essential duties of his occupation and I agree. 
I would expect to see clear medical evidence with reasons why Mr A was unable to 
carry out his occupation due to his condition with reference to his specific duties. The 
occupational health reports suggest Mr A would be able to work with adjustments 
and could work from home.
Ive also considered whether there was anything further L&G could have done to 
properly assess the claim. I am satisfied that L&G requested medical evidence from 
the appropriate people at the right time. It contacted Mr As consultant using the 
details provided by Mr A and also wrote to the GP.
When Mr A sent L&G further medical evidence as part of his appeal, L&G reviewed 
what he had sent and explained why its decision hadnt changed. Mr A didnt provide 
any evidence to show why he would be unable to work from home or with 
adjustments. And the report from his GP doesnt adequately explain why he wouldnt 
be able to work with adjustments or from home.
Im sorry to hear of Mr As condition but I dont think L&G unfairly declined his claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman