DRN-3338912
The complaint
Ms S complains about increases to the premiums that have been charged by 
Scottish Widows Limited on a pension linked term assurance policy.
What happened
In 1989 Ms S was provided with advice by another firm about contacting out of the 
State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS). She was advised to open a pension 
policy with Scottish Widows to receive her rebated contributions, and for her to make future 
personal pension contributions. As part of that policy Ms S was advised to take an additional 
pension linked term assurance plan that would offer her life assurance cover of £50,000.
The advice that Ms S received in 1989 is the subject of a separate complaint against the 
advising firm. Scottish Widows did not provide any advice, or a recommendation, to Ms S 
about the pension policy she was sold. So in this complaint I will only be considering whether 
Scottish Widows has fairly operated Ms Ss pension in line with the terms and conditions of 
the plan. And specifically I will be considering whether the premiums that have been charged 
by Scottish Widows for the linked term assurance policy are fair.
At the outset of the plan Ms S agreed to pay a monthly premium for the life cover of £2.50. 
That premium remained unchanged until February 1996, and then rose steadily until it 
reached £29.06 in 2018. Following a review of its mortality assumptions shortly afterwards, 
Scottish Widows then reduced the premium to £13.66 per month.
That reduction in premium led to Ms Ss complaint. She concluded that it was likely that 
Scottish Widows had been overcharging her in the previous years since there had been no 
substantive changes to her circumstances that would give rise to the premium reduction. But 
Scottish Widows explained that the change had resulted from a voluntary review it had 
undertaken of its mortality assumptions. It said the review wasnt required under the terms of 
Ms S's policy, and so the premiums it had charged in the previous years had been correct. 
But Scottish Widows did note that it hadnt explained the background to the review to Ms S 
as well as it might have done, so causing her some confusion. And it initially sent her the 
wrong terms and conditions when it answered her complaint. So for those two errors 
Scottish Widows has paid Ms S a total of £150.
Ms Ss complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that the original 
terms of the policy allowed Scottish Widows to review the monthly premium. And he didnt 
think it unusual for life assurance costs to rise in line with increasing age. He noted that Ms S 
would have been free to cancel the cover at any time if she was unhappy with the premium 
increases. So, since pricing was a commercial decision for Scottish Widows, he couldnt 
conclude that the firm had done anything wrong.
Ms S didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Ms S and by Scottish Widows. Where the evidence is unclear, or there 
are conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
As the starting point for this complaint, I think it would be right to consider the terms and 
conditions that were applicable to Ms Ss pension plan, and in particular the term assurance 
policy that she took alongside it. But, in doing so, I dont need to decide how those terms 
were explained to Ms S when she first took the plan  that wasnt the responsibility of 
Scottish Widows.
The relevant terms of the plan, regarding increases to the life assurance premiums are 
contained in section 2.3.2 that says;
The additional death benefit premium will be calculated by the Society as at the date 
of entry and as at the same day of each subsequent month, or if the date of entry is 
after the 28th day of a month as at the 28th day of each subsequent month, ('the 
calculation date'). The amount of each such premium will be determined by the 
Society as at each calculation date having regard to the Member's sex, the amount of 
the additional death benefit, the Members age next birthday and any special terms 
imposed by the Society when accepting the additional death benefit.
So I think it is clear from those terms that the premium for the life assurance benefit was not 
fixed at the outset. The terms allowed for Scottish Widows to vary the premium from month 
to month. I dont think it was unreasonable for Scottish Widows to make changes to what 
Ms S needed to pay each month should it deem those premium increases to be necessary.
As I said earlier, it was a number of years before Scottish Widows increased the monthly 
premium that Ms S needed to pay. But she has confirmed that Scottish Widows regularly 
sent her statements that set out the increases to her monthly premiums. Although they were 
steadily increasing I dont think that I can reasonably conclude that Ms S was unhappy with 
the premiums she was being charged.
The life assurance plan that Ms S held could be cancelled either by Ms S stopping paying 
the premiums or by her notifying Scottish Widows. I have considered that Ms S has said that 
doing so would have meant that she would have needed to pay a higher premium elsewhere 
to replace the cover. But I think that comment simply underlines what Scottish Widows has 
said  the premiums increased as Ms S got older, and so was at greater risk of early death. 
I think Ms S retaining the Scottish Widows policy, even when she could see the premiums 
increasing, would support a conclusion that she didnt think the costs were excessive.Scottish Widows has told us that, in 2019, it implemented the results of a review of its 
mortality assumptions. I think I should note here that the terms and conditions of Ms Ss 
policy placed no requirement on Scottish Widows to undertake such a review  it would have 
been perfectly reasonable for Scottish Widows to continue on the basis of the mortality 
assumptions it had made when Ms S first took the policy. But Scottish Widows did conduct a 
voluntary review, and concluded that it would be able to offer a reduction to the premiums 
Ms S, and other customers, were paying.
But I dont think that this reduction should lead a conclusion that Ms S had been charged too 
much in the past. To do so would naturally lead to a similar conclusion that, at the time of 
each of the increases in the premium, Scottish Widows should have concluded that Ms S 
had been paying too little in the past. Instead I think that the terms of the policy allowed 
Scottish Widows to set each individual premium at the rate it thought was appropriate. That 
was a commercial decision and Ms S was free to choose whether she wished to pay the 
premium. If she thought it didnt offer value for money, and that she could get similar cover 
elsewhere for less, she was able to cancel the policy. 
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Ms S. With the benefit of hindsight she 
might think that she could have obtained similar life cover at a lower cost. But I dont think 
any problems were as a result of something that Scottish Widows has done wrong. It has 
administered Ms Ss term assurance policy in line with the stated terms and conditions. So 
I dont conclude that this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Scottish Widows Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman