DRN-3332653
The complaint
Mrs M makes a number of complaints about Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc trading 
as M&S Bank following her financial difficulties.
What happened
Mrs M says she wrote to M&S Bank on 30 October 2018 telling it she was about to enter a 
Debt Management Plan (DMP) but says she was still charged a late payment fee of £12 for 
November 2018 and interest of just over £40. She says she made token £5 payments per 
month to M&S Bank and in May 2019 her account was defaulted. Mrs M says that 
arrangement should have been reported on her credit file rather than missed payments and 
says she would like compensation for what took place as well as having the £52.01 
refunded. She also says a default should have been registered after three months not six, as 
it was obvious the account would default.
M&S Bank says it received a letter from Mrs M on 21 November 2018 telling it she was on a 
DMP. It says the interest and fee was charged before that. M&S Bank says it applied 
breathing space when told of the DMP and paid £50 compensation in early 2021 for poor 
service. It says it will refund the £52.01 but says it has correctly reported the account 
position to the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs).
Mrs M brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought M&S Bank had followed the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) guidance by 
registering a default between three and six months of missed payments. And that it had 
acted fairly by refunding the £52.01 as well as by paying compensation of £50. The 
investigator thought M&S Bank was entitled to record the payments as missed as they were 
less than the contractual amount and that there no requirement to record the DMP.
Mrs M doesnt accept that view and in summary says there is no distinction between making 
a payment or not on her credit fie which cant be fair. She says it obvious her account would 
be defaulted and questions why the £52.01 was not refunded in early 2021.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mrs M will be disappointed by my decision and appreciate how strongly she feels 
about this complaint.
I am sure Mrs M appreciates that M&S Bank, like any other financial business, must report 
accurate account information to the CRAs. Im satisfied that here Mrs M didnt make 
required minimum payments, which would have been agreed when her account was 
opened, from November 2018 until April 2019. So, I dont think M&S Bank made a mistake 
or acted unfairly by reporting those missed payments to the CRAs. I make clear that its not 
our role to direct how payments or arrangements are reported.
I appreciate that Mrs M says that is unfair as she was on a DMP and that arrangement 
should have been registered. But Im satisfied that it is up to M&S Bank to decide when 
exercising its commercial judgement how it reports such matters to the CRAs. I dont think it 
makes any real difference in any event as it likely the token payment would have been 
reported and recorded on Mrs Ms credit file. I also think Mrs M could have added a note to 
her credit file if she wished. So, I think it would be obvious to a potential lender that Mrs M 
was making token payments but that they were less than the contractual required amount. It 
follows that I think there would have been an obvious distinction in this case for Mrs M 
making token payments compared to someone who did not. 
I also appreciate Mrs M says the default should have been registered at the three month 
point rather than after six months. I can see that Mrs M is aware of the ICO guidance which 
says it should be between three and six months. So, I dont think M&S Bank made a mistake 
or acted unfairly by registering the default after six months. And I dont think M&S Bank 
could have known what would happen with the account or if Mrs M was able to resume 
contractual payments.
It is not entirely clear why M&S Bank paid Mrs M the £50 compensation in early 2021. It says 
it was for poor service and so I understand why Mrs M questions why she didnt receive the 
refund of £52.01 then. I agree with Mrs M that M&S Bank ought to have considered that 
issue at the time, in early 2021. But Im satisfied that M&S Bank has acted fairly by now 
agreeing to refund that amount. I dont think that issue justifies additional compensation.
Overall, Im satisfied that M&S Bank acted positively and sympathetically when it was made 
aware of Mrs Ms financial difficulties by agreeing a repayment plan and by allowing a 
breathing space of 60 days. I find that it was obliged to report the accurate account position 
to the CRAs which Im satisfied it did and was entitled to register a default after six months 
of missed payments. It follows that I cant fairly order M&S Bank to do anything further in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman