DRN-2393560
The complaint
Mr E complains that Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited didnt repair his car properly
after he claimed for damage on his motor insurance policy.
For ease of reading any reference to Markerstudy includes its agents.
What happened
Mr E was moving his car on his driveway. He got out to move another car and his car rolled
down a hill and ended up sitting on top of a wall. Because of the damage caused, Mr E
called Markerstudy to claim for the repairs to his car.
As Mr Es car was a luxury sports car, he asked Markerstudy where they intended to repair
it. Markerstudy gave Mr E the details of car body shop repairers which were close to his
home. Mr E explained he wasnt happy with any of the repairers Markerstudy suggested, as
they werent qualified to repair his car. He asked Markerstudy for a repairer who was
authorised by the manufacturer of his car. During the calls with Markerstudy Mr E also
suggested a local garage hed used, who he would be happy to repair his car.
Markerstudy looked into which repairers were authorised by the manufacturer of Mr Es car.
They said there was one in the list of repairers they could use, but they didnt have a
contract with them. As the garage was 140 miles from where Mr E lived Markerstudy said
the garage would collect Mr Es car from his home address. Mr E agreed for his car to go to
this garage, which Ill refer to as S.
After S had repaired Mr Es car, he was contacted to collect it. Upon inspecting the car Mr E
raised concerns about the quality of repairs and said not all of the damage had been fixed.
He also said the steering was extremely heavy and thought there was a fault with it.
Because of this his car was returned to S to carry out more repairs. S was unable to do all
the work needed on Mr Es car, so they moved it to a different garage.
A few months later as Mr E hadnt heard anything, he travelled to this garage to find out what
was happening with his car. When he arrived at the garage, he found his car parked under a
tree covered in debris and in a poor condition. Mr E spoke with the garage who informed him
his car had been parked there for months.
A couple of weeks later Mr E was informed his car had been repaired and that he needed to
collect it the next day as the garage was closing down. As Mr E was unable to collect it the
next day it was returned to him via a transporter.
When Mr Es car was returned to him it had been in for repair for around ten months. Mr E
inspected his car and found there were multiple issues with it. These included original
damage which hadnt been repaired and additional damage caused by leaving the car
outside under trees for months. Mr E moved the car into his garage and arranged for an
engineer to inspect it. The engineer inspected Mr Es car and confirmed there was
unrepaired damage from the accident and additional damage caused by how the car was
stored. As Mr E wasnt happy with the repairs, he complained to Markerstudy. He said hed
spoken with a manufacturing garage and the estimated costs to rectify the faults with his car
were around £20,000.
Markerstudy looked into Mr Es complaint and didnt uphold it. Markerstudy said as Mr E had
used a customer nominated repairer who didnt have a contract with Markerstudy, it wasnt
responsible for the quality of the repairs. Markerstudy also said Mr Es car had been repaired
to an acceptable standard. Mr E didnt agree and brought his complaint here.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 4 November 2020 where I said: The 
terms of Mr Es policy say it will cover his car for loss or damage, subject to any excess.
Markerstudy accepted Mr Es claim and says its paid to repair his car as its supposed to
under the policy. The issues in dispute here are whether Mr Es car has been repaired to an
acceptable standard, whether it suffered more damage while in for repair and whether
Markerstudy are responsible for this.
The first point Ill address is whether I think Markerstudy are responsible for the repairs to  
Mr Es car. Markerstudy said they dont have a contract with S, so dont have control over 
the repairs and arent responsible for them. When an insurer repairs a customers car, 
theyre normally done through whats called an approved garage. This is a garage the 
insurer has a contract with to carry out the repairs on its behalf and the insurer is responsible 
for the quality of the repairs.
In this case Markerstudy said as S isnt one of their approved repairers then they arent
responsible for the quality of repairs. I think its only fair and reasonable for Markerstudy to
not be responsible for the repairs if Mr E choose a garage which isnt part of its network and
Markerstudy made Mr E aware that any issues with the repairs hed need to take up with the
garage separately.
Ive listened to the calls between Markerstudy and Mr E when S was chosen to repair Mr Es
car. From listening to the calls Im not persuaded Mr E choose S to repair his car or that
Markerstudy made the implications of S repairing his car clear to him. I say this because its
Markerstudy who told Mr E about S, in the calls Mr E has suggested a different garage which
Ill refer to as FP. When talking about which garage Mr E could use Markerstudy tell Mr E S
its approved by the manufacturer of his car. Markerstudy also tell Mr E that while its part of
a network of garages Markerstudy uses, they dont have a contract with S.
During the calls Mr [E] asked Markerstudy what they mean by using a customer nominated
garage and Markerstudy say Yeah. So what happens is, it's called a customer nominated
repairer, and there's usually some stipulations around difference in labour rates when you
use them. However, because it's a specialist vehicle, and we don't have any approved
repairers that are able to carry out the work to that vehicle, you're able to use your own
repairer with no differences. So, it would be exactly the same. It'd go through the insurance
exactly the same, and there'd be no difference to you using a dealership as to using
somebody that's a standard repairer. It doesn't make a difference to us. So, if you're wanting
to use a particular dealership or a particular body shop, that's perfectly fine with us. There's
no difference, and no problem at all. Because of this Im not persuaded Markerstudy made it
clear that if there were any issues with the repair Mr E would need to take them up with S
and not Markerstudy.
Mr E also found out that S isnt approved by the manufacturer of his car either. Ive listened
to a call where Markerstudy checked this with their network of repairers and called the
garage. During this call the garage confirms they repair the same make vehicles as Mr Es,
but they dont say theyre an approved repairer. So, Im also satisfied Markerstudy gave Mr E
incorrect information about S.Mr [E]s car is a luxury sports car and from the pictures of it and his discussions with
Markerstudy, its clear he takes great pride and care of his car. If Markerstudy had made    
Mr E aware S wasnt a manufacturer authorised repairer, and that they wouldnt be 
responsible for any issues with repairs, I dont think he would have agreed to S repairing it. I 
think he would have chosen an approved repairer or gone with FP instead. I say this 
because Mr E said hed recently used FP to do some work on his car and he was pleased 
with the quality of their work. He was also very keen to ensure his car was repaired by 
someone qualified to do it. I therefore think Mr E would either have gone with a garage 
Markerstudy had a contract with or used FP instead.
When Mr Es car was returned to him, hes said there was additional damage caused by
storing his car under a tree through the winter months. He also said there were repairs which
hadnt been completed properly. Markerstudy have provided a report which says Mr Es car
has been repaired to an acceptable standard. This report was completed just before Mr Es
car was returned to him. Mr E paid £199 for an engineer to review his car to assess the
extent of the damage and whether the repairs had been completed properly.
The report provided by Mr E lists several faults with the car. These include indentations to
the roof, corroded brakes which needed replacing, scuffing to the front bumper and splitter,
damage to the suspension and other faults. The report says these are consistent with the
accident and the car not being stored properly. When Ive compared the two reports, Im
more persuaded by the one provided by Mr E. I say this because its longer, more detailed,
involved a road test and has photos to support its findings.
On the basis of this report and Mr Es comments, Im satisfied that Mr Es car hasnt been
repaired properly and has incurred additional damage while in for repair. Im also persuaded
that Mr E would either have used one of Markerstudys approved repairers or FP, so I think
its unlikely he would have these issues with his car if hed gone with either of those options.
It therefore follows that Markerstudy should be responsible for the additional damage and
poor quality of repairs.
As Markerstudy didnt take responsibility for the repairs needed, Mr E said he sold his car to
a garage for a reduced rate, because of the condition it was in. He said hed been looking at
a new car just before the accident and had been offered £42,000 for his car as a trade in
against the new one. After the accident Mr E traded his car in for £32,000 against the new
one. Mr E has provided receipts from the garage to show the difference in the cars value. I
think Markerstudy is responsible for this loss in value, as the car wasnt in the condition it
would have been in if Markerstudy had ensured it was repaired properly.
As Markerstudy caused Mr E a loss, the fair and reasonable outcome is for them to put Mr E
back in the position he would have been in if they hadnt caused that loss. That means
Markerstudy should pay Mr E the difference in value of his car (£10,000) to compensate him
for this loss.
While Mr Es car was in for repair and after he had it back, he wasnt able to use it. I can see
he also wasnt provided with a courtesy car. Mr E said he had another car he was able to
use, but as he wasnt able to use this one, hes suffered a loss of enjoyment of it. Hes also
had the unnecessary distress and inconvenience of finding his car in a poor state when in
the garage and the inconvenience of having to arrange an engineer to inspect his car to
evidence the damage and poor condition it was in. I therefore think Markerstudy should pay
Mr E £750 for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience its caused. Markerstudy should
also reimburse Mr E the £199 he paid for the engineers report, as he only needed to pay for
the report due to Markerstudys actions.
As Im satisfied Markerstudy has caused Mr E a financial loss, they should also add 8%simple interest per year to the loss in value of his car and the cost of the engineers report to
compensate him for not having the money.
Mr E responded to say he didnt think the £750 for distress and inconvenience was enough. 
He said hed not been provided with a courtesy car and had used another car he owned for 
the two years this issue went on for. He didnt think this was fair as Markerstudy had saved a 
considerable amount of money because of this and hed incurred additional expense. He 
also said hed kept his car taxed and insured during this time even though he was unable to 
use it. Mr E also said hed had to have the calls with Markerstudy converted into a written 
transcript to enable him to bring his complaint. Mr E asked for this cost to be refunded too. 
Markerstudy also responded and disagreed with my provisional findings. They said the 
garage that repaired Mr Es car was authorised by the manufacturer. Markerstudy also called 
into question the qualifications of the engineer who completed the report for Mr E, and 
questioned his findings. They also said the difference in value was down to normal 
depreciation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Markerstudy responded to say the garage which repaired Mr Es car was actually approved 
by the manufacturer but provided no evidence to support this. This point has been in debate 
numerous times during the course of the two years this issue has been ongoing for and 
Markerstudy havent provided evidence to show the garage was authorised by the 
manufacturer. Im not persuaded they were an approved repairer for Mr Es car either as Ive 
listened to the call made when Markerstudy checked this and for the reasons Ive given 
above Im not persuaded they were authorised by the manufacturer. Even if they were, I 
dont think it makes a difference, this is because Im satisfied Mr E would have wanted 
Markerstudy to be responsible for the repairs to his car or would have used FP as he knew 
that garage. 
Markerstudy have also called into question the qualifications of the engineer who inspected 
Mr Es car. While Markerstudy had their senior engineer review the engineers report Mr E 
provided, Im still more persuaded by Mr Es engineers report. This is because its been 
completed by a company who specialise in these types of report. Its also done by a 
company which is widely used by insurers and the engineer has seen the car. The report 
also lists the engineers qualifications and memberships and says he has over 42 years 
experience in the motor industry. So, while he may not have as many qualifications after his 
name as Markerstudys senior engineer, hes inspected the car and has listed the issues 
along with photographs to support his recommendations. Im satisfied the report shows     
Mr Es car hadnt been repaired to an acceptable standard and had deteriorated due to how 
it was stored. This was also supported by Mr Es photos of his car under a tree covered in 
debris. 
In Markerstudys response they provided valuations for Mr Es car before the incident and 
when he sold it. Markerstudy said these show the decrease in value is because of normal 
depreciation, rather than the issues identified in the report. Ive considered these valuations, 
but Im not persuaded by them. This is because one has the mileage as 20,000 miles for    
Mr Es car when it actually had around 13,500 miles. So, Im not persuaded its fair to rely on 
that valuation. I can see Markerstudy also didnt use the third trade guide we normally use to 
value cars. When Ive looked at this guide it produces higher values, which also support a 
note Markerstudy which shows a fair value for Mr Es car was higher than the guides 
Markerstudy quoted. Even if the decrease in value in Mr Es car was down to normal depreciation, Im still 
satisfied its fair and reasonable for Markerstudy to cover this loss. I say this because Mr E 
spent a lot of time raising the issue with the repairs with Markerstudy and they chose not to 
engage with him. They therefore missed out on the opportunity to review the engineers 
report Mr E had done and look into the concerns further. Also, because Markerstudy didnt 
engage with Mr E about his concerns he didnt use his car, because of the issues listed in 
his report. Im therefore satisfied if Markerstudy had looked into the concerns with the 
repairs, as I think they should have done when Mr E raised them, its likely he would have 
sold the car sooner and not suffered the loss in value. It therefore follows Im satisfied its fair 
and reasonable Mr E is compensated for this loss even if it is depreciation. 
Ive also considered Mr Es response, but Im not persuaded to change from my provisional 
findings. I say this because while he has taxed and insured this car while hes been unable 
to use it. If he had been able to use it or purchased another car as he intended, he would 
always have had to tax and insure this car or his new one. So, Im not going to tell 
Markerstudy to compensate him for that. 
In regard to Mr Es point about not being provided with a courtesy car. While Markerstudy 
may have saved money by not providing him one, its not my role to punish Markerstudy.   
Mr E also had to use another car he owns. Im therefore satisfied the £750 is a fair and 
reasonable amount to compensate him for this and the unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience hes suffered in trying to sort out this claim and for not having use of his car.
Ive also considered the cost Mr E incurred in having the calls converted into transcripts.    
Mr E said this was to ensure the calls would not be mis-interpreted. Im not persuaded he 
needed to convert them into transcripts to refer his complaint here. This is because were 
able to receive and listen to calls. I therefore wont be telling Markerstudy to cover this cost 
as Im not persuaded it was needed. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint. I require Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr E:
£10,000 to compensate him for the difference in value of his car, 8% simple interest
per year should be added to this amount calculated from the date of the accident until
the date payment is made
£750 for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused
£199 for the engineers report, 8% simple interest per year should be added to this
amount calculated from the date Mr E paid it until the date payment is made
If Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr E how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr E a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman