DRN-3586864
The complaint
Mrs T complains about the level of service provided by U K Insurance Limited (UKI) when 
she made a glass claim on her motor insurance policy. Mrs T is represented in this matter by 
Mr T, a named driver on her policy. He wants UKI to reimburse Mrs T the full cost of the 
repair, less the policy excess, and pay her £30 compensation. 
What happened
Mrs T contacted UKIs agent to replace a broken window in her car. It wasnt able to give 
Mrs T a date for an appointment as it said the replacement glass would have to be ordered. 
Mrs T contacted UKI two days later to say that she still didnt have an appointment and 
needed the car to get to work. 
UKI found that the glass had yet to be ordered. UKI explained that Mrs T could have the 
glass replaced elsewhere and it would reimburse her up to the policys limit of £200, less the 
£75 policy excess. As she had no timescale from UKIs agent, Mrs T had the glass replaced 
elsewhere. UKI said it hadnt done anything wrong. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She thought UKI 
was responsible for its repairers actions. She thought it could have given Mrs T a timescale 
for the replacement as the glass took only a few days to arrive after it had been ordered. She 
thought Mrs T hadnt been given enough information to make a decision on what to do. 
And so she thought UKI should pay her £100 compensation for her trouble and upset. But 
she thought UKI had provided reasonable customer service and had explained Mrs Ts 
option to have the work done privately. So she thought it needed to reimburse Mrs T only up 
to the policy limit. 
Mr T replied that they agreed with this. UKI replied that the glass had been ordered a day 
after the claim was notified and an appointment was offered for the fitting two days later. But 
Mrs T had already had the repair done. It thought its agent had responded reasonably 
promptly to the claim. UKI asked for an Ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come to 
me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with UKI that, in the end, the replacement glass was ordered, and Mrs T was 
contacted to make an appointment for fitting it within a reasonable time. But I think Mrs Ts 
complaint centres around what she was told about the timescales for sourcing the glass and 
providing her with an appointment to fit it. 
Mrs Ts side window had been smashed and her car was unsecure. She couldnt use it to 
travel to work. And I think she made this clear to UKI when she called it two days after 
notifying the claim. UKIs own notes state that the glass hadnt then been ordered and no 
timescale could then be provided for replacing it. Mr T said UKIs agent had told them the 
earliest repair would be a week after notification. 
And so I think Mrs T wasnt provided with a timescale for the replacement of the glass. She 
was left with the impression that this could take weeks. And she needed her car. So I think 
Mrs T then quite reasonably decided to use her own repairer and the glass was promptly 
repaired. 
I think it was reasonable, and in keeping with the policys terms and conditions, for UKI to 
reimburse Mrs T for the cost of her repairs up to the policy limit and after deducting her 
policy excess. And Mrs T agrees that this is in keeping with the policys terms and 
conditions.
But Mrs T is yet to receive her reimbursement. UKI said it hasnt made this payment 
because Mrs T had brought her complaint to our service. But I think it should have made an 
interim payment for her claim, which it had accepted, in the meantime. So, as Mrs T has 
been without her money for some time, I think UKI should add interest to this. 
I think the level of service provided by UKIs agent caused Mrs T avoidable trouble and 
upset. She had to escalate matters to UKI. She had to find her own repairer. She was 
without her car until the glass was replaced. And she was caused frustration by not knowing 
how long it would take for the repair to be done. I also cant see why it took so long for UKI to 
order the glass for a common car make and why it couldnt provide Mrs T with a more 
accurate timescale.
Our Investigator recommended that UKI should pay Mrs T £100 compensation for this 
trouble and upset. I agree as I think this is in keeping with our published guidance for this 
level of impact. 
Putting things right
I require U K Insurance Limited to do the following:
1. Reimburse Mrs T £125 for the cost of having her window replaced. Interest should be 
added to this amount at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date the invoice was 
provided to UKI to the date of settlement.
2. Pay Mrs T £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its level of 
service. 
If UKI considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mrs T how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs T a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require U K Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman