DRN-2903575
The complaint
Mr Es complaint is about the way Shop Direct Finance Company dealt with his complaints 
about several payment protection insurance policies he was sold.
What happened
Mr E used a third party to contact Shop Direct about a number of PPI policies he had been 
sold with shopping accounts.
In November 2020 Mr E spoke with Shop Direct about his complaints. He asked for the third 
party to be removed from the complaints.
On 18 December 2020 Shop Direct sent Mr E  letters upholding his complaints about seven 
PPI policies and offering compensation.
On 4 January 2021 Shop Direct sent Mr  E seven cheques, one for each of the offers.
During November and December 2020 Mr E made and received ten separate telephone 
calls with Shop Direct about his complaints.
Mr E remained unhappy with Shop Directs response to his complaints. He asked this 
service to step in.
Following this services involvement Shop Direct agreed to write to Mr E to apologise for any  
delays in dealing with his complaint, it also agreed to pay Mr E a further £50 for the trouble 
and upset he had experienced.
An adjudicator from this service thought Shop Directs offer was fair. 
Mr E disagreed with the adjudicators findings so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shop Direct has agreed to uphold Mr Es complaint that the PPI policies were mis-sold. So 
Ive not looked at how they came to be sold to Mr E.
Mr E has not complained about the offers of compensation he received from Shop Direct or 
how these offers were calculated. 
Mr Es complaint is about the service he received from Shop Direct when he complained.
Shop Direct was contacted by a third party in August 2019 acting on behalf of Mr E. The 
third party asked for information about PPI sold to Mr E on his accounts.
I can see Shop Direct wrote to Mr E on 20 November 2020 to let him know it was 
investigating his complaint that had been brought via a third party.
Mr E called Shop Direct himself on 26 November 2020. During the call he asked for Shop 
Direct to deal with himself directly instead of via the third party.
I can see that Shop Direct made offers on all seven accounts on 18 December 2020. And it 
sent Mr E cheques for all seven offers on 4 January.
Ive thought carefully about the service Mr E received and I think Shop Direct has dealt with 
his complaint fairly, Ill explain why.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) introduced a deadline to complain about PPI in 
August 2019. This led to businesses receiving an unprecedented number of complaints. In 
addition the pandemic and resulting lockdown affected businesses ability to deal with these 
complaints efficiently.
That being said I can see that Shop Direct responded to Mr Es complaints in a reasonable 
timeframe once he contacted it directly in November 2020. Shop Direct acknowledged        
Mr Es complaints and issued compensation to him on 4 January 2021. 
So overall, bearing in mind the circumstances, I think Shop Direct dealt with Mr Es 
complaints in a reasonable timescale. And I can see Shop Direct paid Mr E compensatory 
interest on all the offers calculated at 8% simple per year. This meant that Mr E wasnt 
financially disadvantaged by any delay.
I acknowledge Mr E held at least 10 telephone conversations with Shop Direct in November 
and December 2020, but as Ive said I think Shop Direct calculated the compensation and 
paid Mr E within a reasonable timescale.
Shop Direct has written to Mr E and paid him an additional £50 for the trouble and upset he 
has experienced.
Taking everything into account I think that is a fair way to settle this dispute.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman