DRN-4087257
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Pensionhelp Limited gave him unsuitable advice to transfer his 
defined benefits from his occupational pension scheme (OPS)  the British Steel Pension 
Scheme (BSPS)  to a Personal Pension Policy (PPP).
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, one of
which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when
their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 31
March 2017.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ms employer would be set up  the BSPS 2.
This was, however, intended to receive deferred benefits only. The main defined benefit
OPS had been replaced by a new defined contribution scheme. The existing scheme was
due to be closed in the near future, with the options being set out in a subsequent letter in
October 2017 for deferred members to either transfer their benefits to the successor
scheme, BSPS 2, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) or into a private arrangement, such as
a PPP.
Mr M discussed his pension arrangements with a separate firm in late 2017, but it confirmed
that it was unable to provide advice regarding Mr Ms defined benefits within the BSPS.
It referred Mr M to Pensionhelp and, in a fact find document dated 23 October 2017, Mr
Ms circumstances were recorded as follows:
He was aged 48, and in good health.
He was single, with no dependants, and lived in rented accommodation with his
mother.
He was employed by Tata Steel with annual income of around £28,000.
His only other asset was £1,600 held as cash.
Mr Ms only other pension provision was the defined contribution scheme he had
joined on 1 April 2017, following the closure of the BSPS pension.
Although Mr Ms initial risk rating was recorded as being 7 out of 10, where 10
was the highest, following further discussion, this was reduced to 4 out of 10  or
low/medium.
In terms of Mr Ms deferred benefit entitlement, he had accrued 28 years service in the
(existing) BSPS and had been quoted a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £296,773.
According to the transfer value analysis (TVAS) report, Mr M could expect to receive an
annual pension of £17,779 from the BSPS at age 65, or a tax free lump sum of £78,552 and
a reduced annual pension of £11,782.
At Mr Ms desired retirement age of 60, he could expect to receive an annual pension of
£12,811 from the BSPS, or a tax free lump sum of £58,636 and a reduced annual pension of
£8,795.
Within a financial summary produced in January 2018, Mr Ms priorities were recorded as
follows:
The ability to retire at age 60 and flexibility of income, as he didnt wish to take the
scheme benefits at that age. This, the report said, was because the scheme was
being moved into the Pension Protection Fund in March 2018, which would result in a
reduced income, which didnt fit in with his plans or expenditure needs.
Provide a legacy for his extended family in the event of his death.
It was recorded that the pension benefits were important to Mr M, accounting for more than
75% of his total assets, and he was reluctant to take undue risks with it.
A TVAS report indicated the amount of growth required by the transferred funds to match
those being relinquished in the scheme  the critical yield. These were set out as follows:
BSPS
Retirement at age 65 with full scheme pension  7.7% pa
Retirement at age 65 with tax fee cash taken  5.92% pa
Retirement at age 60 with full scheme pension  9.4% pa
Retirement at age 60 with tax free cash taken  6.9% pa
PPF
Retirement at age 65 with full scheme pension  4.71% pa
Retirement at age 65 with tax fee cash taken  4.37% pa
Retirement at age 60 with full scheme pension  5.75% pa
Retirement at age 60 with tax free cash taken  5.33% paPensionhelp said that the critical yields werent achievable based upon Mr Ms attitude to
risk. But it said that the critical yields shouldnt be considered in isolation and that there may
be reasons to transfer away from the scheme, such as the desire for flexibility and leaving
the pension fund to Mr Ms nominated beneficiaries.
Pensionhelp recommended that Mr M transfer his deferred benefits to a PPP in order for him
to achieve his objectives, and Mr M accepted the recommendation. The SIPP received the
transferred funds on 27 March 2018.
The fees which applied to the transfer advice were as follows:
A £5,935 initial fee, equating to 2% of the CETV.
An ongoing annual fee of £2,908, equating to 1% of the fund value.
There would also be ongoing product charges amounting to around £3,635 pa.
Mr Ms representative complained to Pensionhelp in April 2021, saying that it didnt think
hed been given the right advice and that hed suffered financial loss as a result.
Pensionhelp declined to uphold the complaint, however. Dissatisfied with the response, Mr
M referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators considered the matter, and thought that the complaint should be
upheld. He said the following in summary:
Mr M was 48 at the time of the advice and had accrued over 28 years benefits in the
BSPS. They would form the entirety of his pension provision, and were therefore
valuable to him.
The regulators requirement, when considering a transfer of defined benefits, was
that it should be presumed to be unsuitable unless it could be clearly demonstrated
that it was in an individuals best interests.
In determining whether this was the case, he first considered the required critical
yield to match the scheme benefits.
The advice had been given during the period in which this service was publishing
information with which businesses could calculate future discount rates for
complaints about transfers which were being upheld.
Whilst businesses werent required to use these when giving advice, they
nevertheless provided a useful guide as to the kinds of returns deemed feasible at
the time of the advice.
The investigator said that the discount rate was 4.3% pa for a period of 16 years to
Mr Ms normal retirement date (65), compared to respective required critical yields to
match the non-commuted BSPS benefits at 65 of 7.7% and to match them at 60 of
5.92% (although according the TVAS, this was in fact higher at 9.4%).He also noted that, in the suitability report, Pensionhelp had itself said that the critical
yields were unachievable  although it had added that it the same level of scheme
income was taken as drawdown from the SIPP, the pension funds would last until Mr
M was 102.
But the actual level of required income assumed from age 60 was significantly higher
than that which would have been paid from the scheme, and so there was high risk
that the pension fund would be exhausted in Mr Ms lifetime.
But this in any case seemed to be based on Mr Ms current gross income, with no
meaningful analysis having been undertaken as to what Mr M would need in
retirement once, for example, other commitments had been repaid.
Based on the fact find, Mr M only appeared to need a retirement income of £875 pm.
The investigator also queried the risk rating attributed to Mr M, saying that his
answers to certain questions in the risk profiling indicated a low rating.
He also had a low capacity for loss, given his limited other pension provision, that he
didnt own his own property and that he only had other assets of £1,700 in cash
deposits.
The deadline for making his decision as part of the time to choose exercise was 22
December 2017, and as the advice process began in October 2017, this should have
provided enough time to give the BSPS 2 the consideration it deserved.
Full details of this replacement scheme were available by the time of the advice.
The suitable recommendation would therefore have been for Mr M to retain his
benefits in the BSPS, and then transfer into the BSPS 2.
Mr Ms concerns relating to the future of the BSPS should have been managed, but
Pensionhelp instead told Mr M that the BSPS would be moving into the PPF.
The other rationale for transferring  flexibility of death benefits, whilst offering a
different format of payment  wouldnt have justified the transfer. The primary
purpose of the scheme benefits was to provide for Mr Ms retirement, rather than
provide a lump sum for relatives.
Whilst risk warnings may have been given, this wouldnt make otherwise unsuitable
advice suitable.
Mr M also didnt have enough to time to properly consider the 21 page suitability
report  along with the 26 appendix to that report. They were posted on 11 January
2018, but there was a clear warning that the CETV would expire two weeks later.
This would have put pressure on Mr M and he signed the documents on 14 January
2018.
The investigator recommended that Pensionhelp undertake a loss calculation in accordance
with the regulators guidance (FG 17/9) for such complaints  and on the basis that Mr M
would have opted to join the BSPS 2.He said that any redress should in the first instance be paid to Mr Ms pension plan, but if
this wasnt possible, it should be paid directly to Mr M, with a notional deduction for the
(basic rate) income tax he would have paid on the pension benefits.
Mr M agreed with the investigators findings. Pensionhelp disagreed, however, saying the
following in summary:
In terms of comparing the options available to Mr M, whilst a move to the BSPS 2
had some advantages, it was understood at the time that any transfer value after
such a move would be around 25% lower  which seemed logical given the lower
indexation within that proposed scheme.
No formal advice service had been put in place for members, and for those who
sought advice externally, there was a lack of information available for individual
cases, due to the scheme administration team being overwhelmed.
It was the BSPS which needed to be used for comparison purposes in the TVAS, but
the comparative benefits of the BSPS 2 could still be taken into account.
It was, however, by no means a certainty that the BSPS 2 would be established and
it was dependent upon which members chose to join the new scheme, along with any
unexpected changes in the value of the schemes investments. Had it not proceeded,
all members would in any case have moved into the PPF.
If members hadnt made a decision by 11 December 2017, then they would remain in
the old scheme.
Mr M had said that he required a flexible income, giving him the option of retiring
early, taking a higher income in the early years of his retirement and then reducing
this as other income sources became available. He didnt want a guaranteed income
in retirement.
This, coupled with the evidence that the benefits would be lower in both the BSPS 2
and the PPF, was why it didnt consider them to be viable options.
Remaining in the BSPS 2 wouldnt have been risk free  if underlying investment
growth was insufficient, then this would affect future transfer values. And there were
concerns about it being able to meet its future obligations, especially with a new
owner which would have wanted to reduce costs.
The BSPS 2 would be revalued in line with the CPI rather than the more generous
RPI by which the BSPS was revalued.
All indications were therefore that the BSPS 2 would have offered lower pension
benefits at retirement and lower transfer values in the future.
Although it understood the guidance of assuming a defined benefit transfer to be
unsuitable, it considered the circumstances here to be exceptional.
It acknowledged that its assessment of Mr Ms income needs in retirement could
have been clearer  he would only need £14,100 pa in retirement rather than the
aspirational income of double that.But it considered that it did prepare a meaningful analysis of this, which took into
account other changing factors. Mr M hadnt indicated that he would need any lump
sums in retirement.
Mr Ms own comments in terms of his priorities in the fact find indicated that he was
seeking a flexible income which he could control immediately, rather than relying on
the uncertainty of his pension being retained by Tata or moving into the PPF. He also
confirmed that he was happy to accept investment risk and that he felt strongly that
he would like to pass on a legacy after his death.
Mr M was willing to accept the trade-off between a secure income and risk to achieve
his objectives of flexibility, which would enable him to retire early, and change his
income levels as required.
Although he confirmed that this pension was very important to his retirement
provision, the circumstances and uncertainties surrounding the future of the BSPS
still indicated that transferring would be in his best interests.
The pension which it predicted Mr M would receive from the BSPS at 60 - £12,811 pa
- wouldnt have provided him with enough income for his needs  and it was likely he
would receive a lower sum still from both the BSPS 2 and the PPF  with them
offering £11,953 and £11,875 pa at age 60 respectively.
But once the state pension began at age 67, this would have been well in excess of
his needs. By contrast, the flexible income  and tax free cash - from drawdown
would have enabled him to change his income levels as required and also offered tax
efficiency in withdrawals.
The growth level assumed to age 60 within the SIPP was 4.5%, and so not far off the
discount rate of 4.3% mentioned in the investigators assessment.
Flexibility of income would have enabled Mr M to withdraw higher amounts in the
early years of retirement, as was typically required, and then lower amounts when
older  the reverse was true of the scheme benefits, however.
The additional benefits produced from the 16% overall contribution to his defined
contribution scheme might have been worth around £55,000 at age 60, and this
would have helped plug any gaps up to his state pension age.
It didnt agree that its assessment of Mr Ms attitude to risk was flawed  the risk
profiling tool was provided by an industry recognised third party.
Having identified inconsistencies in the answers provided by Mr M, and following
discussions with the introducing agent, it was agreed that Mr M was a 4 out of 10
rather a 7 out of 10. A telephone note demonstrated that a conversation was held
on this with Mr M, and although this took place after the advice was given, Mr M had
expressed no concern with the amendment.
The deadline for clients to confirm their decision as part of the time to choose
exercise was 11 December 2017, not 22 December 2017. It received the time to
choose pack from the introducer on 26 October 2017, which was just 33 working
days before this. This didnt give it plenty of time, as had been suggested by the
investigator, in which to issue the suitability report.Mr M didnt need to act almost immediately to secure the CETV quote. Even if it had
received Mr Ms agreement to proceed just one day before the deadline, it could
have forwarded this to the scheme. The two week period Mr M had to digest the
contents of the report would have been sufficient, and Mr M confirmed that he was
happy that he understood the content.
The available evidence also suggested that, had Mr M allowed the existing CETV
quote to lapse, he would likely not have received a new one within 12 months.
It was also fairly obvious from the media coverage at the time that the scheme was
about to enter the PPF assessment period any day and the chances of obtaining a
new quote before this were slim. Once in the PPF assessment, there would be
nothing which Pensionhelp could do. The BSPS did then enter PPF assessment in
March 2018.
It agreed that the primary purpose of the pension funds was to provide Mr M with
retirement provision, and Mr M had confirmed that the restructuring of the death
benefits wasnt a concern for him. This suggested that he wished to spend his
pension while he was alive, but he did also mention that he wanted to leave some
kind of legacy as well, if possible.
A life assurance policy would likely not have been appropriate, as Mr M had no
dependants. And as there would have been no benefit from a spouses pension, the
money which would otherwise have been set aside for this would be retained by the
scheme.
By transferring, Mr M could have either left the lump sum pension fund benefit or
established a guaranteed annuity at a later point if required.
It agreed that the critical yields were unachievable, as set out in the suitability report.
But as observed by the investigator, the discount rate quoted didnt need to be
referenced, nor relied upon, when providing advice.
Comparing critical yields against likely achievable rates of growth also didnt take
account of consumers individual needs and their willingness for the trade off in order
to achieve their flexibility objectives.
A TVAS would always show a high required growth rate, due to the way in which the
assumptions are set, which was designed to ensure that clients appreciate the value
of the guaranteed benefits and what they are relinquishing. The growth rate wont be
achievable in any but the most specific circumstances, and it simply wasnt possible
to buy an annuity to match the scheme benefits.
But although, in circumstances where an individual required a guaranteed income, a
transfer wouldnt be suitable, this didnt mean that a transfer wouldnt be suitable in
the right circumstances.
Compared to other critical yields which were being calculated in the winter of 2017,
7.7% was quite low and indicated that the transfer value being offered was
appropriate and in fact quite generous.If the focus was placed upon the hurdle rate, which calculated the cost of the annuity
assuming no spouses pension, no increases in payment and no guarantee  and
was therefore more appropriate for Mr M  these were 2.57% at age 60 for the full
pension and 1.27% for a reduced pension with tax free cash. These were well below
the discount rate of 4.3% and its own targeted investment return of 4.5%.
The critical yields shouldnt therefore be considered at all in this case.
The investigator didnt agree with the points made by Pensionhelp, however, and as
agreement couldnt be reached on the matter, it was agreed that it would be referred to an
ombudsman for review.
The investigator then wrote to both parties explaining that, on 2 August 2022, the
FCA launched a consultation on proposed changes to the redress guidance for defined
benefit transfers. Mr M was provided with the opportunity to have redress calculated on the
basis of the current guidance, or to wait until any new guidance was in place (expected in
early 2023).
If no response was received, the investigator said that we would assume that Mr M didnt
want to wait for any new guidance, and for the redress calculation to be undertaken on the
basis of the existing guidance.
Pensionhelp then submitted further points on the matter of any redress calculation, saying
that it needed to be done on the basis of a comparison with the PPF, rather than the BSPS
2. In support of this, it said that, at the time of the advice, the following applied:
The BSPS 2 couldnt exist until the end of March 2018  the trust deed and rules to
which the scheme needed to adhere didnt take effect until this time, and the
structure of the proposed BSPS 2 wasnt known until after the time to choose
exercise.
Until that point, the BSPS 2 was only a proposal.
If a member didnt make a decision, they would default into the PPF.
If advice occurred before the end of the time to choose exercise, then it was based
on the known facts at the time. And it wasnt known whether the BSPS 2 would
proceed, or, if it did, the basis of the scheme rules.
It was known with hindsight that the BSPS 2 did proceed, but this didnt take account
of the factual matrix of this matter.
The investigator noted the points, and said that they would be added to the file, but
commented that he considered that a transfer into the BSPS 2 was an option which
members could choose as a part of the time to choose exercise.
Pensionhelp responded further, saying that, without prejudice to its position that the advice
to transfer had been suitable, it had undertaken a loss calculation.
It said that the fund held by Mr M would be sufficient to allow the purchase of a deferred
annuity to replicate the benefits of the scheme.It added that the rule of mitigation required a claimant to take steps to minimise their loss
and to avoid taking reasonable steps which increase the loss. An injured party cannot
recover damages for any loss which could have been avoided by taking reasonable steps, it
said  in this instance, Mr M converting his pension funds into a deferred annuity.
If this step wasnt taken, then it couldnt be legally responsible for any loses created by
failing to mitigate, Pensionhelp argued. It was making this offer now to record the no loss
position, and it said that it would wait to hear as to whether Mr M accepted this position and
had taken steps to mitigate loss.
The complaint was referred to me for review. At my request, the investigator then enquired
of Mr Ms representative as to his decision making during the time to choose exercise and
whether he made an active selection relating to remaining in the BSPS or transferring to the
BSPS 2.
The investigator also enquired as to whether, if the complaint was upheld, Mr Ms preference
would be to have a loss calculation undertaken on the existing basis, or to await the new
methodology for defined benefit transfer redress calculations.
In response, Mr Ms representative said that Mr M would like any redress to be calculated in
line with current methodology. And with regard to Mr Ms decision making during the time to
choose exercise, it said that he couldnt recall what his decision had been at the time
Mr Ms representative has further confirmed that the scheme administrator has no record of
Mr M having made a decision with regard to the time to choose exercise.
I then asked the investigator to enquire of Pensionhelp as to whether it had sourced a
provider which would arrange a deferred annuity for Mr M, and whether this would exactly
replicate the scheme benefits. I also enquired as to whether the calculation had been
undertaken in accordance with FG 17/9.
In response, Pensionhelp said that the loss calculation replicated the projected scheme
benefit from the BSPS 2 pension fund at the schemes normal retirement age, using the
revaluation and escalation rates provided by the scheme.
It added that the no loss outcome indicated that a future annuity could be bought which
would exceed the benefits offered by the scheme, but that it wasnt its role to source the
availability or a provider for Mr M.
Whilst deferred annuities might be available from time to time for retail clients, this was
unusual, Pensionhelp said.
Pensionhelp further confirmed that the loss calculation was undertaken in line with FG
17/9.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint on 27 February 2023, in which I set out my 
reasons as to why I considered the complaint should be upheld. The following is an extract 
from that decision.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services
and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) and DISP, I need to take into account relevant: law and
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice; and, where
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.The applicable guidance, rules, regulations and requirements
This isnt a comprehensive list of the guidance, rules and regulations which applied, but
provides useful context for my assessment of the business' actions here.
Within the FCAs handbook, COBS 2.1.1R required a regulated business to act honestly,
fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client.
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance that applied at the time Pensionhelp advised Mr M
were set out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance is to ensure that regulated
businesses, like Pensionhelp, take reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for
their clients needs and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk
beyond their investment objective and risk profile.
In order to ensure this was the case, and in line with the requirements COBS 9.2.2R,
Pensionhelp needed to gather the necessary information for it to be confident that its advice
met Mr Ms objectives and that it was suitable. Broadly speaking, this section sets out the
requirement for a regulated advisory business to undertake a fact find process.
There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to transfers from defined
benefit schemes  these were contained in COBS 19.1.
COBS 19.1.2 required the following:
A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a 
defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded 
benefits with the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder 
pension scheme or other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises 
a retail client to transfer out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other 
pension scheme with safeguarded benefits;
(2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able 
  to make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the  
factors that do and do not support the firm's advice, in good time, and in any case 
no later than when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison
and its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6 set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or
opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out
to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer,
conversion or opt-out is in the client's best interests.
COBS 19.1.7 also said:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or pensionopt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where relevant, in relation to
the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being
given up.
And COBS 19.1.8 set out that:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal recommendation;
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
Ive therefore considered the suitability of Pensionhelps advice to Mr M in the context of
the above requirements.
Pensionhelps rationale for transferring
Mr M wasnt categorised as an execution only or insistent client, and Pensionhelp was
taking him through the advice process, with Mr M having been referred to it by a third party
introducer. Therefore, Pensionhelp could be confident that he would be acting upon its
advice.
In accordance with COBS 9.2.2R, fact finding was undertaken for Mr M and his
circumstances and objectives were recorded  as Ive noted above.
As with the investigator, Ive noted above within the COBS rules that the FCAs guidance
was that the starting assumption for an assessment of Mr Ms options was that a transfer
would be unsuitable, unless it could clearly be demonstrated that it was in his best interests
in order to meet specific objectives. And I note that Pensionhelp also acknowledged this in
the suitability report.
And so Ill therefore explore these objectives further below. But initially, Ill consider the
advice to transfer from a purely financial perspective  so, in broad terms, how likely was it
that Mr M would be better off financially as a result of the transfer.
The financial case to transfer
Pensionhelp obtained a TVAS report for comparison purposes to determine the viability of
the transfer to meet Mr Ms objectives from a financial perspective.
The suitability report was issued after the FCAs revised guidance which was released in late
October 2017, and which provided discount rates for levels of growth which were deemed
achievable for particular time periods until prospective retirement. And before that, similar
rates were published by this service. As noted by both the investigator and Pensionhelp,
businesses werent required to reference these when providing advice on transfers, but they
would nevertheless have been a useful indicator of the type of investment return deemed
feasible at the time.
The discount rate deemed achievable for the 16 years left to the scheme retirement age of
65 was 4.3% pa. And the growth rates used in the TVAS to illustrate the benefits which
might be payable from a PPP were 2.5% (low), 4.5% (mid) and 6.5% (high).
The critical yields to age 65, at 7.7% for full pension income benefits with no tax free cash,and 5.92% with tax free cash being taken, and then 9.4% pa and 6.9% pa respectively at
age 60, therefore comfortably exceeded both the discount (or growth) rate deemed
achievable over the same period, and the mid-band growth rate used by the pension
provider  which might perhaps be a reasonable assumption for a medium risk investor.
But as Ill address further below, Mr M was categorised as having a low/medium risk attitude,
and so relying on the mid band of projected growth within the TVAS wouldnt, in my view, be
appropriate. It might be reasonable to assume that potential growth would fall somewhere
between the low band (2.5% pa) and the mid band (4.5%) growth projections.
The above critical yields were calculated on the basis of the BSPS benefits, rather than the
BSPS 2 benefits. The critical yields to match those which would be produced by the PPF at
age 60 were 5.75% pa with full pension income, and 5.33% pa with tax free cash and a
reduced income. At age 65, they were 4.71% pa and 4.37% respectively.
Given what was known about the proposed BSPS 2 and Mr Ms own projected benefits
(received on 26 October 2017) when the TVAS was produced in December 2017, I think it
ought to have been possible to produce critical yields for that proposed successor scheme
as well. But in the absence of those, I think that assuming critical yields somewhere between
those for the BSPS and the PPF wouldnt be unreasonable in estimating those which might
be required for the BSPS 2. But these would still have been higher than the growth rate
which would reasonably have been projected for an investor such as Mr M.
Pensionhelp itself said it considered the critical yields to be unachievable, and I agree - I
think its more likely than not that the critical yields were in fact unachievable, year on year,
for the number of years that Mr M had until he reached retirement age and given his
recorded attitude to investment risk.
And as a reminder, these growth rates were required to just match the scheme benefits.
From a financial perspective, there needed to be a realistic chance that the benefits of the
scheme could be bettered through transferring. As set out and repeated by the investigator,
the guidance was that it needed to be clearly demonstrated that the transfer would be in Mr
Ms best interests. As such, my view is that the transfer couldnt be justified from a financial
perspective, especially given the valuable guarantees which Mr M would be relinquishing.
But the feasibility of achieving a critical yield alone wouldnt in any case indicate suitability of
a transfer, as set out in COBS 19.1.7B.
The requirement for control and flexibility - and early retirement
Before I assess these objectives in greater detail, I think its firstly fair to say that
Pensionhelp did provide warnings on the guarantees which would be relinquished, but as
Pensionhelp will be aware, and as noted by the investigator, risk warnings alone wouldnt
render unsuitable advice suitable. And irrespective of the detail contained in a suitability
report, this also wouldnt make otherwise unsuitable advice suitable. Pensionhelp needed to
be satisfied, before providing its recommendation, that relinquishing the guarantees and
taking the investment risk was a suitable course of action for Mr M.
As Ive said above, Pensionhelps reasoning for the recommended transfer, despite the likely
inability of the transferred benefits to match those which would have been produced by the
scheme, was that Mr M required flexibility of income due to his particular circumstances and
objectives. And so Ive given this argument careful consideration.
Id initially say that, even without investment experience or other assets other than a small
amount on deposit, I do acknowledge that Mr M may have understood the principle of
risk/reward that would be associated with flexible income drawdown, and that there mayhave been discussions around such concepts with colleagues who were going through the
same process.
However, I have similar concerns to those expressed by the investigator regarding the
reliability of that risk rating for Mr M, given his lack of investment experience and other
assets beyond pension savings. Whilst I acknowledge Pensionhelps comments relating to
the tool it used to determine Mr Ms risk attitude, these can only provide a general guide to a
likely risk rating, and some of the apparent inconsistencies in the answers given by Mr M,
along with the specific answers themselves, for example, his agreement to the statement
that he generally sought safer investments, even if this meant lower returns, would
reasonably in my view have cast doubt on whether Mr M should be attributed anything
greater than a low risk attitude.
But I think theres also the wider issue about Mr Ms capacity to take financial risks with his
pension funds which is pertinent to the overall suitability of what was recommended here.
The investigator concluded that Mr M had an overall low capacity of loss, given his paucity of
other assets. And Im inclined to agree. Mr M had joined the replacement defined
contribution scheme, and so would likely have accrued a reasonable amount of money
purchase benefits given the overall contribution rate (if he remained with the same
employer). But other than the state pension which wouldnt be payable until age 67, the
defined benefits accrued through the BSPS were likely to have been his main source of
guaranteed income. Through transferring, Mr M was effectively putting a lot of his eggs in
one money purchase basket. Any reduction in the benefits payable from them would
therefore have had an impact on his financial security in retirement.
And Pensionhelp was aware of the importance Mr M attached to these pension benefits. In
the fact find document, it was recorded that Mr M considered them to be very important as
they were his only means of pension provision at that time.
But I also dont think Mr M in any case needed to take the associated risks here. In terms of
the control and flexibility argument, I understand that this would be that Mr M would have
control over his pension funds, outside of the BSPS, and could alter the income he withdrew
from a flexi-drawdown, or phased withdrawal, arrangement to satisfy changing income
needs. But as with the investigator, its unclear as to why Mr M would have wanted or
needed such flexibility, given the investment risk associated with it, and bearing in mind his
recorded (if not likely lower) attitude to risk and apparent lack of any similar historical
investment which might otherwise indicate a preparedness to take risks with his pension
income.
And Ive also thought about whether Mr M could meet his objectives of retiring early
whilst also retaining the valuable guarantees offered by either the BSPS 2 or the PPF. And
in my consideration of this, I acknowledge that there was no facility for Mr M to take tax
free cash from the BSPS 2 or PPF without also starting to take an income. But I also note
that Pensionhelp has said that lump sums werent in any case a primary objective for Mr M,
and so the lack of separation in that regard wouldnt necessarily have posed a problem.
But as noted above, by age 60, Mr M would have accrued around 13 years worth of defined
contributions in the replacement scheme. Pensionhelp estimates that this would have a
value by that point of around £55,000, and that this could be used to plug any gaps between
him starting to take flexible benefits and his state pension beginning. I agree  its likely that
he could have relied on the proceeds of his defined contributions plan for flexible access to
pension benefits, from whatever age after 60, and then taken guaranteed benefits from
either the BSPS 2 or the PPF as and when needed. Its entirely possible in my view that,
based on his earnings, contribution rates and age, and also dependent upon which age after
60 he in fact retired, he would have been able to rely upon the accrued benefits from thedefined contribution scheme to defer retirement at the normal defined benefit scheme age of
65, and then be subject to no early retirement income deduction.
Alternatively if, on the basis of an income requirement which outstripped this over the five
year period up to age 65  although I would say that I dont think the actual income
requirement was demonstrably known at the time of advice, or could in any case reasonably
have been known with any certainty given his distance from retirement - Mr M could then
have begun to take the scheme benefits early if needed.
Mr M would also have been able to choose a tax efficient level of income (or lump sum
withdrawals if he later decided he wanted them) through the defined contribution accrual,
until the point that he either needed, or chose, to begin taking benefits from either the BSPS
2 or the PPF. And so any need for flexibility of income could have been addressed in this
way.
Mr M may then have been in the fortunate position of receiving an income which was higher
than his actual needs, especially when the state pension began, but he could have simply
reinvested any excess as he saw fit, or, to provide a legacy for his extended family (which I
address further below), immediately gift it away to avoid it being subject to inheritance tax.
Pensionhelp has said that Mr M was willing to accept the trade-off between a secure income
and risk to achieve his objectives. As Ive said above, although there were inconsistencies in
the answers he provided to determine his risk attitude, I think Mr M may have understood the
principle of risk/reward, and risk warnings were provided by Pensionhelp. Mr M was accruing
further benefits in his defined contribution scheme, and given the contribution rates to that
scheme (my understanding is that this was 10% and 6% employer and employee 
contributions respectively) and the number of years left to retirement, compared against the
benefits accrued in the final salary scheme, around 13 years of his pension accrual would
likely be derived of the defined contribution scheme. As such, Mr M was already by
necessity taking investment risk through the replacement scheme.
But in light of this, and given that in the 28 years up to that point Mr M had been accruing
defined benefits, I think the guarantees attached to those defined benefits would have been
of considerable value (as noted in the fact find and suitability report) and shouldnt have
been relinquished lightly in favour of a flexibility which could in any case have been met by
fairly uncomplicated planning around his defined contribution and defined benefit pension
accruals and accessibility from age 60. And on that particular note, I must also emphasise
that Mr M was 48 at the point of advice, and therefore at least 12 years away from
retirement.
Ive also noted the comment in the suitability report that the main driver behind the transfer
advice was that the BSPS was in financial difficulty, along with the RAA which Pensionhelp
said would split his pension the following March.
As with others in his position, I think its fair to say that Mr M would have been concerned
about the future of the BSPS and his associated benefits. But Mr Ms concerns around this
should have been managed appropriately. I appreciate that there will be instances where a
client seeks financial advice with preconceived notions or concerns about the financial health
of an employer or pension scheme, but as the professional party, the IFA is tasked with
rationally addressing those concerns and providing an appropriately balanced view of the
available options.
I dont think this happened here. There was no prospect of the BSPS funds being lost to the
employer, even if Mr M distrusted it, and the RAA didnt intend to split members pension
benefits. Further, the whole point of the BSPS consultation, which had resulted in theagreement being announced in August 2017, had been to avoid the necessity of the BSPS
pension funds entering the PPF, and by the point of the advice (and in fact by the time of the
time to choose exercise) the BSPS 2 seemed more likely than not to be a viable
alternative. Ive noted what Pensionhelp has said about the conditions which still needed to
be met for the BSPS 2 to be established, but when the advice was given, there was no
imminent prospect of the BSPS entering the PPF without there being an alternative to this 
the BSPS 2. In fact, I think its reasonable to say that all indications were to the contrary.
I also have significant concerns around the way in which the situation at that time was
portrayed to Mr M. As Ive said above, contrary to what Pensionhelp said about there being a
split in Mr Ms pension benefits in March 2018, that wouldnt have been the case. Mr M
could opt to have his benefits transferred into the BSPS 2, or, if he retained them in the
BSPS, into the PPF.
Furthermore, Pensionhelp said the following in the suitability report, in the section entitled
Why are you considering a transfer?:
You have indicated that your priorities are to be able to have greater flexibility in how you
can take your benefits retiring at age 60, provide a legacy for your mother or siblings/
nephews and nieces in the event of your death and to be able to maximize your income with
a potential loss of guarantees.
This is because you plan to retire at age 60 and do not wish to take the scheme benefits
offered at that age. This is because the Scheme is being moved into the Pension
Protection Fund (PPF) next March which would mean you would immediately lose
10% of your pension and then have a reduced fixed income for life which does not fit in
with your plans or expenditure needs. (my emphasis)
And then again, under the same heading:
When the Scheme moves into the Pension Protection Fund next March you will lose
flexibility as a transfer would not be permitted and the revaluation and increases in payment
currently applied to your preserved pension will be reduced. (my emphasis)
This would have conveyed a sense of certainty to Mr M that this would be the case. But
without the accompanying commentary that this would not likely be the case (subject to
conditions being met) if Mr M opted to transfer into the BSPS 2, this would in my view have
misled Mr M into believing that his pension funds would inevitably be moving into the PPF.
But this wasnt the case.
And Mr M therefore didnt need to make any decisions about transferring out his defined
benefits at that point. The prospect of Mr Ms accrued benefits needing to enter the PPF had
receded. But even if this remained the more likely outcome, this would still have provided
him with valuable benefit guarantees, and a more favourable early retirement reduction if he
did in fact take scheme benefits earlier than age 65. Mr Ms plans, including retirement, may
in any case have changed significantly in the 12 intervening years between then and him
reaching age 60. Any flexibility requirements could have been addressed nearer to, or at, the
point of Mr Ms retirement  and Mr M would have been able to transfer out of the BSPS 2 if
needed.
Ive noted what Pensionhelp has said about the likely lower transfer value from the BSPS 2,
given the lower revaluation rates, but for the reasons given, I think that Mr M could have
achieved a degree of flexibility with his pension benefits without needing to transfer at all.
And even if he did ultimately decide that flexi access drawdown was his preferred option 
and again, this could have been established closer to his actual retirement age  Mr M or hisadviser could then assess at that point whether the transfer represented good value.
And so on the basis of what Ive said above, it follows that I dont think the planned early
retirement, or any other requirement around control over, and flexibility of, income, was
sufficient reason for Mr M to transfer his deferred benefits.
Death benefits
Pensionhelp has confirmed that the restructuring of the death benefits wasnt recorded as
being important for Mr M, but hed indicated his desire to leave some kind of legacy. The
death benefits offered by the transfer would certainly be more beneficial to Mr M and his
extended family  specifically his nephews and nieces, for the reasons identified by
Pensionhelp. And after the transfer, a lump sum would be payable to his beneficiaries, rather
than in the form of spouses/dependants pensions from the scheme.
But I have several concerns about this as a reason for transferring Mr Ms benefits. Firstly,
he had no particular health issues, other than high blood pressure which was being
managed by medication, which would mean that death benefits, or any likelihood to not
benefit from a pension income derived of the scheme for a reasonable amount of time, were
of concern at that point.
The second is that, as observed by the investigator, accrued pension provision is intended to
provide for an individuals retirement rather than a desire to leave a legacy for extended
family members. The recommendation needed to be given in the context of Mr Ms best
interests rather than those of his siblings or nephews and nieces.
And unless the financial needs of the individual concerned are given prominence over the
extended family, this cannot be said to be acting in that individuals best interests. The desire
to leave a legacy to his nephews and nieces cannot reasonably have subjugated Mr Ms own
personal requirement to benefit from his accrued pension benefits. The wish to leave a
legacy should have been properly weighed against the guaranteed benefits Mr M was
relinquishing, and Pensionhelp should have advised him that his own financial benefit took
priority here.
Ive also seen no detail as to why a death benefit payment to his siblings or nephews and
nieces from his pension might have been important to Mr M - for example, financially
straitened circumstances or some kind of financial dependence. And there was no record of
Mr M needing to provide for his siblings or nephews and nieces as part of his normal
outgoings. I therefore think that it was more likely than not an entirely understandable desire
to leave some kind of financial legacy, but not essential, and certainly not of sufficient
importance to justify Mr M compromising the security of his own financial future.
So for the reasons given, I dont think the prospect of a lump sum benefit for Mr Ms siblings
or nephews and nieces by way of transferring his defined benefits constituted sufficient
reason to transfer and lose otherwise valuable guaranteed benefits for Mr M personally.
What should Pensionhelp have done  and would it have made a difference to Mr Ms
decision?
There were understandably concerns relating to the BSPS at the time of the advice - and I
fully acknowledge this. Its fair to say that this was a period of great uncertainty for
individuals such as Mr M. But this only serves to emphasise the need for a balanced
assessment of the options available and, ultimately, suitable advice.
Furthermore, as Ive also said above, there was no need for Mr M to make any decisionabout his BSPS benefits at this point in time and it was the responsibility of Pensionhelp to
explain to Mr M why he didnt need to make any irreversible decision on relinquishing
valuable scheme pension guarantees at that time. As Ive said above, there was no
imminent prospect of Mr Ms scheme benefits needing to enter the PPF, which would have
ruled out a later transfer. On the contrary, whist I acknowledge it wasnt at that point
guaranteed, I think the indications were that the BSPS 2 would more likely than not be
successfully implemented.
Ive also thought very carefully about whether the service provided to Mr M was a balanced
appraisal of the options available to him, coupled with a robust and candid discussion about
his own concerns relating to the BSPS. Mr M, amongst many others in a similar position,
may have been concerned by developments relating to his employment and the BSPS, but
he was nevertheless entitled to an impartial review of his options.
And looking at those options, one of the key recorded objectives - possible early retirement 
was in any case achievable within the BSPS 2, and would have remained so even in the
scenario of entry into the PPF.
For the reasons given above, I dont think the perceived advantage of flexibility and control
of income outweighed the guaranteed benefits in the scheme, and Im satisfied that Mr Ms
income needs could likely have been met by well-planned access to his different types of
accrued benefits by the time he came to retirement. The available evidence simply doesnt
support the position as to why control or flexibility would have been sufficiently compelling
reasons for Mr M to relinquish valuable benefit guarantees  especially at the age of 48.
My further view is that, if properly discussed, Mr Ms concerns about the existing scheme
could have been successfully allayed, such that he appreciated the important guaranteed
benefits, even under the PPF, which he would be relinquishing for the sake of income
flexibility which he simply didnt need or could in any case access in other ways, and a future
pension which would, other than the state pension from age 67, be entirely dependent upon
investment returns  rather than being partially dependent upon them as would otherwise
have been the case through the defined contribution scheme.
Although not a stated objective, tax free cash for whatever purpose would have been
available both from his accrued defined contribution and defined benefit pension funds.
Death benefits were also payable from the defined benefit scheme, should Mr Ms
relationship circumstances change in the future, albeit in a different format from those
available from the PPP.
The critical yield is usually a telling indicator of the value of the benefits being relinquished.
As Ive set out above, the critical yields were higher than the discount rate and the mid band
growth rate set out by the TVAS pension provider. And Id reiterate that I think it was unlikely
to be achievable, year on year, to even simply match the scheme benefits, given Mr Ms
recorded (or likely lower) risk attitude.
Ive noted what Pensionhelp has said about reliance not being placed on critical yields when
considering defined benefits transfers, and that, given the assumptions used to calculate
them, it would be unlikely that transferred benefits could match the required growth levels. I
agree that the format of a TVAS is designed to demonstrate the value of the guarantees
being relinquished, but that doesnt necessarily mean that the assumptions are unrealistic. It
may also be expensive to buy an annuity to replace the guaranteed scheme benefits, but I
dont see how this is anything other than representative of the reality of that situation. This is
why a guaranteed scheme income is of such significant value.
Pensionhelp has also suggested that using the hurdle rate would be more appropriate for anindividual such as Mr M, who was unmarried with no dependants, and so wouldnt benefit
from the associated death benefits which are included within a calculation of the value of the
scheme benefits. But this also strips out the guaranteed escalation in the scheme income,
which is a not inconsiderable benefit.
Pensionhelp acknowledges that, if a consumer such as Mr M is seeking to replace or better
the benefits which would be produced by scheme, then a transfer would be inadvisable.
Again, I agree. And this also I think undermines Pensionhelps point as to why, given that the
benefits in either the BSPS 2 or the PPF were likely to be lower than those from the BSPS, it
didnt consider them to be viable options. The pension benefits from either the BSPS 2 or the
PPF were still likely to be higher than those produced by the transfer.
But whilst I accept that the critical yield isnt the only factor to consider when weighing the
suitability of a transfer, Im unconvinced by what Pensionhelp considers to have been the
overriding justifications for proceeding with the transfer, for the reasons given above.
I dont think the evidence suggests that Mr M was intent on effecting the transfer. And the
advice process was Pensionhelps opportunity to take proper account of Mr Ms
circumstances and objectives, along with any preconceived concerns about his employer
and the scheme benefits, and advise him not to transfer, for all the reasons set out above.
I certainly acknowledge that it wouldnt be straightforward to effectively unwind concerns
which Mr M may have had about his employer and the prospects of the BSPS. But I think the
advantages of Mr M retaining his scheme benefits, if set out in terms similar to those above,
would have persuaded Mr M to do just that. And I think any concerns about the pension
scheme would have been assuaged if properly managed.
In terms of Mr Ms own responsibilities in deciding whether to still proceed (and as Ive said
above, I accept that Mr M was given risk warnings and was more likely than not capable of
understanding them), I dont disagree that properly informed, correctly advised individuals
would be in a position to take that kind of responsibility and decide for themselves if they
wanted to transfer their defined benefits.
The problem here, though, is that this was a complex matter involving many factors with
which Mr M, as a layman, wouldnt have been familiar  hence his reliance on a professional
party to take those factors into account and provide suitable, balanced and accurate advice.
For the reasons given above, my view is that Mr M simply wasnt placed in a properly
informed, or suitably advised, position to be able to take that kind of personal responsibility.
Taking account of Mr Ms circumstances, including his recorded (if not likely lower) attitude
to risk, his objectives and the guarantees which the BSPS offered and would have persisted
with either the BSPS 2 or the PPF, my view is that Pensionhelp should have advised against
the transfer.
And I think that, had this happened, Mr M would have followed that advice and not
transferred his benefits to the PPP.
Summary
For the reasons given, my view is that a fair and reasonable assessment of this case leads
to a clear conclusion  that the recommendation to transfer wasnt suitable for Mr M, nor was
it in his best interests. The key contributing factors here are: Mr Ms recorded (if not likely
lower) attitude to risk and its incompatibility with the type of investment risk which would
have likely been required to match the scheme benefits  a failing under COBS 19.1.7; and
the lack of a comprehensive and balanced portrayal of Mr Ms options and the future benefits
available from both the BSPS defined benefits and defined contributions  a failure to adhereto COBS 19.1.2 (2) and 19.1.8.
Furthermore, at least two of the key benefits sought by Mr M were available without needing
to transfer  possible early retirement and flexibility through utilising the different types of
scheme benefits which would have been available to him (or indeed through the PPF).
My view is that, taking account of the critical yields, Mr Ms recorded (if not likely lower)
attitude to risk with regard to his pension funds and matching that with the likely
corresponding investment returns, it was unlikely (as also agreed by Pensionhelp), albeit I
acknowledge, not impossible, that the benefits available from the BSPS, or a successor
scheme, could be bettered through the transfer.
As the other reasons for transferring were insufficiently compelling, when considered against
the valuable benefits being relinquished, as required by COBS 2.1.1R and COBS 19.1.6, it
would - or should - then have drawn, and conveyed, the conclusion that transferring wasnt
in Mr Ms best interests.
In closing, I think its worth noting one of the comments that Pensionhelp made in the
suitability report, when referencing the importance of these pension benefits to Mr M, in that
he was reluctant to take undue risks with them. My view is that, for all the reasons given
above, and the alternatives available to Mr M to achieve his objectives, the advice to transfer
comfortably met the definition of an undue risk.
Putting things right
As I set out above, on 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer
redress guidance and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate
redress.
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and
guidance-https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes
take effect, firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr M whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance/rules to come into effect.
Mr M has confirmed through his representative that he would like his complaint to be settled
in line with the current methodology.
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr M, as far as possible,
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. As with the investigator, I
consider he would have retained his benefits in the BSPS, and with suitable advice, have
then transferred into the BSPS 2.As set out above, I note that Pensionhelp has challenged this assumption, saying that, at the
time of the advice, the BSPS 2 was only a proposal, and that the default position if members
didnt make a decision was that their benefits would remain in the BSPS and then transfer
into the PPF.
Mr M needed to make a decision by 22 December 2017 as to which option he wished to
choose  not 11 December 2017 as suggested by Pensionhelp. This was the original
deadline, but it was extended to 22 December 2017 to allow members more time to make
their decision.
Ive therefore thought carefully about the timescales involved here, as clearly, if Pensionhelp
had reasonably been unable to provide a recommendation by 22 December 2017, and Mr M
hadnt made a decision on whether to opt to join the BSPS 2 or remain in the BSPS, then the
PPF would be the appropriate comparator here.
But as with the investigator, I think that Pensionhelp ought to have been in a position to
consider the overall situation, including the announcement relating to the RAA on 16 May
2017, the Pension Regulators approval of the proposal on 11 August 2017, and members
being contacted between 9 and 11 October 2017 as part of the time to choose exercise.
Pensionhelp said that it only received the time to choose member pack from the introducer
on 26 October 2017, which coincided with the referral letter on the file, although I note that
the Pensionhelp fact find had been completed on 23 October 2017, presumably by the
introducer. But this still allowed just over eight weeks for a suitability report to be produced
before the 22 December 2017 deadline. And given what was known about the situation at
the time, with such a deadline pending, I think Pensionhelp ought to have been in a position
to suitably advise Mr M on whether to opt for the BSPS 2 or to remain in the BSPS and then
move into the PPF.
The BSPS 2 may not have been a certainty at the point of the time to choose exercise, but
I think its reasonable to say that it was envisaged as being more likely than not to be
implemented, given the advantages which it would have for many members over the PPF
when they were considering their options. As such, and given my conclusions on why a
transfer out wasnt suitable advice here, my view is that it would have been reasonable for
Pensionhelp to suitably advise Mr M on which option to choose.
In terms of the differences between the two schemes, there would be a 10% reduction in the
starting pension entitlement within the PPF, whereas the BSPS 2 wouldnt cut the starting
entitlement for deferred members.
In terms of death benefits, under the BPSP 2 the spouses pension would be set at 50% of
Mr Ms pension at the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was
taken at retirement. Mr M wasnt married at the time of the advice, and I cant see that it was
recorded that he envisaged this happening in the future, and so I dont think this particular
enhancement over the PPF benefits would have outweighed those relating to his own early
retirement (although it would have been a consideration for other members who were
married, and so would have contributed to the BSPS 2 being favoured on this basis).
The reduction for early retirement under the PPF was lower and the commutation factors for
the tax free cash entitlement were also slightly more favourable. And so, on the basis of
prospective early retirement, both the starting income and the tax free cash would likely have
been higher with the PPF.
As a reminder, one of Mr Ms recorded objectives was the ability to retire at age 60. And sothis would have been a point which required careful consideration when weighing up
whether he should opt for the BSPS 2 or remain in the BSPS with a likely subsequent move
into the PPF.
But for the reasons set out above, if Mr M envisaged retiring at age 60, I think its likely that,
properly advised, Mr M could have accessed his defined contribution scheme benefits to
make up any income shortfall in the period between retirement and starting to take his
defined benefits, which could then have been deferred until normal scheme retirement age.
The advantages of early retirement through the PPF wouldnt therefore have applied.
And so, for the reasons given, my view is that its the benefits offered by the BSPS 2 which
should be used for comparison purposes.
Ive also noted Pensionhelps comment about there being a no loss situation as at the date
in October 2022 that it undertook a comparison between the value of Mr Ms pension funds
and the cost of establishing a deferred annuity on his behalf to replicate the benefits which
would have been paid by the scheme.
I note that Pensionhelp isnt suggesting that Mr M should buy a deferred annuity with his
pension funds, and that it has indicated that this might not be possible for a retail client such
as Mr M.
But its worth noting that Pensionhelp has said that it has undertaken the loss calculation in
accordance with FG 17/9, and that this has determined a no loss position. Should Mr M
accept this, then he or his representative should let me know in response to this provisional
decision.
Otherwise, my current view is that Pensionhelp Limited should undertake a redress
calculation in line with the pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct
Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for
unsuitable DB pension transfers. This calculation should be carried out as at the date of any
final decision along these lines, and using the most recent financial assumptions at the date
of that decision. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ms
acceptance of any final decision along these lines.
I dont think theres any clear or persuasive evidence that Mr M would have accessed his
defined benefits before the normal scheme retirement age of 65. So, compensation should
be based on him taking benefits at this age and, as set out above, on the basis that he would
have opted to transfer to the BSPS 2.
Pensionhelp Limited may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to
obtain Mr Ms contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or
S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ms SERPS/S2P
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid
into Mr Ms pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow forincome tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr M within 90 days of the date
Pensionhelp Limited is notified of Mr Ms acceptance of any final decision along these lines.
Further interest should be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year
simple from the date of any final decision along these lines to the date of settlement for any
time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Pensionhelp Limited to pay Mr M.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Pensionhelp Limited deducts
income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr M how much has been taken off. Pensionhelp
Limited should give Mr M a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr M
asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if
appropriate.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: In the event that this decision remains the same, I would
require Pensionhelp Limited to pay Mr M the compensation amount as set out in the steps
above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Pensionhelp Limited to pay Mr M any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require
Pensionhelp Limited to pay Mr M any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I would also
recommend that Pensionhelp Limited pays Mr M the balance. I would additionally
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr M.
If Mr M were to accept any final decision along these lines, the money award would be
binding on Pensionhelp Limited.
My recommendation wouldnt be binding on Pensionhelp Limited. Further, its unlikely that
Mr M could accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to
consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final
decision along these lines.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance
or rules come into effect, Id expect Pensionhelp Limited to carry out a calculation in line with
the updated rules and/or guidance in any event.
Neither party submitted any further comments in response to the provisional decision.
The investigator has since contacted both parties to explain that the FCA has developed a 
BSPS-specific redress calculator to determine redress under the BSPS consumer redress 
scheme. She said that the FCA was also encouraging businesses to use the calculator for 
non-scheme cases, such as this.The investigator further said that, when issuing my decision, I may require Pensionhelp 
Limited to use the FCAs BSPS-specific calculator to determine any redress due to Mr M.
Th investigator said that, if either party didnt think it was appropriate to use the BSPS-
specific redress calculator in the circumstances of Mr Ms complaint, they should let her 
know by 5 June 2023.
Neither party has submitted further comments in respect of this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My conclusions on the complaint remain the same as those set out in the provisional 
decision, and for the same reasons.
Putting things right
Ive amended how I consider Pensionhelp Limited should put things right, as set out in the 
investigators further comments relating to the BSPS-specific redress calculator. I consider 
that it would be appropriate to use that calculator here, given the BSPS-specific 
circumstances.
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr M, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. As set out in the 
provisional decision, I consider Mr M would most likely have remained in the occupational 
pension scheme and opted to join the BSPS 2 if suitable advice had been given. 
Pensionhelp Limited must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for 
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement 
PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Pensionhelp Limited should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the 
redress. A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr M and our Service upon 
completion of the calculation.
For clarity, Mr M has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ms 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Pensionhelp Limited should:
calculate and offer Mr M redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr M before starting the redress calculation that:
- its redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their defined contribution pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr M receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr M accepts Pensionhelp Limiteds offer to calculate how much of its redress 
could be augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of its redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ms end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr M as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Mr M may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Ms likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require Pensionhelp Limited to pay Mr M the 
compensation amount as set out above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I would also
recommend that Pensionhelp Limited pays Mr M the balance. 
If Mr M accepts this final decision, the award will be binding on Pensionhelp Limited.
My recommendation wouldnt be binding on Pensionhelp Limited. Further, its unlikely that
Mr M could accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to
consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept my final
decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Pensionhelp Limited to undertake 
the above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman