DRN-3564744
The complaint
Mr F has complained that Chetwood Financial Limited trading as Live Lend (Live Lend) gave 
him a loan that he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Mr F had a loan from Live Lend and a brief summary of the lending can be found in the table 
below.  
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(month)monthly 
repayment
1 £6,000 31/08/2018 outstanding 36 £197.76
Mr F had some problems repaying the loan and it appears, from the statement of account 
that Live Lend took the decision to sell the outstanding in March 2021. 
Live Lend issued its final response letter about Mr Fs complaint and concluded it hadnt 
made an error when it approved the loan. 
Live Lend concluded, having asked Mr F about his income and expenditure as well as 
carrying out a credit check that he had around £459 per month in disposable income. Which, 
in Live Lends view was sufficient to be able to afford the monthly repayment of around £198. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr F referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. 
Mr Fs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators and she upheld it. She 
concluded that given the monthly commitment, capital borrowed and the term in which Mr F 
was due to make payments that Live Lends checks needed to go further than just relying on 
the credit file and income and expenditure information. It ought to have had a complete 
understanding of his financial circumstances. 
Using Mr Fs bank statements, the adjudicator could see that Mr F had around 15 high cost 
credit loans in the month before this loan was approved. And knowing this, ought to have led 
Live Lend to decide not to lend. 
Mr F appears to have accepted the adjudicators recommendation. 
Live Lend didnt agree with the outcome. In response it said (in summary):
Live Lend provides loans to customers who may not be approved by high street 
lenders. 
Full creditworthiness and affordability checks were completed and it then provided a 
summary of the checks that it carried out. 
Based on the checks that Live Lend carried out the loan looked affordable for Mr F. 
Live Lend says it wouldve been disproportionate to have requested further 
information such as bank statements from Mr F.
Live Lend explained bank statements are prepared to a schedule (which could be 
quarterly) and could already be out-of-time by the time a customer receives them. 
Given the information it had available at the time, Live Lend considers a fair lending 
decision was made. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
The rules and regulations in place required Live Lend to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Fs ability to make the repayments under the loan 
agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Live Lend had to think about whether 
repaying the loans would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr F undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Live Lend to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr F. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan applications.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Fs complaint.For this loan, Live Lend asked Mr F for his monthly income, which he declared it as being 
£1,824 and Live Lend says this monthly income was verified through a system offered by a 
credit reference agency. 
Live Lend also says that Mr F declared total monthly living costs of £650 and it knew from a 
credit reference check that Mr F already had monthly credit commitments of £325  which 
was owed to five credit cards and two fixed term loans (excluding a mortgage / secured 
lending). So Live Lend believed (when considering its loan repayment) after all of his 
commitments had been deducted Mr F had £459 disposable income each month. 
It was therefore reasonable for Live Lend, based on the information that it gathered from the 
credit search as well as what Mr F had declared to reasonably conclude that he could afford 
his loan repayments. 
However, Mr F was making a commitment to Live Lend to make monthly repayments for 
three years  which isnt an insignificant period of time. So, the period of time along with the 
amount that he borrowed, I think ought to have led Live Lend to have carried out further 
checks rather than relying on the information Mr F had provided an the credit check results. 
I think, for the reasons outlined above, Live Lend needed to have a complete understanding 
of Mr Fs financial situation which in this case ought to have included verifying the 
information he had provided about his income and expenditure as well as his credit 
commitments. 
Live Lend couldve gone about checking Mr Fs financial position in a number of ways - it 
couldve asked to see copies of say his payslip and copies / invoices for bills and 
commitments that he had. 
Or, it couldve asked to see his bank statements. Mr F has provided his bank statements 
from around the time this loan was approved so I dont think its unreasonable to view these 
to see what Live Lend may have seen, had it carried out what I consider to be proportionate 
checks.  
I appreciate that Live Lend says the bank statements may only be produced at certain points 
say once a quarter, and even when received the information wouldve been out of date. 
While, this may be correct, the bank statements wouldve given Live Lend an insight in to 
Mr Fs spending habits and how he was managing his finances. 
I accept the summary of the credit check results dont indicate that Mr F was a regular user 
of or had any outstanding short term loans outstanding at the point this loan was approved, 
but a view of his bank statement wouldve shown Live Lend a very different picture.
A picture Live Lend wouldve likely had, had it out a proportionate check. Mr Fs bank 
statements wouldve shown that in the month leading up to the loan being granted the 
following transactions; 
drawdowns on a revolving credit facility of £1,605 with repayment throughout the 
month of August of £1,269. 
Mr T drew down eight high cost short term credit / instalment loans totalling over 
£6,925
He did make repayments to some of these loans (as well as other outstanding 
payday loans) and these payments came to £4,892. Overall, given the number of transactions to both high cost short term lenders as well as the 
revolving credit facility has led me to conclude that Mr F couldnt sustainably make his loan 
repayments to Live Lend. 
Afterall, there is evidence to show that he had a number of outstanding payday loans when 
the loan was granted and spending significantly more each month servicing such debt than 
his salary of £1,845. The way Mr F had managed his account would suggest that he was 
having to borrow and take expensive credit in order to repay other high cost credit. He was, 
in effect, stuck in a cycle of borrowing high cost short term loans and wasnt in any position 
to take on further credit.  
So, for the reasons set out above, I dont think Live Lend should have provided Mr F with 
this loan because a proportionate check wouldve shown it that he was spending significant 
amounts each month servicing existing high cost short term loans and this loan repayment 
wasnt sustainable for him, given what Live Lend wouldve likely discovered. 
I therefore uphold Mr Fs complaint and Ive set out below what it needs to do in order to put 
things right. 
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr F to repay the principal amount that he borrowed in 
respect of loan one, because hes had the benefit of that lending. But as I have concluded 
Live Lend shouldnt have provided this loan, it should look to remove the interest and fees 
from the amounts due under the loan agreement. 
If Live Lend has sold the outstanding debts it should buy these back if it is able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If Live Lend is not able to buy the debts back then it should 
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
Live Lend should:
  remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan;
treat any payments made by Mr F as payments towards the capital amount;
If and when Mr F has paid more than the capital that she borrowed then any 
overpayments should be refunded to him with 8%* simple interest from the date the 
overpayments arose to the date of settlement; 
However, if an outstanding balance remains after carrying out the above, than Live Lend 
and Mr F should try and come to a mutually affordable repayment plan for the balance. 
But I would remind Live Lend of its obligation to treat Mr F fairly and with forbearance and
remove any negative information about this loan from Mr Fs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Live Lend to deduct tax from this interest. Live Lend 
should give Mr F a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Fs complaint. 
Chetwood Financial Limited trading as Live Lend should put things right for Mr F as directed 
above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman