DRN-3577666
The complaint
Mr M has complained about Ageas Insurance Limited trading as Ageas decision to reject a 
claim he made for storm damage under his home buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
In November 2021 Mr M wrote to Ageas to make a claim. He said that hed arranged for his 
roof to be renewed. Mr M said that works were due to start in April 2021 but was postponed 
by the contractors. Mr M said the renewal was needed as the roof had been damaged by 
various storms and so hed made a decision around a year ago to have the works done.
Mr M told Ageas that since the renewal repairs were carried out in November 2021, hed 
noticed damage to a ceiling inside his home. Mr M says this wasnt damage caused when 
the roof was being renewed  but from previous storms. 
Mr M asked Ageas if he had a valid claim for the internal damage to his home. He said he 
didnt claim for the damage to his roof as a friend told Mr M the works would be classed as 
maintenance.
Ageas said it wouldnt meet Mr Ms claim. Mr M replied to Ageas and said he remembered 
the damage he was claiming for had occurred between 22 and 23 February 2021 during a 
storm. Mr M said he now wanted Ageas to reconsider his claim for internal damage  and 
consider a claim for the roof repairs which came to £13,500.
Ageas maintained its decision to reject Mr Ms claim. In December 2021 Mr M raised a 
complaint with Ageas about its decision. 
In January 2022 Ageas said its decision was correct. It incorrectly said that Mr M believed 
the rain damage to the ceiling was caused by rain during the repairs. Ageas went on to say 
that as Mr M couldnt say when the damage occurred, it couldnt validate his claim. As Mr M 
said that the reason why he had the roof renewed was due to maintenance, Ageas policy 
wouldnt provide cover as it excluded damage caused by wear and tear. 
Mr M asked us to look at his complaint. Hes unhappy that Ageas misinterpreted the 
information he provided. 
Our Investigator said that because Mr M didnt contact Ageas when the damage occurred  
and subsequently had the damage repaired  Ageas couldnt reasonably assess his claim in 
order to validate it. So he felt Mr M had prejudiced his position by not contacting Ageas at 
the time of the storm when he said the damage happened. The first contact Mr M made with 
Ageas was eight months after the event and there was no evidence Ageas could consider to 
prove the claim. 
Mr M didnt agree. A representative on behalf of Mr M made the following comments, which I 
will summarise:
Ageas made errors which we havent addressed.
Ageas could have instructed a loss adjuster (LA) to inspect Mr Ms roof to 
determine what degree of damage was caused by a storm. Mr M is only asking 
for a proportion of the costs to renew the roof to be covered by Ageas. 
Ageas took from 5 November 2021 to 30 December 2021 to respond to Mr Ms 
claim. 
Ageas has treated Mr M poorly. 
So as Mr M didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In Mr Ms first letter to Ageas dated 5 November 2021, he wrote:
This concerns my slated roof which I have just had renewed together with dormer 
window/skylight flashings at a cost of £13,500. I mention this because this roof has 
had many batterings from storms and I kept having to renew roof sections so I 
decided a year ago to renew the whole roof. The builders were due to start in April of 
this year but it was put back twice because the roofers were too busy. In this period 
there was heavy weather at times but I had the roof patched and kept my fingers 
crossed until the roofers were able to attend and do the complete job.
Ageas called Mr M in November 2021 to tell him his claim wouldnt be covered. So I dont 
agree that Ageas caused a delay in dealing with Mr Ms claim. When Mr M raised a 
complaint, Ageas responded within the timeframe set by the Financial Conduct Authority.
In response to the phone call, Mr M wrote to Ageas on 25 November 2021. He said that he 
recalled the damage was caused by storm conditions between 22 and 23 February 2021. 
I agree that Ageas made an error in December 2021 stating Mr M said the internal damage 
had been caused during repair  and that Mr M hadnt provided a date of loss. But I dont 
think this changes the outcome. Ill explain why.
Insurance policies provide cover for specified insurable events such as storm, flood, or fire. 
In other words insurers provide cover for sudden, unforeseen perils. So in order for an 
insurer to be able to assess a cause of damage, it should be made aware as soon as the 
damage occurs so that it can properly assess the claim. 
In this case, Mr M didnt contact Ageas until over eight months after he says the damage 
occurred. By this time, Mr M had made his own arrangements for the roof to be renewed. So 
even if Ageas instructed an LA to inspect the property, it would be impossible for them to 
determine the cause of damage - as the damage to the roof has been repaired. And there is 
no way of knowing how or when the damage internally occurred for the same reasons. Its 
therefore impossible for Ageas to determine how much - if any  of the roof renewal Mr M 
has paid for was caused by an insured peril. 
So because of the time that passed between the date Mr M says the damage occurred  and 
the fact that the roof had been renewed  I cant criticise Ageas for the decisions Mr M made 
before he contacted it. And it follows that I dont think Ageas acted unreasonably in not 
instructing an LA and deciding to reject Mr Ms claim. Without any evidence to support the 
claim that storm conditions in February 2021 caused the damage Mr M claimed for, I think it 
was reasonable for Ageas to refer to the exclusion for wear and tear under the policy. I say 
this because on 5 November 2021 Mr M wrote that hed decided a year ago  so before the 
storm in February 2021  that the roof required repairs. 
I understand Mr M will be very disappointed with my decision. But I think Ageas has treated 
Mr M fairly and as it would any other customer in the same circumstances. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman