DRN-3991926
The complaint
Mr L complains about the delay in payments being cleared through his account with PayrNet 
Limited.
What happened
Mr L opened an account with PayrNet in October 2022. He asked about how payments of 
benefits were treated. It was explained to him, at the time of opening the account, that DWP 
payments are third party transfers and all such transfers will go through additional security 
checks which can take up to two working days. Mr D proceeded to open an account.
He received several payments from DWP and these all took up to two days to be credited to 
his account. He complained to PayrNet.
PayrNet explained that the account is a unique offering as you hold a physical asset, gold, 
and not standard fiat currency like other banking services. As such we have different 
regulations and security processes, which can sometimes lead to longer wait times than your 
typical service.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service our Investigator said that as PayrNet acted 
within its terms and conditions it hadn't done anything wrong.
Mr L didn't agree and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr L decided to open the account with PayrNet, he specifically asked what would 
happen to his benefit payments. He was told that such payments are treated as third party 
transfers, and that all such transfers will go through additional security checks which can 
take up to two working days. I've noted that his payments took two days to be credited, 
which were within the terms and conditions of the account.
As I've set out above the PayrNet account is not like an ordinary bank account, as it is tied to 
the price of gold. As a result of this it has chosen to put additional security checks in place 
where payments come from a third party. Mr L asked PayrNet at the time of opening his 
accounts what the position was with regard to the payment of benefits. So he would have 
been aware that there would be such a delay. The information was contained in the terms 
and conditions and also set out in the frequently asked questions on its website. 
So, Mr L was aware about how DWP payments were treated by PayrNet and he 
nevertheless chose to open the account. PayrNet acted within the terms and conditions of 
the account, which it was entitled to do. So I think that it acted fairly and reasonably.
My final decision
I don't uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman