DRN-3656823
The complaint
Mr L complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) has refused to refund payments he made 
to what he believed was a legitimate investments trading company (RTC Finance).  Mr L 
made these payments using his HSBC Visa debit card.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
In short, in 2017, Mr L says he made several payments to what he thought was his trading 
account with RTC Finance (RTC).  At the time, Mr L says he believed that RTC were a 
legitimate investments trading company.  However, he says he lost all his money and later 
discovered that RTC were operating a scam.
The payments in question made from Mr Ls HSBC Visa debit card are:
Date Merchant Amount
18 September 2017 RTCFIANCE.COM £200
21 September 2017 RTC FINANCE £2,000
28 September 2017 RTC FINANCE £10,000
28 September 2017 RTC FINANCE £10,000
2 October 2017 RTC FINANCE £5,000
6 October 2017 RTC FINANCE £5,000
24 October 2017 RTC FINANCE £3,000
3 November 2017 RTCFINANCE.COM £5,000
13 December 2017 RTC FINANCEE £5,000
Mr L asked HSBC to try to recover his money.  As this did not happen, he raised a complaint 
which he also referred to our Service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and upheld it in part.  He thought that 
fraud triggers applied to Mr Ls payment of £10,000 on 28 September 2017 (third payment in 
the above chain).  He argued that there was no evidence to show HSBC provided Mr L with 
any meaningful warnings or gave him other reasons to doubt the legitimacy of the payments 
he made.  The investigator held that this was a missed opportunity for HSBC to intervene, so 
he asked it to refund Mr L some of the money he says he lost.
Mr L accepted the investigators findings, but HSBC did not.
In the interest of conciseness, I will repeat HSBCs response here, which it has helpfully 
summarised its key points in the conclusions section of its submissions:
Overall, we consider that the opinion is unsupportable. As such, we do not accept that we 
should be held responsible for [Mr Ls] loss for the following reasons:
The opinion appears to decide the complaint on the basis of more recent standards, 
and not those which applied at the time (including by reference to your services 
contemporaneous decisions). Evidently [Mr Ls] complaint would not have been 
upheld in 2017-2018 and is only being upheld because in the intervening four years 
since, your service has revised its approach to dealing with such complaints (on 
more than one occasion);
It appears to be common ground that [Mr L] carried out no research before parting 
with significant savings despite having no investment experience; 
The findings in respect of our actions are unrealistic. [Mr L] was unlikely to agree not 
to invest on the basis of a single conversation with us and not on the date suggested; 
There was no credible evidence that either the merchant or payees were operating a 
scam at the time of the Payments, such that we could only have given [Mr L] a 
general investment warning which is unlikely to have had an impact in the 
circumstances;
[Mr L] is unlikely to have accepted that this was a scam until after the Payments 
when he was refused withdrawals. Before that time, [Mr Ls] account was apparently 
showing a healthy profit, and he received substantial withdrawals. The causation 
position is therefore unsupportable; and
[Mr L] conduct and his clear contributory negligence should be reflected by a 
percentage reduction of at least 50% on any refund.
As an agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
On 3 August 2022, I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint in part.  
For completeness, I repeat my provisional findings below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to say at the outset that I have summarised this complaint in far less detail than 
the parties involved.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If there is a 
submission I have not addressed, it is not because I have ignored the point.  It is simply 
because my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this complaint.
Preliminary issue
There appears to be a discrepancy between the total disputed amount our investigator set 
out in his findings and the amount HSBC says is correct.  Having considered this point, I am 
of the view that the payments I have set out in the above section (amounting to £45,200) is 
correct.
Chargeback
I do not consider that Mr L had any chargeback rights under the Visa chargeback scheme 
regarding his payments to RTC.
Unusual or uncharacteristic activity
HSBC is aware of our general position on a PSPs safeguarding and due-diligence duties to 
protect customers from the risk of financial harm due to fraud.  We have published many decisions on our website setting out these principles and quoting the relevant rules and 
regulations. It is unnecessary to rehearse them again here in detail.
It is common ground that the disputed payments were authorised by Mr L for the purposes 
of the Payment Services Regulations 2009 (the Regulations), in force at the time.  This is 
because they were made by Mr L using the legitimate security credentials provided to them 
by HSBC.  These must be regarded as authorised payments even though Mr L was the 
victim of a sophisticated scam.  So, although he did not intend the money to go to 
scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of his bank account, 
Mr L is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts  and any payments made or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money-laundering, countering the financing of  terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
First, regulated firms ought reasonably to take notice of common types of scams. As long 
ago as June 2012, the FCAs predecessor indicatedin its consultation paper entitled 
Banks Defences Against Investment Fraud: detecting perpetrators and protecting victims
that it was good industry practice for firms to build up an updated watch-list of types of 
scams and potential perpetrators; and regularly to share timely and detailed intelligence 
with other banks, UK and overseas regulators, the police, etc. Whilst the regulator gave no 
specific timings, it is not unreasonable in my view to expect an international bank to update 
its watch-list and communicate internally to staff within, say, one month of an alert being 
posted by the FCA or IOSCO. In my judgment, such alerts should automatically trigger 
alarm-bellsand lead to the payment being pausedpending further enquiries (and a 
possible scam warning) to the payer.
In Mr Ls case, the FCA published a warning about RTC on 17 October 2017.  I therefore do 
not think HSBC ought to have automatically blocked Mr Ls payments until the one he made 
13 December 2017, as sufficient time had passed since the FCA warning had been 
published.
Notwithstanding this, in light of the odd pattern of Mr Ls payments, I do think that by his third 
payment (see above), there are fraud triggers here  particularly given that this was an 
international payment for a significant amount (£10,000) to a firm that was not registered 
with the Gambling Commission.  Therefore, it would have been reasonable for HSBC to 
have properly questioned Mr L before processing his payment in order to satisfy itself that all 
was well.
If HSBC had fulfilled its duties and carried out due diligence by contacting Mr L and asking 
suitably probing questions, there is no reason to doubt that they would have explained what 
they were doing.  In such circumstances, whilst the bank had no duty to protect them from a 
bad bargain or give investment advice, it could have invited them to check whether the payee was registered with the Gambling Commission.  It could have also explained its own 
customer experiences with merchants like RTC in that customers would often be prevented 
from withdrawing available balances. 
After all, at that time, there was information in the public domainwhich a bank ought to 
have known even if a lay consumer ought notabout the very high risks associated with 
binary options including many warnings of potential fraud (e.g. Action Frauds June 2016 
warning; the European Securities and Markets Authoritys July 2016 warning; the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys consultation paper of December 2016; the Gambling Commissions 
December 2016 scam warning that an unlicensed operator is likely operating illegally; and 
Visas business news 26 October 2017 and so forth).
There is no evidence that HSBC provided Mr L with any meaningful warnings or gave him 
other reasons to doubt the legitimacy of the payments he was making. It was a missed 
opportunity to intervene.
Causation
HSBC argues that Mr L did not carry out any due diligence before making the payments in 
question.  In light of this, our investigator asked Mr L what due diligence he carried out at the 
time.  Mr L has confirmed that he did carry out online research before he made his first 
payment to RTC  and in doing so, he did not see anything wholly untoward.  He also says 
that he,  slipped in a few falsehoods, which he [RTC trader] picked up on, so I felt safe to 
start.  With this in mind, and particularly given the fact that the FCA warning concerned was 
published after Mr Ls payment on 28 September 2017  I am satisfied he did carry out the 
necessary due diligence.
If HSBC had asked Mr L what the payments were for and the basic surrounding context, it is 
likely they would have fully explained what they were doing and that everything had been 
done over the phone and online with the merchant.  HSBC did not need to know for certain 
whether Mr L was dealing with a fraudulent binary options trader or investing in a legitimate 
(albeit highly speculative) product; reasonable grounds for suspicion are enough to trigger a 
banks obligations under the various regulations and principles of good practice. I consider 
there were such grounds here and, therefore, that HSBC ought reasonably to have provided 
a scam warning in light of all the information then known to financial professionals about the 
risks associated with unregulated, overseas binary options. 
If HSBC had given a warning, I believe that Mr L would have paused and looked more 
closely into RTC before proceeding.  There is no evidence that Mr L was willing to take high 
risks or had a history of speculative investments or gambling. It seems more probable that 
he would have made further enquiries into binary-options scams and whether or not RTC 
were regulated in the UK or abroad. They could have discovered they were not and the 
various regulatory warnings about the risk of binary-options/forex scams (see above). In 
other words, I am satisfied that a warning from their trusted bank would probably have 
exposed RTCs false pretences, causing them to stop trading and preventing further losses.
Contributory negligence
Despite regulatory safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must still take 
responsibility for their decisions (see s.1C(d) of our enabling statute, the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000). 
In this case, I do not think that Mr L was to blame for what happened; that is, he did not 
foresee the risk of this sort of harm or any harm.  I do not think Mr L could have foreseen the risk that the company they were dealing with was a scam and the trading account they were 
viewing was likely to be a simulation.
In the circumstances, I do not think it would be fair to reduce compensation on the basis that 
Mr L should share blame for what happened.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr L responded to say he agreed with my provisional findings.  However, HSBC responded 
not agreeing with them.  Its position, broadly, is:
RTC were licenced in a foreign jurisdiction at the time of Mr Ls payments until 1 
January 2018  so an intervention from HSBC would not have made a difference.
Mr Ls due diligence regarding carrying out research on RTC was inadequate.
There is online material  pre-dating Mr Ls payments  which suggests RTC were 
operating a scam.
HSBC said the following in its conclusions:
In conclusion, for the reasons set out above (and in our initial response), we do not accept
that we should be liable for [Mr Ls] loss. To the extent that any refund should be
required, that should be reduced by at least 50% to reflect [Mr Ls] contribution towards
it.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered HSBCs response carefully, I am not minded to depart from my 
provisional findings.  I will explain why.
I acknowledge HSBCs submission that RTC were licenced in a foreign jurisdiction at the 
time Mr L made the payments concerned.  However, this does not negate the fact that RTC 
were not licenced by the Gambling Commission.  With that in mind, and when considering 
intervention, I am of the view that the fact RTC were not licenced by the Gambling 
Commission supersedes the fact they were licenced in a foreign jurisdiction.  Further, when 
considering the legitimacy of RTC holistically, I place much weight on the FCA warning 
about them which was published shortly after Mr Ls 28 September 2017 payments; and in 
particular, the fact RTCs licence (in the foreign jurisdiction) was removed thereafter from 1 
January 2018.
HSBC says that based on some of Mr Ls submissions, he  was dishonest towards the 
scammer in an apparent attempt to catch them out. It would be highly unusual for an 
individual to behave in that manner unless they harboured suspicions about the merchant.  I 
acknowledge that Mr L had some reservations about RTC, however, I am of the view that 
RTC were able to alleviate Mr Ls concerns by using boiler room tactics; methods which 
HSBC is more than familiar with having dealt with similar complaints of this nature.  Further, I 
am of the view that Mr Ls reservations would have been allayed had HSBC intervened on 
Mr Ls first £10,000 payment made on 28 September 2017.
HSBC has referred to an online website which contains negative comments about RTC.  
HSBC says that this is an example of Mr L carrying out insufficient due diligence, as the 
comments on the website appear to have been posted before Mr Ls payments.  Having considered the website and comments, I do not find them credible  not like, for example, 
the FCAs warning about RTC  so I will not be taking them into account. 
Finally, HSBC appears to be seeking clarification on my view of RTCs jurisdictional status.  
The Gambling Commission has confirmed that  at the relevant period  regardless of where 
a firm was based in the world, the firm would require a licence from them if the firm was 
providing facilities for gambling to consumers in Great Britain online (or through any other 
means of remote communication).  In Mr Ls case, RTC provided him with a trading account 
(a facility for gambling) in Great Britain online where bets were being placed  without the 
approapite licence.  As there is no evidence to suggest RTC had a licence from the 
Gambling Commission, I am unable to say they were licenced in this jurisdiction. 
Taking all the above points together  I will not be departing from my provisional findings in 
this matter.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.  I 
therefore direct that HSBC UK Bank Plc:
Pay Mr L the money he lost  starting from the first £10,000 payment he made to 
RTC on 28 September 2017 (see above); including any transaction fees (if 
applicable);
Pay interest on this amount from the date it was debited from Mr Ls account until the 
date of settlement.  The appropriate interest rate should be applied as it appears the 
source (or at least some) of the money to fund the investment scam came from Mr 
Ls savings account with HSBC UK Bank Plc.
If HSBC UK Bank Plc deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this award, it 
should provide Mr L with the appropriate tax deduction certificate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman