DRN-3453633
The complaint
Miss C complains that Sainsbury's Bank Plc provided her with incorrect information about 
the option of a balance transfer on her credit card. She says she would have taken a 
different approach had she been given correct information.
What happened
Miss C contacted Sainsburys Bank in June 2021 as the 0% promotional rate for purchases 
on her credit card was coming to an end. She asked if the promotional rate could be 
extended but was told it couldnt. Instead she was told she could do a 15 month interest free 
balance transfer for a 3% fee. Miss C was looking to buy a car and wanted to benefit from 
the interest free period and was told the balance transfer offer was in place until 13 June 
2021 and so she could buy the car and then do the transfer.
Miss C bought the car on 7 June 2021 and paid the balance on her Sainsburys credit card. 
She called Sainsburys Bank the next day and was told she couldnt do the balance transfer. 
She said this caused her stress as the cost of the car was on her credit card and she would 
be charged a high rate of interest. She then decided to take out a credit card with another 
bank and did a balance transfer for a fee. Miss C says that had she not been given incorrect 
advice on the initial call she would have taken out a new credit card and bought the car 
using that and incurred no fees as she would have benefited from a period of 0% interest on 
purchases.
Sainsburys Bank didnt uphold Miss Cs complaint. It said that she was told she on the call 
she would need to use another credit card for the purchase and then do the balance 
transfer, but Miss C used her Sainsburys credit card. It said she was still benefitting from the 
0% rate on purchases at the time she bought the car and made the payment before this 
expired and so no charges were applied.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. He said that on the call on which the balance transfer 
was discussed Miss C asks if she could buy the car on her current credit card and transfer to 
another Sainsburys credit card and still get the 0% balance transfer and the agent said that 
was correct. He thought that the context of the call showed Miss C was looking to transfer 
between two Sainsburys credit cards and that the information she was provided with meant 
she went ahead with the purchase on her current credit card. He said this issue had caused 
Miss C trouble and upset as she was concerned about incurring interest payments on a 
large transaction. Given this he thought Sainsburys Bank should pay Miss C £75 
compensation.
Sainsburys Bank didnt agree. It said that its agent made it clear to Miss C that she would 
need to make the purchase on another credit card held in her name to be able to transfer the 
balance. The balance offer was on her existing credit card. It said it was made clear there 
were no purchase offers on her credit card only the balance transfer and if she wanted a 
new product she would need to wait three months after closure of her existing credit card.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
On the call with Sainsburys Bank Miss C was told that the only offer on her credit 
card was a balance transfer with a 3% fee and 15 months interest free. 
The offer of the balance transfer meant that Miss C would be able to transfer a 
balance from another card to her Sainsburys credit card and benefit from the terms 
of the offer. As Miss C bought the car on her Sainsburys credit card she couldnt 
then transfer the balance to the same card to get the 15 months interest free period. I 
understood that his was upsetting for Miss C but as this was the usual process for a 
balance transfer, I couldnt say that she was treated unfairly.
Miss C relied on the information provided in the call and I found this reasonable. Our 
investigator noted the comment in the call where Miss C asked about buying the car 
and transferring to another Sainsburys credit card. The agent did confirm this but 
then clarified saying that the purchase would need to be made and then transferred 
over to get the balance transfer offer. I thought this information could have been 
made clearer. However, Miss C didnt have another Sainsburys Bank credit card and 
so that wasnt an option.
Later in the call the agent said that the purchase would need to be made on another 
credit card and had previously said this would need to be in Miss Cs name and 
registered at her address and the balance then transferred. So, while I could see 
Miss C misunderstood what needed to happen, I found she was given correct 
information about the offer on her credit card and the need to make the purchase on 
another card in order to transfer the balance across.
Miss C made the purchase on her Sainsburys credit card and repaid this a few days 
later while the 0% interest offer on purchases was still in pace. Therefore, no charges 
were applied to this purchase. I understood the comment she made about taking out 
another card and incurring a balance transfer fee but a 3% fee would have been 
charged had she successfully made the balance transfer to her Sainsburys Bank 
credit card therefore I didnt find she was disadvantaged by this.
I understood that the issue caused Miss C stress as she was concerned about 
incurring high interest charges on a large purchase. But as I didnt find Sainsburys 
Bank was wrong in the action it took, and it provided her with the information about 
the balance transfer process, I didnt uphold this complaint.
Miss C responded to my provisional decision. She said that she contacted Sainsburys Bank 
with no knowledge of credit card procedures and was misled into making the purchase on 
her card. She then had to incur a £45 fee for a balance transfer. She the agent said thats 
right when discussing moving between Sainsburys products and she was not told she 
would need another credit card. Miss C said that had she received clear information she 
would have taken out a credit card with another company with 0% on purchases. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Miss C was disappointed by my provisional decision. However, for me 
to uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that Sainsburys Bank had done 
something wrong or treated Miss C unfairly. As I explained in my provisional decision, Miss C was told about the balance transfer offer on her credit card when she contacted 
Sainsburys Bank. This was available for transfers to the credit card. As this is the usual 
process, I do not find I can say Sainsburys Bank treated Miss C unfairly by saying the offer 
would only work with transfers from another card.
The key question is whether the information given to Miss C on the call was misleading. I 
understand that Miss C wasnt aware of how credit card procedures worked but it was 
mentioned on the call that the balance would need to be transferred over to her card and 
that the purchase would need to be made on another card. It had previously been mentioned 
that this card would need to be in Miss Cs name and registered at her address. So, while I 
can see there was a misunderstanding, I think Miss C was provided with the information she 
needed about the transfer. I note the comment about the agent saying thats right when 
discussing a transfer between two Sainsburys cards and I agree the agent could been 
clearer at that point but as it was then explained about the balance needing to be transferred 
and the additional card, I find that Miss C was provided with the information she needed. 
Therefore, I do not find that Sainsburys Bank did anything wrong in this case and so I do not 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman