DRN-1886683
The complaint
Miss S complains Advanced Payment Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus didn't tell her 
she'd be charged when using ATM machines to withdraw money from her account.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The rules that govern our service say we can't consider complaints about events that 
took place more than six years ago - or if later, more than three years after the 
complainant ought reasonably to have known they had cause for complaint. Miss S' 
account was opened in March 2013, but she didn't complain about the withdrawal 
fees until June 2019. As Miss S would have had access to bank statements, we can 
only look at fees charged from June 2013 because they fall within the six year 
timeframe.
 
The terms and conditions for Miss S' account say that Cashplus will charge £2 for 
ATM withdrawals made in the UK, and £3 for withdrawals made outside the UK. 
Having reviewed Miss S' statements, the charges applied to her account were in line 
with the terms and conditions.
 
The terms and conditions are set out in a two-page booklet, and I consider the fees 
were set out clearly on the second page. The terms and conditions are made 
available during the application process for a Cashplus account, so I'm satisfied 
Cashplus took the correct steps to ensure Miss S was provided with information 
about the fees that applied to her account.
 
For these reasons, although I appreciate Miss S' frustration, I'm not upholding her complaint. 
So, I won't be asking Cashplus to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I'm not upholding Miss S' complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 July 2020.Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman