DRN-2692606
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about an early repayment charge (ERC) that he had to pay when he 
paid off his mortgage with Santander UK Plc. He considers the ERC was disproportionate 
given he was only due to pay in the region of £2,500 of interest over the remainder of the 
interest rate product, but the charge was over £9,000. He also highlighted that he would 
have been allowed to make a 10% overpayment to the mortgage without incurring an ERC, 
but Santander wouldnt reduce or waive the ERC.
What happened
In 2016 Mr B re-mortgaged his home to Santander. In the spring of 2018 Mr B attached a 
new interest rate product which ran until the beginning of June 2020. The offer sent to Mr B 
at that time detailed that if he paid the mortgage off before June 2020 he would have to pay 
an ERC equivalent to 3% of the amount paid off. 
In 2019 Mr B wanted to move home and asked Santander for a mortgage on the new 
property and to port the interest rate product to the new mortgage. Santander didnt agree 
to provide Mr B with a new mortgage and so he arranged borrowing with a different lender. 
This meant that he had to pay the ERC when he repaid the Santander mortgage in 
December 2019. He complained.
Santander considered Mr Bs complaint, but it didnt uphold it. It said Mr B had been aware 
of the ERC when he took out the new product. It confirmed the ERC was not based on the 
amount of interest payable over the term of the product. As the new mortgage Mr B wanted 
hadnt met lending criteria, it was satisfied it was appropriate for it to have charged the ERC 
when the mortgage was paid off.
Mr B wasnt happy with Santanders response and referred his complaint to this service.  
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend it be upheld. 
Mr B didnt accept the investigators conclusions. He said he had been penalised because 
Santander had refused to lend on his new property. In addition, he didnt accept that 
Santander would incur the costs the ERC indicated it would, because it would have been 
able to borrow money at low interest rates, which was reflected in the low rates it was able to 
offer its customers. 
He said there was a lack of transparency in the calculation of the ERC and implied that 
Santanders reason for refusing the new mortgage was so that it could charge the ERC and 
make money. As someone involved in financial services, he expressed surprise that we saw 
the ERC as a fair charge. He pointed out that at no point had Santander tried to negotiate 
with him about the ERC, despite him being close to the end of the product term. Mr B asked 
that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before considering the merits of Mr Bs complaint I believe it would be appropriate to confirm 
that we are not the industry regulator; that is the Financial Conduct Authority. We are an 
alternative dispute resolution service set up to consider individual complaints between 
financial businesses and their customers. We are independent and do not act on behalf of 
either party involved in a complaint.
In order to be able to lend to consumers, lenders will borrow money themselves. As with 
loans made to the lenders customers, there are costs associated with borrowing that 
money. When the lender decides the format of the loans its going to use the tranche of 
money its borrowed for, it has to include an assessment of the potential risks associated 
with doing so. Included in those risks is that some customers may repay their borrowing 
early. When that happens some of the money expected to be received by the lender will not 
be, but the lender remains liable for its own cost of borrowing the money. In addition, if the 
lender repays its borrowing early, there may be costs associated with that too. 
In light of this, lenders will charge an ERC upon early repayment. The regulator allows an 
ERC to be charged on regulated mortgages and loans to cover the costs to a lender of 
consumers repaying borrowing early. This can be done on an individual mortgage basis, but 
is more commonly calculated for a tranche of money or group of mortgages (of a similar 
type) and based on a proportion being repaid early. This calculation will be based on the 
lenders experience of the likelihood of early repayment, assessment of future conditions and 
the costs involved with its borrowing. 
I have noted Mr Bs comment about the overpayment allowance, but I dont consider 
Santander not deducting this from the amount paid when calculating the ERC was 
unreasonable. The mortgage terms and conditions allow for up to 10% of the mortgage 
balance to be paid in each calendar year without the payment of an ERC. However, Mr B 
didnt make overpayments during the mortgage year, but rather made a single payment to 
clear the mortgage, which would not be considered an overpayment. 
Mr B considers the ERC is unfair because it was more than the amount of interest that would 
have been paid to Santander over the remaining term of the interest rate product. As I have 
explained above there are many factors that are taken into account when an ERC is 
calculated. Under the rules, provided the charge is a reasonable pre-estimate of the loss 
suffered by Santander if the mortgage is paid early, it can make the charge. I know Mr B 
doesnt believe the charge reflects the actual loss Santander suffered. However, I have seen 
evidence of the calculations, although they cant be made publicly available as theyre 
commercially sensitive and confidential, I am satisfied the amount charged in this case was 
a reasonable pre-estimate of loss. I dont think the charge should be refunded.
Mr B has said that Santander didnt attempt to negotiate with him over the amount of the 
ERC. Whilst I am sure that Mr B would have liked that to happen, there was no requirement 
for Santander to do so and I cant find it at fault for not doing so.
My final decisionMy decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 
13 May 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman