DRN-2889100
The complaint
Mr L complains that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) has unfairly declined a claim he 
made under his buildings policy.
Any reference to Mr L includes that of his agent or representative.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties so Ive summarised events.
In 2019 Mr L made a claim with Ageas regarding to a blocked toilet and related leak. 
Ageas accepted and cash settled the claim. Mr L appointed his own contractor 
(Company A) to complete the works that related to the damage as well as pipework 
that had been impacted by tree roots.
Around a year later in 2020 Mr L contacted Ageas again. He said there had been a 
second blockage to the same toilet. Ageas said it would need to inspect and validate 
the claim. But Mr L said hed already had the repair completed.
Ageas declined to cover any damage for this second claim, suggesting it was an 
extension of the initial issue that it had covered previously, and likely linked to poor 
workmanship from Company A or unresolved works. And it said Mr L had prejudiced 
its ability to validate the claim by having the repairs carried out without its input.
Mr L brought his complaint to this service and our investigator didnt uphold it. He 
said the initial claim had been cash settled, meaning the responsibility of the quality 
of works sat between Mr L and his nominated contractor. And if the repair failed  as 
it seemingly did in this case  this would be a matter for Company A.
The investigator also said the policy terms required Mr L to contact Ageas prior to 
carrying out any works  which he failed to do. So, the investigator agreed Ageas 
was unable to validate the claim and, in the circumstances, (considering the time that 
had passed between events and similar nature of the claims) he felt it had acted fairly 
and reasonably declining the claim.
Mr L disagreed and provided further evidence which he said showed Ageas hadnt 
objected to actions. Our investigator reconsidered but didnt change his mind  
saying ultimately Mr L had failed to demonstrate a second insured peril had taken 
place and had prejudiced Ageas position. So, the complaint has been passed to me 
for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr L has not complained about the initial claim he made. So, its not in dispute that 
Ageas cash settled the claim fairly for the necessary works to be completed. Mr L 
appointed Company A to carry out the works using this settlement.
When Mr L contacted Ageas to make the second claim it raised concerns and said it 
wanted to validate the claim. Given the damage was in the same location and of the 
same nature, and occurred within a relatively short period of time I think these 
concerns were reasonable.
Mr L had already had the works completed and simply provided invoices for the cost 
of the repairs. This isnt in keeping with the policy terms nor is it whats expected of a 
policyholder. 
So, while theres no dispute there is damage still to his bathroom, its the origin of this 
damage that Mr L has failed to demonstrate. And as a result of his actions, I think 
Ageas has been unable to carry out any necessary inspections to reasonably 
validate the claim. 
But in any case, Ageas has pointed to several policy exclusions  including one that 
says it will not cover faulty workmanship. With what evidence it has, given the 
previous works were completed less than a year before to the same area of his 
property, I think this isnt an unreasonable conclusion. 
For these reasons, I think Ageas decision to decline the claim is fair and reasonable 
and Im not asking it to do anything further. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman