DRN-1794156
 
The complaint
Mr Ss complaint is about charges hes been asked to pay by Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited (VWFS), trading as Audi Financial Services 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr S acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints 
about it.  
The terms of the finance agreement held Mr S responsible for keeping the car in 
good repair and condition and explained that he would be responsible for any 
damage to or deterioration of the vehicle in excess of fair wear and tear.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are 
returned at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association (BVRLA).
Ive considered the photographs of the damage that are provided in the inspection 
report completed at handover. Im persuaded that all the damage, that VWFS are 
now making refurbishment charges for, is beyond what would be considered fair 
wear and tear under the BVRLA guidance. The investigator has explained that 
guidance accurately.
Im not persuaded that VWFS need to do anything more in relation to the accident 
damage Mr S incurred shortly before the car was inspected. I say that because it 
seems Mr S didnt report that damage to VWFS until after the car was handed back 
to them. Whilst I understand that the damage happened only a few days before the 
handover inspection I dont think its unreasonable to suggest that Mr S could have 
spoken to VWFS before the inspection and delayed it to enable him to have the car 
repaired at a slightly lower cost.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman