DRN-4097003
The complaint
Mr W complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS), to a personal pension, in 2018. Mr W also 
complained that one defined contribution (DC) pension was transferred across to the new 
personal pension at the same time. Mr W says these transfers have resulted in him suffering 
a financial loss and werent in his best interests.
Although trading at the time under another name, Quilter Financial Limited is now 
responsible for answering this complaint. To keep things consistent throughout this final 
decision, when referring to the business, Ill refer mainly to Quilter.
What happened
Mr W began his relationship with Quilter in 2017. Information gathering and discussions then 
took place over several months until June 2018 when a suitability report was issued advising 
Mr W what to do about his pension planning. His circumstances of that time were as follows:
Mr W was a deferred member of a DB scheme having previously worked for a 
company between 2000 and 2008. As of 2018, the cash equivalent transfer value of 
this DB element was around £178,982. This was inclusive of around £5,653 in 
additional voluntary contributions (AVCs).
Mr W had also accrued a DC pension element, in part from the same employment. 
The approximate value of this at the time was around £39,832.
By 2018, Mr W had since moved jobs and he had another DC pension with this role. 
Both he and his employer were currently contributing a monthly amount to this 
pension. The approximate value of this DC pension element was £30,474. This 
pension doesnt appear to have been transferred so although relevant to Mr Ws 
overall finances, it isnt a pension being complained about here.
Mr W was 54 years old and married when the advice was provided. He had some 
ongoing, but apparently controlled, health issues. His wife, Mrs W, wasnt working 
and was in receipt of state benefits due to poor health.
Mr and Mrs W didnt own a property as they lived in local authority housing. They had 
£5,000 in a savings deposit account. According to information collected by Quilter, 
they had no other investments or investment experience outside Mr Ws DC 
pensions. Mr W earned around £2,100 per month (gross) and Mrs Ws benefits were 
around £130 per week.
Quilter set out its advice about Mr Ws pensions in a suitability report it issued on 19 June 
2018. It advised him to transfer out of his deferred DB scheme and invest the funds in a 
personal pension arrangement. Having set up this new personal pension, Quilter further 
recommended that the first DC pension (above) should also be transferred across to the new 
personal pension plan. Mr W accepted this advice and so transferred from his deferred DB 
scheme to a personal pension arrangement shortly after, together with the one DC element. 
Mr W first complained to Quilter about its advice in late 2021. In response, Quilter denied it 
had done anything wrong and said it had acted on Mr Ws objectives at the time. He then 
referred his case to our Service. One of our investigators looked into it and said the 
complaint should be upheld. They thought it was unsuitable that all pension elements were 
transferred.
Quilter still doesnt agree. So, as the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its come to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am dealing with both a DB and DC pension element here. So, Ive taken into account all 
relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of 
practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. This includes 
the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS). 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on 
the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened 
based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Quilter's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, for the DB scheme, Quilter should have only considered a transfer if it could 
clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ws best interests. For the DC pension 
element, Ive considered whether there were any reasons to transfer at all. 
Ive therefore used all the information we have to consider whether transferring to a new 
personal pension arrangement was in Mr Ws best interests. 
I dont think it was, so Im upholding Mr Ws complaint.
The DB scheme - the financial viability of the transfer 
As required by the regulator, to demonstrate the financial comparisons between his current 
DB scheme and transferring out to a personal pension arrangement, Quilter referred in its 
transfer analysis to critical yield rates.  The critical yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required 
on the transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same benefits 
as the DB scheme. It is therefore part of a range of different things which help show how 
likely it is that a personal pension arrangement could achieve the necessary investment 
growth for a transfer-out to become financially viable. 
In its transfer analysis Quilter said the critical yield required to match Mr Ws DB scheme 
benefits at the normal retirement age (NRA) of 63, was 15.5% (if eventually retiring and 
taking no lump sum) and 13.79% (with a lump sum and reduced annual pension). In my 
experience these are high critical yield rates and they should clearly have indicated that 
achieving enough growth to make the transfer worthwhile was highly unlikely.
The advice was also given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as 
to how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor. At the time, Quilter assessed Mr Ws attitude to 
risk (ATR) as balanced.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017. This 
was only 2.4% (for a retirement at age 63). This is substantially below the critical yield 
figures Ive set out above and so again, it implies that exceeding the critical yield was not 
reasonably achievable. Ive also kept in mind that the regulator's upper projection rate was 
8%, the middle projection rate was 5%, and the lower projection rate was 2%. So again, this 
implies that exceeding the critical yield rate of around 13% - 15% was almost certainly not 
achievable.
I have further considered that the transfer analysis said that in order to buy an annuity to 
provide benefits of equal value to the estimated benefits provided by the existing DB scheme 
at retirement the estimated fund required, also known as the capital value, would be 
£580,000 (full pension) or around £505,000 (with a lump-sum and reduced annual pension). 
In my view, these figures provide a revealing window into the value of the scheme Mr W was 
being advised to give up. Even to purchase an annuity to provide benefits of equal value to 
the estimated benefits of his existing scheme, assuming no spouses pension, no increases 
in payment and no guarantee at retirement, the transfer analysis said the fund required 
would still be around £284,000. This was much more than Mr Ws CETV in the DB scheme 
and still more than all his pensions combined.
These figures tend to show that Mr W would be materially worse off by leaving his DB 
scheme.
Quilter also put forward a number of financial scenarios whereby Mr W could transfer and 
still draw an annual pension long into his old age. However, these examples were not easy 
to follow in my view. They were also not comparing like-with-like as they werent reflective of 
the valuable benefits he was told to give up as a result of the transfer-away 
recommendation. An example was given, for instance, of him buying a single annuity and 
what amount of pension he could expect to afford if he used his transferred funds. However, 
this was a significantly inferior pension to the one hed be leaving. So I dont think this was a 
good example to use.
Quilter also promoted to Mr W that he could access more tax-free cash if he transferred to a 
personal pension plan and he could also do this either with or without starting to draw his pension. It said hed be able to access 25% of his pension as a lump-sum and then use the 
remaining funds more flexibly. Its usually the case that more tax-free cash can be accessed 
from a personal pension when compared against a DB scheme; this is because the values 
and benefits of the two schemes are calculated differently. But extra tax-free lump sums 
being removed from a personal pension, potentially from the age of 55 in his case, also 
came with consequences in that the amount left for his later retirement years would 
obviously decrease. 
So, I think there was every reason to think that Mr W would receive lower overall pension 
benefits when he took retirement as a result of transferring away from the DB scheme. There 
would be little point in transferring if this were the case so I think this should have showed 
that transferring, from a financial perspective, was not right for Mr W.
But of course, these straightforward financial comparisons arent the full story here. This is 
because Quilters recommendation that he should transfer out to a personal pension wasnt 
wholly based on the growth comparisons with his current scheme alone. Rather, Quilter 
focussed on what it saw were the wider benefits in transferring away from the scheme. It 
said Mr W would have achieved complete freedom by transferring and be able to choose 
the shape and format of the benefits when he wanted to access them.
Ive considered these issues below, again in the context of his DB scheme. 
Other reasons for transferring
Ive used a combination of what was in Quilters recommendation report and the various 
client information forms it completed about Mr W, to help determine what Quilter said were 
the main objectives for transferring out of the DB scheme. Quilter said the reasons for its 
recommendation to transfer away from his DB pension were as follows: 
Flexibility to commence an income when aged 55.
He could then have an income as and when required by leaving his job and getting 
a part-time role. Hed then be supplementing this income by drawing on a 
combination of tax-free pension cash and also pension income from the new 
personal scheme. This would enable him to maintain an overall annual income of 
£25,000 which was akin to his present-day salary. Quilter said this could then be 
reduced to £15,000 at state pension age. It also said this would allow him to phase in 
retirement gradually.
To take direct control of his pension funds. He could draw additional capital as 
required.
By transferring these two, he would amalgamate his pensions for ease of 
administration 
It said transferring to a personal scheme would ensure Mrs W was protected in the 
event of Mr Ws death by ensuring she could receive the full value remaining in his 
pension. Quilter emphasised that he had stated that under no circumstances should 
the remaining fund be retained by the scheme on [his] and [Mrs Ws] death.
Sticking with the DB pension element, it therefore seems Quilters recommendation to 
transfer this to a personal plan was broadly focused on the flexibility this offered to Mr W. 
Much of the flexibility referred to was based on a combination of early semi-retirement at 
around the age of 55. In theory, Mr W might leave his present job and take on part-time work 
and bolster his income by accessing his transferred pension funds quite early. As a whole, I think its fair to say the recommendation to transfer was underpinned by 
assumptions about Mr Ws health (and to a lesser degree Mrs Ws health). So, Ill deal with 
all the supporting transfer rationale in turn.
The case for income flexibility, his health issues and early retirement
Quilter made health a significant and prominent issue in the recommendation and implied it 
would mean a flexible income was needed in retirement. This related not only to Mr W 
himself, but also to Mrs W who we know was unable to work.
However, if I start with Mr Ws health, I think the case for early retirement due to ill health  
and a greater income flexibility need associated with this - was exaggerated by Quilter. For 
example, the pre-existing health conditions Mr W had, did appear to be ones endured by 
substantial numbers of the wider population. My understanding is that he was on relevant 
medication and they were being controlled to a satisfactory standard. Ive noted his job 
carried a responsibility to others, so perhaps not unreasonably, Mr W was required to 
undergo a yearly medical to retain the right to continue working in this particular role. I think 
Quilter referred to all this in a very negative dimension, implying that Mr W was only ever 
one step away from losing his job completely due to health reasons and facing an uncertain 
future. But theres no evidence his regular medical check-ups were reason to fear impending 
incapacity, it was more a matter of ensuring his responsibilities to keeping the public safe. 
My understanding is that he had passed several medicals in any event. So, that Mr Ws 
regular medical checks were such that his accreditation to deal with the public was never 
revoked, supports Mr Ws own testimony to our Service that the above existing health 
conditions were not so serious as to merit any substantial or urgent changes to his pension 
planning. In fact, the suitability report only said that Mr W was unsure about his future 
employment which I think is no more than a recognition that things could change in the 
future as he got older. The report also makes it clear, in my view, that unilaterally leaving his 
current employment at the age of 55 to take on a part-time role was only a possibility, rather 
than part of any concrete plans which Mr W had. He had no particular part-time role in mind.
In my view then, Quilters advice was based on a somewhat exaggerated and unevidenced 
expectation that Mr W would lose his job due to health conditions which at the time appeared 
both closely monitored and adequately controlled. Quilters advice also wrongly promoted 
that Mr W would need to work less hours for less pay, as a result of failing health. And to 
supplement a new but undefined part-time income, he would need to flexibly use the funds 
from his newly transferred pension.
The suitability report said Mrs Ws health also wasnt good. In fact, I think its fair to say she 
faced greater health challenges than her husband and for her, current or future paid 
employment simply wasnt realistic. There was also mention in the report of Mr W requiring 
access to his pension funds to help pay for an imminent holiday, whilst Mrs W was still well 
enough to travel.
So, all these things led Quilter to incorporate the issues of health, early retirement, a more 
flexible income, and access to cash-lump sums in its recommendation to transfer from his 
DB scheme. In my view, this wasnt reasonable given the information we have.
I say this because I think Mr Ws health was overstated in Quilters transfer recommendation. 
Whilst in no way intending to trivialise his existing health conditions, there was no indication 
here that hed be forced to give up working in his current role. Of course, I accept that Mr W 
may well have liked to stop working full-time as soon as he could. But Quilters job here 
wasnt to simply transact what Mr W might have thought he wanted; its role was to really 
understand his needs, the reality of the situation and what was in his best interests. In fact, Mr Ws overall pension provisions, although better than some no doubt, were still relatively 
modest when considering unilaterally giving up a job at the comparatively young age of 55. 
And there may have been an opportunity here for the Quilter adviser to point out that being 
able to leave a full-time job so early just wasnt compatible with Mr Ws income expectations 
in retirement and the overall amount hed saved up to that point. 
In reality, Mr W also hadnt made any firm retirement or semi-retirement plans and he was 
still only 54 years old. So, there was simply no need for him to leave his DB scheme when 
there was still clearly an opportunity to continue to work until these types of semi-retirement 
plans became more necessary or more financially viable. In my view, what Quilter was really 
recommending was that Mr W should exit his DB scheme on a whim of semi-retirement 
which had neither been firmly planned or properly thought through. I think it would have been 
reasonable for the adviser to really test any semi-retirement aspirations, if they yet existed at 
all, against the more suitable option of keeping the DB scheme where it was for now. In 
essence, Mr W didnt really need to do anything with his DB scheme.
All tied up in the same issue was the matter of so-called income flexibility which would 
apparently be required due to the above changes to Mr Ws working pattern and future 
salary. But I dont think Mr and Mrs W needed the income flexibility as implied by Quilter. 
And Mr W certainly didnt need to irreversibly transfer away from his DB scheme to achieve 
this. This is because we know that retiring early from his DB scheme was possible and in 
this sense he already had some limited flexibility. A pension from the age of 55 was quoted 
during the advice: Mr W could remain in the DB scheme and still get a tax-free lump-sum of 
£27,232 and an annual pension of £4,281. Of course, the longer he delayed accessing the 
DB scheme, the more hed get in future years  and at points during the advice, Quilter itself 
said Mr W didnt need a lump-sum, so the annual pension could have been yet more.
So, Ive seen nothing that shows why these other options might still not allow Mr W to retire 
early at some point. He could have easily remained in his DB scheme because there was 
clearly a limited degree of flexibility already. As Ive described above, it may have been 
possible for him to access his benefits from the scheme early if the situation demanded in 
the years ahead, but its also important to remember that his NRA was only around eight 
years away. For this, the transfer analysis showed that Mr W would have been able to 
access a pension of around £11,000 per year at retirement or almost £8,000 per year with a 
tax-free lump sum of over £52,000. So, Mr W still had some options that would have suited 
his needs and this pension was guaranteed and indexed-linked. It would have lasted for his 
whole life and paid half to Mrs W if he died.
I think Quilter also missed the obvious issue that, even if we assume yet more income 
flexibility was indeed essential to his situation, or that a lump-sum of cash was urgently 
needed, then Mr Ws two other existing DC schemes already comprised over £70,000. As 
DC schemes these had all the flexibility options Quilter considered as important. He could 
access that money in a matter of months whereupon he could begin drawdown or take out 
25% tax-free as a lump-sum. Also, if Mr W was able to delay his apparent aspirations to 
leave his job or reduce his hours, then we can also factor-in that he and his then employer 
were also still each contributing to one of these DC schemes. I therefore think its fair to say 
that in just a few years, these contributions, and a wider and modest growth in both DC 
elements, would have easily provided enough income or cash until Mr W reached his NRA of 
63. He and Mrs W were also evidently entitled to state pensions at 67 according to records 
from the time.
If hed remained in his DB scheme, I therefore think Mr W would have been in a much better 
position. He had two DC schemes, one of which was still being added to. So he could have 
used these as flexibly as he liked, knowing he still had a guaranteed DB income at the age 
of 63, or even before if he was prepared to accept a different income trajectory.In summary then, I think the issues of income flexibility, Mr Ws health issues, and a hoped-
for early semi-retirement, were all given undue weight by the adviser. There was no credible 
case made out for a flexible income. The suitability report itself also said only that Mr W 
would consider leaving his job when aged 55, so this shows this certainly wasnt an essential 
requirement or a need. Achieving so-called income flexibility therefore had to be considered 
against the wider and substantial risks of giving up DB pension benefits which I think Mr W 
would have needed in later life, given his and Mrs Ws circumstances.
Mr Ws health also wasnt so bad as to mean he ought to confront the real possibility of an 
imminent or early death. And as Ive said, although there was an underlying case suggested 
for Mr W wanting to use some money to go on holiday while he felt Mrs W still could, this 
didnt justify leaving the DB scheme as he already had savings and also access to two DC 
pensions from where money could be shortly removed.  
Taking control
Quilter said that by transferring away from his DB scheme, this would enable Mr W to take 
control of his pension funds. It also said hed be able to amalgamate his pension(s) for ease 
of administration. 
The reality here was that Mr W had little investment experience. Its true to say he had two 
DC schemes which involved the purchase of money market funds. But the evidence is that 
these were most likely off the shelf investment strategies as part of work-related schemes. 
Ive seen nothing genuinely showing that Mr W had any desire or capacity to manage his 
own pensions or investments at all. He had no personal investments outside a pension at 
the time and theres no evidence he had any past experience on this scale to call upon. So 
what Ive seen from this case is that Mr W would always need help with investing. And I think 
the size and complexity of his combined funds would have meant ongoing financial advice 
was required. Mr Ws DB scheme was managed for him through trustees and as Ill explain 
more about later, the DC schemes he had seemed to have relatively low charges. 
As for amalgamating his schemes, overall this is a somewhat trivial reason to transfer and it 
certainly should not have influenced the exiting from his DB element in any way. But we 
know he still had one DC scheme still outside this arrangement, so in effect he wasnt even 
amalgamating all his schemes anyway. Overall, I think saying that Mr W wanted to exercise 
control of his pension funds going forward was no more than a stock objective used to add 
weight to the recommendation to transfer away.
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension were likely an attractive feature to Mr W. Hed already expressed 
fears that his DB pension might be lost if he died. But whilst I appreciate death benefits are 
important to consumers, and Mr W might have thought it was a good idea to transfer his DB 
scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to advise him about 
what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide 
income in retirement. And I dont think Quilter explored to what extent Mr W was prepared to 
accept a different retirement income in exchange for higher death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr W 
was married and so the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme would have been 
useful to Mrs W if Mr W predeceased her. Whilst still a deferred member and before retiring, 
a dependants lump-sum would be payable; and once in retirement a pension for her life 
would have been payable. I dont think Quilter made the value of this benefit clear enough and we know Mrs W herself had no prospect of working and no apparent pension of her own 
other than a possible state pension at 67. So a spouses DB pension in this case would have 
been of great use to Mrs W and a high priority for them both, if properly explained. This 
pension was also guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on investment 
performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. 
Also, whilst its true to say that the full amount left in a personal pension could be passed on 
tax-free to a nominee if Mr W died, there may not have been a large sum left in the fund 
anyway particularly if Mr W lived a long life. If he also started accessing the fund as early as 
55, fund exhaustion could be said to be an even greater risk. In any event, Quilter should not 
have encouraged Mr W to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a personal 
pension over his security in retirement. Furthermore, if Mr W genuinely wanted to leave a 
legacy for his wife, or indeed anyone else, he still had his two DC pensions which, if he died 
early in retirement for example, would have ensured his whole pension provision didnt just 
die with him. 
Other issues
Quilter made a number of points which it says supports that it was acting in Mr Ws best 
interests. It says, for instance, that it was Mr W himself who chased the adviser, the 
implication here being that Mr W really wanted to transfer his DB scheme to get at the 
money. Quilter also disagreed with our investigator when they said that they thought if 
advised more suitably, to not transfer away, Mr W would have kept his DB pension where it 
was. Quilter also highlighted what he went on to do after the transfer, which included 
accessing lump-sum amounts. It says this proves he needed money.
Ive given these, and all the other matters raised by Quilter, a great deal of thought. Ive 
nevertheless focussed on issues I consider relevant to my decision.
The first point Id make is that it was Quilter which was the regulated party here. It was 
charging a significant amount for advice and Mr W, an inexperienced investor with only basic 
pensions knowledge, had every right to expect that he would be guided and advised by 
someone who had professional industry experience in these matters. Mr W may well have 
entered the process with all sorts of ideas and aspirations. But Quilter was the regulated 
adviser here  and it still recommended that he transfer away from his DB scheme. I think 
that advice was substantially flawed.
Mr W may also have gone on to do all sorts of things with his money after the transfer. But 
again, the only reason hes been able to do this, for the DB element, is because Quilter 
wrongly advised him. He was given unsuitable advice which released around £178,982 
which would not have been otherwise available. Quilter is responsible for the unsuitable 
advice which allowed this to happen.
Finally, I dont agree with Quilter that Mr W would have simply gone to another adviser if it 
had recommended that he shouldnt transfer. Of course, Quilter didnt recommend this, it 
gave him unsuitable advice to leave his DB scheme. But I very much doubt he would have 
sought out another adviser anyway. According to information form the time, Quilters fees 
were several thousand pounds. Im afraid I find it implausible that Mr W would have wanted 
to spend a similar amount with another adviser for similar advice. As Ive said, he was also 
very inexperienced in these matters and there were other options the adviser seemed to just 
fail to grasp. Therefore, if explained properly, I think Mr W would have embraced these other 
options.
The DC scheme transfer adviceMr W also complained his DC pension was transferred, he says this was unsuitable for him 
and has caused him a financial loss. As Ive said, this pension originated from the same 
employment and it succeeded the DB scheme which closed. 
This pension plan had a transfer value of around £39,832. Its basic annual management 
charge was 0.1% and it was invested in a Global Equity Lifestyle Option. There was no 
penalty for transferring.
 
Quilter hasnt sent us a comparison report, showing how this plan compared to the 
recommended plan with the new proposed provider, or with others. The suitability report said 
that the reasons Quilter recommended the transfer of this pension were to consolidate his 
plans for ease of administration and access, to have a wider range of investment options, 
than available his existing DC scheme.
I agree with our investigator who said that the existing Global Equity Lifestyle Option wasnt 
unsuitable for Mr W. The suitability report also acknowledges that the charges of the 
recommended personal pension were higher and the new plan would need to see additional 
growth of 0.3% each year to achieve the same result. And as Ive said early, Mr W wasnt 
consolidating all his pensions anyway because there was a DC which still remained outside 
this new proposed arrangement.
 
Based on what Ive seen, Im not persuaded that transferring this DC pension was suitable 
for Mr W. He was already in a plan which had low charges and the ones relating to the 
recommended scheme were higher. For these reasons, Im also upholding this part of his 
complaint.
Suitability of investments
Quilter recommended that upon transferring DB pension element, Mr W invest in certain 
funds. As Im upholding his complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme 
wasnt suitable, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment 
recommendation. This is because Mr W should have been advised to remain in the DB 
scheme and so the investments in the funds wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been 
given.
Summary
In this decision Ive first explained about Mr Ws DB pension. In my view the reasons given in 
support of transferring this to a personal plan were flawed and based substantially on a view 
of possible bleak future events that lacked any real evidence.
The critical rates were high and quite clearly not achievable and so there was every reason 
to suppose that transferring away from the DB scheme would leave Mr W with lower benefits 
at retirement. 
In my view, Mr and Mrs W were a couple who did not require a flexible income. I think the 
opposite was true and the transfer recommendation put them both at risk of an uncertain 
retirement. I think the loss of death benefits was a particular failure as Mrs W had no pension 
of her own and was unable to generate an income. In any event, the adviser failed to 
recognise the obvious flexibility that Mr Ws overall pensions already had anyway. The 
advice, in my view, was largely based on stock objectives designed to add weight to the 
advice to leave the DB scheme, rather than based on the real evidence which was much 
more supportive of Mr W leaving the pension exactly where it was.Quilter makes the case that it was Mr W who pressed for the transfer. However, in my view, 
this is to abrogate its responsibility. Quilter was being paid a significant amount for this 
advice and its job was to provide advice which was in Mr Ws interests. It advised him to 
transfer away from his DB scheme  and that advice was clearly unsuitable.
As for also transferring one of his DC schemes to the same new personal pension plan. All 
this really did was to incur further charges for Mr W. The rationale for this advice was 
unclear. Quilter says it was amalgamating his pensions, but this wasnt exactly the case, as 
he still had another in a different scheme.
I think Quilter ought to have advised him against transferring out of his DB scheme. I also 
think it was wrong to recommend a transfer of the DC scheme to another provider. 
 
In light of the above, I think Quilter should compensate Mr W for the unsuitable advice. For 
the DB element, it should use the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress 
methodology. For the DC element, I explain below what Quilter needs to do.
Putting things right
1. The DB scheme
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr W, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr W would 
have most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been 
given. 
Quilter must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ws 
acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Quilter should:
always calculate and offer Mr W redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr W before starting the redress calculation that:
- the redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr W receives could be augmented rather than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr W accepts Quilters offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr W for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ws end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr W as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Quilter may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Ws likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
2. The DC scheme - fair compensation
My aim is that Mr W should be put as closely as possible into the position he would 
probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr W would have remained with his previous provider, however I 
cannot be certain that a value will be obtainable for what the previous policy would have 
been worth. I am satisfied what I have set out below is fair and reasonable, taking this into 
account and given Mr W's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Quilter do?
To compensate Mr W fairly, Quilter must:
Compare the performance of Mr W's investment with the notional value if it had 
remained with the previous provider. If the actual value is greater than the notional 
value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual 
value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
Quilter should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Quilter should pay into Mr W's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount 
of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Quilter is unable to pay the total amount into Mr W's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr W wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr W's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
For example, if Mr W is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr W would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Quilter deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr W how much has been taken off. Quilter should give Mr W a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr W asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio name Status Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Royal London 
Pension PlanStill exists and 
liquidNotional value 
from previous 
providerDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr W's investment had it remained with the previous provider until the 
end date. Quilter should request that the previous provider calculate this value.
Any withdrawal from the Royal London Pension Plan should be deducted from the notional 
value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Quilter totals all those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end to determine the notional value instead of deducting periodically.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, Quilter will need to 
determine a fair value for Mr W's investment instead, using this benchmark: For half the 
investment: FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index; for the other half: 
average rate from fixed rate bonds. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of 
a fair value using the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the 
calculation of compensation.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:Mr W wanted Capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
measure below is appropriate.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr W's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr W into that position. It does not mean that Mr 
W would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind 
of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return Mr W could have obtained from investments suited 
to his objective and risk attitude.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and I direct Quilter Financial 
Limited to pay Mr W the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Quilter Financial Limited pays Mr W the balance. If Mr W accepts this decision, the money 
award becomes binding on Quilter Financial Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr W can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr W may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman