DRN-2719030
The complaint
Mr R and Mr R, a father and son, complain that a car that was supplied to them under a 
conditional sale agreement with Close Brothers Limited, trading as Close Brothers Motor 
Finance, wasnt of satisfactory quality. Mr R, the son - whos been using the car, is dealing 
with the complaint on their behalf.
What happened
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr R 
and Mr R and to Close Brothers on 12 February 2021. In my provisional decision I set out 
what had happened as follows:
A used car was supplied to Mr R and Mr R under a conditional sale agreement with 
Close Brothers that they electronically signed in October 2018. Mr R contacted Close 
Brothers in April 2019 and said that hed spent £3,500 on repairs to the car but it 
remained unusable as there were further defects with the gearbox which needed to 
be rectified. He wrote to it the following month and said that the repairs had been 
completed at a total cost of £4,269.26 and he would accept £2,134.63 from Close 
Brothers as a reasonable contribution to those costs.
It said that it hadnt been provided with evidence to show that there were faults with 
the car when it was supplied so wouldnt contribute to the repair costs. Mr R wasnt 
satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
Our investigator recommended that Close Brothers should cover the cost of the 
repairs for the engine, gearbox and part of the labour cost, which would cover 50% of 
the total repair costs  but he didnt believe that it should be liable for all of the 
unauthorised repair costs. 
Close Brothers has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It 
says that: Mr R hadnt complained to the dealer about any issues with the car; the car 
has been driven for more than 10,000 since it was supplied; the repairs have been 
completed without authorisation from it so any issues with the car cant be inspected; 
and theres no evidence to show that the car was faulty when it was supplied. Its 
also provided evidence to show that the car may have been performance tuned and 
evidence from Mr Rs social media accounts showing him using the car for racing.
And my findings were that:
Close Brothers, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied - whether or not it was of satisfactory quality 
at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age and mileage of the 
car and the price that was paid for it. Satisfactory quality also covers durability which 
means that the components within the car must be durable and last a reasonable 
amount of time  but exactly how long that time is will also depend on a number of 
factors.
The car that was supplied to Mr R and Mr R was about four and a half years old, had 
been driven for 46,000 miles and had a price of £9,595. Ive seen no evidence to 
show that Mr R complained to the dealer or Close Brothers about any issues with the 
car until he contacted it in April 2019  nearly six months after the car had been 
supplied. Hes provided invoices for various repairs to the car which he says cost a 
total of £4,269.26.
An invoice for an engine repair in April 2019 shows that the cars mileage at that time 
was 56,263 miles and an invoice for a gearbox repair later that month show that the 
cars mileage was 56,785 miles. So in about six months Mr R had been able to drive 
more than 10,000 miles in the car.
He didnt contact Close Brothers about the repairs until most of them had been 
completed and hes provided no independent evidence to show that there were faults 
with the car that were present when the car was supplied. And because the repairs 
have been made, an independent inspection now is unlikely to be able to determine 
whether there were any faults with the car and, if so, whether the faults would have 
been present when the car was supplied.
Close Brothers has also provided evidence to show that the car may have been 
performance tuned and evidence from Mr Rs social media accounts showing him 
using the car for racing. It says that the extreme usage of the car, combined with the 
mileage covered, is likely to have caused the issues with the car that Mr R has paid 
to have repaired.
Having considered all of the information thats been provided, Im not persuaded that 
theres enough evidence to show that the car was faulty when it was supplied or that 
it wasnt of satisfactory quality at that time. So I find that it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable for me to require Close Brothers to reimburse Mr R for any of the repair 
costs that hes incurred, to pay him any compensation or to take any other action in 
response to this complaint.
So, subject to any further representations by Mr R, Mr R or Close Brothers, my provisional 
decision was that I wasnt minded to uphold this complaint.
Mr R (the father) has responded to my provisional decision and says that there were iron 
filings in the engine oil, which proved that it had been sold with a very dubious engine, and 
that led to a series of faults including with the gearbox and clutch. He says that the 
accusation that his son used it to race is completely untrue. He says that his son had to 
press ahead with the repairs as he couldnt take the car back to the dealer and he needed it 
to get back and forth to work. He also says that the dealer failed to reply to any 
correspondence which he thinks shows that it was guilty of mis-selling the car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded that I should change my provisional decision for these 
reasons:
Ive seen no evidence to show that Mr R complained to the dealer or Close Brothers 
about any issues with the car until he contacted Close Brothers in April 2019  nearly 
six months after the car had been supplied to him;
in about six months Mr R had been able to drive more than 10,000 miles in the car;he didnt contact Close Brothers about the repairs until most of them had been 
completed and hes provided no independent evidence to show that there were faults 
with the car that were present when the car was supplied;
Close Brothers has re-sent evidence from Mr Rs social media account which it says 
shows him using the car for racing  but Ive not been able to view it since my 
provisional decision because of technology compatibility issues  but even if he 
hasnt used the car for racing my decision would still be that this complaint shouldnt 
be upheld;
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the car was faulty when 
it was supplied or that it wasnt of satisfactory quality at that time; and
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require Close Brothers to 
reimburse Mr R for any of the repair costs that hes incurred, to pay him any 
compensation or to take any other action in response to this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I don t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 July 2021.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman