DRN-4144877
The complaint
Mrs C has complained about Lloyds Insurance Company SAs decision to reject a claim she 
made under her overseas holiday home and buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs C made a claim for damage she says was caused by a neighbour to her holiday home. 
Her insurer Lloyds rejected the claim as it said no insured event had occurred. 
Mrs C says the claim should be met under malicious damage. She says the neighbour is 
responsible for damage caused when they took down a lean to which was attached to her 
holiday home and caused damage. 
Lloyds didnt uphold Mrs Cs complaint and so she brought the complaint to us. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. She didnt find evidence 
of malicious damage caused by the neighbour. So as no insured event occurred, she didnt 
think Lloyds had acted unreasonably. 
Mrs C didnt agree and so she wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Cs policy provides cover for specified insured events such as flood, fire or theft. It 
doesnt provide cover for every eventuality. 
When Mrs C made her claim, Lloyds instructed a surveyor to attend. This happened while 
Mrs C was at the holiday home. The surveyor reported that at least part of the guttering 
claimed to have been removed by the neighbour wasnt attached to Mrs Cs property before 
the works by the neighbour began. This was supported by available online images of the 
properties. And the surveyor said some of the damage may have been pre-existing. As there 
was no evidence of malicious damage, Lloyds didnt find that the damage being claimed for 
was covered under the policy. 
I understand Mrs C doesnt agree. But I havent seen evidence of equal weight to contradict 
the professional opinion of the surveyor. So I dont think Lloyds acted unreasonably in 
choosing to rely on that opinion when reaching its decision to decline the claim. 
Mrs C says the neighbour maliciously damaged her holiday home. Lloyds provides cover for 
malicious persons or vandals. It doesnt provide a specific definition for this , so our 
approach is to consider the damage as malicious if the person who damaged the property 
intended to do harm. If the property was damaged accidentally, through neglect or poor 
maintenance, we wouldnt usually consider this to be malicious.
I understand that Mrs C didnt know the neighbour, who recently purchased the property next 
door and was carrying out renovation works to it. Mrs C says the neighbour took down the 
lean to barns in doing so. 
However, there isnt sufficient evidence to prove that the damage being claimed for was 
caused maliciously as there isnt evidence there was a deliberate or malicious intent to 
cause (the damage). 
I appreciate Mrs Cs strength of feeling and the upset and worry dealing with the issue is 
causing. But I cant say that Lloyds is responsible for the consequences of the neighbours 
actions. I dont find that the policy provides cover for the circumstances Mrs C has described 
- and the information provided doesnt support a claim under the policy. 
I understand Mrs C will be very disappointed with my decision. But I dont think Lloyds has 
acted unreasonably in declining the claim. This means Im not asking it to do any more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman