DRN-3847952
The complaint
Mr L complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank declined his 
chargeback request.
What happened
Mr L arranged for builders to visit a property he was in the process of purchasing to provide 
quotes for work which Mr L wanted done. He paid the builders using his Tesco credit card.
The builders arranged to collect the key to the property from the estate agent. The estate 
agents provided the wrong key and the builders werent able to gain access to the property.
The builders provided a quote based on what they had been able to do from the outside of 
the property. They werent able to quote for any inside work. Mr L was charged the full 
callout fee.
Mr L contacted Tesco to request a chargeback claim. He felt that the builders shouldve 
contacted the estate agents to obtain the correct keys.
Tesco declined the request for a chargeback. It said there had been no breach of contract by 
the builders. It also reviewed the claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
but found that there was no evidence of breach of contract or misrepresentation.
Mr L was unhappy with the response and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that Tesco was correct to conclude that 
there had been no breach of contract and that there was no claim under chargeback or 
section 75.
Mr L disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme. How it works is that the card issuer (in this case Tesco) 
checks the complaint against possible chargeback reasons. This is so it can decide whether 
or not it can make a successful claim for the customer. Card issuers dont have to submit 
chargeback claims, and they will only do so it they believe the claim has a reasonable 
chance of success. This service expects card issuers to help if they can, but we dont expect 
them to raise a chargeback claim if there is little prospect of success.
Ive looked at Mr Ls request to raise a chargeback to decide whether Tesco acted 
reasonably when it refused to raise a chargeback.
There are a number of possible chargeback reasons. These include (amongst others) 
goods/services not being provided in a timely manner, goods damaged or defective, or 
incorrect amount charged. None of the reasons for a chargeback fit the circumstances of Mr 
Ls complaint. So I cant say that there is a valid reason for a chargeback. 
Mr Ls complaint about the builders is essentially one of poor service. I dont disagree with 
Mr L when he says that the builders couldve done more  for instance , by contacting the 
estate agents to see if the correct keys could be dropped off at the property, or by returning 
to the estate agents to collect the correct keys. But poor service isnt a reason for a 
chargeback.
Based on the information that was available to Tesco, I dont think it acted unfairly by not 
processing a chargeback claim. Taking into account what happened, it was unlikely, in my 
view, that any chargeback claim wouldve been successful.
I can see that Tesco has also considered whether there might be a claim under section 75. 
Ive looked at whether Tesco has acted reasonably here.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer a right to claim against a supplier of 
goods or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. 
In order to uphold Mr Ls complaint, I would need to be satisfied that theres been a breach 
of contract or a misrepresentation and that Tescos response wasnt fair or reasonable.
Ive looked at all the evidence to determine whether theres been a breach of contract. The 
builders terms and conditions state that it is Mr Ls responsibility to provide access. The fact 
that the estate agent provided the incorrect keys, and/or the builders failure to take steps to 
obtain the correct keys, doesnt amount to a breach of contract by the builders. I cant hold 
the builders  or Tesco  responsible for failing to do something that they werent 
contractually obliged to do.
Taking everything into account, I dont think Tesco acted unfairly or unreasonably when it 
declined the chargeback claim and the section 75 claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman