DRN-3775143
The complaint
Mr S complains Scottish Widows Limited unreasonably delayed the process when he 
claimed his pension under early ill health provision, which led to him receiving less tax-free 
cash than he expected.
What happened
Mr S, who was 53 at the relevant time, had a personal pension policy with Scottish Widows 
Limited. 
Unfortunately Mr S was involved in an accident and sustained severe injuries, which meant 
he was unable to work. So in July 2021 he asked Scottish Widows about releasing a tax-free 
lump sum from his pension under Early Ill Health (EIH) provision, which would enable him 
to access his pension prior to the minimum age of 55.
Scottish Widows sent out the form for completion by Mr S and his doctor, to confirm his 
eligibility for EIH. On 1 August 2021 Mr S was sent an options pack which included a policy 
valuation of just over £80,085, based on retirement at age 55 in 2023. The form was 
returned by Mr Ss GP in early September 2021, which then had to be assessed by Scottish 
Widows underwriters to determine if he was eligible for EIH. Once the claim for EIH was 
accepted, Mr S needed to complete the customer retirement journey process to decide 
how to take his benefits, which is usually conducted in two telephone appointments. 
Mr S was unhappy at how long what he thought would be a straightforward process was 
taking. He called Scottish Widows multiple times to chase progress or query what was 
happening. In some of these calls Mr S took out his frustration on Scottish Widows staff, to 
the point of rudeness which caused distress, and he raised several complaints about the 
service. To minimise telephone contact, Scottish Widows adopted the manual process and 
sent the options pack to Mr S to complete and return, but nothing could happen until his 
signed instructions were received. But Mr S found the forms confusing and didnt understand 
why Scottish Widows wouldnt accept his instructions by email or phone. Eventually a 
complaint handler decided to revert to the telephone process and conducted the initial phone 
call on 28 September. The follow-up appointment took place on 5 October 2021, after which 
the policy was put into drawdown to enable the TFC sum to be released. 
But by then the policy had fallen in value to £76,095, reducing the amount of TFC Mr S 
received. Mr S complained as he holds Scottish Widows responsible for his loss, which he 
said couldve been avoided if Scottish Widows had acted more quickly. 
Scottish Widows didnt uphold the complaint. It said the forms had at least twice been sent to 
Mr Ss correct address, the value of his plan wasnt guaranteed, it hadnt deliberately 
delayed the process, which was completed within a reasonable timescale, and Mr Ss 
communication with its staff had been unacceptable. 
In October 2021 Mr S referred his complaint to this service, saying Scottish Widows should 
honour the higher valuation. One of our investigators looked into the complaint and upheld it. 
He said Scottish Widows wasnt responsible for any delays prior to 6 September, when the 
information was received from Mr Ss doctor. But as Scottish Widows had completed the 
telephone process on 5 October, he thought it couldve done that sooner. So he said 
Scottish Widows should compare the value of Mr Ss policy on 5 October with that on 20 
September, the date he suggested the process could have concluded. And if this showed a 
loss to pay that to Mr S with interest. And in addition he recommended Scottish Widows pay 
Mr S £250 for the inconvenience hed experienced. 
Scottish Widows agreed to carry out the comparison, but found the policy had a lower value 
on 20 September, so the delay to 5 October hadnt caused Mr S a financial loss. And it 
wasnt happy to pay compensation, due to Mr Ss manner during calls. But to settle the 
complaint it sent Mr S a cheque for £250. 
Mr S originally accepted the outcome but didnt accept the redress calculation showed no 
loss. He thinks Scottish Widows should honour the August 2021 valuation, which is higher. 
So the case has come to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the difficult situation Mr S finds himself in after a serious, life-changing 
accident. And the financial impact of being forced to stop work several years earlier than he 
likely intended. 
Scottish Widows defines EIH as A customer who is no longer able to work due to ill health 
and is not yet 55. The process involved two steps. First Mr S (and his doctor), had to 
provide evidence to demonstrate his eligibility for EIH. And once that had been agreed, he 
had to complete the retirement journey process, to indicate how he wished to take his 
benefits. I appreciate once Mr S found he could access his pension under the EIH 
procedure, hed want it to be completed as quickly as possible. 
Scottish Widows sent the EIH forms out promptly on 7 July 2021, but the completed medical 
section wasnt received back from Mr Ss GP until 6 September, despite Scottish Widows 
chasing the surgery on a number of occasions. I also understand, exceptionally Scottish 
Widows paid the GPs fee for completing the form, as Mr S was unhappy at being charged. 
The completed forms were submitted to Scottish Widows underwriting team on 8 September 
2021, and its process guide states it can take up to 10 working days to be picked up. Its not 
clear from the timeline of events when the claim was agreed by the underwriters. But like our 
investigator, I dont think Scottish Widows delayed the process to this point. 
I think Mr S was under the impression that once Scottish Widows had accepted his claim for 
EIH, hed just receive the money, as hed said from the outset he didnt need an income from 
his pension, he just needed the 25% TFC to alleviate his financial situation. But once 
eligibility was confirmed, Mr S was told he couldnt simply withdraw the TFC, his policy would 
be transferred to a retirement account, and hed then have to decide how to access his 
benefits. A pensions purpose is to provide an income throughout retirement, so the decision 
is a serious one. Scottish Widows has a regulatory obligation to explain to Mr S his options 
and the benefits and risks of each one, to enable him to make an informed choice. 
Scottish Widows Retirement Journey Framework would usually be conducted in two phone 
calls with an appropriately trained member of staff. But because calls were proving difficult, 
Scottish Widows sent the retirement pack and supporting literature (an illustration showing his TFC entitlement, Flexi-Access Drawdown Request, an investment guide and Your Quick 
Guide to Pensions and Investments) by post, so he could read the information and 
complete the paperwork at his own pace. The manual process is used for customers who 
cant use (for example due to hearing impairment), or who refuse to engage with the 
Retirement Hub process. 
Mr S found the paperwork confusing and as hed said he wanted to take TFC, he thought 
Scottish Widows should just send him one form to complete or accept his instructions by 
email. But Scottish Widows said it was obliged to provide all his options, but Mr S just 
needed to sign and return the form for the one he wanted. While Mr F was frustrated at the 
lack of progress, Scottish Widows was unable to proceed without his signed instructions. 
I can see Scottish Widows sent out the retirement pack on 8 September 2021 to Mr Ss 
correct address, and he was told to expect it by the end of the week. When it didnt arrive by 
10 September, Mr S called and was told it was in the post. Due to the personal information 
they contain, retirement packs cant be emailed, unless in encrypted format, which Mr S 
couldnt access. And he didnt want to use the Retirement Hub, so he was told to wait for the 
forms. From the call notes and recordings, its clear the calls (41 in total), were often difficult 
to handle. Mr S was frustrated by the cost of long waiting times, being unable to speak to the 
right person, and he sometimes got through to the wrong department (Scottish Widows is 
part of a wider banking group with many products and brands), which meant those areas 
werent able to help him. He raised several complaints about the service he received. 
Finally on 28 September 2021, a complaint handler took ownership of the situation, called Mr 
S, and successfully conducted the first stage of the retirement journey process, which 
involved asking him a number of structured questions. The second call took place on 5 
October, which was the date used to calculate the value of Mr Ss policy, which was just over 
£76,095. Ive seen nothing to suggest Scottish Widows is responsible for the forms not 
reaching Mr S when they were posted, as they were sent first class to the correct address. 
And Im mindful he received the 1 August 2021 pack which was sent to the same address. 
But while I understand Scottish Widows reluctance to engage with Mr S by phone, a 
complaint handler was able to carry out the first call with Mr S on 28 September 2021. So I 
think the retirement journey process couldve been instigated on 13 September, when Mr S 
called to explain the forms sent the previous week hadnt arrived and emailing them wasnt a 
workable alternative. I dont think Mr S shouldve needed to raise multiple complaints for 
Scottish Widows to identify a solution, given it had already acknowledged his vulnerability. 
Its reasonable to say the second call would be a week later, so I agree with the investigator, 
the process couldve concluded on 20 September 2021. 
Had this happened, although Mr S wouldve received his funds two weeks earlier, he 
wouldnt be better off. Scottish Widows followed the investigators instructions and compared 
the value of Mr Ss policy on 5 October (£76,095) with what it wouldve been worth on 20 
September 2021 (£71,382), so the difference of around £4,713 wouldve meant Mr S 
receiving around £1,178 less in TFC. I appreciate Mr S was expecting the final figure to be in 
line with the 1 August policy valuation of just over £80,085, which was an illustration and not 
guaranteed, although the copy letter Ive seen doesnt explicitly say this. Such warnings 
were included in the illustrations sent out on 8 and 23 September which Mr S didnt receive. 
But Mr S has been told policy values can fluctuate, and also that it wasnt possible to ensure 
the calculation was done when the policy exceeded £80,000. Mr S may have experienced a 
loss of expectation, but Im satisfied no matter how quickly the process concluded, he 
wouldnt have been entitled to the 1 August valuation, as Scottish Widows didnt receive the 
medical information to confirm eligibility for EIH until 6 September. Im satisfied the 
calculations provided by Scottish Widows show the value of Mr Ss policy was lower on 20 
September, so the delay until 5 October 2021 didnt cause him a financial loss.So I just need to consider whether the compensation the investigator recommended is fair 
for the customer service Mr S received. Im aware Scottish Widows recognised Mr S was a 
vulnerable consumer due to his health and financial situation. And it did try and offer support 
and solutions, such as paying the GPs fee, offering a manager (Ms C) as a named point of 
contact, using email to communicate non-sensitive information, and permitting him to email a 
photo of the signed document if putting things in the post was difficult. But although Scottish 
Widows was aware of Mr Ss circumstances and what he wanted to do, it was constrained 
by its regulatory requirements that once EIH had been agreed, he still needed to go through 
the retirement journey process or sign and return the form.
Having listened to some recordings and read the notes, its clear the calls were often difficult 
to handle, and some wouldve upset the staff concerned.  Mr S found navigating the whole 
process frustrating, confusing and overwhelming. He mentioned at various points being 
unwell, disabled, stressed and finding things tough financially, but his comments were 
largely unacknowledged. He was understandably frustrated at repeating himself despite the 
extensive system notes, being asked for his policy number which hed already input into the 
keypad, and when he commented on the significant cost of lengthy wait times when calling 
from a mobile, the staff simply offered to raise a complaint about this. His manner was at 
times discourteous and impatient, and while I generally dont think call handlers should 
endure such behaviour, I think allowances should be made for Mr Ss circumstances. And 
his comments were often around how complex and unsympathetic the process felt at such a 
challenging time. So while he may not have been easy to deal with, I think its fair for 
Scottish Widows to pay Mr S £250, to acknowledge the process couldve been smoother, 
even though the delay didnt result in a financial loss. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. But Im satisfied the actions of Scottish Widows Limited didnt cause 
Mr S a financial loss. I understand Scottish Widows has already paid Mr S £250, which I 
think is reasonable to settle the complaint, so it doesnt need to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman