DRN-2486364
The complaint
Mr A complained that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) didnt pay enough to settle his home 
insurance claim. 
What happened
Mr A had a building and contents insurance policy with Aviva for a number of years. 
Between 2014 and 2016, Mr A submitted several buildings insurance claims to Aviva. Two of 
these were in relation to two separate thefts of lead from the roofs of bay windows at his 
home and the damage caused by subsequent water ingress. A third claim was made at the 
end of 2014 for storm damage to the roof of Mr As property and internal damage caused by 
water ingress. The internal damage was caused by a leak in the kitchen, coming from the 
pitched slate roof above the kitchen and a leak in the reception room, caused by water 
coming in around the chimney breast. In total, Mr A received in the region of £25,000 in 
relation to the three claims.  
Mr A submitted a claim to Aviva on 16 March 2019 and said his property had suffered storm 
damage the previous day. He reported water ingress through the ceiling in his kitchen and a 
leak coming through the chimney area in the front living room.
Aviva contacted Mr A on 18 March 2019 and told him it was making arrangements for its 
loss adjusters to conduct a roof survey, to establish the cause of the water ingress. The 
survey was carried out on 22 March 2019. Aviva also asked Mr A to provide evidence that 
he had work carried out on his property following the cash settlement made in 2015, as it 
had concerns that the current claim was for the same damage.  
Aviva contacted Mr A on 9 April 2019 and told him that, having inspected the roof, the loss 
adjusters said there is no sign of storm damage or other insurance related damage to the 
roof. Aviva turned down Mr As claim in relation to the damage to his roof, so Mr A 
complained.
Aviva responded to Mr As complaint on 18 April 2019. Aviva said its not unreasonable of it 
to ask for information to show that previous works on his home had been carried out, given 
that the new damage seems to be similar to the previous damage claimed, for which it made 
a cash settlement. Aviva also said the damage is consistent with maintenance issues and 
damage that has been happening over time and as such the damage is not an insured peril. 
Aviva said one of its surveyors would attend to review the internal damage so it could decide 
what damage it might cover, if the internal damage was consistent with a one off storm 
event. 
Mr A provided Aviva with photographs and two videos of the work that he said was carried 
out on his home following the claim three years ago. He said he thought this was sufficient 
evidence and he didnt think it was necessary to provide invoices. 
 
Aviva arranged for a surveyor to attend Mr As home on 11 June 2019. Mr A told the 
surveyor that repairs were carried out to the roof flashings and pointing following a claim 
three years previously. The surveyor said Mr A told him internal repairs had also been 
carried out, but the surveyor said he couldnt see evidence of that work. The surveyor 
concluded that the damage was of a long standing nature and in the absence of evidence to 
the contrary, he said a large percentage of the reinstatement works would predate the 
alleged storms in March 2019. Mr A again complained to Aviva. 
Aviva responded to Mr As complaint on 27 June 2019. It said its contractor attended Mr As 
home and said there was minimal damage caused under this claim. He said a lot of the 
internal damage was related to the previous claims. Aviva said although Mr A had sent 
through videos and pictures to back up that he had works carried out internally, it didnt feel 
there was enough evidence to confirm that all the internal works were carried out following 
the previous claim. It offered £1,000 as full and final settlement for the minimal damage 
caused on this occasion. 
Aviva said that if Mr A is able to provide it with invoices to show what work was carried out 
following the previous claim settlement, which it said Mr A has so far refused to do, then it 
would be willing to review this information and decide if a further settlement should be paid. 
Mr A was unhappy with what Aviva said and so complained to this service. He said he was 
upset that Aviva declined to cover his claim as storm damage. Mr A also said that the £1,000 
offered isnt reasonable, considering that traditional materials were used to redo the internal 
plasterwork. He also complained that Aviva said the damage relates to an earlier claim even 
though its been provided with photographs of work carried out. 
Our investigator looked into Mr As complaint. He said weather records for the date of the 
claim indicate there was a storm capable of causing damage at that time. He also said the 
surveyors found that the main roof had some problems with failed mortar and nail fatigue. In 
relation to the sloped kitchen roof, our investigator said Avivas surveyor said the roof 
appears to have some failing of the lead flashing which could cause water ingress, but didnt 
believe issues with either roof were related to storm damage. Our investigator agreed. 
Our investigator also looked at whether the offer of £1,000 made by Aviva in relation to the 
internal damage was fair. Mr A said this wasnt enough to cover repair costs, in part because 
he needs to use traditional methods to fix the damage. Our investigator said it wasnt 
necessary for Mr A to submit the previous repair invoices to Aviva, as he thought the photos 
were sufficient and show the previous repair work was completed.
Our investigator said Aviva should provide a more realistic offer to repair the damage evident 
in the reports and the video of the kitchen provided by Mr A, and taking into account how 
much it would cost Aviva to arrange for the repairs to be completed including using
traditional lime plaster methods.
Aviva did not agree with what our investigator said and so this has come to me for a 
decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on 8 December 2020 and said I didnt intend to uphold Mr As 
complaint because I thought Aviva acted fairly when it asked Mr A to provide documentation 
to confirm the exact details of the work carried out to his property following the earlier claims. 
I said I didnt intend to ask Aviva to take any further action in relation to Mr As claim until 
Mr A provided Aviva with all of the documentation it has requested. I gave both parties the 
opportunity to respond. 
Aviva did not respond. Mr A responded and didnt agree with the provisional decision for the 
following reasons: The investigator had already said the photographs provided by Mr A were sufficient.
The cost of previous claims is irrelevant to the present claim.
Avivas surveyor, who visited Mr As home on 11 June 2019, said there was no 
evidence of work carried out, and this is a fabrication and Mr A said he provided 
evidence of this. 
Mr A said the more recent photograph of the pitched kitchen roof, from Avivas 
survey in March 2019, makes it obvious the roof was redone, along with the lead 
flashing. Mr A also submitted a photograph of the roof that he took recently. 
The £1,000 was a non-prejudicial payment. There was no agreement that it was a full 
and final settlement.
Mr A said as Avivas argument relies on whether work was carried out or not, he 
would submit invoices he has for the materials that were used in carrying out the 
relevant works.
Im now in a position to make my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding this complaint. Ive taken into account the comments 
made by Mr A following my provisional decision, but they have not changed my decision. 
Ive first of all looked at whether Aviva acted fairly when it said there was no indication of 
storm damage caused to Mr As roof in March 2019. And Im satisfied it acted fairly. Ill 
explain why. 
I can see that investigations were carried out into whether a storm strong enough to have 
caused roof damage happened in the area where Mr A lives in March 2019. And it might well 
be the case that a storm happened at around the time of Mr As claim. However, the 
surveyors acting for Aviva said the damage to the roof was wear and tear and not storm 
damage. And Aviva are allowed to rely on information provided by experts, such as the 
surveyors. So, if the surveyors concluded that the damage to the main roof and the sloped 
kitchen roof was the result of failed mortar, nail fatigue and failed lead flashings, then Im 
satisfied that Aviva acted fairly when it declined the claim for storm damage on this basis.  
I know that Mr A doesnt agree and if he wants this looked at again then the next step is for 
him to make his own arrangements for a survey to be carried out on the damage to the roof. 
Mr A would need to fund this survey, but if it changes Avivas mind and results in Aviva 
accepting the storm damage claim, then I would expect Aviva to pay for the cost of the 
survey. And I can see that Aviva has already agreed to do this. 
Mr A also wasnt happy that the survey in March 2019 was carried out by attaching a camera 
to a pole and using that to take photographs of the roof and by using a drone to take higher 
level photographs. But I dont have any concerns about this as a way of inspecting the roof, 
as long as photographs are clear and provide enough detail to allow a full assessment of the 
claim to be carried out.
Mr A also submitted information about storms in his area at around the time of the claim. But 
I cant take this information into consideration. Having looked at the three news articles Mr A 
provided, I can see that they all refer to storms in early February 2019 and not in mid-March 
2019, so they dont provide us with any relevant information in relation to this claim. Aviva offered Mr A a cash settlement of £1,000 for damage to the interior of his home. Its 
not clear why it offered this, given that it doesnt think there was any storm related roof 
damage and that it is also keen to check whether the money paid out on a previous claim 
was used to carry out the required external and internal work. Nonetheless, Ive looked at 
whether Aviva acted fairly when it said it would not consider increasing the settlement 
amount, unless Mr A provided it with documentation showing that the work claimed for 
between 2014 and 2016 was carried out. 
Mr A initially objected to being asked to provide documentation in relation to work carried out 
after the previous claims. However, Im satisfied that Aviva made a reasonable request when 
it asked for this. The information is needed so that Aviva can be certain that the earlier 
claims and the current claim arent related incidents, to ensure it isnt covering the same 
claim twice. And, if the documentation shows that the current claim has arisen because the 
earlier repairs to the roof have failed, then it might be the case that its the contractor who 
carried out the work who is liable for the more recent damage. So Im satisfied Aviva acted 
fairly when it asked Mr A to provide the necessary documentation.  
I know that Mr A provided photographs and videos to Aviva to show that the work was 
carried out. And while these certainly show work being carried out on Mr As home, Im 
satisfied the documentation requested would provide the greater level of detail needed for 
Aviva to fully assess the claim. 
I say this because, having looked at the photographs, I think some of them are helpful in that 
they show, for instance, the work carried out on the kitchen ceiling  the bare kitchen beams 
suggest the old ceiling was taken down and other photographs show a new ceiling was put 
up. But other photographs are less helpful, in that they show that some work has been 
carried out but they dont show the extent of that work.
For instance, Mr A said the repairs carried out to his sloped kitchen pitched roof were that 
new battens and felt work were installed, the wall was repointed, the roof was taken up and 
re-laid and the flashing was replaced. When Mr A responded to the provisional decision he 
asked me to consider the photograph of the kitchen roof taken when Aviva surveyed his 
home in March 2019 and a more recent photograph taken by him, rather than the 
photograph of the roof Mr A submitted to this service in September 2019. So Ive done that. 
And I can see that the photograph taken in March 2019, as well as the more recent 
photograph, show that some work has undoubtedly been carried out on the roof  when its 
compared to the photo of the roof taken in 2015. 
I want to be clear here that I dont doubt Mr A has had work carried out on his home. What 
Im saying is that the photographs and videos dont show clearly enough exactly what work 
has been carried out and its fair for Aviva to ask for documentation that might provide it with 
the information it needs to fully assess the claim. 
So Im satisfied, having looked at the photographs and considered what each party has said, 
that it was reasonable for Aviva to ask Mr A to provide the necessary documentation to 
confirm the exact details of the work carried out to his property following the earlier claims. 
And so I dont intend to ask Aviva to take any further action in relation to Mr As claim until 
Mr A provides Aviva with the documentation it has requested. 
When Mr A responded to my provisional decision, he provided a number of invoices which 
he said relate to the earlier work carried out on his home. Ive arranged for these to be sent 
to Aviva. I know that Mr A would like this service to continue considering this issue. But this 
service doesnt assess claims. So the appropriate next step is for Aviva to examine this new 
information and reassess Mr As claim. If Mr A is unhappy with the outcome of the reassessment of his claim, then he can make a complaint to Aviva and this service in the 
usual way. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2021.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman