DRN-4040415
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained Shawbrook Bank Limited didnt fairly or reasonably deal with 
their claims under the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Although Mr and Mrs S are represented in their complaint by a third party, I will refer to them 
throughout for ease.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S first bought timeshare points in 2013. They made further purchases in 2014 
and 2015. They made regular use of their points. These points were supplied by a company, 
Ill refer to as D.
After being invited to a presentation in 2016, Mr and Mrs S bought an additional 12,000 
timeshare points from D for £13,200. Mr and Mrs S financed this purchase by taking out a 
fixed-sum loan agreement with Shawbrook for the full amount.
In 2017 and 2019 Mr and Mrs S made further purchases of 10,000 points in both years. 
These purchases were also paid for by further fixed-sum loan agreements with Shawbrook 
for £10,500 and £10,000.
In 2020 Mr and Mrs S submitted claims under sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 that the sale had been misrepresented and that they were subject to an unfair 
relationship. Shawbrook didnt respond within a reasonable time period, so Mr and Mrs S 
brought their complaint to the ombudsman service.
They remained dissatisfied with Shawbrooks response of May 2021 rejecting their claims. 
Our investigator reviewed the evidence provided by both Mr and Mrs S and Shawbrook. She 
didnt think D had treated Mr and Mrs S unfairly or misrepresented the sale to them. She 
also didnt think there was evidence to show the lending was unaffordable.
Mr and Mrs S remained unhappy and have asked an ombudsman to consider their 
complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 9 March 2023. Shawbrook accepted the outcome. 
Mr and Mrs Ss representatives made further comments:
They believed this complaint was mostly about upgrades and an unfair relationship 
under section 140A;
They argued not enough scrutiny had been applied to these factors within the 
provisional decision;
This included their analysis where they believed Ds articles of association would 
constitute unfair terms.
I now have all I need to complete my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as I did in my provisional decision. Ill 
explain why. Where relevant I refer to points made by Mr and Mrs Ss representatives.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about the 
merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances. 
I also take account of law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and standards, and 
codes of practice and good industry practice, when I make my decision.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 means that, in certain circumstances, if Mr and 
Mrs S paid for goods or services using certain types of credit (even in part), and there was a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of those goods or services, the 
creditor can also be held responsible. There are other conditions which need to be met but 
nothing specific which applies in Mr and Mrs Ss case.
Section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act allows a court to determine whether an unfair 
relationship exists between the creditor (Shawbrook in this case) and the debtor (Mr and 
Mrs S) because of any of the terms of the credit agreement or of any related agreement; the 
way the creditor has enforced their rights under the credit agreement; or any other thing 
done by (or on behalf of) the creditor before or after the making of the credit agreement. 
Mr and Mrs S paid for their timeshare points with D using fixed-sum credit agreements with 
Shawbrook. Its worth clarifying only a court has the power to decide whether the relationship 
between Mr and Mrs S and Shawbrook was unfair for the purpose of section 140A. But, as 
its relevant law, I have to consider it if it applies to the credit agreements taken out in 2016, 
2017 and 2019. 
Mr and Mrs S attended presentations with D in September 2016, 2017 and 2019. Whilst 
there they bought a further 12,000 points, followed by two lots of 10,000 points. Theyve said 
they were told these additional points would be suitable for them.
The main aspect of Mr and Mrs Ss claim is that the sales were misrepresented to them. 
They specifically say that:
They felt the sales were conducted in a high-pressure environment and lasted 
considerable periods of time.
They were told the points would buy them exclusivity and access to all the luxury 
accommodation within Ds portfolio.
These timeshare points should be considered as an investment.
They were told theyd be able to rent back their ownership to D which would enable 
them to receive £199 a week. If D achieved further sales from those arrangements, 
Mrs and Mrs D would get 5% of the sale (essentially commission).
The price of the timeshare points was available on that day alone engendering a sense of urgency in Mr and Mrs S.
Purchasing further points was the only way Mr and Mrs S could divest themselves of 
their existing points.
They only received a large pile of agreements in close-set print at the end of the 
presentation day and after theyd made a financial commitment to purchase the 
points;
They werent informed of the risks of this purchase. For example, non-payment of 
management fees could lead to foreclosure and the onerous lifetime liability they had 
until 2045. In the case of death, this liability would be passed to the beneficiaries of 
their estate.
In the evidence submitted by D theyve highlighted the rent back scheme Mr and Mrs S 
referred to was not available to them as they didnt buy fractional points. Whilst there was a 
scheme available to Mr and Mrs S, this was explained in the customer compliance 
statement, noted by them as read and accepted.
I note other points of concern were raised about the sale. Im not required to go through 
every aspect of Mr and Mrs Ss complaint in detail. I can assure them Ive considered all the 
points that have been raised, including the additional points made by their representatives 
following the provisional decision. However I have concentrated on the main aspects which 
impact the decision I am making. Its worth stating that Mr S has provided written testimony 
of his recollections of the sale which I have considered along with other evidence provided 
by Shawbrook and D.
Was the sale misrepresented to Mr and Mrs S?
When we consider cases of misrepresentation, we look at both whether the statements were 
made and whether they were false, and then whether this information was relied upon by Mr 
and Mrs S when deciding to purchase the timeshare points.
I have noted Mr Ss written testimony about what happened during the presentations. And I 
can see how he views what happened.
Initially in 2016 he says that they were led to believe the timeshare points available to buy at 
that time were at a reduced rate and available at that rate for one day only. D has provided 
information to confirm that because of market conditions their timeshare points were subject 
to quarterly price rises in 2016. It is therefore feasible that Mr and Mrs S may have paid a 
higher price if theyd bought the same number of points at a later date. But Ive seen 
insufficient evidence that Mr and Mrs S were told the points were only available to them at 
that price for that day only.
Mr S says they were continually being encouraged to buy more points so that theyd enjoy 
platinum or gold-level membership. I can see at all times Mr and Mrs S received the 
membership level they were purchasing and used timeshare points to buy holidays. They 
said they believed they had to buy better levels of membership to secure the availability at 
places they wished to stay. But theres no record of Mr and Mrs S contacting D to complain 
that they found holiday options limited or unavailable. Their tier of platinum membership 
gave them access to dedicated customer service which they didnt appear to ever use.
Mr and Mrs S have said they were told the only way to get rid of their existing points was to 
buy more. But I cant see how that would have influenced their thinking and their decision to 
buy more points. Mr and Mrs S were experienced in attending these presentations and clearly agreed to do so. If they were subject to misrepresentations in 2016 (or before), I find 
it difficult to understand why they continued to attend these in the future and continued to 
buy more points. I didnt find Mr Ss testimony specific or clear on this point.
I also have to balance the allegations about misrepresentation with the documentation that I 
know Mr and Mrs S saw. 
The written evidence shows D had an existing exit policy to allow members to release their 
points and any management charges. 
According to the evidence given to us by Shawbrook theres nothing to show Mr and Mrs S 
ever flagged this as a concern or enquired about the future of their membership. If theyd 
done so, I think its more than likely theyd have been informed about their relinquishment 
rights. 
I acknowledge the possibility that the information provision may not have been good enough 
during the session Mr and Mrs S attended. But Ive seen nothing to suggest the written 
evidence cannot be relied upon. 
In addition Mr and Mrs S believe they were misled about the benefit of the points theyd 
bought in 2016. Again there is limited testimony from Mr and Mrs S to substantiate these 
claims. And those claims arent supported by the point of sales documents.
Mr Ss written statement claims the earlier products were sold as investments, but he doesnt 
say the same about the later sales in 2016, 2017 and 2019. Id highlight here, as in other 
places, there are discrepancies between Mr Ss written statement and submissions made by 
his representative. The written documentation states clearly Mr and Mrs S confirmed the 
purchase of the timeshare points should not be considered as an investment. Their 
allegation that the timeshare points were described as an investment is therefore difficult to 
square with the disclaimer theyve both signed on different occasions. It may well have been 
the case that Mr and Mrs S were told this purchase would be a great investment in future 
holidays but theres no detailed information to suggest they would have been told this was a 
financial investment. 
Overall Im satisfied theres insufficient evidence D misrepresented the sales of points to Mr 
and Mrs S. Therefore I cant say this played an important role in Mr and Mrs S deciding to 
purchase these. I dont think Shawbrook acted unfairly in rejecting Mr and Mrs Ss section 75 
claim.
Was Mr and Mrs S subject to an unfair relationship with Shawbrook?
In Mr and Mrs Ss case, I have reviewed the contractual terms and whether the actions of D 
would lead a court to find the relationship was unfair. Im not persuaded a court would on this 
occasion.
Ive considered the testimony provided by Mr S that the sales meetings always lasted 
several hours. I note from their history of buying timeshare points since 2013 that they had 
regularly attended these sales presentations. They would have been fully aware of the 
tactics used within them, including the provision of free food and drinks. Ive also seen 
nothing to suggest Mr and Mrs S werent free to walk away at any time.
The evidence shows Mr and Mrs F made considerable use of their additional points 
throughout 2017 to 2019. Its certainly the case that the sites they visited were not exclusive 
to members alone. But I can see theyd visited resorts run by D prior to 2017. So I think its 
likely theyd have been well aware that D used some of its accommodation for marketing purposes and sold unused accommodation through booking websites. Ive not seen any 
evidence why this aspect alone would mean Mr and Mrs S were subject to an unfair 
relationship with Shawbrook. Ive seen nothing convincing to show they werent able to book 
the accommodation they wished when they wanted to.
Ive also considered the points Mr and Mrs S raised about not being provided with 
documentation until after theyd made a financial commitment. D provided us with 
information about the different stages within any presentation. I dont doubt that there was a 
large amount of information. Mr and Mrs S have shared this documentation with us for their 
three presentations and purchases in 2016, 2017 and 2019. But I think its fair to add Mr and 
Mrs S had been in this situation at least twice previously, so theyd have been very aware of 
what documentation to expect. I also note that a 14-day cooling-off period is explicitly 
referred to within the documentation. This one-pager was signed by Mr and Mrs S on all 
three occasions. They could have taken a few days to review the documentation after the 
presentation and raised any further enquiries or concerns. Ive seen nothing to suggest they 
ever did this.
I believe issues about management costs fall under whether an unfair relationship existed. 
But the point-of-sale information Ive seen confirms information about the management 
charges was provided. Specifically I believe Mr and Mrs S would have been aware that the 
more points they owned, the more theyd have paid overall in management costs. This would 
be a completely logical conclusion.
I dont think the fact that Shawbrook might have paid the supplier commission was 
incompatible with its role in the transaction. D wasnt acting as Mr and Mrs Ss agent but as 
the supplier of contractual rights they obtained under the purchase agreement. And, in 
relation to the loans, based on what Ive seen, it doesnt look like it was Ds role to make an 
impartial or disinterested recommendation or to give Mr and Mrs S advice or information on 
that basis. 
Ive considered the additional points Mr and Mrs Ss representative has provided to argue 
that they were subject to an unfair relationship. I note what the articles of association say 
about management charges, termination and cancellation of memberships. However Ive not 
been provided with sufficient evidence about how this directly impacted Mr and Mrs S so that 
I could say they could have been subject to an unfair relationship.
I therefore cant see any evidence of detriment given the nature of the allegations in question 
along with the facts and circumstances of this complaint. Overall I believe Shawbrook acted 
fairly in rejecting Mr and Mrs Ss claim under section 140A.
Unaffordable lending
Shawbrook has shown us they were able to consider aspects of Mr and Mrs Ss income and 
expenditure at the time they assessed their application for credit. There were no indicators 
from what they reviewed  including Mr and Mrs Ss income, as well as their potential 
outgoings  that Mr and Mrs S were unable to afford the additional financial commitments 
they took out in 2016, 2017 and 2019. 
The first loan was paid off in May 2017. The loan taken out in 2017 was paid off in May 
2018. 
As the first two loans were paid off within 12 months, Shawbrook felt this demonstrated Mr 
and Mrs Ss ability to borrow and repay which is why they were willing to lend for the third 
time in September 2019. I also note the monthly amount to repay was set at a lower amount 
than previous agreements.Mr and Mrs Ss representative says they were forced to re-mortgage their home to afford the 
loan repayments  and still have some finance outstanding. And it says this has adversely 
affected their mental health. However the written statement from Mr S doesnt confirm that. 
He says We paid off the other finance agreements by re-mortgaging our property. We felt 
that this was the only way to reduce interest payments. I understand he was unhappy with 
the interest rate on the loans but doesnt mention any adverse impact on their mental health. 
I accept his initial view that the additional finance may cause them to struggle but he goes on 
to confirm how their income has risen.
It's also the case that re-mortgaging isnt always an indicator of financial distress. It can be 
seen as a way of minimising interest payments overall which is what I believe Mr and Mrs S 
did.
Mr Ss written statement provided useful financial information showing how their income has 
risen over the last few years. And whilst I agree theyve spent a considerable sum on 
timeshare points over the course of three fixed-sum loans, I dont see that the lending itself 
was unaffordable. 
Ive therefore seen insufficient evidence to show this lending was unaffordable. 
Having considered all the evidence presented to our service, I wont be asking Shawbrook to 
do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint against 
Shawbrook Bank Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 June 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman