DRN-2200240
Complaint
Miss C has complained that Advancis Limited (trading as Buddy Loans) lent to her 
irresponsibly as it provided her with an unaffordable guarantor loan. 
  
Background
Buddy Loans provided Miss C with a loan of £5,000.00 in April 2016. This loan had an APR 
of 49.9%, a 60-month term and was secured by way of a guarantee and indemnity 
agreement. This all meant the total amount repayable of £11,810.09 was due to be repaid in 
first instalment of £156.77, followed by 58 payments of £197.62 and a final payment of 
£191.36.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and thought that Buddy Loans unfairly 
provided this loan as its checks ought to have alerted it to the fact that the lending was 
unsustainable for Miss C. Buddy Loans disagreed with our investigator and the case was 
passed to an ombudsman to review the complaint.
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Miss Cs complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Miss Cs complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did Buddy Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss C would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
o If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
o If not, would those checks have shown that Miss C wouldve been able to 
do so?
2. Did Buddy Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did Buddy Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that
Miss C would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
Buddy Loans provided this loan while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial
Conduct Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required Buddy Loans to
carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of Miss Cs ability to make the
repayments under this agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Buddy Loans had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Miss C. In practice this 
meant that Buddy Loans had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause 
Miss C undue difficulty or adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Buddy Loans to simply think about the likelihood of
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss C.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.
Were Buddy Loans checks reasonable and proportionate?
Buddy Loans says that it carried out an income and expenditure assessment with Miss C 
prior to providing her with this loan. It also carried out a credit check. Buddy Loans obtained 
a payslip from Miss C which confirmed her salary was around £1,400.00. It then worked out 
that Miss Cs monthly outgoings were £400. All of this left her with close to £1000 a month in 
disposable income which was more than enough to cover the payments to this loan. 
Ive carefully thought about what Buddy Loans has said but I have significant concerns about 
the rigour it applied to its affordability assessment. To explain, the credit check Buddy Loans 
carried out showed Miss C had an unsatisfied CCJ, 8 other defaulted accounts and a further 
delinquent account. Im concerned how Buddy Loans seems to have accepted at face value 
that Miss C had a monthly disposable income of approaching £1,000.00 a month, when the 
information on the credit search it carried out suggested otherwise. In these circumstances, Im satisfied that Buddy Loans checks posed a number of questions 
which meant that it would have been reasonable and proportionate for Buddy Loans to verify 
the income and expenditure Miss C provided to account for this clear mismatch between the 
calculated disposable income and what was showing on Miss Cs credit file.
 
Bearing all of this in mind, as Buddy Loans didnt take steps to verify Miss Cs income and 
expenditure and instead chose to rely on an over optimistic (and somewhat unrealistic) 
calculation of her monthly disposable income, I dont think that its checks before providing  
Miss C with this loan were reasonable and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to Buddy Loans that Miss C 
would have been unable to sustainably repay this loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided, 
I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely 
than not that a proportionate check would have told Buddy Loans that Miss C wouldve been 
unable to sustainably repay this loan. 
Miss C has now provided us with evidence of her financial circumstances at the time she 
applied for this loan. Of course, I accept different checks might show different things. And 
just because something shows up in the information Miss C has provided, it doesnt mean it 
wouldve shown up in any checks Buddy Loans mightve carried out. 
But in the absence of anything else from Buddy Loans showing what this information would 
have shown, I think its perfectly fair, reasonable and proportionate to place considerable 
weight on it as an indication of what Miss Cs financial circumstances were more likely than 
not to have been at the time. As Ive already explained, Buddy Loans was required to 
establish whether Miss C could sustainably make her loan repayments  not just whether the 
loan payments were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication that a 
consumer could sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that 
this is the case. And as a borrower shouldnt have to borrow further in order to make their 
payments, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, 
that a borrower wont be able to sustainably make their repayments if it is on notice that they 
are unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
The information Ive been provided with shows that Miss C was struggling to keep up with 
her substantial debts and that she was borrowing to make payments to other creditors. It my 
view, its abundantly clear that Miss Cs ability to make the payments to this loan was always 
going to result in her borrowing further. 
Im also particularly concerned that Buddy Loans decision to provide Miss C with a further 
£5,000.00 on these terms was substantially increasing her indebtedness in circumstances 
where the information obtained, from her credit history, showed a strong possibility Miss C 
would either default or borrow further this loan. And, in these circumstances, I dont 
understand how Buddy Loans failed to see that it would be increasing Miss Cs indebtedness 
in a way that was likely to be unsustainable otherwise harmful.
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would
more likely than not have demonstrated that Miss C would not have been able to make the
repayments to this loan. Equally I also find that Buddy Loans failed to take account of     
Miss Cs circumstances suggesting that Buddy Loans providing this loan would increase 
Miss Cs indebtedness in a way that was always likely to be unsustainable or otherwise harmful for her. So bearing everything in mind Im satisfied that Buddy Loans unfairly 
provided Miss C with her guarantor loan. 
Did Buddy Loans act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss C in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. And Ive not seen anything to suggest that 
Buddy Loans acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss C in some other way. So I dont 
think Buddy Loans acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss C in some other way.
Did Miss C lose out as a result of Buddy Loans unfairly providing her with this loan?
As Miss C paid, or is being expected to pay, a high amount of interest and charges on a loan 
that she shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that she has lost out as a result of 
what Buddy Loans did wrong. So I think that Buddy Loans needs to put things right.
  
Fair compensation  what Buddy Loans needs to do to put things right for Miss C
Having thought about everything, Buddy Loans should put things right for Miss C by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments made should be deducted from the new starting balance  the 
£5,000.00 originally lent. Buddy Loans should treat any payments made should 
the new starting balance be cleared as overpayments. And any overpayments 
should be refunded to Miss C;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Miss C to the date of settlement;
removing any adverse information recorded on Miss Cs credit file as a result of 
this loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Buddy Loans to take off tax from this interest. Buddy 
Loans must give Miss C a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for 
one.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Cs complaint. Advancis Limited needs to 
put things right in the way set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman