DRN-2441250
The complaint
Mr T says that Takepayments Limited (Takepayments)  formerly Payzone  mis-sold a 
payment terminal to him. Takepayments continue with the rental payments, even though Mr 
T has cancelled the terminal. 
What happened
Mr T says that the salesman who discussed the terminal with him in August 2019 didnt 
explain the rates to him. When Mr T received the terminal, he says that he called the 
salesman in order to cancel the agreement. Mr T says that the salesman confirmed that this 
was cancelled. However, Takepayments continued to incorrectly charge him. Mr T wants 
Takepayments to admit that they mis-sold this terminal to him. And he wants all the fees 
returned to him. 
Takepayments reviewed the details of this complaint and didnt uphold it. They say that all 
the relevant information was discussed at the point of sale. They say an email was sent to 
Mr T that confirms the order summary and which clearly explained the charges. 
Takepayments accepted Mr Ts notice to end the agreement on 2 November 2019 in line 
with their terms and conditions. This meant that the agreement would end in August 2020. 
As Mr T had cancelled his direct debit payments, Takepayments urged him to contact them 
in order to agree a repayment plan for the outstanding fees. 
Unhappy with the response, Mr T brought this matter to us. One of our investigators looked 
into his complaint and didnt uphold it. The investigator felt that the hire agreement that Mr T 
entered into explained the monthly charges. As Mr T used the terminal and tried to cancel 
the agreement after the cancellation period was over, Takepayments can continue to charge 
him the monthly rentals. 
Mr T wasnt happy with the investigators view and maintained that he was mis-sold the 
terminal. He explained that the terminal was installed in his absence and without his 
permission. He felt that the salesman was working on commission which is why the order 
wasnt cancelled. Mr T says that the terminal wasnt used by him; it was used by a member 
of his team. Mr T says that someone from Takepayments confirmed the agreement was 
cancelled and that he could ignore any letters about payments. 
Our investigator reviewed the additional information supplied by Mr T, but this didnt change 
their view. The investigator noted that Mr T cancelled the terminal after the cancellation 
period was over, and therefore, he is bound by the terms of the agreement. The investigator 
added that there was no evidence to suggest that the terminal was mis-sold. And as the 
owner of the business, it was Mr Ts responsibility to ensure that the terminal wasnt used.  
Mr T remains unhappy, so this matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about whether Takepayments mis-sold the terminal to Mr T by not explaining the 
monthly charges. Ive also thought about the cancellation terms, and about whether there is 
enough information to suggest that Takepayments have told Mr T that his terminal had been 
cancelled. 
information provided at point of sale
Ive spoken with Mr T, who told me that the salesman didnt explain what the monthly 
charges were. He says the salesman said that they were the cheapest company around and 
that he filled the form in very quickly, which Mr T signed. Takepayments hasnt provided a 
comparable statement from the salesman giving his recollections, and Ive no reason to think 
Mr Ts account is inaccurate. However, I can see that Takepayments sent Mr T a summary 
of what you have agreed to today and the hire agreement. He had the opportunity to review 
each document which included a breakdown of the charges. 
The hire agreement that Mr T entered into on 1 August 2019 was for a period of 12 months. 
The agreement states that there is a monthly payment of £20 for the terminal. The summary 
also explains that there is a monthly service charge with Barclaycard for £30. And a 
compliance care charge which is £35 annually and £4.80 each month. Im satisfied those 
charges were set out clearly, and the information provided to Mr T in good time such that it 
corrected any possible omission in the original sales meeting. Mr T has signed both 
documents. Its reasonable to conclude that he ought to have been aware of the charges he 
was agreeing to pay. I therefore dont conclude that the terminal was mis-sold to him. 
cancellation terms
Mr T had the opportunity to cancel the agreement in line with the signed terms and 
conditions. Under the Your Right to Cancel part of the agreement, it says you will have for 
a short time a right to cancel this agreement. You can do this by sending or taking written 
notice of cancellation [to Takepayments address].
The Consumer Credit Act, which regulates the hire agreement, says in Section 68 that this 
cancellation (or cooling-off) period is five days starting the day after receiving the 
agreement, and should operate irrespective of whether given in writing. Mr T says that he 
cancelled the terminal on 16 August by speaking to the salesman. Ive not seen anything 
else to demonstrate this, but even accepting what Mr T says, by his own evidence it wasnt 
within five days. This means that Mr T was already outside of the cooling-off period, and 
Takepayments was entitled to reject the cancellation.
 
use of the terminal
In light of what Ive already found, when determining whether the agreement should be 
cancelled, it doesnt really matter whether Mr T made use of the terminal. However, Im 
conscious that Mr T has questioned this point in his submissions. So, for the sake of 
completeness, I note the following.
The terminal was delivered to Mr Ts business premises on 19 August 2019 and installed the 
following day. So, it would seem Mr T had a further opportunity at that point to make his 
position clear, by refusing installation. However, I can see that 100 transactions were made 
using the terminal in August 2019 and 208 transactions the next month. This is inconsistent 
with exercising cancellation. As the goods and services have been used after cancellation, it 
undermines any cancellation right Mr T has. Under Your Right to Cancel, the agreement 
says If you have any goods under the agreement, you should not use them But the terminal was used  quite extensively. I dont accept Mr Ts contention that the terminal was 
installed without his agreement and used only by his employee(s). Mr T is the controller of 
his business and has responsibility for its day to day operations. If he takes a hands-off 
approach and delegates responsibility to his employees, then the consequences of that rest 
with him.
Im not persuaded that Takepayments have acted unfairly, from their point of view, the 
terminal was being used and the agreement was still active. Mr T ought to have known about 
the continued usage of the terminal as he owned his business. 
I appreciate Mr T told Takepayments that he wanted to cancel the agreement. But its clear 
he did so outside the given cancellation period. The hire has since been terminated due to 
non-payment. But based on the agreed terms, Takepayments appears entitled to seek from 
Mr T the balance of the remaining payments it could have expected to receive for the 
minimum 12-month hire term. It follows that I dont require Takepayments to do anything 
further to resolve the dispute.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Afroz Rasool
Ombudsman