DRN-2781133
The complaint
Mr S complains that Western Circle Ltd trading as Cashfloat was irresponsible in its lending 
to him.
What happened
Mr S was provided with two loans by Cashfloat one in March 2019 and one in May 2019. 
The details of the loans are set out below.
Loan Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 28/03/2019 17/05/2019 2 £500.00
2 20/05/2019 02/07/2019 3 £750.00
Mr S says that he was suffering from mental that issues at the time of the loans. He says his 
outgoings exceeded his income and he had to borrow from other lenders to pay back the 
loans.
Cashfloat says that before the loans were provided creditworthiness and affordability checks 
were carried out. It says Mr S provided it with net monthly income figures of £2,700 and 
£3,500 and that based on his declared expenses, the loan repayments were affordable. It 
says that Mr S repaid his loans in full and on time and that the second loan was repaid early. 
It said that Mr S continued to apply for loans after he had settled his final loan, but his 
applications were declined. While it didnt uphold Mr S complaint it offered as a gesture of 
goodwill to refund him £75.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. He didnt think there was anything in the 
information Mr S provided or the information Cashfloat shouldve been aware of, which 
meant it wouldve been proportionate to start carrying out further verification.
Mr S didnt accept our adjudicators view. He said that he had several other short term loans 
outstanding at the time of the Cashfloat loans and that these would have been seen on his 
credit file. He noted the comment made by our adjudicator about the checks required in the 
early stages of a lending relationship and said it was irresponsible of Cashfloat not to 
undertake thorough financial and background checks before lending.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr S could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. I note the comments Mr S has made about 
Cashfloat needing to undertake thorough financial and background checks before lending, 
but I think it reasonable to accept that in the early stages of a lending relationship, less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. Clearly if the checks raise 
questions that would require further investigation then this should take place. 
It is important for me to start by saying that Cashfloat was required to establish whether Mr S 
could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr S complaint.
Mr S first loan with Cashfloat was for £500 repayable over two monthly instalments of 
around £321 each. Before the loan was provided information was gathered about Mr S 
income and expenses. Mr S declared a net monthly income of £3,500 and Cashfloat says it 
carried out a verification of this. Mr S also declared his expenses including housing costs 
and other living expenses. Mr S application didnt record anything for his other credit 
commitments.
While I note Mr S comments about thorough checks being carried out before lending, I think 
it was reasonable that Cashfloat would rely on the information Mr S provided to it in the early 
stages of the relationship, unless it had reason to doubt this. In this case I do not find the 
information raised concerns that meant further verification was needed and given the size of 
the repayments compared to Mr S declared income I think the checks carried out were 
proportionate. As these didnt raise concerns about the affordability of the loan I do not find I 
can say Cashfloat did anything wrong by providing this loan.
Mr S repaid the first loan and took out a larger loan three days later. Had this pattern of 
taking on new debt shortly after repaying existing debt continued then I would have expected 
a more thorough review of Mr S financial to take place. However, as this was only the 
second loan in the lending chain and Mr S had repaid the first loan on time, I think that the 
checks carried out regarding Mr S income and expenses were reasonable. 
The loan repayments were due over three monthly instalments of around £357. At the time 
of the second loan, Mr S declared a lower net monthly income of £2,700. He declared £150 
for other credit commitments in this application. The amount he declared for his rent reduced 
by £200 but he recorded higher expenses elsewhere. Had the higher rent amount been 
included (as declared in the previous application) this would not have meant the loan would 
have appeared unaffordable. 
So, while I note Mr S comments about his situation at the time of the loans, I find that given 
the number of loans provided and the repayment amounts compared to Mr S declared 
income the checks carried out were proportionate. As these didnt raise concerns about the 
affordability of the loans I do not find I can uphold this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Western Circle Ltd trading as 
Cashfloat.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman