DRN-3131302
The complaint
Mr G complains about Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 188 Money (MCU) and their 
decision to provide him with a high interest loan, which he says was unaffordable.
What happened
In December 2016, Mr G applied for a loan with MCU. This application was approved, and 
Mr G received £2,000, with £3,791.76 being repaid over 24 months at a monthly repayment 
of £157.99.
But Mr G struggled to meet this monthly repayment almost immediately. This resulted in Mr 
Gs account accruing arrears and eventually being defaulted, with the outstanding debt being 
passed to a third-party debt management company. Mr G was unhappy with this, so he 
raised a complaint.
Mr G thought MCU had acted irresponsibly when approving the loan. He thought it shouldve 
been reasonably clear to them that the loan was unaffordable and that, at the time, he was 
desperate for credit to try and maintain his financial situation. Mr G explained the loan forced 
him to fall behind on other financial commitments as well as rent to his parents, which had 
also impacted them financially. And this had caused Mr G significant stress and anxiety. So, 
Mr G wanted MCU to refund him any interest and charges applied to the account and for any 
negative information reported to his credit file to be removed.
MCU didnt agree. They thought their decision to approve the loan was fair, based on the 
income and expenditure information Mr G provided, as well as the information shown on his 
credit file. And they thought the interest rate included with the loan, and the required monthly 
repayment, were made clear. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr G 
remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They didnt think the figures MCU 
used when considering Mr Gs income were reasonable. In particular, the monthly amount 
MCU budgeted for food and the lack of any travel expenses. Our investigator thought if MCU 
had, it wouldve become clear the loan was unaffordable to Mr G. And they also thought Mr 
Gs credit file, and in particular his recent increased need to credit, shouldve suggested to 
MCU that Mr G was in a difficult financial situation and so, providing a loan would place him 
in further difficulty. So, our investigator thought MCU should refund all of the interest and 
charges applied to the loan. And if this left a capital balance being owed to Mr G, our 
investigator though this should be refund plus 8% interest from the date overpayments were 
made until the date of settlement. And finally, they thought MCU should removed any 
negative information recorded to Mr Gs credit file.
Mr G accepted this outcome. But MCU didnt. MCU didnt agree with the additional amount 
our investigator included in Mr Gs living expenses. And they didnt think our investigator had 
placed enough emphasis on the fact Mr G was living with his parents at the time. So, they 
maintained their stance that the loan was provided responsibly. Our investigator re-iterated 
their view the loan was unaffordable, and his reasons for this. MCU still disagreed, so the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
When a lender considered a customers application for credit, there arent a set amount of 
checks they are expected to complete before making their lending decision. But we would 
expect these checks to be proportionate to the value of the loan against the income of the 
customer. So, Ive first thought about whether I think the checks MCU completed were 
proportionate.
MCU have confirmed they considered the income and expenditure information provided at 
the point of application, alongside Mr Gs credit file and their use of a system called TAC, 
that verifies a customers income. This system confirmed Mr Gs income to be like the 
£1,100 he declared in his application. So, when considering the monthly loan repayment of 
£157.99 was just under 15% of Mr Gs monthly income, I think the initial checks MCU 
completed were proportionate.
But as well as considering the proportionality of the checks, I also need to be satisfied MCU 
assessed the information these checks provided fairly. And in this situation, I dont think 
thats the case.
I can see MCU determined Mr Gs monthly outgoings to be around £800, which was 
calculated as £300 for rent, £150 for utility bills, £100 for food and credit repayments at 
£250. So, they thought Mr G was left with around £300 after this each month and so, they 
thought this suggested the loans monthly repayment of £157.99 was affordable as Mr G 
would still be left with £142.01 disposable income each month. 
But I dont think these calculates were fair. I think the £100 a month MCU budgeted for food 
each month was relatively low and I think this amount shouldve been increased to at least 
£150, so an additional £50. And I cant see that in any of MCUs calculations, they 
considered any form of travel costs for Mr G. I dont think this is reasonable as I think its fair 
to assume Mr G wouldve needed to travel to and from work at the very minimum. And I think 
its reasonable to assume this wouldve come at a cost to Mr G. So, at the very least, I 
wouldve expected MCU to attribute another £50 - £100 to factor this in.
So, in very best scenario, I think Mr Gs outgoings shouldve been budgeted at £900 to factor 
in the above. And this would mean Mr G was left with £200 each month, before the monthly 
repayment of the loan was taken. So, when this was factored in, in the very best situation I 
think MCU shouldve calculated that Mr G would be left with £42.01 disposable income each 
month. And I dont think this is fair, nor does it show that the loan is affordable, as I dont 
think £42.01 a month for other outgoing such as clothing and entertainment is anywhere 
near enough for Mr G to live on.
And I also dont think MCU took into consideration the information reported to Mr Gs credit 
file. This shows that in the three months before the loan was approved, Mr G applied for 
credit on six different occasions. And MCUs affordability report generated from the credit file 
information shows Mr Gs balance to limit ratio on his existing credit had increased from 
three months prior to the application, to the application itself. I think this information 
combined shouldve suggested to MCU that in the months prior to the application, Mr G had become reliant on credit. And at the very least, I wouldve expected MCU to question this 
with Mr G and request further information, such as bank statements over that period, to gain 
a clear understand of Mr Gs financial situation. And I think its reasonable for me to assume 
if they had, they wouldnt have approved Mr Gs loan as Mr G was unable to meet the 
minimum monthly repayment from the first month it was due. 
I recognise MCU dont agree, and Ive considered the points theyve raised in objection. But I 
dont think Mr Gs living status has any materially impact on the decision Ive reached as it's 
not been disputed that Mr G had to pay rent, even if this was to his parents. And I think its 
reasonable for me to assume Mr G was expected to pay towards the house, as the loan was 
approved on the basis that it was needed for home improvements.
So, I dont think MCUs decision to approve the loan was fair or reasonable and so, Ive 
thought about what I think they should do to put things right.
Putting things right
When considering what I think MCU should do, any award or direction I make is intended to 
place Mr G back in the position he wouldve been, had MCU acted fairly in the first place. It 
isnt intended to place Mr G in a position of betterment as any decision I make must be fair to 
both parties.
So, I must consider the fact Mr G received the loan and was able to use the funds provided 
to him. Because of this, I think Mr G should be expected to repay the capital balance of the 
loan.
But as I dont think the loan shouldve been provided, I think any interest and charges 
applied to the loan should be removed. And if this results in Mr G being owed a refund due 
to the payments hes made clearing the capital balance of the loan, I think MCU should pay 
this to Mr G plus 8% interest from the date of the overpayment to the date of settlement.
If a capital balance remains outstanding, Id expect MCU to act positively and 
sympathetically towards Mr Gs situation and so, look to agree an affordable and suitable 
repayment plan with him. 
And finally, if MCU had declined the loan, the loan would never have been reported to Mr 
Gs credit file. So, I think any information regarding the loan reported to Mr Gs credit file 
should be removed. 
HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money to take off tax from this interest. 118 118
Money must give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for
one.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr Gs complaint about Madison CF UK Limited 
trading as 118 188 Money and I direct them to do the following:
Restructure the loan, removing any interest and charges that have been applied 
while taking into consideration the payments Mr G has made;.
If this leaves a refund being owed to Mr G, pay this plus 8% simple interest a year 
from the date of the first overpayment to the date of settlement;
If a capital balance remains outstanding, agree an affordable and suitable repayment with Mr G; and
Remove any information recorded on Mr Gs credit file relating to the loan.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman