DRN-2624604
The complaint
Mr R is complaining that (Lloyds) wont pay him a fair amount for a claim he made for stolen 
jewellery.
What happened
Mr R was burgled in 2016. He made a claim to Lloyds, which was initially refused, partly 
because of the content of the police report and partly because Lloyds didnt think Mr R was a 
credible claimant.
In 2019 the police report was amended, and based on this Lloyds agreed to reconsider the 
claim. It said it would meet the claim for stolen jewellery and pay the maximum allowed 
under the terms and conditions of the policy - £16,500.
Mr R says this figure should be increased because the value of gold has changed between 
2016 and now. He says the claim delays were because of the way Lloyds handled the claim 
so it should pay an increased amount to settle the claim.
Our investigator provided a comprehensive assessment of what she thought had happened 
during the claim, and concluded that Lloyds had caused delays of about three months in 
total. She said Mr R had already had compensation of £250 for delays and the way Lloyds 
handled the claim and that was appropriate. She didnt think gold prices would have 
changed significantly over three months so she concluded Lloyds need do no more than it 
already had.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold this complaint.
Mr R has sent us a long list of reasons why hes unhappy about the way Lloyds handled this 
claim. Much of that was considered by one of our ombudsmen when he issued a decision in 
June 2020 about how Lloyds had handled the claim up to that date: Mr R received £250 
compensation at that point. I cant look at issues that have already been decided by another 
ombudsman.
This decision is, therefore, only about whether Lloyds has settled the claim fairly, and if its 
delayed the claim unfairly between June 2020 and when it offered to pay the claim.
Settling the claim
Lloyds says that, once it decided it could meet the claim, it assessed how much it should pay 
for the claim based on the information it received about the value of the stolen items. It says 
some of the items could be valued reasonably accurately  but others not. It says of the 
items it could value, some were above the individual item limit of £1,500 shown on Mr Rs 
policy  so its used that as a ceiling for these items. Where items were valued at less than 
£1,500 its allowed the full value.
The total of these two categories of stolen items totals £11,518.90. Lloyds has said it will pay 
Mr R this in cash  or he can have retail vouchers, which are likely to be higher in value once 
an insurers discount is factored in. For clarity, this is because Lloyds as an insurer can buy 
vouchers for less than their face value. So Mr R will, in all likelihood, get more value in 
vouchers than he would if he takes cash. Thats a fair way to settle this part of the claim.
With regards to the unvalued items, Lloyds hasnt said what it thinks these are worth. But its 
offered to pay the maximum available on the policy without insisting on any more evidence. 
So its offered to pay an additional £4,981.10 on top of the settlement its offered for the 
validated items. 
Im satisfied thats a fair way to assess settlement of the claim.
Delays and the price of gold
Mr R says Lloyds delayed settlement by several years and so it should pay more as the 
price of gold etc has risen significantly. I dont think thats appropriate, for several reasons. 
Most of any possible delay caused by Lloyds was factored into my colleagues recommended 
compensation in June. Ive already said I cant re-visit this. 
I also note that Mr R only bought cover for £16,500 of high risk items, which includes the 
jewellery. Thats what he will receive if he hasnt already. The paperwork Lloyds sent him 
when he bought the policy asks that Mr R check the figures are accurate and gave him the 
opportunity to amend the cover if he so wished. He didnt do that. This left him substantially 
under-insured, as Mr R says the stolen items were worth between £25,000 and £38,000. 
Lloyds hasnt reduced payment because of this, even though it might have been entitled to 
do that. 
Lloyds also included in the settlement figure some items where theres no proof of value. 
Taking everything into account I think Lloyds offer is fair at £16,500. I do not think any extra 
compensation is due for increases in the cost of gold etc for the three months between my 
colleagues decision and the date the settlement offer was made. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman