DRN-4430944
The complaint
Mr B complains that Gemini Payments UK, Ltd wont refund money he lost as a result of a 
scam.
What happened
Mr B fell victim to an investment scam. As part of the scam he was directed to open an 
account with Gemini. When he did so, he actually entered into an agreement with two 
different businesses: Gemini Europe Ltd (now called Gemini Payments UK, Ltd) a Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) authorised Electronic Money Institution (Ill refer to this business 
as  GPUK) and Gemini Europe Services Limited (now called Gemini Intergalactic UK, Ltd) 
a provider of unregulated cryptocurrency services (Ill refer to this business as  GIUK). 
He transferred money from his account at a bank that Ill call S, to his GPUK account. The 
payments he made were for the amounts of £50 and £3,581 and both took place on 26 July 
2021. He used those funds to purchase cryptocurrency from GIUK before sending that 
cryptocurrency to a fraudster. He also purchased cryptocurrency from a second firm, but 
those transactions do not form part of this complaint. 
He reported the matter to Gemini and S. Both declined his claim for reimbursement. He 
referred both complaints to our service. One of our Investigators looked into his complaint 
about Gemini. In the Investigators view, much of Mr Bs complaint related to the provision of 
cryptocurrency services (which were provided by GIUK), rather than the electronic money 
services (which were provided by GPUK). GIUK isnt a business that falls under our 
jurisdiction and, as our Investigator explained, the cryptocurrency activities it provides arent 
activities regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority, so, for both reasons, we cant 
consider complaints about it.
Mr B accepted that our service couldnt consider the aspects of his complaint that related to 
cryptocurrency activities, but still questioned whether GPUK had done enough to prevent the 
scam. He argued it failed in its obligations in relation to anti-money laundering, Know Your 
Customer checks and suspicious activity monitoring.
As Mr B didnt agree, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B appears to have accepted that our service cant consider the parts of his complaint that 
relate to cryptocurrency activities. So Ive considered only the parts of the complaint that 
relate to the electronic money activities carried out by GPUK. 
In law, Mr B is generally responsible for payments hes made or consented to himself. While 
I understand the fraudsters may have guided him through the process of purchasing 
cryptocurrency, there doesnt seem to be any dispute that he knew about and consented to 
that taking place. But Ive thought about whether, as a matter of good practice, GPUK should 
have taken additional steps or made additional checks before allowing Mr B to transact on 
his account. Ive also considered whether GPUK met its regulatory obligations in relation to 
anti-money laundering.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B, but I cant say that GPUK made an error here. Mr B deposited 
just two payments into his GPUK account, before purchasing cryptocurrency from GIUK. I 
dont think the amounts of those payments or their frequency or nature would have caused 
any concern to GPUK, particularly given that Mr Bs GPUK account only had one purpose  
to receive funds for, and to withdraw money from, the linked GIUK account. I dont think the 
purchase of cryptocurrency that Mr B undertook should have stood out as being unusual or 
concerning or alerted its transaction monitoring systems.
Mr B argues that GPUK failed in its anti-money laundering and Know Your Customer 
obligations and those failings caused his loss. I disagree. GPUK would have had no reason 
to be concerned about the source of his funds or his identity. And, those obligations dont 
require, in every case, GPUK to undertake detailed enquiries of its customer in order to 
understand the wider circumstances surrounding the opening of the account and every 
payment. I think, given the likely sophisticated and involved nature of the scam, only those 
fairly detailed enquiries could have brought it to light. Id only expect GPUK to make such 
enquiries where it reasonably had concerns that its account holder was at heightened risk of 
financial harm from fraud. And, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think that was the case 
here. 
Finally, as the funds were converted into cryptocurrency and sent to the fraudster, I cant see 
that GPUK would have been able to recover his money.
 
Im sorry that Mr B has lost out as a result of a cruel scam, but I cant hold GPUK 
responsible for his loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman