DRN-3389284
The complaint
Mrs V complains that Creation Financial Services Limited have irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Mrs V applied for a Creation credit card in July 2016 and was accepted with a £7,500 credit
limit. Mrs V says she asked Creation several times to lower the credit limit to £500 as she
was behind on her priority bills, but she says Creation told her to keep the original credit limit
in case she needed it for a rainy day.
Mrs V says she got into financial difficulty due to the credit limit and interest payable being
high. She made a complaint to Creation and she said at the time of applying for their credit
card, her credit score was poor, her income was low and she had been declined for a
payday loan elsewhere.
Creation did not uphold Mrs Vs complaint. They said the payday loan was not with them so
the criteria may have been different, her income was greater than required to be eligible for
the product and Mrs V had passed Creations risk checks and all other checks had been
successful.
Mrs V brought her complaint to our service. She wants the outstanding balance to be written
off. She told our investigator that she was in arrears on her mortgage at the time the credit
limit was approved. Mrs V also said that a third party acting on behalf of Creation has offered
to write off 25% of the outstanding balance, which she didnt think Creation would do if she
didnt have a case.
Our investigator upheld her complaint. He said that Mrs Vs credit file proved that she was in
arrears on her mortgage at the time her Creation application was approved, by at least two
months. He said that Creation should have completed further checks, to ensure any credit
they approved for Mrs V would be sustainable. But as she was in arrears on her biggest
financial commitment  her mortgage, then any further lending may be irresponsible.
Our investigator said that Creation should refund any interest Mrs V has been charged,
suspend any further interest on the balance of the card, refund any late payment or over-limit
fees that have been charged and pay them toward the outstanding balance. He said if these
adjustments put Mrs Vs account in credit, then any outstanding amount should be refunded,
along with 8% interest and Creation should also ensure any adverse data recorded with the
credit reference agencies since the account opening should be removed. As Creation did not
respond to our investigator by the deadline set, Mrs Vs complaint was passed to an
Ombudsman for a decision on the complaint.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mrs V has said about her asking Creation to lower her credit limit to
£500. I asked Mrs V when she made this request. Mrs V said it was around six years ago.
But Creation have no records of her requesting this. Mrs V used the majority of her credit
limit within just a few weeks of being approved for the credit card.
So it may be that she requested her credit limit to be lowered after she had already spent
more than £500 on the credit card and that may be why Creation couldnt lower her credit
limit to £500. But as I cant say either way what happened here, I cant say that Creation did
anything wrong here. So Ive considered whether Creation should have lent to Mrs V at all,
regardless of if a £500 initial credit limit would have been more appropriate for Mrs Vs
circumstances at the time she applied for the card.
Before agreeing to approve the credit limit for Mrs V, Creation needed to make proportionate
checks to determine whether the credit was affordable and sustainable for her. Theres no
prescribed list of checks a lender should make. But the kind of things I expect lenders to
consider include - but are not limited to: the type and amount of credit, the borrower's
income and credit history, the amount and frequency of repayments, as well as the
consumer's personal circumstances.
Ive looked at what checks Creation said they did prior to accepting Mrs Vs application. They
said at the time of applying for the credit card, they considered the information that Mrs V
had given them, such as her working full time, earning a salary of £1,450 a month, she was
a joint home owner with a mortgage and they looked at her credit file. Creation said that Mrs
Vs credit file showed she had no adverse credit data and she was not in arrears on any of
her accounts.
So Ive considered if the checks that Creation carried out were proportionate to the level of
credit that Mrs V was given. And despite Creation saying Mrs V wasnt showing any adverse
credit information, Im persuaded there are other factors which should have persuaded
Creation to make further checks and Ill explain why below.
Creations information from the bureaux showed that the worst status of Mrs Vs accounts
was an I. In the box next to this it says declared income is less than or equal to zero.
Creation told our investigator that an I status usually means an account at the state of
agreed payments - normally reduced payments". Creation said that they couldnt see the
amount of the arrears, but Im persuaded that as part of a proportionate check, then Creation
should have looked further into Mrs Vs financial situation, especially as the credit limit they
were approving for Mrs V was nearly 50% of her declared income and it would appear that
she was paying less than her normal mortgage payments  which could indicate a financial
difficulty.
They could have done this by contacting Mrs V to discuss her personal circumstances at the
time, or they could have asked for information about her income and outgoings, such as
requesting her recent bank statements, or by requesting her full credit file to investigate the
lower mortgage payments and to see whether the credit limit would be sustainable and
affordable for Mrs V.
Im persuaded that if Creation had taken this proportionate step, then they wouldnt have
approved Mrs Vs application. I say this as it would have come to light that Mrs Vs was
behind on her mortgage payments. As this is usually a persons biggest financial
commitment, then Im persuaded that Creation should feel that giving her any further credit
may cause her further financial difficulties. Mrs V has also provided our service with some of
her bank statements before the credit card was approved.
So if Creation would have asked Mrs V for her full outgoings, as part of a proportionatecheck when they would have realised she was in arrears on her mortgage, then they would
have seen that for the previous four months prior to her application that the majority of time,
Mrs V was in her overdraft and often paying a monthly fee for this. There is also one
occasion where she paid a fee for an unarranged overdraft, which may indicate Mrs V wasnt
managing her money well, by going over her agreed overdraft limit and constantly needing to
rely on borrowing, through her overdraft.
So Im satisfied from the information Ive seen here that if Mrs V struggled to pay for her
mortgage  and her credit file shows she was at least six months in arrears at the time of her
application, then it would not be sustainable for her to manage a £7,500 credit limit. In my
view, this was unaffordable for Mrs V. If Creation had asked for details of her outgoings and
her full credit file as part of a proportionate check when considering her application, then Im
persuaded they would have seen the arrears on the mortgage and that Mrs V was struggling
with her finances and Im satisfied they wouldnt have accepted her application for the
Creation credit card.
Ive considered what Mrs V has said about wanting Creation to write off the full outstanding
balance. She thinks that by the third party offering to write off 25% of the debt means they
are admitting to irresponsibly lending to her. But Im not persuaded it is proportionate for
Creation to write off any of the outstanding balance. This is because Mrs V has had the
benefit of this money and has spent it. Ive also noted that the 25% offer was conditional to
her paying off the other 75% of the outstanding balance, so as Mrs V isnt in a position to do
so, this wouldnt apply here. So, what I need to do here, is consider what is a reasonable
outcome, when Im satisfied that Creation shouldnt have lent to Mrs V initially, for the
reasons Ive previously given.
So, I intend to ask Creation to remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the account
and recalculate what (if anything) Mrs V owes from the initial amount she borrowed (taking
account of any payments shes made).
As Im persuaded that had Creation completed further checks which were proportionate to
her individual circumstances, they wouldnt have lent to her. They should also remove any
adverse information from Mrs Vs credit file relating to the Creation credit card.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Mrs V responded and she said she accepted my findings but asked me to consider 
additional compensation for the distress Creation caused her. She also mentioned 
substantial delays in Creations complaint handling, and she had spent 60-80 hours on the 
complaint. Creation did not respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mrs V has said about additional compensation for the distress Creation 
has caused her. But Im not persuaded that any additional compensation should be 
provided. I say this as my provisional decision would put her back in the same position she 
would have been in had Creation not accepted her application. While Mrs V shouldnt have 
been lent this money  it remains that she did spend it. So its difficult for me to say that this 
has caused her distress or inconvenience in a way thatd be fair for me to tell Creation to pay 
compensation for.
Ive considered what Mrs V has said about how her complaint was handled by Creation and 
the delays she has suffered. But as complaint handling is not a regulated activity, it falls outside of my powers to rule on how a business handles their complaints procedure. There 
would always be time needed to be spent in raising a complaint so I wouldnt look to ask 
Creation to pay Mrs V for time shes spent with them discussing her complaint.
In summary, Mrs Vs response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision. I know Mrs V will be disappointed that I 
havent awarded additional compensation, but I hope she understand my reasons.
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to ask Creation Financial Services Limited to:
Refund all interest, fees and charges applied to the account from the date the account was
opened to the date of settlement;
If this results in a credit balance, refund that credit balance to Mrs V, and add 8% simple
interest per year from the date the credit card would have first gone into a credit balance to
the date of settlement;
Remove any adverse entries on Mrs Vs credit file relating to her Creation credit card.
Im still satisfied this is a fair outcome for the reasons given previously.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Creation Financial Services Limited should settle the complaint in line 
with the instructions in the putting things right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman