DRN-2095325
The complaint
Mr A complains that EQUIFAX LIMITED (Equifax) recorded incorrect information on his 
credit file resulting in him being turned down for a business loan.
What happened
Mr A applied for an £82,000 Enterprise Finance Guarantee (EFG) loan with his bank (B), the 
purpose of the loan was to purchase a restaurant business. The loan was declined by the B. 
This prompted Mr A to check his credit report with Equifax, on doing so he realised that there 
was detrimental data contained in his report that related to his father and brother but had 
nothing to do with him. 
Mr A contacted Equifax on 28 February to ask it to correct this error. Equifax recognised the 
error and attached a notice of disassociation to Mr As credit report on 5 March 2020, 
removing the incorrect information relating to Mr As father and brother. Equifax offered Mr A 
£150 to compensate for its error.
Mr A didnt think this was enough and brought his complaint to our service. He said the 
mistake Equifax made cost him the opportunity to buy the business when he wanted to. 
On 20 April B emailed Mr A and confirmed that he could no longer reapply for the EFG loan 
as this was no longer available and the scheme had been temporarily removed by the 
government and replaced with the Coronavirus Business Interruption Loan Scheme (CBILS). 
CBILS loans cannot be used for the purchase of a business. The email says that this was 
also discussed in a telephone conversation the previous week.
He also said that he has been declined credit previously and has never understood why and 
feels that this also could be related to Equifaxs mistake.
The investigator that looked into the case didnt uphold it in summary they said:
They couldnt conclusively say the errors on Mr As credit file were the sole reason 
for the loan being declined 
Equifax acted quickly to rectify the errors and provided Mr A with a letter to show B, 
confirming the information that was showing, was incorrect.
The £150 compensation Equifax had offered was in line with what shed expect 
Mr A disagreed with the investigators findings, he said the mistake stopped him from having 
the opportunity to buy the business when he wanted to. This is particularly important to him 
as his father, who was going to help him with the restaurant, is getting older and if the 
opportunity to buy another restaurant should come up again his father may be too old to help 
him by then. Hes told us this has affected his mental wellbeing and made him feel like a 
failure.
The matter has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Neither party disputes there was incorrect information on Mr As credit report, so I have 
concentrated my findings on what actions Equifax took to correct the error once it was made 
aware and the impact the error had on Mr A.
Mr A has told us that he has been turned down for credit on a number of occasions in the 
past and has not understood why this has happened, but he had not looked into matters any 
further on any of these occasions. It was only when he applied for the EFG loan with B, and 
this was declined, that he investigated matters and found errors on his credit report.
While I appreciate that Mr A blames Equifax for his loan being declined, there is no 
conclusive evidence from B that this was the reason. However, while I cant say for sure it 
was the sole reason for B declining the loan, I think its reasonable to assume that the 
incorrect information on Mr As credit report didnt help matters.
Having said that, I do think there are things that Mr A couldve done differently to make sure 
he was in the best position to apply for the loan. As hes told us he had been turned down for 
credit previously, Id expect him to have checked his credit score to make sure things were in 
order before making the application, as the EFG loan was clearly very important to him. 
Mr A notified Equifax on 28 February - it added the notice of disassociation and offered him 
a letter to provide to B, this was all done in less than a week, by 5 March.
Once this was done Mr A couldve provided this information to B and asked to make a new 
application, but from the email correspondence provided between B and Mr A, it appears he 
didnt do this until around 13 April, at which point B said the scheme was no longer available. 
I appreciate Mr As strength of feeling about this and recognise that this has been a difficult 
time for him, but I cant hold Equifax responsible for the removal of the scheme, and as Ive 
explained above I cant reasonably, or conclusively say that its error was the sole reason Mr 
A was turned down for the EFG loan in the first place. 
Equifax did make an error adding incorrect information to Mr As report, but it took measures 
to correct it quickly once it was aware and offered compensation in line with what Id expect. 
So, it follows that I wont be asking it to do anything more to put matters right here for Mr A.
I know Mr A will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in trying 
to resolve his dispute with Equifax  can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman