DRN-4313525
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (C&G) 
unfairly declined two claims on his pet insurance policy.
What happened
In 2020 Mr C took out a pet insurance policy with C&G to cover his dog. 
Mr C made a claim under the policy for the removal of a lipoma (benign tumour) from his 
dogs shoulder. Initially C&G rejected the claim on the basis that the dog was overweight and 
overweight dogs are more likely to develop these lumps. Mr C disputed this and provided 
evidence from his vet that the dog was not clinically overweight for his breed. 
C&G later changed its decision and agreed to pay the claim.
The second claim was for an investigation into a swelling in the jaw area. The dog initially 
didnt seem to have anything wrong with his teeth. So, he was referred to a head and neck 
specialist because he might have had cancer. It was later found that the swelling was 
caused by a tooth abscess. C&G declined this claim. It said the policy didnt cover dental or 
oral conditions unless they were caused by an accidental injury and there was no evidence 
of this. Mr C accepted that the dental work wasnt covered by the policy. But he thought the 
exploratory procedures carried out in order to reach a diagnosis should be covered.
Mr C brought a complaint to this service. Our Investigator recommended that the complaint 
be upheld in part. She thought C&G should pay simple interest at 8% on the amount due in 
respect of the first claim from the date of payment to the date of settlement. She didnt think 
C&G had treated Mr C unfairly in respect of the second claim.
As Mr C didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As C&G has now agreed to pay the first claim, I no longer need to consider that aspect of 
the complaint. But in view of the delay in accepting the claim, I agree with our Investigator 
that C&G ought to pay interest on the settlement.
I need to consider whether C&G has acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining Mr Cs 
second claim. Its done so on the ground that the policy only covers dental/oral treatment if 
its required because of an accidental injury and in its view the cause wasnt an accidental 
injury.
The policy says under the heading What is not insured? that one of the exclusions is:
Any Dental and Oral Treatment, including any Dental and Oral Treatment that is not due 
to an Accidental Injury, including but not limited to cosmetic dentistry, routine cleaning, and 
descaling or treatment for root canal, Dental and Oral tumours, cleft palate and over/under 
shot jaw.
The policy defines Dental and Oral as any claim or Condition relating to the gums, mouth, 
inner cheek, cheekbone, lips, palette, teeth, tongue and tonsils.
According to the veterinary history Mr Cs dog was taken to the vet with a swelling on the 
right side of his jaw. The dog wouldnt let the vet examine his mouth. The vet noted:
Discuss GA [general anaesthetic] mouth, possible rads and biopsy do dental at same time.
On examination under anaesthetic the vet found a Bone like lump above pm4, m1 and m2.  
The dog was referred to a specialist veterinary dentist for further investigation. The swelling 
was found to be a tooth abscess. 
I take Mr Cs point that until these further investigations had been carried out, it wouldnt be 
known whether the lump was in fact a tumour or an infection. But in any event the policy 
excludes any condition relating to the mouth unless it was caused by an accidental injury 
and if there had been a tumour or infection, it would have been in that area. 
Accidental Injury is defined in the policy as a sudden, unforeseen, unintended action or 
event, with a specific time and place which results in damage to one or more parts of Your 
pets body.
The vet said there was likely to have been a degree of trauma involved but unfortunately 
for Mr C theres no evidence to show this happened at a specific time and place. So I dont 
think C&G treated Mr C unfairly in declining the claim on the ground that there was no cover 
under the policy for dental and oral treatment that wasnt due to an accidental injury.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require Casualty & 
General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to pay simple interest at 8% on the amount paid 
in respect of the first claim from the date he made the payment to the date of settlement.
If Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C how much 
its taken off. It should also give Mr C a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one so that he 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman