DRN-3856990
The complaint
Mr J and Mrs J complain about how QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) dealt with a claim under their 
home insurance policy for damage to their property caused by bad weather. 
QIC use agents to administer the policy and to assess claims. Reference to QIC includes 
these agents.
What happened
In February 2022, around the time of Storm Eunice, bad weather caused damage to Mr J 
and Mrs Js property, affecting the roof. They contacted QIC to tell them about the damage 
and lodge a claim. 
QIC arranged for a field surveyor to visit the property and assess the damage. The 
surveyors report included findings on the progressive detachment of render to the main roof 
chimney and areas of the main roof indicating previous irregular, makeshift repairs to the 
slate covering (suggesting the fixings were corroded). The report also referred to areas of 
the property showing signs of wear and tear. 
Based on the field surveyors report, QIC declined the claim, citing a policy exclusion for 
gradual deterioration and wear and tear.
Unhappy at the decline of their claim Mr J and Mrs J raised a complaint with QIC. In their 
final response, QIC said the wind speed on the date of the incident met the policy definition 
of a storm. QIC also referred to the field surveyors report, which they considered indicated 
the cause of the damage was gradual deterioration and wear and tear. QICs in-house 
surveyor agreed with this conclusion. QIC referred to an exclusion under the policy for 
gradual deterioration and wear and tear. So, QIC confirmed their decision to decline the 
claim. 
Mr J and Mrs J then complained to this service. They disagreed with QIC about the decline 
of the claim due to pre-existing issues with the age and condition of the roof - they said it 
was in good condition prior to the storm with no water ingress. They were also unhappy at 
what they considered to be QICs attempt to avoid their policy. They said theyd suffered 
financial loss from the claim being declined and material distress and inconvenience. They 
wanted QIC to accept their claim, as well as changes to the way QIC dealt with consumers, 
the claims process and the complaints system. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding QIC had declined the claim in line 
with the policy terms and conditions.  She concluded there were storm conditions at the time 
of the incident and the damage to the roof was typical of storm damage. But she thought it 
reasonable for QIC to rely on the report from the field surveyor to decline the claim (based 
on the exclusion). She also thought QIC assessed the claim within a reasonable timescale.
Mr J and Mrs J disagreed with the investigators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman 
review the complaint. They didnt think it reasonable for QIC (based on the in-house 
surveyor review) to decline the claim, as they felt the field surveyor was looking for reasons 
to decline the claim (or avoid the policy). They also thought it unfair for QIC to use an 
exclusion for the age and condition of the roof, as QIC hadnt placed any exclusions in the 
policy for the age and condition of the property. And as it was accepted there were storm 
conditions at the time of the incident, so the claim should have been accepted. They also 
said the roofer theyd engaged to carry out temporary repairs has said the damage was due 
to the storm. They also thought the claim took longer than a few weeks to be assessed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether QIC has acted fairly towards Mr J and Mrs J.
The main element of Mr J and Mrs Js complaint is that QIC unfairly declined their claim, on 
the grounds that while there were storm conditions at the time of the incident, they werent 
the main cause of the damage. Rather, it was due to pre-existing issues with the age and 
condition of the roof that led to the damage. 
In considering this issue, whether the damage resulted from a storm or from a pre-existing 
issue, there are three key issues we consider:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main (or dominant) cause of the damage?
On the first question, in their final response QIC said they were satisfied there were storm 
conditions around Mr J and Mrs Js property at the time of the incident, noting a wind speed 
of 71 mph. This accords with reports from the weather firm this service uses. For the 
weather station nearest to Mr J and Mrs Js property, on the date of the incident the reports 
indicate a peak gust of 71 mph (and the conditions as a dry storm).  Based on this, Ive 
concluded there were storm conditions on the date of the incident. 
On the second question, Ive considered the description of the damage provided by Mr J and 
Mrs J (and in the field surveyors report). Damage to roof tiles is damage wed expect to see 
in storm conditions, particularly those involving high winds.  
The third question is therefore key, given QIC declined the claim on the grounds the cause 
of the damage was gradual deterioration and wear and tear. Ive considered this issue 
carefully, including the points made by Mr J and Mrs J (and the views of their roofer) 
together with the report from QICs field surveyor and the opinion of QICs in-house 
surveyor. Ive also looked at the photographs of the property, including the damaged roof 
and other areas. Taking all these things into account, Ive concluded QIC have acted fairly in 
declining Mr J and Mrs Js claim. Ill set out why Ive come to this conclusion.
Firstly, as a general principle, where a policyholder makes a claim for damage or loss under 
a policy, the onus is on them to show there was an insured event that caused the damage or 
loss. In this case, given my conclusions there were storm conditions at the time of the 
incident, and the damage is consistent with that wed expect to see in a storm, I think its 
reasonable to conclude there was an insured event (storm) that caused damage. 
However, where an insurer relies on an exclusion in the policy to decline a claim (as QIC 
have done) then the onus is on them to show the exclusion applies. Looking at the available 
information and evidence, I think QIC have done so in the specific circumstances of this 
case. Ill explain why Ive come to this view.In their final response, QIC refer to the following policy exclusion, firstly in the General 
Exclusions section where theres the following exclusion:
12. Any gradual or maintenance-related loss or damage
Loss or damage as a result of gradual causes including:
wear and tear;
gradual deterioration (whether you were aware of it or not)
QIC also refer to a similar exclusion in the Storm section of the policy, where it states: [We 
dont cover] d. anything that happens gradually.
Ive also considered the report from QICs field surveyor, which concludes the proximate 
cause of the damage was Wear and tear. Under the heading of Any pre-existing or 
ongoing external building defects or issues that are not peril related it states:
The render to the main roof chimney had progressively detached. Areas of the main 
roof covering displayed previous irregular makeshift repairs to the slate covering, 
suggesting the fixings were corroded. Part removal of the external render to the rear 
elevation wall was noted.
Theres a further reference to:
Main building additionally shows signs of wear and tear
QICs in-house surveyor reviewed the report and agreed with the conclusions, saying the 
roof was in a poor state of repair prior to the storm and that there was evident wear and tear 
to the property.
Ive also considered the points raised by Mr J and Mrs J, including what the roofer they 
engaged to carry out temporary repairs has said. The roofer refers to Storm Damage to roof 
at the [property] and goes on to refer to:
The whole of the south west elevation has lifters causing most slates to slip. This will 
need stripping off and re-slating as more slates will fall and is externally 
dangerous
A separate email refers to repair the roof as a consequence of the ongoing storm. 
Ive noted the reference to Storm damage but this doesnt specifically say anything about 
the condition of the roof before the incident, and the phrase could simply refer to damage 
that occurred in the storm. 
Ive also looked at the photographs of the property, including ones of the roof and other parts 
of the property. Having considered these alongside the views of QICs field surveyor, in-
house surveyor and Mr J and Mrs Js roofer, Im persuaded by QICs view. I know this will be 
extremely disappointing to Mr J and Mrs J, so Ill set out why Ive come to that view.
From the photographs, its clear that the external render to parts of the property was in a 
poor condition, with discolouration and cracks evident. The main chimney shows significant 
degradation to the render and mortar, with significant mortar gaps to the brickwork. There 
are also areas of rotting facias and clear signs of the makeshift repairs to parts of the roof 
(referred to by the field surveyor). I think these points are also consistent with the field 
surveyors and in-house surveyors conclusions about wear and tear to parts of the property. Taking these points into account, then Ive concluded QIC have done enough (given the 
onus being on them to show the exclusion applies) to have applied the exclusion for gradual 
deterioration fairly and reasonably to decline the claim for damage to the roof, in the specific 
circumstances of this case.
While Ive reached these conclusions, I have considered the points raised by Mr J and Mrs J. 
The first point is there were storm conditions at the time of the incident, so their claim should 
be accepted. But as Ive concluded above, the key issue is whether the storm was the main 
(or dominant) cause of the damage. And Ive concluded the storm wasnt the main cause of 
the damage, it was the pre-existing issues with the roof. Had the roof not been in that 
condition, it is likely the storm wouldnt have caused the damage it did. 
The second point, the views of their roofer, has been considered above. I dont think they 
provide any evidence about the condition of the roof before the incident.
On the third point, the time taken to assess the claim, I dont think it was unreasonable  
particularly given the large volume of claims made because of Storm Eunice (and Storm 
Franklin that followed shortly after). The field surveyor visited at the beginning of March, two 
to three weeks after the incident. And the claim decline followed shortly after, with the final 
response to Mr J and Mrs Js complaint about the decline being issued just under two 
months after the incident. In the circumstances, I appreciate Mr J and Mrs J feel this is a 
lengthy time, but in the circumstances I dont think its unreasonable.
 
Ive also considered the point made by Mr J and Mrs J about what they considered to be QIC 
attempting to avoid the policy. Having put this point to QIC, they say this was referred to 
them from the comment in the surveyors report about building materials being on the site of 
the property (which could have indicated renovation work was taking place at the property). 
While I havent looked at the specific wording of Mr J and Mrs Js policy, its common for 
household insurance policies not to be effective where renovation works are taking place at 
a property (because of the additional risks associated with building work). In such 
circumstances its common for separate insurance to be taken out to cover those risks. 
However, in this case, while the issue was referred to QIC, theyve said they cleared it 
(indicating they were satisfied renovation works werent taking place, so wouldnt have had 
any bearing on Mr J and Mrs Js policy). Theyve also said it had no bearing on their decision 
to decline the claim (which was due to gradual deterioration).
This explanation seems reasonable, so Ive concluded QIC didnt seek to avoid Mr J and Mrs 
Js policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Mr J and Mrs Js 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman