DRN-3875299
The complaint
Mr V complains that Aviva Insurance Limited undervalued his car following a claim on his 
motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Vs car was damaged, so he made a claim on his insurance. Aviva considered the car to 
be a total loss and so offered Mr V what they considered to be the market value of his car at 
the time.
Mr V said it wasnt enough, but Aviva maintained theyd treated him fairly.
An investigator here looked into the matter. They agreed that Avivas offer was reasonable. 
Mr V still didnt agree, so the case was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Vs policy covers him for the market value of his car, which is defined as The cost of 
replacing your car with one of the same make, model, specification and condition. This is 
typical of motor insurance policies.
Aviva researched the value by seeking figures from three companies which specialise in 
valuations. They were based on Mr Vs car and the greatest of the valuations was £2,130, 
based on the time of loss.
Aviva paid Mr V £2,500 in settlement of his claim (plus interest, and they waived the £200 
excess). I consider this to be fair, bearing in mind it is significantly higher than the greatest of 
the valuations Aviva obtained.
I appreciate Mr V says there were unusual market conditions when he claimed, which made 
the price of used cars increase at the time. But I dont consider it to have been unreasonable 
of Aviva to have relied upon the companies who provided the valuations.
Its fair to say those companies would have been aware of market conditions and so its 
likely those would have been taken into account. Thats because the guides are based on 
extensive nationwide research of likely selling prices.
I also note what Mr V has said about his own evidence not being looked at and that he said 
he couldnt find an equivalent car for less than around double the amount paid to him. But, 
my role is to determine whether or not Aviva has acted fairly. They sought information on the 
valuation from recognised companies and paid more than theyd been quoted.
So, overall, I cant say thats unreasonable and I havent seen anything to make me think 
otherwise.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman