DRN-2436109
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd mis-sold her a whole of life assurance policy.
Mrs S is represented by a firm that Ill refer to as L.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here. 
In 1997 Mrs S was advised to take out a whole of life assurance policy by a firm that Zurich 
has since acquired liability for. It provided an initial sum assured of about £16,000 with 
monthly premiums of £25  indexation was included. 
L complained to Zurich about the sale of policy in 2019 and questioned its suitability for 
several reasons:
A unit linked whole of life policy with indexation being recommended even though 
Mrs S had a modest income. 
Mrs S having no pension provision and so its unclear how she was expected to 
maintain premiums in retirement.
The policy was invested on the stock market even though Mrs S was profiled as 
cautious.
L also added that there is inconsistency in the fact find as Mrs Ss children, who were all 
grown up, were recorded as dependants but also confirmed to help with housekeeping costs 
as they lived together.
Zurich didnt uphold the complaint. They acknowledged the fact find recording Mr Ss 
children as being dependant was likely wrong but considered whole of life cover was 
appropriate for Mrs S as it met her protections needs. Zurich explained the primary purpose 
of the policy is to provide a lump sum payment in the event of death and so, in order to 
provide cover at a lower cost, the fund is invested for growth. Because of this, the policy also 
accrues a value which  as at January 2020  was £11,300 and can be surrendered. 
Zurich however thought the complaint point about affordability in retirement had been made 
too late and so didnt consider it. They explained this was because the complaint had been 
made more than six years after the event (the sale of the policy) and that Mrs S ought 
reasonably to have known she cause for complaint more than three years ago given shes 
approaching 77 years of age. 
The complaint was referred to our service but our investigator didnt think Zurich had to do 
anything more. She said:
She didnt think the complaint issue about affordability in retirement had been made 
too late as Mrs S has continued to pay the policy premiums. And so, Mrs S wouldnt 
have known that affordability in retirement may not have been appropriately 
considered by the adviser when the policy was sold. 
Pension provision isnt a prerequisite for life cover. The initial monthly premiums of 
£25 were well within the £100 monthly budget recorded in the income and 
expenditure section of the fact find. And so, she didnt think the policy was 
unaffordable at the point of sale.
The policy recommended to Mrs S was also adaptable  offering greater flexibility 
than a conventional term assurance plan. This allowed Mrs S to reduce cover (or 
cancel the policy) to lower the premiums if it became unaffordable.
The main purpose of the policy is to provide cover, not to be an investment vehicle. 
And she didnt think the funds Mrs S policy invested in were inappropriate. 
The investment element of the policy offers the possibility of a surrender value that 
Mrs S can benefit from if she opts to cancel it  which wouldnt have been available 
under a term assurance policy.
She didnt think the policy was an unsuitable recommendation for Mrs S as it 
provided the financial security that she wanted for her family in the event of her 
death. And she didnt think Mrs S husbands employment status, and whether he 
was financially dependent on her or not, meant it was unreasonable to recommend 
adaptable life cover to someone wanting to provide financial protection for their 
family. 
L disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
Before I explain my findings on this complaint, I want to clarify that I wont be considering the 
suitability of policy indexation for Mrs S. This is because Mrs S has already complained and 
referred this matter to us in 2017. And so, as this aspect of the complaint has already dealt 
with by our service, I wont be revisiting it here. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive firstly considered whether the complaint issue about affordability in retirement is one our 
service can consider. Having done so, I think it is and Ill explain why. 
In short, our rules say we cant consider a complaint if its referred to us more than six years 
after the event complained of; or if later, three years from when the complainant became 
aware (or ought reasonably to have become aware) that they had cause for complaint. In 
this case, the event being complained about is clearly more than six years ago as the sale of 
the policy happened in 1997. However, I agree with our investigator that I dont think it can 
be reasonably concluded Mrs S ought reasonably to have known she had cause for 
complaint more than three years before she referred her complaint to us. This is because, 
while Mrs S passed retirement age some time ago, shes continued to pay her premiums to 
date. Ive also not seen anything to show that shes raised concerns about affordability in 
retirement. And so, Im not persuaded Mrs S wouldve had reason to question whether the 
adviser appropriately considered affordability in retirement when the policy was 
recommended to her. But while I consider this complaint issue to be one our service can consider, for the reasons 
Ill explain, I dont think the policy was mis-sold. 
Its recorded in the fact-find document from the time of sale that a very important financial 
objective for Mrs S was protecting her family in the event of her death. Mrs S was married 
and had three children at the time. And so, while her children were 18 or older, I think its 
reasonable for life cover to be recommended to someone wanting to provide financial 
protection for their family in the event of their death. 
L has questioned the need for life cover when Mrs Ss husband wouldnt have been 
dependant on her financially as they say this was only an issue while he was unemployed. 
Although Ive taken this into account, I havent seen anything to show the reason for cover 
was specifically to provide financial protection for Mrs Ss husband while he wasnt working. 
Instead, its recorded that the cover is to provide financial security for the family. Im 
therefore not persuaded life cover wasnt appropriate for Mrs S for this reason. 
Mrs S was recorded as having a monthly budget of £100. And so, the monthly premiums of 
£25 were well within the amount Mrs S said she could afford. I therefore disagree with L that 
the policy was unaffordable for Mrs W when it was sold. L has however also said that as 
Mrs S didnt have any pension provision in place at the time, its unclear how she was 
expected to maintain premiums in retirement. But, while long term affordability is an 
important consideration, a pension provision isnt a requirement for life cover. And the policy 
recommended to Mrs S was adaptable. This meant she could decrease the sum assured in 
order to reduce the premiums if they later became unaffordable  which wouldnt have been 
an option available to her with a conventional fixed term life assurance policy. Alternatively, 
and should affordability have become a problem at retirement, Mrs S had the option of 
cancelling it. So, I dont think the policy was unsuitable for affordability reasons.
L has also raised concerns about Mrs S being recommended a unit linked policy  invested 
in the stock market  even though she was profiled as being cautious. Ive carefully 
considered this but the primary purpose of the policy was to provide life cover, not for 
investment purposes. And, having considered the funds invested in, I think they were 
appropriate for Mrs S as someone identified as being cautious. Furthermore, the benefit of 
the investment nature of the policy is that Mrs S has the option of receiving a surrender 
value if she chooses to cancel it. This likewise wouldnt have been a benefit available to 
Mrs S had she been advised instead to take a conventional term assurance policy.
Im aware that L has since raised concerns that the adviser didnt do enough to establish 
whether any of Mrs Ss other policies that provided life cover couldve been reinstated. Ive 
only been provided limited information about these policies and I havent seen anything to 
confirm whether reinstatement was possible or not. The fact find also makes the following 
reference to other policies:
One endowment and 4 other life insurance policies are all paid up + cancelled
From this I think its reasonable to conclude that the other policies were taken into 
consideration by the adviser but given their paid-up status, it was considered a new whole of 
life policy was suitable for Mrs S. And, in the absence of anything to show Mrs S has been 
financially disadvantaged as result of this, I dont think I can fairly conclude the policy was 
mis-sold.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2021.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman