DRN-3037191
The complaint
Miss A complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited {Aviva} failed to pay her the 
surrender value of her with profits savings plan in 2009.  
What happened
In January 2009, Miss A completed a surrender request form that included her bank details 
and sent it to Aviva. The form was received by them on 23 January and Aviva paid the 
surrender value on 26 January.
Miss A contacted Aviva in 2019 to tell them that shed found the policy documents and when 
she checked her bank statements she couldnt find the surrender payment had been 
received. Aviva said the surrender happened 10 years earlier and they were having trouble 
finding out what had happened to the payment. Miss A provided bank statements for the 
period around the time of the surrender to show she hadnt received the payment. Miss A 
complained that Avivas failure to make the payment in 2009 caused her financial hardship 
and negatively impacted her credit report over the following years.
In September 2019, Aviva paid Miss A the surrender value of £4,279.37, plus £590.01 
interest. Aviva also paid Miss A £300.00 to recognise the distress and inconvenience the 
matter had caused her. Aviva didnt think they were responsible for the financial hardship 
Miss A claimed as the accounts she detailed had been opened a year or more after the 
policy had been surrendered. Aviva said that Miss A should reasonably have told them she 
hadnt received the surrender value before she took out the pay day loans. Miss A didnt 
accept the offer of £300.00 from Aviva and said they should pay interest on the surrender 
value at 8% simple per year from the date the policy was surrendered.
Miss A brought her complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into things 
for her. The investigator thought the payment Aviva had already made in respect of the 
surrender value was a reasonable one. And, that the payment of £300.00 for the distress 
and inconvenience the matter had caused Miss A was also fair and reasonable.
Miss A asked for an ombudsman to decide her complaint. She says she wasnt informed by 
Aviva that the initial payment hadnt been made. And, because shed never received it, she 
was unable to repay several payday loans and had a county court judgment (CCJ) in her 
name as a result. She says the interest Aviva paid on the surrender value shouldve been at 
the statutory rate of 8% simple per year, and that the payment of £300.00 shed already 
been paid doesnt reflect the financial and mental distress caused.
Aviva have confirmed to me that the interest payment they made to Miss A was at the Bank 
of England rate plus 1%. 
My provisional findings 
As I reached a different outcome to our investigator I issued a provisional decision and 
asked each party to provide any further comments for me to consider. My provisional 
decision said:
Miss A provided Aviva with copies of her bank statements from around the time the 
surrender took place. Ive not seen anything to suggest Miss A received any funds from 
Aviva at this time. Unfortunately, Aviva is unable to trace what happened to the original 
payment, but theyve indicated it was sent to the bank account Miss A provided on the 
surrender form. Its not unusual for records to limited for an event that happened more than 
10 years ago, so Ive based my conclusions on what I think is likely to have happened. Ive 
considered all the evidence and testimony received. 
Avivas system notes show that the policy was surrendered in January 2009 and this isnt 
disputed by them. The original surrender form had a bank sort code that was 72-XX-XX, 
which is a sort code for bank S, who Miss A banked with at the time. However, Ive seen that 
Aviva wrote to Miss A on 15 August 2019 to tell her theyd sent the surrender payment to 
sort code 75-XX-XX, which isnt a UK sort code. The account number for both these sort 
codes was the same and ended 886. Its the account number for Miss A at bank S and the 
one she put on the surrender form. Aviva havent been able to trace where they sent the 
2009 surrender payment and said in their investigation notes, the payment cannot be 
located on the APR system but that could be because the payment number is incorrect or 
because of the amount of time that has passed since this payment was first made. It seems 
likely to me that Aviva used the incorrect sort code, and this was the reason the payment 
didnt reach Miss As account in 2009.
Its unfortunate that Miss A didnt follow-up the surrender request, but she says she thought 
Aviva would simply carry out the instruction to pay the funds to her account. However, Im 
persuaded that Aviva didnt take enough care when dealing with the surrender and this is the 
reason Miss A was deprived of the surrender value for over 10 years.
Ive considered that Aviva have already paid interest at the rate of the Bank of England base 
rate plus 1% to Miss A. But, Im not persuaded this fairly recognises the position Miss A 
found herself in. Ive seen that in the years between 2009 and 2019, Miss A did take on 
other credit that she may not have if the payment had been made to her account. This 
borrowing was at a rate higher than the Bank of England base rate, so I intend asking Aviva 
to calculate interest at the rate of 8% simple per year on the surrender value from 26 
January 2009 and 27 September 2019. Aviva should then deduct the £590.01 interest 
theyve already paid to Miss A and pay her the difference. I consider this more fairly reflects 
the impact on Miss A being deprived of the funds.
Miss A has provided a credit reference report from November 2006, detailed loans she took 
out in April and May 2010, and gave details of other loans she took out after 2010. I dont 
consider the November 2006 credit reference report is relevant to this complaint as the 
surrender request was made in 2009. Ive reviewed the bank statements Miss A provided 
from the time of the surrender request, and I can see she held several loans at the start of 
2009 and used her overdraft facility each month. I consider its possible Miss A intended to 
use the proceeds to help clear some of her borrowing, but I cant be sure this was the case. I 
cant see that Miss A tried to mitigate any potential loss when she didnt receive the 
surrender value in 2009, and it wasnt until over 10 years later that she went back to Aviva to 
query where the payment had gone. Taking this into account, I dont consider it would be fair 
and reasonable for me to ask Aviva to pay any further remedy in respect of the additional 
borrowing Miss A took out after the surrender payment wasnt received. 
Ive considered the payment of £300.00 Aviva have already paid Miss A for the distress and 
inconvenience the matter has caused her. I appreciate Miss A has been put to the 
inconvenience of having to raise the matter with Aviva, but she did so in January 2019. So, 
any distress and inconvenience should take into account the period between January 2019 
and when the matter was resolved. Miss A hadnt pursued the missing payment for 10 years, 
so, I dont consider it would be reasonable to ask Aviva to pay more than the £300.00 theyve already paid. Aviva struggled to track down what had happened as they only keep 
limited records after seven years. So, I consider when Miss A raised the complaint so long 
after the event, it wasnt unreasonable for Aviva to take longer than normal to establish what 
had happened to the payment. I would expect them to be reasonably sure the payment 
hadnt been sent to one of Miss As other bank accounts before they released the surrender 
value. Ive seen that there was a further delay of several days in September 2019 when 
Aviva issued the payment to the wrong account. But this was resolved relatively quickly. 
Therefore, I intend saying the payment of £300.00 for the inconvenience Miss A must have 
felt after she realised the funds were missing is a reasonable remedy. 
Im minded asking Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to take further action and pay Miss A 
8% simple interest per year on the surrender value. The interest would be paid on the 
surrender value between 26 January 2009 and 27 September 2019. Aviva Life & Pensions 
UK Limited can deduct the payment of £590.01 in respect of the interest theyve already paid 
Miss A. 
Miss A responded to say that from 2009 she was suffering from severe mental health issues 
and a high level of debt. She says she was dealing with debt collection agencies at this time 
and this is why it had taken so long to discover she hadnt received the surrender value. She 
says she wouldve used the funds to clear all her debts at the time and avoided a CCJ and 
the negative impact on her credit rating. Miss A confirmed she hadnt sought medical advice 
or treatment for the stress she suffered but did feel very stressed at the time. She says that if 
the payment had been made to the wrong account it shouldve been returned to Aviva, but 
Aviva never contacted her to confirm her account details.
Aviva told me that they accepted my provisional decision without further comment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I considered the comments from Miss A, but they dont persuade me I should change my 
provisional decision. I understand that this will disappoint Miss A, but Ill explain why.
Im satisfied that its likely Aviva paid the transfer funds to the wrong bank account and Ive 
seen nothing that changes my mind here. However, it wasnt until Miss A complained some 
10 years later that they would reasonably have been aware the funds hadnt reached Miss A. 
When they did become aware of this Aviva carried out some checks and reviewed their 
records. I would expect them to do this to trace the payment. Unfortunately, Aviva couldnt 
evidence the funds were returned to them, or what happened to them, so they issued the 
surrender value plus interest at 1% above the Bank of England rate, I didnt consider this 
was fair and reasonable for the reasons I outlined in my provisional decision. 
Ive considered the comments Miss A provided to my provisional decision. Ive seen she had 
some debts relating to loans she took out in the years after she surrendered the policy, but 
for the reasons I provided in my provisional decision, I cant reasonably say she wouldve 
used the funds from the surrender to pay-off her overdraft and other borrowings and not 
borrowed more 12 months later. The CCJ and the impact on her credit rating are, in my 
opinion, related to the borrowing Miss A took out over a year after the payment from Aviva 
shouldve arrived. And although I can appreciate Miss A will have suffered some stress at 
this point, I dont consider Aviva can be held responsible for this if Miss A didnt tell them she 
hadnt received the surrender value in 2009.
Putting things rightAviva have already paid Miss A £300.00. I consider this is reasonable and reflects the 
distress and inconvenience of Miss A having to raise the matter with Aviva. And for Aviva 
delaying the payment for a short period after sending the payment to an old account number. 
I wont be asking Aviva to pay any more for the distress and inconvenience.
Instead, as I explained in my provisional decision, Aviva should pay Miss A 8% simple 
interest per year on the surrender value between 26 January 2009 and 27 September 2019, 
but Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited can deduct the payment of £590.01 in respect of the 
interest theyve already paid Miss A.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited to pay Miss A 8% simple interest* per year on the surrender value between 26 
January 2009 and 27 September 2019. As Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited have already 
paid Miss A £590.01 interest, they can deduct this amount from the payment required. 
* If Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss A how much its taken off. It should 
also give Miss A a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman