DRN-2406798
The complaint
Miss G complains Bank of Scotland plc acted irresponsibly when they approved her 2011 
loan as it wasnt affordable, and they hadnt considered her existing level of debt.
What happened
In 2011, Miss G applied for a loan of £15,000 over seven years from Bank of Scotland and it 
was approved. Miss G missed payments towards the end of the loan period.
Miss G believes the loan wasnt affordable and Bank of Scotland shouldnt have allowed her 
to take out the loan. She complained to them in 2020 and Bank of Scotland told Miss G they 
thought the complaint was out of time for them to consider. They said her complaint had 
been made more than six years after the event, and more than three years after Miss G 
would reasonably have known she had cause to complain.
After Miss G brought her complaint to our service an ombudsman considered the case and 
decided the complaint was within time.
Our investigator considered things for Miss G and thought Bank of Scotland didnt do 
anything wrong when they approved the loan as they had assessed affordability and 
considered the other credit Miss G had at the time.
Miss G didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to decide the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge that Miss G will be disappointed that for much the same reason as the 
investigator I have decided not to uphold the complaint. However, I can confirm that I have 
reviewed all her comments and the additional evidence she sent for me to consider before I 
reached my final decision. I will now explain my reasons for not upholding the complaint.
When Miss G applied for the loan in 2011, it was the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) that set out 
the legal and regulatory requirement for the Bank of Scotland on the test for irresponsible 
lending. This is detailed in section 25(2B) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. In general terms 
the Act says a lender should:
 make a reasonable assessment of whether a borrower can afford to meet 
repayments in a sustainable manner (section 2.2);
 monitor the borrower's repayment record during the agreement, helping where 
borrowers appear to be having trouble making payments and treat borrowers fairly 
and with forbearance if they experience difficulties (section 2.2);
 the extent and scope of any assessment of affordability, in any circumstance, should 
be proportionate (section 4.1); 
 consider the potential for the credit commitment to adversely impact on the 
borrower's financial situation, taking account of information that the creditor is aware 
of at the time the credit is granted (section 4.1); and
 before granting credit, or significantly increasing the amount of credit, creditors 
should take reasonable steps to assess a borrower's likely ability to be able to meet 
repayments under the credit agreement in a sustainable manner (section 4.2).
I will now assess whether Bank of Scotland has met the requirements set out by the OFT.
Miss G has provided several bank statements that she says supports she was experiencing 
financial difficulties in 2011 and had existing financial commitments. Miss G says she was 
using payday lenders at the time and she had taken out another sizeable loan only 12 
months earlier. She says Bank of Scotland shouldve considered these matters when 
assessing affordability and whether the new loan payments were sustainable.
Miss G says she doesnt believe the checks Bank of Scotland made were proportionate to 
the loan she had applied for. She says that if they had contacted her to check the details she 
had provided when she applied, they wouldve been made aware of childcare costs and food 
costs she was paying. And if they had asked for her bank statements they wouldve seen 
she had underestimated her monthly commitments when applying for the loan.
On the other hand, Bank of Scotland have provided information from Miss Gs loan 
application and a print out of the assessment they carried out, including reference to the 
credit agency information it obtained at the time. The information provided contained details 
of the borrowing recorded against Miss G at the time, the income she declared on her 
application and details of her monthly credit commitments and outstanding balances.
I would expect Bank of Scotland to assess whether Miss G would be able to make payments 
over the term of the loan without undue difficulty. Miss G had declared an approximate 
annual income of £30,000, which is supported by a bank statement she has since provided 
from the time she took out the loan that shows a net monthly income of almost £1,850. Bank 
of Scotland reviewed the information contained in a credit report. This included the loan she 
took out 12 months earlier (£332 per month), and £283 per month for other existing credit. 
Miss G has confirmed to our investigator she was also paying approximately £50 per month 
on two mail order accounts at the time.
Miss G provided me with bank statements from immediately after her loan with Bank of 
Scotland and it seems that she paid off several of her credit card debts at this time. Its more 
likely than not these payments came from the loan of the Bank of Scotland provided as the 
purpose of the loan was at least in part consolidation. Its reasonable for me to conclude 
Bank of Scotland had considered Miss G would be paying off a significant amount of her 
debt from the loan with them, and that these repayments would cease.
So, considering the information Bank of Scotland were aware of at the time the credit was 
granted, it would seem reasonable for them to assess Miss G could afford to make the new 
loan payment of £386 per month over the course of the 84-month term.
Miss G asked me to consider that she had taken out payday loans shortly before Bank of 
Scotland accepted her loan application. However, the credit report Bank of Scotland relied 
on doesnt show she had any payday loans at the time, nor does it record any adverse credit 
history that wouldve led Bank of Scotland to consider making other enquiries. I also note 
from the bank statements Miss G has sent that there are no payments to pay day lenders 
around the time of the loan. It may be that the pay day lender Miss G used hadnt recorded 
data with the credit reference agencies, but that doesnt mean Bank of Scotland didnt carry 
out reasonable checks. Even so, Bank of Scotlands credit check didnt highlight any significant adverse credit information in the preceding 12 months, so I dont think they could 
reasonably have been aware of any pay day loans.
Bank of Scotland say Miss G didnt miss a payment on the loan for the first 81 months of the 
84-month term. So, I think it is unlikely Bank of Scotland wouldve been aware that Miss G 
was experiencing financial difficulties during the term of the loan.
Considering all the circumstances of this case and the information Bank of Scotland had 
when they made their decision to lend, I think it was reasonable for them to assess the loan 
was affordable and sustainable over the full term. I also think that because the loan was for 
consolidation purposes, it wasnt unreasonable for Bank of Scotland to believe Miss G was 
planning to reduce her other debts, which she did at the time. 
Overall, Im satisfied that the checks Bank of Scotland carried out were proportionate based 
on the information declared by Miss G, the credit report they had at the time and the planned 
consolidation of existing debt.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Gs complaint about Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 February 2021.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman