DRN-3617009
The complaint
Miss J is unhappy because Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) did not reimburse her money she 
transferred to a fraudster. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in detail 
here. But in summary, and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as 
follows. 
In April 2022, Miss J received a call from someone claiming to be from a well-known online 
retailer, whom she held an account with. The call was from a mobile number. Unbeknown to 
Miss J at the time she was in fact speaking with a fraudster. 
Miss J was told someone was trying to purchase a membership for a service the retailer 
provided and a mobile phone. On checking the account she held with the retailer, she could 
see a mobile phone was in her basket. She told us that she tried to remove this but couldnt.  
Miss J explained that she was told to delete the card details that were linked to her account, 
which she did. 
Not long into the call, Miss J received a genuine text message from the retailer. This 
message included a one-time passcode (OTP) to reset her password. Miss J shared the 
OTP with the fraudster (as she believed at the time the caller was genuine) after they told 
her theyd help sort this out for her. 
In helping to sort out this matter, the fraudster told Miss J shed need to go through self- 
verification, and she needed to transfer £307 to the account details provided to her. Miss J 
explains she was told by the fraudster that she needed to believe them as they were 
handling both the account she held with the retailer and also her bank account, which they 
told her was linked to her account with the retailer. She says she was told that if she didnt 
deal with this matter then the person, who was trying to buy the membership and mobile 
phone, might go into her bank account and take all of her money. 
Miss J was asked to install an app on her phone, so that the fraudster could help her. She 
was told she couldnt resolve it herself and that they needed to do it for her. Miss J has 
commented that she did wonder why the retailer would ask her to install an app, but as she 
wanted the issue resolved she did as theyd instructed. 
Miss J set up a new payee and transferred £307 to the details given to her. She says she 
was told as this was for self-verification to put her name in as the recipient. 
After making the payment, Miss J says she called the original phone number for the retailer. 
It was at this point; she was told her account was fine and she realised shed fallen victim to 
a scam. 
Miss J reported the scam to Monzo the same day. Monzo investigated the matter and 
considered its obligations to provide Miss J with a refund. Monzo has agreed to act in the 
spirit of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code, 
although it isnt a signatory of it. The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who 
have been the victims of APP scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. 
Monzo says one or more of those exceptions applies in this case. 
Monzo says it doesnt feel Miss J took reasonable steps to check who she was paying and 
so it will not be refunding the money shes lost. 
Monzo contacted the beneficiary bank to attempt to recover Miss Js money, but 
unfortunately no funds remained in the account.
Unhappy, Miss J referred her complaint to our service. One of our Investigators looked into 
the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She thought that, in the circumstances, 
Miss J ought to have had some concerns about the payment she was about to make and 
that further steps could have and should have been taken, in order for Miss J to meet the 
required level of care under the CRM Code. She also didnt think there was a requirement 
for Monzo to provide an effective warning, due to the value of the payment Miss J made. The 
investigator therefore didnt consider that Monzo needed to do anything to put things right for 
Miss J.
Miss J disagreed and asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer even though they 
authorised the payment.
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether Monzo 
should have reimbursed Miss J in line with the provisions of the CRM Code it has agreed to 
adhere to and whether it ought to have done more to protect Miss J from the possibility of 
financial harm from fraud. 
Theres no dispute here that Miss J was tricked into making the payment. She thought shed 
received a call from a retailer she held an account with and that she needed to make a 
payment to self-verify the account. But this isnt enough, in and of itself, for Miss J to receive 
a refund of the money under the CRM Code. The Code also places a level of care on Miss J. 
The CRM CodeMonzo has agreed to adhere to the provisions of the Lending Standards Board Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who 
have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited 
number of circumstances. 
It is for Monzo to establish that a customer failed to meet a requisite level of care under one 
or more of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code. 
Those exceptions are: 
- The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made. 
- The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate.
There are further exceptions within the CRM Code, but they do not apply in this case.
In this case, I think Monzo has been able to establish that it may choose not to fully 
reimburse Miss J under the terms of the CRM Code. Im persuaded one of the listed 
exceptions to reimbursement under the provisions of the CRM Code applies in the 
circumstances of this case. 
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics of the 
customer and the complexity of the scam, I think the concerns Monzo has raised about the 
legitimacy of the transaction Miss J was making are enough to support its position that its 
entitled to rely on exceptions to reimbursement. I dont think Miss J had a reasonable basis 
for believing the person with whom she transacted with was legitimate. I think Miss J should 
have done more than she did to satisfy herself that it was legitimate before making the 
payment. I will now explain why.
Miss Js told us she believed the person shed received a call from, was from the retailer she 
held an account with, after she checked her account and could see that there was a mobile 
phone in the basket which was consistent with what shed been told. The call Miss J 
received was from a mobile number and Ive not been given any persuasive explanation as 
to why Miss J believed the mobile number was linked to the known online retailer. Im also 
not persuaded that such a well-known company as this online retailer, would use mobile 
numbers as a method to contact its customers. I do also have to keep in mind, that after 
Miss J made the payment, she contacted the retailer on what she's said was the original 
number for it and she was told her account was fine. Given the steps Miss J took after 
making the payment, I think it reasonable that she could have taken these steps prior to 
making the payment to satisfy herself that she was speaking with the genuine retailer she 
held an account with.   
Miss J has also said she did question/wonder why the retailer had asked her to install an app 
on her phone but has said as she wanted the matter resolved she did as instructed. I think 
this ought to have been a flag to Miss J and that it ought fairly to have prompted her to ask 
some more questions about what she was being told and asked to do, especially when 
taking into account that she herself was questioning why the retailer would ask her to 
download an app. 
In light of the above, given the doubts that Im persuaded Miss J had, I dont think that 
seeing a mobile phone in her account basket in and of itself was enough for Miss J to be 
satisfied the call she received was from the retailer she held an account with.  Further, I think it ought to have caused Miss J concern about the legitimacy of the person 
she was speaking to, when she was asked to make a payment of £307 for self-verification, 
with what appears to have been with no explanation as to why this was needed or why the 
money was needed to self-verify. I do appreciate Miss J says she was told to enter her name 
as the recipient for the transaction as the payment was for self-verification purposes, 
however, the account details provided from the payment were to a third-party account. Ive 
not seen any plausible explanation as to why the payment was being made to a third-party 
account. And while I do recognise Miss J, in response to our Investigators assessment, says 
she was told shed get a refund instantly; I think this also ought to have been a flag. I say this 
because, Ive not been given any explanation as to why Miss J was asked to make a 
payment for such a specific amount of £307 in order to self-verify her account when she 
says she was told the money would be refunded instantly back to her.
I think these things ought to have prompted her to ask questions about the payment shed 
been asked to make  for example, why she needed to transfer the funds to verify herself 
and why she needed to make the payment if it was to be returned to her straight away. 
I do appreciate Miss J has said shed not been in the country a long time and has said she 
was new to the UK. Ive thought carefully about this. But unfortunately, I dont find this point 
changes my conclusions. As set out above, Miss J has indicated to our service that she did 
have some doubts during the call - as she did question/wondered why the online retailer 
would ask her to install an app. And, I have to keep in mind that Miss J did contact the online 
retailer on its contact number following the payment she made. Im persuaded on balance 
that she had some degree of awareness about steps she could take  given those that she 
did take albeit after the payment was made.  
With all the above in mind, in the particular circumstances of this case, I consider that Miss J 
ought to have had concerns about the legitimacy of the payment she was making for the 
purposes of self-verification. And that, in turn, ought to have led to a greater degree of 
checking on Miss Js part. In not carrying out sufficient checks I dont find she had a 
reasonable basis for believing the person with whom she transacted with was legitimate and 
so fell below the level of care expected of her under the CRM Code.
Should Monzo have done more to try and prevent the scam and protect Miss J?
Ive thought about whether Monzo did enough to protect Miss J from financial harm. 
The CRM Code says that where firms identify APP scam risks in a payment journey, they 
should provide Effective Warnings to their customers. The Code also says that the 
assessment of whether a firm has met a standard or not should involve consideration of 
whether compliance with that standard would have had a material effect on preventing the 
scam. 
I am also mindful that when Miss J made this payment, Monzo should fairly and reasonably 
also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things).
Whilst I think Monzo couldve provided a better warning than it did, I dont think it was 
required to give an effective warning under the CRM Code, in these particular 
circumstances. I think this because I dont think the payment Miss J made was so 
remarkable, in comparison to previous account activity, that Monzo shouldve identified the 
payment as a potential fraud risk. I therefore dont think Monzo failed to meet its standards 
under the Code by not doing so, prior to processing the payment.Once it was made aware of the scam, Monzo tried to recover Miss Js funds, but 
unfortunately was advised by the beneficiary account that no funds remained. Having 
considered the short timeframes within which Monzo contacted the beneficiary account to 
make it aware of the scam, I dont think Monzo could reasonably have done anything further 
to recover Miss Js payment.
With the above in mind, Im satisfied that Monzos position on Miss Js fraud claim, and its 
assessment under the CRM Code, is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances and that 
Monzo shouldnt be held liable for Miss Js loss. And so, I dont make an award to Miss J. 
Overall
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Miss J and I can understand why she wants to do all 
that she can to try and recover the money shes lost. I do sympathise with Miss J as shes 
clearly been the victim of a scam and I recognise this has been upsetting for her. But the 
circumstances of the case and the evidence available lead me to find Im unable to uphold 
this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman