DRN-2009670
 
The complaint
Mrs N has complained about St Andrews Insurance Plc (St Andrews) declining her claim for 
repairs and loss of rent following a fire under her Landlord insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs N had taken out a policy with St Andrews in 2007 and renewed it each year. The policy 
offered buildings insurance in the event of damage and for any loss of rent as a result. 
In 2015 Mrs Ns original tenants moved and the property was let to a housing association 
tenant who worked but received some benefits. They occupied the property until it was 
damaged by fire in November 2018. Mrs N contacted St Andrews. It sent someone to 
inspect the property and speak to the tenants. It then raised some queries about the tenants. 
After some delay St Andrews rejected the claim because the tenants were receiving benefits 
and this type of tenant wasnt covered by the policy. It said it should have been updated 
about the change in tenant when it happened. St Andrews cancelled the policy, backdated 
to 2015. It said it would refund the premiums paid.
Mrs N complained to St Andrews. She said she didnt understand the requirement to notify 
changes of tenant. Her tenants were a working family and she saw no reason to change the 
existing answer to the question What type of tenant occupies the property? from Family, 
Professionals, Single Student. 
St Andrews rejected the complaint. It said that at each annual renewal of the policy it also 
requested confirmation of the tenants details or any changes and Mrs N hadnt made any 
amendments. It accepted there had been delays in deciding to reject the claim and offered 
Mrs N £300 in compensation. 
Mrs N arranged repairs to the property herself which she said cost around £25,000. The 
property couldnt be rented for several months losing £9,600 in rent. Mrs N has provided 
evidence of the repairs, their cost and of the lost rent.
Mrs N referred her complaint to our service and our investigator upheld the complaint saying 
St Andrews should settle the claim and pay for the repairs and the lost rent. 
He said the renewal documents issued werent clear enough about tenant changes and who 
were unacceptable. St Andrews disagreed, saying its documentation was clear and it was 
Mrs Ns responsibility to check the details and update as necessary and to make sure the 
policy was suitable for her. 
St Andrews said a condition of the policy was that any change of tenant had to be notified 
when it occurred (in 2015). It hadnt been so it could cancel the policy from the date of the 
change and subsequent renewals didnt matter. Our investigator disagreed. He said a lack of 
clarity in the renewals since was more relevant and said it should pay the claim for the 
damage and loss of rent. 
As St Andrews doesnt agree the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision on 30 May 2020. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I was planning to not uphold the complaint, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide (provisionally) whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not planning to 
uphold Mrs Ns complaint. 
I know this will be very distressing for Mrs N and I have considerable sympathy for her 
situation but I have come to a different decision than our investigator and will explain why 
below.
Insurers can chose what type of risk they are prepared to cover and St Andrews says it 
wont insure tenants who are on benefits. It says by not telling it about the change of tenant 
Mrs N has been carless and misrepresented the risk so it can reject her claim and cancel the 
policy.   
Mrs N isnt a professional landlord and St Andrews policy is aimed at smaller property 
investors with less than 10 rental properties. She had two tenants between taking out the 
policy in 2007 and the claim in 2018 and renewed the policy each year.
At each renewal the documents sent by the insurer require the policyholder to confirm 
whether the information provided to the insurer remains accurate as this forms the contract 
between them. Sometimes policy conditions will require this information to be updated during 
the term of the policy and it did here. Unfortunately this didnt happen. 
The law about non-disclosure and misrepresentation is set out in two pieces of legislation. 
The Insurance Act 2015 which cover businesses and the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure 
and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), for private consumers. We think that policies aimed 
at non professional landlords like Mrs N, should be considered under CIDRA as St Andrews 
has.
CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
taking out or renewing a policy. There are several factors in deciding whether a consumer 
failed to take reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions 
were. 
If a consumer fails to take reasonable care and the insurer can show it would have offered 
the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation 
its known as a qualifying misrepresentation. This may be deliberate, reckless or careless. 
If it reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at least offered the policy 
on different terms, it is entitled to avoid (cancel) the policy. If the misrepresentation was 
careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not have offered the policy 
at all but for the misrepresentation. 
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have 
charged a higher premium if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to 
consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it.  
Records of the sale of the original policy in 2007 arent available so Ive considered the 
available renewal and policy documentation issued by St Andrews from 2015 to 2018. The 
documents from 2015-16 appear to be the same wordings with a change from 2017.The Renewal and Policy Documents 
In the 2015 renewal document before the questions about the property begin on page 3 the 
following section is on page 2:
Please read the contents of this pack carefully, together with your policy booklet, to 
check that the policy limits and cover continues to meet your needs. It's important that 
you provide us with full and accurate information at all times. You should also let us 
know if any of the answers to the questions we asked change during the insurance 
period. For full details of the changes that we need to know about please refer to the 
`Changes You Must Tell Us About' section of your policy booklet. If you don't let us know 
your policy may become invalid or claims affected. Please contact us on 0345 850 5500 
and speak to one of our advisors who will be happy to help.
The 2016 renewal had this wording was on the first page.
From 2017 the renewal paperwork had been redesigned and on page 2 had the following 
section:
 What changes should I tell you about?
The kind of things we need to hear about include:
There will be a change to your tenant
These notices set out important requirements and it is important that they are prominent in 
the documents. As they were on the first or second page of the renewal documents I think 
they were prominent. They are expanded on in the Changes You Must Tell Us About 
section of the policy booklet sets out the following:
You must tell us if any answers you gave to the questions you were asked when 
you took out your policy change during the insurance period. Specifically, you 
must tell us before any of the following:
there will be a change to your tenant,
It continues:
Because we can change your terms or cover to reflect a change from when it 
happens, it is very important that you tell us about a change before it happens or as 
soon as you know about it. Once you have told us about a change, we will let you 
know whether we can continue your cover and, if we can, the terms on which it will 
continue.
If any of the above changes happen during the insurance period we can do one or 
more of the following to take account of the change:
Treat your policy as ended from the date of the change meaning that you will not be 
covered after that date 
Refuse a claim made after the change or reduce the claim payment.
Again I think the significance of these conditions in terms of how the policy might work is 
clear and attention is drawn to this section of the policy document more than once in the renewal documents. It is repeated after the questions asked on pages 3 and 4 about the 
property and eligibility where there are two general questions about tenants. The answers 
are pre-filled. 
The first question is:
Who occupies the property?
The answer given:
Tenant and their family/partner
The next question is:
 What type of tenant occupies the property? 
The answer given:
 Family, Professionals, Single Student. 
Mrs N says her tenants at the time of the claim were a family, in work with a child of school 
age which the incident report after the fire confirms. Mrs N says she didnt realise there was 
any need to update either question as no personal information was requested. 
But the questions are about the tenants and whilst there isnt a question asking if the tenant 
had changed in this section is immediately followed on page 4 by a boxed section headed 
Changes you must tell us about:
Why is it important to tell us if there is any change to this information?
You must also tell us if any of your answers change during the insurance period. If 
you don't let us know your policy may become invalid or claims may be affected. For 
full details, please refer to the section of your policy
booklet entitled `Changes You Must Tell Us About'. Please contact us on 0345 850 
5500 if you're unsure about anything.
This warning is the same on all renewal documents.
Requirements, clauses and exclusions like these can be very onerous. Especially if they 
apply at anytime during the policy term as they did here. Failure to comply with them could 
mean a policy wont pay a claim. So we expect them to be made clear and be prominent in 
the documents provided to consumers. 
This is the key issue here. And, I think that as the requirement to notify changes throughout 
the documents is prominent and clear enough for Mrs N to realise she needed to take some 
action, and particularly so from 2017. The requirement to notify changes is set out both 
before an after the questions that need to be answered on the renewal document each year. 
I dont think Mrs N was deliberate or reckless in this but if she had called St Andrews to 
advise it about the change of tenant in 2015 or notified it at renewal St Andrews says it 
would have withdrawn cover. 
It has provided evidence that it did not offer cover for property let to tenants using benefits to 
pay rent. The policy booklet clearly states the policy can be cancelled if changes are not 
notified at the time. As such I think St Andrews is entitled to avoid the policy and not pay 
Mrs N claim and it hasnt treated her unfairly or unreasonably in doing so.  I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 30 May 2020.
Response to Provisional Decision
St Andrews said it had nothing to add.
Mrs N said she was devastated by the provisional decision. She made a number of points 
and provided further information about the tenants who occupied the property. Saying they 
were responsible working class people, who both worked. She confirmed what type of 
benefit the tenant was in receipt of.  And that the police and fire brigade had confirmed that 
the tenant wasnt in any way to blame for the fire which damaged her property which was 
caused by a random arson attack. 
She said St Andrews didnt ask for any personal information about the tenants on the 
renewal form and her tenants met the prefilled descriptions on the form. She said the policy 
didnt specify what type of benefit made a tenant unacceptable to St Andrews as most 
families must receive some type of benefits such a child or disability benefit. She said her 
understanding of the term DSS is someone not in any form of employment who relies on 
benefits.
Mrs N said she hadnt knowingly given St Andrews incorrect information and proposal forms 
should be easier and clearer for customers, with questions specific to the facts because its 
questions were very ambiguous and misleading in asking her to contact it if any of the 
information on the renewal document appears incorrect, when as far as she was aware the 
prefilled information was correct. Mrs N though she may have discussed the tenants with St 
Andrews between 2015 and 2018 over some issues relating to the property and it should 
check its call records.
Mrs N says as far as she was aware she had met the requirements of the policy and the 
tenants werent to blame for the fire and met the criteria  namely that they were 
professionals having been vetted by the letting agency and found to be suitable and 
qualifying tenants, unless you can prove otherwise. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to not uphold the complaint.
I have great sympathy for Mrs N as this is a very unfortunate set of circumstances but I cant 
uphold her complaint as St Andrews hasnt acted unreasonably in avoiding her policy. Mrs N 
has made her case strongly and I carefully considered all the points she has raised before 
coming to both my provisional and now final decision.
Mrs N refers to telephone records and that she had mentioned the tenants names to St 
Andrews between 2015 and 2018. I have reviewed St Andrews records for the claim and 
can see that it made enquiries about the tenants once Mrs N had contacted it about the 
incident. There is nothing to show that St Andrews had been notified of a change of tenant 
previously prior to the claim and the records show that it was immediately concerned about 
possible non-disclosure. Records of call with Mrs N on 22 December 2018 note a number of questions being asked 
about the tenants. These included why Mrs N hadnt notified St Andrews the tenant was in 
receipt of benefits. Mrs N reply was that the renewal documents dont ask anything specific 
and perhaps she had misunderstood them. 
She was then asked if she was aware of the need to notify changes of tenants. She said 
didnt know how to answer the question. The question was repeated and Mrs N said she 
didnt want to answer and wanted to check the policy booklet before answering before 
becoming upset and ending the call. I dont think Mrs N notified St Andrews about the 
change because if she had done so I think it would have cancelled the policy at the time.
So, my decision is based on two key considerations. First, the policy required Mrs N to notify 
St Andrews of changes as they occurred, including any change in tenant. This wasnt done 
when the tenant changed in 2015 or at subsequent renewals. From the 2017 a change in 
tenant was specifically given as an example of the type of change St Andrews needed to be 
notified of in the renewal documents issued. Not doing this was non-disclosure.
Second, St Andrews does not provide cover for property let to tenants receiving any form of 
benefits. The policy makes no distinction between type of benefit, saying tenants:
 cannot include:
Persons funding rent through the benefits agency 
Because St Andrews wouldnt have offered the cover had it known the tenant was in receipt 
of benefits, the law under CIDRA (outlined above) allows it to avoid (cancel) the policy in the 
event of non-disclosure, this is what it has chosen to do.
As St Andrews did draw attention to these requirements it hasnt acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in following the options available to it set out in the policy in not paying the 
claim and avoiding the policy. And the other factors mentioned by Mrs N dont change this so 
I cant ask St Andrews to change its decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision of 30 April 2020, my final 
decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2020.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman