DRN-4324744
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118 118 Money (Madison), lent to
her irresponsibly. Mrs K said:
I feel that they did not check that I could actually afford to pay back both the
loanbecause if they did then they would see that I only earn about £1,000 a month
and I also received universal tax credits.
What happened
This final decision follows my provisional decision, issued to both parties on 16 August 2023. 
The reply date was today  30 August 2023  and as Ive received an acknowledgement 
from Madison and no response from Mrs K then it seems fair and reasonable to issue the 
final decision in the same terms as the provisional decision. That is what I have done. 
Mrs K took one loan with Madison for £4,500 on 3 August 2022. The interest to pay was
£4,406.40 and the loan term was 60 months. Mrs K had to repay £148.44 each month.
After Mrs K had complained, Madison issued its final response letter (FRL) in which it
explained that it used the application form submitted by Mrs K as a starting point. It carried
out a credit search to check on the outstanding credit commitments Mrs K had. To assess
her expenditure Madison used additional information such as credit reference agency and
industry verification checks plus reasonable average figures.
It referred to the credit card application she had made as well. That had been approved on
29 July 2022 with a limit of £1,200 and as of 3 August 2022 Mrs K had not used that card
and the balance was £0.
Madison did not uphold her complaint and Mrs K referred it to the Financial Ombudsman
Service. One of our adjudicators considered that the total to repay for the loan was almost
£9,000 over five years, and did not think that Madison had enough information about Mrs Ks
expenditure and outgoings to make a responsible lending decision. So, she upheld the
complaint but Madison disagreed.
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. After I had reviewed it I asked Mrs K
for additional information as I considered I needed to see what it was that Madison would
have likely discovered if it had carried out a full financial review of Mrs Ks finances. Mrs K
has said she will not send anything to us. Mrs K went on to say that she was mentally ill at
the time she applied for this loan but sent no details to support that  I was sorry to read of it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website.
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, what I need to
consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are
whether Madison completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs K
would be able to repay in a sustainable way? And, if not, would those checks have shown
that Mrs K wouldve been able to do so?
If I determine that Madison did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs K and
that she has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
The rules and regulations in place required Madison to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of Mrs Ks ability to make the repayments under this agreement.
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability
check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Madison had to think about whether repaying
the loan would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for Mrs K. In
practice this meant that Madison had to ensure that making the payments to the loan
wouldnt cause Mrs K undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Madison to simply think about the likelihood of it getting
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mrs K. Checks also
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon
several factors including  but not limited to  the circumstances of the Mrs K (e.g. their
financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial
difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same customer,
a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more
thorough:
the lower a Mrs Ks income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context
and what this all means for Mrs Ks complaint.
Before I issued my provisional decision earlier this month, I had asked for more information 
from Mrs K. Reading Mrs Ks recent response to my request it appears that her financial
and health situation deteriorated after shed taken this loan. The details surrounding Mrs Ks 
income and expenditure was detail I needed and I asked for it. Mrs K refused to send it me. 
Applying the FCA DISP rules which govern us, I can choose to proceed using the evidence 
I have. I issued my provisional decision and no further evidence has been received. 
I appreciate that Madison used the monthly income it said she received which was £2,118. It
said it verified that and it is likely that a salary of £1,000 a month plus Universal Creditincome may have amounted to that. In the absence of any other information to the contrary,
and considering Madison said it verified the income then I have proceeded with that income
figure.
Madison carried out a credit search and my view is different to that of our adjudicator. The
overall debt that credit search revealed was around £16,000. A large part of that was
£11,599 left to pay on a hire purchase (HP) agreement which was costing Mrs K £362 each
month. And a HP agreement is not classified as a high-cost credit loan. 
Over and above that Mrs K had £2,444 on a mail order account and that was within its limit
of £3,000. Mrs K had some credit cards and the total balance on all revolving credit accounts
(which is the category of consumer credit into which credit cards fall) was £2,331. This is not 
a high figure. Her balance-to-loan ratio was relatively low.
Using this information Mrs K had around £239 a month to pay the minimum repayments on
all the revolving and mail order credit (using 5% to calculate the sum), plus the HP cost of
£362. These plus the Madison loan would have amounted to £750 a month and that would
have been around 35% of her declared and verified income.
I appreciate that this was a proportion of Mrs Ks income but on its own, with no other
information indicating that Mrs K was in some sort of financial trouble, I do not consider it
enough to decide that Madison was irresponsible in its decision to approve the loan. That
35% figure may have been above average but I do not consider it a reason for Madison to 
have refused the loan.
The credit search did reveal some historic defaults and I note that one of them (all credit
cards) had a balance of £34 left to repay, one had been settled in May 2019 and the other
was being paid down  the balance at that time was around £304. So, these were either
historic or had been, or were in the process of being, settled.
There were no indications of any insolvencies and no records of any County Court
Judgments (CCJs). Madison and lenders like it are used to applicants with adverse credit
history and I do not consider that the scale of the adverse entries on Mrs Ks credit search
was such that it would have been the responsible move to refuse the loan.
It may well have been appropriate for Madison to have carried out a full financial review as it
was a £4,500 loan over a 60 month term, but to come to a fair and reasonable outcome on
this complaint, I would have needed to have identified what it was that Madison would have
seen if it had carried out such a detailed assessment. I included this in my provisional 
decision issued two weeks ago. I have not received that information.
And so, it appears that Mrs K had enough income to afford the loan and had no particularly
poor adverse entries on her credit file or any indications of any financial difficulties.
I do not to uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
Rachael WilliamsOmbudsman