DRN-3216798
The complaint
Mr G and Miss H complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly charged them for an account 
add-on after they thought it had been removed. Mr G and Miss H think this resulted in 
adverse information being added to their credit files.
Mr G is the main complainant here, so for ease, Ill refer to Mr G only in my decision.
What happened
Mr G had an insurance product added to his joint bank account with Miss H, for which he 
paid a monthly fee for. Around October 2020, he believed the account to have been closed. 
Mr G later found that Barclays had continued to charge him for the added insurance product, 
so he complained to the bank as he was unhappy that this led to adverse information being 
recorded on his credit file. 
Barclays explained it had made an error in the way the account was closed so Mr G was 
incorrectly charged for the insurance product. Barclays refunded the fees it charged and 
closed Mr Gs account. However, it didnt agree to amend Mr Gs credit file as the bank felt 
the information it reported was accurate. Remaining unhappy, Mr G asked this service to 
provide an independent view on his complaint.
One of our investigators concluded that the bank had resolved the complaint fairly and that 
the information reported on Mr Gs credit file was accurate. Mr G didnt agree  he feels the 
bank should amend his credit file because it made an error by continuing to charge him for 
the insurance product. 
Mr G asked for a final decision, so the complaint has been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding this complaint  Ill explain why.
Its unclear why Mr G believes his account was meant to have been closed in October 2020. 
From the banks notes, I cant see a request from Mr G to do so, nor can I see anything from 
Barclays indicating it would close the account. So its unclear whether the account was 
meant to close in October. Looking at Barclays notes and the letter it sent to Mr G around 
the time, it seems the bank decided to limit some of the features of Mr Gs account. This 
included the removal of the added insurance policy  which is the issue thats relevant here.  
Barclays already accepts it didnt remove the add-on product correctly. The bank has since 
correctly removed it and refunded the additional fees Mr G was charged  which is what I 
wouldve expected Barclays to do to put things right. So the only issue that remains is Mr Gs 
concerns about the adverse information on his credit file.
I can see from Mr Gs credit report, that adverse information about the status of his bank 
account was indeed reported by Barclays from around October 2020 to June 2021, when the 
account was closed. But I cant conclude that the banks failure to correctly remove the add-
on product is what led to the adverse records on Mr Gs credit file.
Looking at the history of Mr Gs account, it seems the account had gone into overdraft from 
around September 2020, and it remained this way until the account closed. So, although the 
fees for the add-on product wouldve increased Mr Gs overdraft balance to some degree, it 
was never the reason Mr Gs account became overdrawn. 
And because the account remained this way for the period in question, Barclays correctly 
reported Mr Gs account status to show that he had an overdue balance throughout this 
period. So I cant say that Barclays acted unfairly by reporting adverse information about 
Mr Gs account, as this was an accurate reflection at the time. So I wont be asking the bank 
to amend this information. 
In summary, Barclays rightly accepts that it didnt remove the account add-on properly. Its 
applied a fair approach by refunding the additional fees it charged for the period the add-on 
product shouldnt have been running for. Im satisfied this fairly resolves Mr Gs complaint. 
The adverse information reported on Mr Gs credit file correctly reflects that Mr Gs account 
was in arrears for the period in question  this wasnt caused by the fees the bank charged 
for the add-on product, so Im not asking the bank to change what it has reported. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Miss H 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman