DRN-2867292
The complaint
Mr T says he should be compensated for loss of value in his Self-Invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP) managed by Hargreaves Lansdown Advisory Services Limited (HL) and caused by 
its delay in executing his £6,200 drawdown instruction of 14 September 2020. Units from 
funds in his SIPP were sold on 24 September 2020 for the payment (which was made on 30 
September 2020). He says the sale should have been done earlier, on 15 September, and 
had that been the case (and because unit prices were higher on this date) less units would 
have been sold and a financial loss (in the SIPPs value on 24 September) would have been 
avoided. He seeks compensation for this.
HL acknowledges that the delayed sale and unit price differences  between 15 and 24 
September  resulted in more units being sold on the latter date than would have been sold 
on the former. It is has offered to reimburse Mr T with the cost of replacing the excess units 
 that is, the difference between the units sold on 24 September and the units that would 
have been sold on 15 September to meet the drawdown amount. At the time of its initial 
complaint response it calculated this as around £58 and it offered to pay him a rounded-up 
amount of £150 in order to account for the trouble and inconvenience caused to him.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. She addressed Mr Ts financial loss claim and a separate matter about a change of 
his tax code, about HLs use of the new tax code and about an HMRC tax debt arising 
thereafter. However, Mr T has clarified that his complaint in this respect is not about HLs 
use of the new tax code, instead it is about his view that HL failed to apply checks prior to a 
tax refund it made to him  checks which he says would have avoided the HMRC debt. In 
addition to his claim for financial loss, for the trouble and inconvenience in all matters he 
says he should be awarded a minimum of £500.
The investigator exchanged correspondence with Mr T over his comments on her findings 
and in order to provide further illustration of those findings. Overall and in the main, she said:
Mr Ts claim about loss in the SIPPs value is misguided; the delay in the case relates 
only to the units that were sold to liquidate the drawdown amount; he did not encash 
his entire SIPP; the value of the remaining units in the SIPP (and of the SIPP, after 
the sale) on 24 September 2020 was wholly due to unit price movements in the 
market; that had nothing to do with the unit sale happening on that date (as opposed 
to 15 September); that value would have represented a loss (in the amount Mr T has 
calculated) if the entire SIPP was liquidated on 24 September, but that is not what 
happened; therefore, he has based his pursuit on no more than the fluctuating values 
(over time) of the remaining units in his SIPP; however, the amount of those 
remaining units remained intact, their fluctuating values had nothing to do with HL 
and any drop in their values at the time has probably since recovered.
HLs approach is consistent with the approach this service would take in the 
circumstances of Mr Ts case  that is, consideration of the loss (if any) he incurred 
due to selling more units on 24 September (when the units were actually sold) than 
he would have needed to sell on 15 September (when the units should have been 
sold), and then compensation for such loss. HL offered him compensation for the 
cost of replacing the excess units that were sold. It has also offered £150 for the 
trouble and inconvenience caused to him. Overall, it has made a fair offer(s) to 
resolve the matter and it should not have to give him more than it has offered.
With regards to the tax code matter, HL cannot reasonably be held responsible for 
that. It had to comply with the tax code issued by HMRC.
Mr T retains the view that the investigators conclusions are wrong and that she has failed to 
grasp what he considers to be the simple and fair basis for the compensation he seeks  
that is, the difference between the value of the SIPP on 24 September (after the delayed 
units sale) and the value the SIPP would have had on 15 September (after a timely units 
sale). He referred to evidence in support of his argument that the sale should have 
happened on 15 September and to what he considers to be a comparator case that supports 
the form of compensation he seeks. 
The investigator considered that the same case served as a good illustration of why Mr Ts 
case is different, given that it involved a complete transfer of a pension and loss of its value 
upon completion due to a delay in the transfer. In contrast, she said, no complete pension 
transfer or liquidation happened in Mr Ts case, some of his SIPPs units were sold, the rest 
remained in place and they simply experienced market value fluctuations.
Mr T disagreed and restated his claim with elaboration. The matter was referred to an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not uphold Mr Ts complaint and I have reached this conclusion for reasons that are 
broadly similar to those given by the investigator. 
With regards to the tax code issue, I note that HLs use of the new tax code is not alleged to 
be its wrongdoing and that this is not the issue in dispute. Mr T says HL should have 
conducted a check with him first before issuing him with a tax rebate in March 2020. 
Evidence presented by HL shows that this rebate was paid into his SIPP on 25 March 2020 
and that he contacted HL to query it the day after, during which he said he had already 
claimed the rebate directly from HMRC. HL says it had no cause or basis to know that 
previously. Mr T says it ought to have conducted a check with him before making the 
payment  whereby it would have learnt about the rebate he had already claimed.
The duplicated receipt of the same tax rebate is what appears to have led to the HMRC 
debt/recovery that Mr T was subjected to and is unhappy with. I understand his strength of 
feeling in this respect and his argument about what HL should have done, but I am not 
persuaded by the latter. 
Had HL conducted the check he has argued for, and had he disclosed the rebate he had 
received during such a check, it would have been an opportunity for HL to learn about that 
and to avoid the rebate duplication. However, I have not seen evidence that it was duty 
bound to perform such a check. Mr T stressed to us that HL managed his SIPP. In that 
context, it was reasonable for HL to process and remit a tax rebate related to him and his 
SIPP as a matter of course, as opposed to considering the possibility that he could have 
resolved that independently and directly with HMRC. I do not say or suggest that he was wrong to have done so. The point is that, on balance, I do not consider that HL was wrong to 
have handled the matter as it did, without knowledge of or cause to have been aware of (or 
to check on the possibility of) a rebate payment directly from HMRC that Mr T had 
independently arranged.
With regards to the drawdown matter, it is important to note  for the sake of clarity  that my 
conclusion is based on the premise set by HLs resolution offer to Mr T. It is because of that 
offer  which, as I understand, remains in place  that I do not find cause to uphold his 
complaint in this matter. In a nutshell, HL has offered to, and remains standing to, reimburse 
Mr T with the excess units (as defined above). If HL withdraws from this position after this 
decision, the circumstances of the complaint changes and so does the complaint itself. 
When its offer was initially made it calculated the monetary value of the units based on 
prices at the time. The relevant unit prices are probably presently different and in flux, but 
the fact remains that HLs fundamental offer to Mr T is the reimbursement of the excess units 
and for the reasons I give below, I consider it a fair offer.
As the investigator said, the form of compensation Mr T wants is inherently wrong and 
misguided. The facts about the values in, or of, his SIPP between the two relevant dates are 
not in dispute. However, he is asking for compensation in the amount of a drop in the SIPPs 
value between both dates, despite the fact that the drop in each units value was part of the 
ongoing fluctuating values of all the units in the SIPP over time, despite the fact that those 
fluctuating values resulted wholly and directly from changes in the market prices for the units 
(and not from anything to do with HL), and despite the fact that the loss in value he 
perceives was never crystallised at any point relevant to his complaint. 
On the last point of crystallisation alone, and if Mr T had been compensated in 2020 in the 
way he sought, that compensation would be an unjust enrichment in the face of a full 
recovery in the relevant units prices (and in the values of the SIPPs surviving units) since 
24 September 2020 and to date. If he received the compensation he wanted in 2020, he 
would have also retained the relevant units and the position (and opportunity) to enjoy such 
potential full recovery thereafter, despite also receiving a compensation payment for the 
same full recovery value. This illustration might help him understand the inherent unfairness 
in what he seeks. As the investigator said, the main detriment was the excess units he lost 
due to the delay  beyond that, he retained the remaining units in his SIPP and their values 
could change at any time, so there was/is no reasonable basis for the loss he claims.
I have considered the possibility that Mr Ts argument relates instead to the loss of 
performance by the excess units  that is, any growth they potentially could have had to 
date, had they not been lost on 24 September 2020. However, HLs offer automatically 
caters for this. The offer seeks to reimburse Mr T with the excess units themselves. Which 
means, they will be purchased (at HLs expense) and will arrive in Mr Ts SIPP with any lost 
performance or growth (since 24 September 2020) within their current values. 
Mr Ts submissions about why the units should have been sold on 15 September is 
somewhat redundant, given that there is no dispute about using this date in calculating the 
excess units. With regards to the case that he compared his to, I agree with the investigator 
 for the same reasons she gave  that his case is not the same as the other.
On the matter of trouble and inconvenience, there appears to have been somewhat of an 
evolution in HLs offer. Its initial offer to Mr T appears to have been £150, inclusive of the 
value of the excess units (calculated at the time as around £58), so the trouble and 
inconvenience award element was around £90. Since then, both Mr T and the investigator 
have referred, in their correspondence with HL, to the trouble and inconvenience award offer 
being £150  and to the reimbursement of the excess units being separate/additional. HL 
does not appear to have objected to this. The implication is that it agrees to pay Mr T £150 for trouble and inconvenience, in addition to the reimbursement (to him) of the excess units. 
Indeed, I have a noted an internal document HL shared with us in which it defined its trouble 
and inconvenience offer as £150. 
The relevant delay was for nine days and the financial loss arising from it has been covered 
separately in HLs reimbursement offer. Faced with the consideration of an award for trouble 
and inconvenience in the circumstances of this case (especially given the relatively brief 
nature of the delay), I would not be persuaded to make an award above £150. This would be 
the case even if I took into account Mr Ts unhappiness about the HMRC tax code/debt 
matter. As such, I do not support his claim for £500 and I do not consider it unreasonable for 
HL to offer and pay him £150. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman