DRN-2975120
The complaint
IL, a limited company, is unhappy with the settlement Chubb European Group SE made in 
respect of a claim under its combined liability insurance policy.
What happened
IL is a furniture manufacturer. It made light walls for a firm based overseas.
In 2019 a fire started in a faulty transformer in one of the light walls. The fire then damaged 
the firms premises. A light wall was also damaged beyond repair and needed to be 
replaced.
IL made a claim totalling $136,298.09, comprising:
$74,655.11 for repairing the fire damage to the premises;
$40,942.98 for travelling to assess the damage to the light wall and repair and 
replacement of light wall panels; and
$20,700 to take off and put back a replacement light wall.
Chubb paid the invoice of $74,655 for restoration and repair work following the fire 
damage. It said the policy didnt cover the other invoices as they related to removing, 
repairing and reinstating the light wall supplied by IL.
IL was unhappy that not all the costs were covered and brought its complaint to this service. 
Our investigator thought Chubbs offer was fair as he didnt think the policy covered the cost 
of removing and replacing a light wall.
As IL didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In 2018 IL entered into a contract to supply and deliver (amongst other things) light walls.
ILs policy covered the damage to the building which included the restoration and repair of 
fire damage to the walls and ceilings. But it didnt cover:
Damage to or the cost incurred by anyone in repairing, removing, replacing, reapplying, 
rectifying or reinstating
a) Products Supplied (other than Products Supplied previously under a separate 
contract).
The costs which Chubb didnt cover relate to removing and replacing a light wall.
IL said a wall containing light fittings shouldnt be considered as one product but as two very 
different and distinct products. An electrical fitting in the light wall had caused the fire. I think 
IL is saying that the policy should therefore cover the removal and replacement of the light 
wall as that is separate from the electrical fitting.
I appreciate that the light wall contained a faulty electrical fitting that was supplied to IL by a 
third party. But IL supplied the light wall as a single product although it contained separate 
component parts. The quote, purchase order and invoice all simply refer to a light wall. I 
think it was reasonable for Chubb to treat the light wall and its component parts as one 
product.
IL also said that the light wall had become the property of its customer on completion of the 
contract and had therefore become a product supplied previously under a separate contract. 
I disagree. In my opinion there was only one contract and it was under that contract that IL 
had a liability to its customer. It would have been different if, for example, IL had supplied 
items under a previous contract and those items had been damaged as a result of the fire. I 
dont think ILs liability under the original contract created a second contract. It follows from 
that I dont think Chubb acted unreasonably in applying this exclusion to the claim. I think 
the settlement it made was fair in view of the policy terms.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask IL to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman