DRN-3819773
The complaint
Mr D has complained about the delays he has experienced in trying to arrange for his 
account to be transferred away from ITI Capital Limited (ITI) after his account was migrated 
over from a previous firm. There was no audit trail to verify his cash balance and his 
shareholdings and cash balance were often shown on his account as doubled up. Mr D says 
he lost the opportunity to take part in a rights issue for one of his shareholdings.
 
What happened
In June 2020 Mr Ds share account, which he held with a previous firm that had gone into 
administration, was transferred over to ITI. Mr D didnt want to hold his account with ITI. He 
wanted to transfer his shareholdings and cash to another platform. 
The transfer was delayed, and Mr D complained to ITI on 9 October 2020. Mr D didnt 
receive a reply from ITI so brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. He asked 
whose responsibility it was to deliver a fine to ITI. He wanted this service to conduct an 
internal review of ITI. He said on the balance of probabilities he had suffered a financial loss 
and sought compensation. Mr D hadnt been able to access his account or trade, there was 
no audit trail, and ITI still retained two of his shareholdings.
In the meantime, ITI responded to Mr Ds complaint. Briefly, it said;
The delay in fully completing Mr Ds transfer request was unacceptable and the 
timeframes within which communications were responded to were subject to 
unreasonable delays.
After delays caused by ITI, and the new platform provider, all but two of Mr Ds 
shareholdings were transferred on 12 February 2021.
At that time the two shareholdings that remained with ITI were in certificated form 
and as ITI staff were working remotely because of the pandemic they couldnt be 
transferred. 
Mr Ds cash transfer withdrawal of £261.71 had been processed and it provided a 
statement of account. 
The delays were caused by a high number of transfer requests, but it recognised    
Mr D was subject to unnecessary delays. 
It offered £225 for the inconvenience and/or distress caused.
Mr D wasnt satisfied with the response.
ITI didnt provide the Financial Ombudsman with its complaint file. Our investigator 
considered the complaint in the absence of any information from ITI. She thought the 
complaint should be upheld and said;
Mr D told us he complied with all the transfer requirements but not all his 
shareholdings were transferred, he hadnt had access to his account and there was 
no audit trail for the UK cash balance.
The investigator proposed that ITI provide a breakdown of the cash held on the 
account, provide instruction to Mr D detailing how he can access his account online 
and make arrangements to transfer the residual holdings and explain why not if it 
wasnt possible.
Mr D had been inconvenienced and at that time the investigator didnt know if Mr D 
had received a response to his complaint he made to ITI on 9 October 2020. In 
recognition of all the above Mr D should be awarded £300.
Mr D wasnt happy with the proposed outcome. He wanted the Financial Ombudsman to fine 
ITI and he wanted more compensation.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it was passed to me for a decision. I issued my 
provisional decision explaining that I intended on upholding the complaint but with potentially 
some alterations to the redress, but I asked both parties to give me anything that the wanted 
me to consider before I issued my final decision. Heres what I said;
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, I agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator and Im going 
to uphold the complaint. I dont think ITI has behaved reasonably however I think the 
£300 compensation recommended is broadly fair and reasonable. And ITI has 
agreed to this. But provisionally, I also think ITI should pay some additional interest to 
Mr D.
I very much recognise Mr Ds strength of feeling about his complaint. Its very clear 
he is, and has been, extremely frustrated by the process. Ive considered the 
submissions he has made very carefully. And I hope he wont think I am being 
discourteous by not addressing all of the points he has made in any great detail. Ive 
kept my focus in this decision on the core matters to the complaint.
In provisionally deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, 
regulation and best industry practice. But its for me to decide, based on the available 
information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
Since the case has been passed to me, we asked ITI for information about the 
complaint. It provided an account statement (albeit not showing the two certificated 
holdings referred to below) that I forward onto Mr D along with this decision which I 
hope he will find useful and helps him reconcile his account. ITI also agreed to pay 
the requested redress of £300 as recommended by the investigator.
Mr D told us he had been attempting to transfer his account to another broker from 
August 2020. I can see that ITI responded to Mr Ds transfer request on                   
14 September 2020. It said that his account status had been changed to Closure 
and that he would need to login to his account and complete closure/withdrawal 
forms and provide his bank details.
The statement of Mr Ds account shows that the majority of his shareholdings werent 
transferred to his new broker until 18 January 2021. Five more shareholdings were 
later transferred with the last one being 12 February 2021. So around four and a half 
months since ITI confirmed Mr Ds transfer instruction to him which was too long. ITI 
acknowledged this in its response to Mr Ds complaint.
ITI confirmed to us that Mr Ds trading account was closed but it still held two 
shareholdings in Mr Ds account  35 M&G shares and five NedBank Group shares. In its response to Mr Ds complaint it said the transfer for these was delayed during 
the pandemic as they were in certificated form and needed to be manually 
transferred. At the time ITI staff were working remotely and didnt have physical 
access to the holdings.
We referred back to ITI about this and were told it would be checking with its back 
office but assumed that the holdings were not accepted by Mr Ds new platform 
provider. It said it would get back to us, but we didnt hear anything further. ITI should 
now either arrange for the transfer to the new provider of these two holdings, or if 
they are not accepted by the new provider, it should revert back to Mr D about what 
options are available to him and what action he would like taken with them.
ITI also told us that it had residual dividends on his account (not showing on the 
statement it provided) which it said should be transferred to Mr Ds new broker as 
residuals. We asked it to confirm whether this sum of £41.54 had been transferred 
but we didnt hear back prior to this final decision. If it hasnt done so already, ITI 
should make the payment to Mr Ds new platform provider and send Mr D a 
statement showing how the sum is made up.
Mr D has referred to his Whitbread PLC shareholding which had a rights issue he 
says he wasnt able to take part in because of ITI. Mr D wants financial compensation 
for his loss of rights. The last rights issue for Whitbread PLC I can see took place in 
2020. For every two existing Ordinary Shares qualifying shareholders who held 
shares at close of business on 19 May 2020 could subscribe for an extra one New 
Ordinary share at a price of 1,500 pence per share. However, ITI didnt become the 
custodian of the shareholding until 22 June 2020 so I cant conclude that it was 
responsible if Mr D wasnt able to take part in the rights issue.
Mr D has told us that on the balance of probabilities he has suffered a financial loss. 
But for me to make such an award I would need to see that Mr D had tried to place a 
trade but was prevented from doing so by ITI and which caused him to suffer a loss. I 
know Mr D has told us he couldnt access his account, but I havent seen anything to 
make me conclude that he attempted to place an actual trade with ITI and ITI failed 
to carry out that trade or was told he couldnt trade. And as Ive said, in the absence 
of such evidence I cant make an award for an actual financial loss.
I dont know the size of the client base that ITI took over from the previous provider 
that went into administration. But and as already acknowledged by ITI, I think its 
likely that the new additional accounts and investments will inevitably have had an 
impact on ITIs capacity and ability to deal with new customers and increased 
requests. And it seems evident there were some IT issues.
That being said, I think Mr D should receive a payment for the considerable 
frustration he has been caused during the transfer process. Ive carefully considered 
Mr Ds points and I am aware he feels strongly about his complaint. But I have also 
borne in mind our long- standing approach awards for distress caused. ITI initially 
offered £225 but taking all of the above into account, I think the £300 as 
recommended by the investigator is a fairer reflection of the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr D. And ITI has agreed to this.
Mr D was unable to use the money on his account as he wished during this time from 
the date he made the transfer instruction to ITI to the date(s) of transfer of the cash 
held on account. I think its fair that ITI pays simple interest at the rate of 8% per year 
on cash from the date Mr D should have been able to transfer the funds to the date they were received by the new platform provider. I think it reasonable that it should 
be recognised that Mr D was out of pocket during that time.
ITIs own guidelines are that cash transfer requests should proceed in two working 
days after that request has been made. Im not aware of the actual date of the 
instruction Mr D gave to ITI but ITI should pay interest on the cash that should have 
been transferred two days after Mr D gave that instruction to the date it was received 
by the new platform provider. The interest rate that should apply is 8% simple.
And Mr D has also been out of pocket for dividends and any other cash received by 
ITI after his initial transfer request. So again, 8% simple interest should be added to 
those sums from two days after they were received by ITI until the dates they were 
paid to the new platform provider.
Overall, ITI should pay to Mr D;
£300 for all the delays as well as the frustration and inconvenience Mr D was 
caused. 
8% simple interest per year, on the amounts in cash transferred from ITI to the 
new platform provider from two days after Mr Ds instruction. 
8% simple interest per year, on any subsequent cash received, from two days 
after that was received by ITI and until it was transferred to the new platform 
provider.
I am aware that Mr D would like for the Financial Ombudsman to fine ITI. But that is 
the role of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. We dont fine or punish 
businesses. We resolve complaints on an individual basis in the particular 
circumstances of a complaint brought by a consumer against a financial business.
I should like to apologise to Mr D for the time it has taken for a decision to be issued 
on his case. Understandably he has been anxious to reach a resolution and I 
appreciate the time this has taken.
No doubt Mr D wont be happy that I havent increased the award for the distress and 
inconvenience he has been caused, but I hope I have been able to explain to him 
how and why I have reached the provisional decision that I have done.
I made further contact with Mr D as I wanted to reconsider how I could more accurately put 
things right with regard to the 8% interest I provisionally thought he should be paid on any 
delayed cash transfer. So, I asked if he had taken any action with that money or had 
intended to. 
Mr D didnt provide any details of what he had done with the funds but did say that the 
shareholdings were still missing. 
ITI didnt respond to the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
ITI hasnt given me anything further to consider. Mr D hasnt given me any reason to think he was looking to do something with the funds. If 
he had been waiting for those funds for a specific purpose such as reinvesting it or needing it 
for another purpose as examples, and he had lost out because of the delays, then paying 
interest might be more appropriate in those circumstances. 
But in this case, upon reconsideration, I havent been given anything to suggest that Mr D 
was out of pocket because of the delays in the cash transfers. He hasnt told me of any 
action he wanted to take with the funds or that he missed out on taking any action because 
of the delays. So, and in the individual circumstances of this complaint, I am not awarding 
8% simple interest per year on the cash sums transferred. 
Other than this alteration to the redress, I reiterate the findings I reached in my provisional 
decision. 
Putting things right
Overall, ITI should pay Mr D £300 for all the delays as well as the frustration and 
inconvenience Mr D was caused. 
If it hasnt already done so ITI should now either arrange for the transfer to the new provider 
of the two missing shareholdings referred to above, or if those shareholdings are not 
accepted by the new provider, it should revert back to Mr D about what options are available 
to him and what action he would like taken with them.
And again, if it hasnt already done so, ITI should make payment to Mr Ds new platform 
provider of any residual cash on account and send Mr D a statement showing how the sum 
is made up.
If ITI Capital Limited doesnt pay the above sums to Mr D within one month of ITI Capital 
Limited being notified of Mr Ds acceptance of this decision, then ITI Capital Limited should 
pay Mr D simple interest on the outstanding sums at a rate of 8% per year from the date of 
my decision until the date ITI Capital Limited pays Mr D the outstanding sums.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I uphold Mr Ds complaint about the service he has received 
from ITI Capital Limited.
If it hasnt already done so, ITI Capital Limited should make arrangements for the transfer of 
the two shareholdings and payment of any residual cash as outlined above. And ITI Capital 
Limited should pay £300 to Mr D for the trouble and upset he has been caused.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman