DRN-3297572
The complaint
Mrs A says NewDay Ltd lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Mrs A took out a 60-month instalment loan for £5,000 from NewDay on 10 December 2018. 
The monthly repayments were £132.41 and the total repayable was £7,994.74. I understand 
there is an outstanding balance.
Mrs A says she was already struggling financially and in a debt management plan. But 
NewDay offered her the loan and she applied as she was desperate. It failed to check the 
loan was affordable for her.
Our investigator said Mrs As complaint should be upheld. NewDay was aware her 
indebtedness had increased over the prior year and so should have carried out further 
checks. Had it done so it would most likely have seen Mrs A was having financial difficulties 
and was unlikely to be able to sustainably repay this loan.
NewDay disagreed. In summary, it said its checks were sufficient and did not show evidence 
of financial strain, such as payday loans or arrears. 
As an agreement wasnt reached the complaint was passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when NewDay lent to Mrs A required it to carry out a reasonable
and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay what she owed in a
sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an
affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So NewDay had to think about whether
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for
Mrs A. In other words, it wasnt enough for NewDay to simply think about the likelihood of
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mrs A.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether NewDay did what it needed to before agreeing
to lend to Mrs A. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
did NewDay complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mrs As 
loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable
way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did NewDay make a fair lending decision?
did NewDay act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Mrs A opened a credit card account with NewDay in January 2018. At this stage it asked for 
information on her annual income, her employment status and her residential status. It also 
carried out a credit check. From what I can see when she applied for this loan it reviewed 
how she was managing her credit card, as well as the monthly data it received from at least 
two of the credit reference agencies. It has said it also uses third party data to understand 
applicants likely living costs, but it hasnt shown what this meant for Mrs As loan 
affordability assessment.
I dont think these checks were proportionate. Mrs A was applying for a loan that she would 
need to be able to sustainably repay over a five-year period. I think given her circumstances 
NewDay should have verified her income and understood her actual living costs before 
deciding the loan was affordable. NewDay could see from the credit checks that her level of 
revolving (most typically credit card/storecard) debt had increased every month for the 
previous 10 months. It knew from the credit card application checks that at that time Mrs A 
had five defaulted accounts with around £25,000 of unsettled debt so it was aware she had a 
history of problems managing money. So I think it ought to have carried out further checks to 
get the assurances it need that Mrs As finances were stable at this time.
In order to understand what better checks would most likely have shown NewDay I have 
reviewed Mrs As bank statements from the months prior to her application. I am not saying 
NewDay had to do exactly this, but it is a way for me to understand what proportionate 
checks would most likely have shown the lender. Mrs As bank statements show she was in 
a debt management plan making a £100 monthly payment into the plan. Had NewDay 
carried out better checks and become aware of this it would have realised Mrs As finances 
were under pressure and extending her borrowing further would be irresponsible. 
It follows I find NewDay was wrong to lend to Mrs A.
I havent seen any evidence that NewDay acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs A in some other way.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mrs A to repay the capital that she borrowed, because she
had the benefit of that money. But she has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt
have been provided to her.
If NewDay has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back if it is able to do so and then 
take the following steps. If NewDay is not able to buy the debt back, then it should liaise with 
the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below. 
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan and treat all the payments Mrs A
made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mrs As loan account results in her having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then NewDay should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking the account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then NewDay
should work to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mrs A.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs As credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to deduct tax from this interest. NewDay should
give Mrs A a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one. 
My final decision
I am upholding Mrs As complaint. NewDay Ltd must put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman