DRN-3705789
The complaint
Mr H complains about the advice given by Sesame Limited (Sesame) to transfer the benefits 
from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension (PP). He 
says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
Mr H is being represented by a third party, but for ease Ill refer to all representations as 
being made by him.
This complaint relates to the actions of a firm who were an appointed representative of 
Sesame. For ease, Ill only refer to Sesame throughout this decision.  
What happened
In or around September 2001, Mr H approached Sesame to discuss his pension and 
retirement needs, after being advised by it earlier that year to take out life assurance and to 
start contributing to a PP with Standard Life. 
In January 2002, Sesame completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Hs 
circumstances and objectives. It indicated that Mr H was aged 39, self-employed and 
married with two dependent children. He told Sesame he lived in a property he owned, worth 
around £90,000 with a mortgage of £60,000 that he had an endowment policy in place for, 
as well as life assurance worth £30,000 and £1,000 in savings. It also carried out an 
assessment of his attitude to risk, which it said was balanced. 
In June 2002, Sesame advised Mr H to transfer his DB benefits into his PP with his existing 
provider and invest it in a with profits fund. The transfer took place in July 2002 for a value of 
around £59,000. While Sesame hasnt provided the suitability report Mr H was sent at the 
time, it has provided an updated copy it sent Mr H in December 2002. This said the reasons 
for its recommendation were to improve on the benefits the DB scheme provided and 
because Mr H could take benefits earlier than his normal scheme retirement age of 60. 
Mr H complained in 2020 to Sesame about the suitability of the transfer advice saying that it 
was negligent and wasnt in his best interests, given he had no investment experience and a 
low attitude to risk and capacity for loss. He said he was induced to transfer as he was told 
his pension would grow in excess of what hed achieve in his DB scheme. 
In response, Sesame said Mr H had made his complaint too late for our Service to consider 
it. Unhappy with this, Mr H brought his complaint to us. And we decided we could consider 
his complaint, as it had been made in time, which Sesame has since said it accepts. 
An Investigator looked into Mr Hs complaint and upheld it saying he didnt think the transfer 
was suitable, as Mr H didnt have any strong objective or need to transfer at the time. He 
also said Sesame should pay Mr H £400 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Sesame didnt respond, so the complaint was referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sesame said Mr Hs complaint was brought to our Service too late for us to consider it.          
I dont intend to revisit that, as an Ombudsman has already given a decision explaining why 
hes satisfied Mr H brought this complaint in time and that its one I can consider. And, 
having considered all the information, I think Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. This 
includes the regulators Conduct of Business (COB) rules.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons as the 
Investigator. 
Under COB 5.3.29A(4)
The regulator expected a prospective investor to receive sufficient, clear information to 
make an informed investment decision based on a firm understanding of the risks involved 
and a knowledge of what protection, rights, expectations and options they may be giving up. 
It also expected at least one illustration for the PP had to be given on a similar basis to the 
DB scheme, e.g. what spouses pension and increases in payment were shown.
Also, a reason why letter or equivalent had to be issued as soon as practicable after the 
recommendation, which should:
explain why that advice is suitable. That explanation should take explicit account of the 
alternative of remaining within the occupational scheme
demonstrate a real link between the circumstances, objectives and risk profile of the 
investor, and the recommendation made to him or her by the firm.
Presumption of unsuitability
COB 5.3.29G specified the information Sesame should gather from the consumer and the 
DB scheme in order to assess suitability. Importantly it also said that:
When advising a customer who is, or is eligible to be, an active member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme whether he should opt out or transfer, a firm should:
(a) start by assuming it will not be suitable, and
(b) only then consider it to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate on the evidence available 
at the time that it is in the customer's best interests.
Financial viability 
The advice was given during the period when the regulator was publishing 'discount rates' 
for use in loss assessments resulting from the industry-wide Pensions Review. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable when the advice was given in this case. 
The investment return (critical yield) required to match Mr Hs occupational pension at 
retirement was quoted as 6.19% per year or 5.2% if retiring at 55. This compares with the 
discount rate of 7.2% per year for 19 years to retirement in this case.
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 9%, the middle 
projection rate 7%, and the lower projection rate 5%.
I recognise the critical yield was lower than the discount rate and the regulators middle 
projection rate. But I think Mr H was likely to receive benefits of a materially lower overall 
value than the occupational scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with his 
attitude to risk. Ill explain why. 
While the suitability report initially said that reinvested income and asset price growth ought 
to beat the critical yield, despite average long term investment returns now falling, it went on 
to say the adviser didnt think that the with profits fund it was recommending Mr H transfer to 
invest in would achieve the growth required to match the critical yield in the long term. It said 
it was recommending Mr H invest in this low risk fund though, despite determining he had a 
balanced risk profile, to play safe due to current market uncertainty and volatility. And 
because it was anticipated that Mr H would switch to more aggressive funds in future to 
achieve or exceed the critical yield. 
Sesame needed to ensure the transfer was in Mr Hs best interests based on the evidence 
available at the time though, rather than on what his risk profile might allow for in future. And 
I think the evidence shows Mr H had a low, rather than balanced or more aggressive, risk 
profile given he was an inexperienced investor who said he didnt want to be exposed to 
anything other than a minimal amount of risk in the hope of increasing his pension benefits. 
This was also one of his main assets and theres nothing to suggest he had any other 
retirement provision at the time, aside from a state pension and the PP that Sesame advised 
him to start contributing to in 2001. 
There would be little point in Mr H giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB 
scheme only to achieve the same level of benefits outside it. And, while it isnt clear how 
much the fund Sesame was recommending was expected to perform below the critical yield, 
given the adviser stated it wouldnt meet this I think its clear Sesames recommendation that 
Mr H transfer to invest in it would likely mean hed end up with lower retirement benefits. I 
also think the adviser saying Mr H should play safe is an acknowledgement that it wasnt a 
good time for him to transfer his benefits in his DB scheme, but instead of saying that they 
recommended a transfer which wasnt in his best interests. 
For this reason alone a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Hs best interests. Of 
course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There might 
be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower 
benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
I dont think Mr H required flexibility in retirement because, based on the evidence Ive seen, 
I dont think he had a genuine need to access his TFC earlier than the normal scheme 
retirement age and leave his funds invested until a later date. I say this because TFC wasnt 
a priority to Mr H given he said that Whilst a higher lump sum would be nice, it is not a 
priority to me.While it seems Mr H liked the option of having flexibility if his circumstances changed, he 
didnt anticipate wanting to retire early as he didnt think he could afford to. And I cant see 
evidence that he had a strong need for variable income throughout his retirement. In 
addition, Mr H began contributing to a PP as a result of Sesames advice, which he could 
access in future if he did need flexibility with his retirement income or death benefits.
Furthermore, Mr H was only 39 at the time of the advice and, based on what Ive seen, he 
didnt have concrete retirement plans. As Mr H had 20 years before he could think about 
accessing his pension, I think it was too soon to make any kind of decision about transferring 
out of the DB scheme. So, I dont think it was a suitable recommendation for Mr H to give up 
his guaranteed benefits now when he didnt know what his needs in retirement would be. If 
Mr H later had reason to transfer out of his DB scheme he could have done so closer to 
retirement.
Summary
I dont doubt that Mr H found the idea of transferring his DB pension to his existing PP 
attractive, because it gave him more flexibility and control over his retirement. But Sesame 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr H might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr H needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr H was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring and investing in line with 
Sesames recommendation, Mr H was likely to obtain lower retirement benefits and in my 
view, there were no other particular reasons which would justify a transfer and outweigh this. 
So, I think Sesame shouldve advised Mr H to remain in his DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr H would've gone ahead anyway, against Sesames 
advice. Having done so carefully, Im not persuaded Mr H wouldve insisted on transferring 
out of the DB scheme, against Sesames advice. I say this because I think Mr H was an 
inexperienced investor with a low attitude to risk and this pension accounted for the majority 
of his retirement provision at the time. So, if Sesame had provided him with clear advice 
against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I 
think he wouldve accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think Sesame should compensate Mr H for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
This matter will also have caused Mr H distress, so Sesame should pay him £400 
compensation. I think this is a fair and reasonable amount to make up for this in the 
circumstances. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the Sesame to put Mr H, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for Sesames unsuitable advice. I consider Mr H would 
have most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/19 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mr H whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the any new guidance/rules to be published. 
He has chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint.
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr H.
Sesame must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, while Mr H has not yet retired, he plans to do so soon. So, compensation should 
be based on his normal retirement age of 60, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's 
guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Hs acceptance of the decision.
Sesame may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Hs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Hs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Hs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr H as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr H within 90 days of the date Sesame receives notification 
of her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Sesame to pay Mr H.Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Sesame to carry out a calculation in line with the 
updated rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
Sesame pays the balance.
Sesame should also pay Mr H £400 for distress and convenience caused by the unsuitable 
advice. 
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Sesame Limited to pay 
Mr H the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Sesame Limited to pay Mr H any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Sesame 
Limited to pay Mr H any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Sesame Limited pays Mr H the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr H.
If Mr H accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Sesame Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr H can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr H may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Holly Jackson
Ombudsman