DRN-3371115
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as U has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly turned 
down its business interruption insurance claim.
Mr P, a director of U, has complained on Us behalf. U is represented in bringing this 
complaint but, for ease of reading, Ill refer to all actions and comments as being those of U. 
What happened
U held a business protection insurance policy with Aviva. U claimed on the business 
interruption section of its policy after it was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments 
response to the pandemic. 
Aviva turned down Us claim. It said the policy provides cover for business interruption due 
to damage to property and Covid-19 didnt damage property. 
Unhappy with Avivas response, U brought its complaint to our service. It said the policy 
didnt exclude pandemics and its business had been damaged. 
Our investigator looked into Us complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as she didnt 
think the policy provided cover for the circumstances of Us claim. 
U asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Us business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if Aviva has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Us claim.
The core business interruption cover within Us policy says:
We will cover You for any interruption or interference with The Business resulting 
from Damage to property used by You at The Premises for the purpose of The 
Business occurring during the Period of Insurance caused by the contingences 
stated in The Schedule.
Damage is specifically defined in the policy as Physical loss, destruction or damage.
For this to provide cover, the interruption to Us business would need to be as a result 
of physical loss, destruction or damage to property used by U at its premises. While Us 
business experienced a financial loss, I havent seen anything to indicate that the 
interruption or interference to Us business was due to damage to property used at its 
premises. Therefore, this doesnt provide cover for its claim.
Ive looked at the other risks covered under the business interruption insurance section 
of the policy and none of them cover the circumstances of Us claim. It doesnt make a 
difference that there isnt an exclusion for Covid-19 or pandemics because an 
exclusion would only become relevant if there was a term in the policy which provided 
cover. And in this particular case there isnt anything in the policy which provides cover. 
I recognise this isnt the outcome U was hoping for but, having considered the matter 
very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Aviva to pay Us claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask U to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman