DRN-2677627
The complaint
Mr H complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) wont refund money he lost 
after falling victim to fraud.
What happened
Mr H opened a FlexBasic account (ending 300) in April 2017. Shortly after the account was 
opened large credits were received into the account  these were funds from a family 
inheritance.
Mr H recollects he first received a call in August 2017 from someone purporting to be from 
an investment company. Mr H says he initially wasnt interested but the individual showed 
great persistence over the following few months and they convinced him of the companys 
credibility. This individual went on to become Mr Hs account manager. Unbeknown to Mr H 
at the time, the individual was a fraudster. 
Mr H has told us the investment was to be operated as a managed trading platform and that 
every aspect of the investment seemed ideal  producing a fixed income on the two trading 
accounts he set up. He added the gains from the trades would be conducted and all within a 
short term of one year. Mr H explained he received professional marketing material and 
contracts in relation to both trading accounts and also says the investment companies, 
company house records looked healthy. 
He was initially recommended to make a small investment  Mr H says this was so he could 
test the water. Mr H told us he had access to view his trading platform account, which 
showed live, real time trading data and account balance. Mr H made numerous payments to 
four different accounts between November 2017 and January 2018.  
After the initial payments from 10 November 2017 were returned, Mr H sent a tester 
payment of £1.00 followed by a larger payment on 14 November 2017 to new account 
details. Mr H has provided a copy of the emails he received with the account details and 
payment dates. 
He told us that after the investment appeared to be delivering a reasonable return, he 
opened a POA account for his children and transferred funds to this. 
Then in January 2018, Mr H says he was persuaded by the account manager to invest in a 
trading event, which was positioned as being virtually risk free. After careful consideration 
Mr H proceeded and sent further payments. 
In total across November 2017 and January 2018 Mr H sent £130,000 to the fraudsters - 
£10,000 of which were funds that came from accounts originally set up in his childrens 
names. Mr H received two credits back from the fraudsters which he understood to be 
dividends (in December 2017 and January 2018), which helped persuaded Mr H the 
investment was genuine, and which led to him putting in more money. 
It was when the returns from the trading event didnt materialise that Mr H began to have 
concerns. He then received calls from recovery fraudsters claiming to be in charge of 
returning funds to investors and asking for money to release all the funds owed. This was in 
April 2018 and, following this he contacted Action fraud and the FCA. Mr H reported the 
fraud to Nationwide in May 2018.
   
After Mr H reported the fraud, Nationwide contacted the receiving banks, unfortunately no 
funds remained. Mr H asked Nationwide to provide the names and addresses of all the 
beneficiary accounts so that he could commence civil proceedings against the account 
holders. However, Nationwide said it didnt have this information. He has since received 
account details for the recipient accounts.
Mr H remained unhappy and so he brought his complaint to our service. He feels Nationwide 
has failed in its duty of care to protect his account. He feels had Nationwide checked the 
account names were correct for the receiving accounts at the time the payments were made, 
the loss could have been prevented. Hes referred to contact he received from Nationwide in 
May 2017 for a payment he was attempting to make towards another investment which 
contained incorrect payee details. Mr H says this payment was blocked until his further 
contact a few days later, in which he provided the correct payee details. Mr H feels had 
Nationwide confirmed the payees this would have resulted in the crime being prevented and 
the criminals exposed. 
One of our investigators looked into things and didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
In brief: 
He didnt think Nationwide ought to reasonably have been expected to prevent the 
fraud. This was because he didnt think the payments were particularly unusual or 
suspicious in appearance to Nationwide considering the usual account and payments 
activity. This was on the basis that in the months leading up to the fraud payments 
Mr H had made high value transactions from the account.
He considered the two returned payments and Mr Hs view that Nationwide ought to 
have had suspicions from the outset and prevented the fraud. He confirmed the 
recipient bank had made no contact with Nationwide following this. Our investigator 
didnt think the two returned payments on their own was enough to say Nationwide 
ought to have been on notice and investigated matters further. 
He explained there was no requirement for Nationwide to check the names used for 
payments at the time these payments were made. So, he couldnt conclude 
Nationwide had acted unfairly by not doing so. He felt Nationwide took steps once it 
was aware of the fraud to recover Mr Hs funds, unfortunately no funds remained. 
 
Mr H disagreed with our investigator and has provided lengthy and detailed submissions in 
response. In brief, the main points I have identified are: 
That a legitimate payment he was looking to make for £10,000 in May 2017 triggered 
on the societys fraud detection system so why didnt the subsequent payments. 
 
The Quincecare Duty is an implied negative duty imposed on a bank to its 
customers to refrain from executing an order/making payment if, and for as long as, 
the bank has been put on inquiry. Nationwide clearly knew there was a problem 
with the beneficiary account when the two initial payments were returned. In one day (15 January 2018) he transferred funds from his two childrens accounts 
with Nationwide into his account in order to send onto the fraudsters. He thinks this 
ought to have been suspicious to Nationwide. 
  
As Mr H remained unhappy the complaint has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset Id like to recognise Mr Hs strength of feeling about what has happened here 
and I accept he has been the victim of a cruel and sophisticated fraud. In bringing his 
complaint to our service Mr H has provided lengthy submissions and raised a number of 
points. While I may not specifically comment on each and every point thats been raised 
within this decision, it does not mean I have not considered all of the information thats been 
given to me by both Mr H and Nationwide. I have simply commented on the aspects that I 
feel are key to this complaint. 
The crux of the complaint before me concerns the payments Mr H made as the result of 
falling victim to an investment scam. And my role in considering this complaint is limited to 
considering the action or inaction on Nationwides part and whether, if it ought to have acted 
differently, it wouldve been able to prevent the fraud.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the
time.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank or building society is expected to 
process payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account 
when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story, I consider Nationwide should fairly and reasonably: 
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, there are circumstances where a bank or building society should fairly and reasonably 
take additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of 
financial harm.
So in this case, I need to decide whether Nationwide acted fairly and reasonably in its 
dealings with Mr H when he authorised payments totalling £130,000 out of his account, or 
whether it should have done more than it did.
Both parties accept the payments were authorised. Because of this, Nationwide had an 
obligation to follow Mr Hs instruction. But there are some situations in which it should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a payment - as Ive 
explained. I consider that as a matter of good practice Nationwide shouldve been on the 
lookout for unusual and out of character transactions. And I dont think this obligation to have 
been any the lesser simply because Mr H held a basic account. Nor do I think there is 
anything which supports Mr Hs suggestion that Nationwide monitors activity on this type of 
account to a lesser degree than it does other types of accounts.
With this in mind, Ive first thought about whether the payments Mr H made to the fraudster 
were out of character and/or unusual. When doing so Ive considered the way Mr H used the 
account from account opening in April 2017 to November 2017 when he started to send 
money to the fraudster. And I note those preceding payments  which are undisputed and, I 
understand, went to genuine, legitimate investments  are of similar amounts and frequency 
to those of the fraud payments. Mr H has said the account activity from the outset was 
unusual and that the account had only been opened for a few months. But, while I recognise 
Mr Hs personal view that to describe the payments as normal activity creates a misleading 
picture, Im afraid I dont agree  I think the payment to the fraudster amounted to normal 
activity for the account at the time they were made. I am also mindful of the payments Mr H 
made into his account from his childrens accounts. While Mr H feels strongly about this and 
that these should have prompted intervention, Im afraid I dont agree. This is because, I 
need to keep in mind that it is not untypical for consumers to make one-off payments from 
their accounts from time to time and it doesnt stand out in terms of the general activity of the 
account. 
Ive thought very carefully about Mr Hs comments, the initial returned payments and what he 
has said about the Quincecare duty. As Ive said above, the law also recognises that a bank 
or building society may in limited circumstances be liable to its customer if it makes a 
payment in circumstances where it has reasonable grounds (although not necessarily proof) 
for believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate the funds of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare duty). The two payments here were returned by the 
receiving bank and Im satisfied Nationwide had no involvement in the decision to do so. The 
receiving bank has also told us that no intelligence was sent to Nationwide in respect of 
these returned payments. In this particular case, Im not persuaded the two returned 
payments with the reference Beneficiary account stopped in the absence of further 
information, in and of itself is sufficient to say Nationwide had reasonable grounds for 
believing there was an attempt to misappropriate Mr Hs funds  especially given that the 
payments were returned to the account. So, I cant safely say Nationwide ought to have 
been aware that Mr H was at risk of financial harm and/or missed an opportunity to protect 
him.Mr H has also referred to a legitimate payment he made in May 2017 which he says 
triggered the societys fraud detection system and resulted in Nationwide contacting him 
before allowing the payment to go through. Mr H has said he made the payment using the 
incorrect payee name and, while he knows Confirmation of Payee (CoP) had not yet come 
into force, he believes Nationwides contact in May 2017 supports that an opportunity was 
missed by it when similar contact wasnt made in relation to the later payments. The 
Payment Service Regulations (PSRs) require a bank or building society to make a payment 
to the unique account identifiers, which in 2017 were the sort code and account number. At 
the time of the payments which Mr H made as part of the fraud, there was no regulatory 
requirement for Nationwide to check with the receiving bank that the name match the sort 
code and account number. Its not clear from the societys notes why this payment triggered 
on its systems and as Ive already explained CoP wasnt in place at the time. So I think its 
unlikely that the payment Nationwide got in touch about in May 2017 triggered due to a 
mismatch of name in the way that Mr H has suggested. And as CoP still wasnt in place 
when he made the subsequent payments to the fraudster, I dont think there was any 
requirement for Nationwide to check with the receiving bank that the name he gave matched 
the sort code and account number. So for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont find that the 
fact the payment in May 2017 triggered means the later payments Mr H made as part of the 
fraud similarly ought to have triggered. 
Mr H has said his mental state had suffered due to events that took place in the years prior 
to the fraud. And the false sense of security given to him by Nationwide following its 
intervention with the previous payment in May 2017, left him exposed as a target to criminals 
and vulnerable. I have thought carefully about what Mr H has told us and while I can see he 
had a lot going on, he has shared with us that he was able to make other genuine 
investments prior to the fraud payments. So, Im afraid having considered everything Ive 
been told, this doesnt change my decision. 
Ive gone on to think about whether Nationwide did what it shouldve done once Mr H 
reported to it that itd been the victim of fraud. Ive looked into the attempts Nationwide 
made to recover the money once Mr H reported the fraud. In order for me to be able to fairly 
ask Nationwide to refund the money to Mr H, I need to be satisfied Nationwide should have 
acted sooner in trying to recover the money. And if I dont think it acted soon enough, I 
need to decide whether it made any difference.
Its not entirely clear how quickly Nationwide contacted all the receiving banks after Mr H 
notified it about the fraud but the receiving banks have confirmed no funds remained, so it 
wasnt able to recover anything. Im mindful the fraud came to light a few months after the 
last payment was made and from my experience of these types of cases, the funds are 
usually moved on quickly by the fraudster. So even if Nationwide did delay slightly, I dont 
think this would have made a difference in this particular case. 
I am sorry Mr H has lost out, and I appreciate this is a lot of money for him to have lost. I 
also understand this whole experience was very frustrating and upsetting for him. But when 
considering all of the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly say Nationwide should have 
done more to prevent him losing this money. So I dont think it would be fair for me to ask 
Nationwide to refund the loss.  
I recognise this will come as disappointment to Mr H, but I do hope the reasons Ive set out 
above explain why I have reached the outcome I have. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman