DRN-4179741
The complaint
Mr M complains that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to him when it shouldnt have.
What happened
I Issued a provisional decision in May 2023 where I set out a detailed background to this 
complaint. That decision should be read in conjunction with this as it forms part of my final 
decision.
In my provisional decision I explained I was inclined to reach the conclusion that Loans 2 Go 
shouldnt have lent to Mr M.
The key aspects of my provisional decision are copied below in italics. 
Ive considered the checks Loans 2 Go carried out and I think there were a number of
concerns from its checks. Mr M had taken out three loans within three weeks of this loan,
this was now the fourth loan within a month. Mr Ms credit file suggests he was managing his
credit commitments well but from what I can see, Mr M was repaying £688 towards loans,
and he had a credit card that was slightly over its limit, including the repayment of this loan,
Mr M would repay around £832 towards credit commitments each month.
I think that amount is high compared to the income Loans 2 Go says it verified for Mr M. 
I also think the number of loans Mr M had taken within a short space of time should have
concerned Loans 2 Go about his ability to sustain his loan repayment over the term. So, 
I think Loans 2 Go should have been curious enough to take its checks further.
As I dont think Loans 2 Gos checks went far enough, Ive thought about what it would likely
have found had it taken its checks further. Mr M has provided copies of his bank statements
for the three months prior to the loan. From what I can see, Mr Ms income is closer to what
he declared, in May and June 2022 his income was around £3,042, he earned slightly more
in July 2022 - around £3,356. I can also see that in all three months he had gambling
transactions leaving his account of over £10,000. In fact, in May and June Mr Ms outgoing
gambling transactions exceeded his income.
So, without considering his living costs here, I think its clear Mr Ms finances were not in a
place where he should have been granted further borrowing as he appeared to be borrowing
to fund a gambling habit. In these circumstances, the loan wasnt affordable, and Mr M
couldnt repay the loan without undue difficulty over the term. I think that was borne out in
the fact the loan account is now in arrears.
Mr M had no further comments to add following my provisional decision, but Loans 2 Go 
responded. Ive summarised its points below.
 
Even though Mr M was over the limit on one of his credit cards, he was up to date on 
all his repayments.
Given that Mr M had no defaults or judgements recorded against him, there was no 
reason for Loans 2 Go to request his bank statements.
At the time of application, Loans 2 Go asked Mr M if he had a gambling or drug 
addiction and he said he didnt, so Loans 2 Go shouldnt be held responsible for
 Mr M making false statements.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered Loans 2 Gos response to my provisional decision. As Loans 2 Go 
would know the checks it needed to carry out were not prescriptive but needed to be 
borrower focussed. Loans 2 Go needed to check that Mr M would be able to repay the loan 
over the term without his suffering a negative financial impact. It wasnt enough for it to 
check it would get its repayments on the loan. It also isnt always sufficient for Loans 2 Go to 
simply rely on what a consumer tells it, and I dont think it was sufficient to do so in this case. 
I acknowledged in my provisional decision that on the face of the checks Loans 2 Go carried 
out, Mr M was managing his credit commitments well. But I also said even with that well 
managed profile, he was repaying a significant amount of his income towards credit. Three 
of the credit accounts were opened within three weeks of this loan and this was now his 
fourth loan within a month.
In those circumstances, Loans 2 Go should have been concerned about Mr Ms financial 
position and why he needed to take so much credit in a short space of time. I think there was 
enough evidence here that further checks were necessary.
In the absence of evidence that any further checks were carried out by Loans 2 Go, I relied 
on Mr Ms bank statements from around the time of the loan. Mr Ms statements show a 
significant gambling pattern and that made this loan unsustainable.
Had Loans 2 Go taken further steps to check that Mr M could repay this loan in line with 
regulation, I think it would likely have found it shouldnt have lent.
As Loans 2 Go has lent when it shouldnt have, it needs to put things right.
Putting things right
Treat all Mr Ms payments as payments towards the capital amount of £800.
If there are payments over the capital amount, then this should be returned to Mr M
with 8% simple interest* from the date of the payments to the date of settlement.
But if theres still a balance outstanding, the Loan 2 Go should agree a suitable
repayment plan with Mr M.
Remove any negative information about the loan from Mr Ms credit file once the
capital has been fully repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from the interest payment referred to 
above. Loans 2 Go must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks it for 
one.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Loans 2 Go Limited to put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman