DRN-3783617
The complaint
Mr B has complained about POLICY EXCESS INSURE LTD (PEX) trading as Nova Direct. 
He isnt happy that it automatically renewed his breakdown insurance policy having reduced 
the level of cover.
What happened
Mr B took out Gold motor breakdown insurance through PEX in April 2021 which included 
European breakdown cover. PEX looked to auto renew his policy in April 2022 but it had 
reduced the level of cover provided to Silver which didnt include European cover.
As European cover was important to Mr B he immediately brought this to PEXs attention 
alongside the fact that it had increased the premium level when its covering literature 
suggested it would be the same as the previous year. But PEX didnt respond and as the 
additional European cover was important to Mr B and it wouldnt respond he looked to 
recover the premium hed paid through his bank. As PEX felt it had renewed the policy 
correctly and Mr B didnt cancel the policy and pay the cancellation fee it referred the 
outstanding amount to a debt recovery agent. 
When PEX realised that Mr B had left a negative review it made contact with him. It said it 
would remove all costs incurred and not charge a cancellation fee, which it maintained it was 
free to charge, as a gesture of good will. But Mr B felt he had been inconvenienced by all of 
this and wanted to raise his complaint with this Service. As Mr B wanted to advance his 
complaint to this Service PEX removed its offer and continued to look to recover the amount 
it believed it was owed through the debt collection agency and the small claims courts.
Our investigator started to look into things for Mr B and asked PEX if it would ask its debt 
collection company to halt proceedings while this Service looked into his complaint, but it 
wouldnt. However, in the meantime Mr B approached the court and told this Service 
proceedings were stayed. 
So, our investigator considered Mr Bs complaint and upheld it. She was of the view that it 
wasnt fair for PEX to renew a policy when it had a different level of cover without clearly 
highlighting this. And she thought it was very difficult for Mr B to contact PEX to discuss the 
altered policy and that all this had led to him being pursued by a debt collection agency 
which must have been stressful for Mr B. So, she thought PEX should waive all costs and 
pay Mr B £250 in compensation. 
 
As PEX didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I think the complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
I know PEX has maintained that this Service cant look at this complaint as it forwarded the 
debt to a debt collection agent who commenced county court proceedings. But, as PEX is 
aware from our investigator, Mr B has approached the court and asked for proceedings to be 
stayed. And Ive seen confirmation that the court ended the claim so it seems appropriate 
that Mr Bs complaint is considered here. 
Indeed, the courts generally encourage the use of alternative dispute resolution processes, 
such as this Service, as they are generally more efficient, less costly and prevent overuse of 
valuable court time. Given this, Im surprised PEX didnt ask its debt recovery agent to stop 
court proceedings of its own accord, especially when our investigator asked it to while this 
Service impartially looked at the substance of the complaint. And it is of note that it agreed to 
ask its debt recovery agent to stop pursuing Mr B and to waive all costs Mr B incurred as a 
gesture of goodwill, as long as Mr B didnt proceed with his complaint to this Service, so it is 
unfortunate that court proceedings werent stopped earlier. 
I know PEX feels that Mr B wanted to punish it by pursuing his complaint with this Service, 
but I havent seen any evidence of this. He simply felt he hadnt been dealt with fairly and 
wanted his complaint to be considered by this Service which he is entitled to. Ultimately, Mr 
B didnt feel PEXs response fully addressed his complaint, and I can understand why as 
PEX clearly got things wrong and didnt provide any explanation as to why there was a 
change in cover and price.
Turning to this complaint, Ive looked at all the detail provided by both sides and what is clear 
is that Mr B had Gold breakdown cover originally which he was happy with. This provided 
him with breakdown cover and reassurance while he was driving abroad which was 
important to him and one of the main reasons he bought the policy. So, I dont think I can 
say that PEX acted fairly in simply looking to renew his policy with a totally different level of 
cover (Silver) which didnt provide breakdown cover abroad. Given this significant change in 
cover I would expect this to have been highlighted to Mr B and him given the opportunity to 
take his business elsewhere if he wished. I dont think it is fair for PEX to look to auto renew 
without question when the policy is so different, and I would have expected it to take him off 
auto renew if it was only looking to provide a different (lower) level of cover so Mr B had time 
to make an informed choice.  
Furthermore, the suggestion in the renewal documentation was that the premium would stay 
the same as the year before as Mr B hadnt had a claim, but the price had increased. And 
so, Mr B also looked to question this with PEX before the policy renewed but it didnt 
respond. I can understand why Mr B looked to recover his payment through his bank as he 
wasnt able to advance these issues with PEX and the policy wasnt suitable. So, I agree 
with our investigator that Mr Bs complaint should be upheld as the cover provided wasnt the 
same as the year before and didnt meet his requirements. And the premium level had 
increased when it shouldve been the same.
Mr B found advancing all this with PEX very difficult and he didnt get any response when he 
tried to contact PEX  in fact it only engaged with him when he provided a negative review. 
So I can understand why he wanted to advance a complaint to this Service, especially when 
PEX didnt think about compensating him in some way when it eventually engaged with him 
about his complaint. And it failed to provide any explanation as to why the level of cover had 
changed. However, as PEX agreed to waive all the costs incurred and to stop its appointed 
debt collection company pursuing Mr B through the small claims court I find it difficult to 
understand why it didnt ask its debt collection company to wait, at the very least, at this 
point in time.All this must have been very stressful and worrying for Mr B. Not only was his policy auto 
renewed when the cover had changed, significantly, and the cost had gone up. But PEX 
failed to engage with him when he raised this before the policy renewed and it didnt 
acknowledge the points he raised when he complained. Im sure Mr B would have 
proceeded with the policy if the cover provided was the same. And it mustve been very 
stressful for the matter to be referred to a debt collector, who proceeded to chase the debt 
through the courts initially, and so I agree Mr B should also be compensated for the clear 
stress and inconvenience all this caused. As such, I agree with our investigator that Mr B 
should be paid £250 in compensation and PEX should ensure any cancellation markers are 
removed from any records.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require POLICY 
EXCESS INSURE LTD (PEX) trading as Nova Direct to stop pursuing Mr B for any 
outstanding money, wipe all costs incurred and ensure that any cancellation markers are 
removed. And pay Mr B £250 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman