DRN-3500034
The complaint
Mr G complains about the actions taken by National Savings and Investments (NS&I) in 
relation to his premium bonds account.
 
In summary, hes unhappy NS&I asked him to repay bonds hed previously cashed in, then 
closed his account and removed the remaining bonds in it.
What happened
Mr G was given a premium bond in August 2016, which had originally been bought by his 
late grandmother in 1963. Mr G says both he and his wife contacted NS&I in August 2016 to 
see if any prizes had been won. Mr G says they were told the bond had won a substantial 
amount, but he would need to register his details online to move forward.
Once registered, Mr G says he saw that the bond appeared to have won prizes, which 
brought the total account value up to £2,801. Mr G cashed in £2,500 and left £301 in the 
account.
In September 2020, NS&I wrote to Mr G and explained it had recently found that £2,499 of 
the £2,500 Mr G cashed in were actually bonds purchased by another customer, which had 
been wrongly registered under Mr Gs account number. NS&I said Mr G wasnt entitled to 
those funds and asked him to repay them. Mr G says he didnt receive this correspondence, 
and only received later correspondence in January 2021 outlining the same. Mr G was 
unhappy about the matter and complained to NS&I. In response, NS&I maintained that the 
funds needed to be repaid, but it also appreciated that the error wouldve caused Mr G 
distress. So, NS&I paid him £75 compensation.
Mr G remained unhappy and said he hadnt been given an explanation about what had 
happened. He wanted to know where the balance of £301, inclusive of the original £1 bond, 
had gone. And, he asked whether the £301 hed left in the account had won any prizes. He 
also pointed out that his account had since been closed, which he was unhappy about. Mr G 
ultimately brought his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators reviewed matters. In summary, he thought NS&I could fairly ask 
Mr G to repay the funds, given that they belonged to another customer. However, he thought 
it should increase its offer of compensation to £250, reinstate Mr Gs account with the 
original £1 bond in it and complete retrospective prize checks, ensuring Mr G was provided 
any prizes rightfully accrued.
Mr G disagreed with the investigators opinion and mostly repeated his earlier points. He 
also said NS&I told him it was no longer seeking to recover the funds. NS&I also responded 
and ultimately agreed to the recommendations in the view but said it would use the 
additional compensation to reduce the amount it was seeking to recover from Mr G.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to the crux of the complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made to date.
NS&I said it merged Mr Gs account with another customers account in error, resulting in a 
list of bonds for another customer appearing in Mr Gs account. As I understand it, Mr G has 
questioned whether these might in fact be prizes and said he remembers seeing a list of 
prizes, rather than bonds, on his account before they disappeared. And, he says he was told 
hed won a substantial amount when he spoke with NS&I in 2016.
Due to the length of time thats elapsed, NS&I hasnt been able to provide call recordings 
from 2016. It has, however, provided a list of numbers in a letter, which was also sent to 
Mr G in 2016 when he asked for details of his account. The list contains several bond 
numbers and doesnt show prizes. Additionally, only one number  for a £1 bond  matches 
with the original bond purchased by Mr Gs grandmother. And, Ive not been provided with 
anything to suggest the other bonds were purchased by  or for  Mr G, such as certificates 
or other records provided by Mr G with corresponding bond numbers. 
So, on balance, Im more persuaded that NS&I incorrectly added another customers bonds 
to Mr Gs account. Particularly as the information NS&I has provided shows that there were 
many similarities between the details of both customers. So, I can understand how this error 
may have occurred.
The above issues led to Mr G cashing in some bonds. I acknowledge the disappointment 
this wouldve caused him when he was told about the error, especially as he says he thought 
the bonds were his. That being said, the bonds belonged to another customer and therefore 
Mr G wasnt entitled to them. So, Im not persuaded that NS&I has treated him unfairly by 
asking him to repay the funds belonging to the other customer. Nor do I think its treated him 
unfairly by intending to remove the existing bonds in the account that belonged to the other 
customer. 
I acknowledge Mr G said he was told on the phone he didnt need to pay back the funds. As 
I understand it, he said he had a phone bill which showed the calls made to NS&I to support 
this. However, I cant see that Mr G ever provided this. NS&I said it searched its system and 
found no record of any calls from the phone numbers Mr G provided, over the period 
he says he was given this information. Ive also considered that NS&I has clearly explained 
in the other correspondence Ive seen, including its final response letter, that Mr G needed to 
repay the bonds he cashed in. So, Im persuaded NS&I always intended to recover the funds 
once it realised the error that was made.
Whilst I think NS&I was entitled to recover the funds, I do think it couldve handled matters 
differently when doing so. I say this because Mr G left £301 in the account when he initially 
cashed in some bonds. So, I think he intended to keep the account open with some bonds in 
it. And, on balance, this persuades me that Mr G wouldve likely kept the original £1 bond in 
the account, had an error not been made. So, whilst NS&I only asked Mr G to repay £2,499 
of the total £2,500 back  presumably to leave him with the value of the original £1 bond  I 
think Mr G has been caused some inconvenience as a result of the £1 bond not remaining in 
the account.Additionally, Im persuaded that Mr G wouldve been caused some disappointment as a 
result of NS&Is error. By the time NS&I recognised its error, it had been close to four years 
since Mr G cashed in some of the bonds. So, I can understand why he wouldve been 
disappointed to then be told they belonged to another customer. Additionally, Mr G said hed 
already spent the money by the time NS&I realised what had happened. So, I think Mr G has 
been caused some avoidable distress as a result of NS&Is mistake. And, I think its right that 
NS&I compensates him for this.
NS&I has already paid Mr G £75 for the inconvenience caused, but Im not persuaded this 
goes far enough to recognise the impact of its error. Having thought carefully about the 
circumstances, Im satisfied that an additional £175 compensation is a fair amount, bringing 
to the total to £250. I note NS&I has agreed to pay the increased compensation and said it 
intends to offset this against the amount Mr G owes. But as this is a payment for the distress 
caused to Mr G, I think its appropriate for this to be a separate payment of compensation 
made directly to him.
Overall, I dont think NS&I has treated Mr G unfairly by asking him to repay the funds that 
werent his. If NS&I wishes to recover the funds from Mr G, it should ensure it sets up an 
affordable plan to enable Mr G to repay this. 
As well as a further £175 compensation, our investigator recommended that NS&I reopen 
Mr Gs account and reinstate the original £1 bond. I think this is fair in the circumstances and 
I direct NS&I to carry out these actions, if it hasnt done so already.
Our investigator also asked NS&I to complete a retrospective review on the account against 
all historical draws from the date of the original purchase, then confirm the results to Mr G 
and provide any prizes rightly accrued. NS&I has since said it has already checked for prizes 
up until 4 May 2022. So, it just needs to check for any further potential prizes in draws 
between then and the date of settlement.
I think this is a fair way to put matters right in the circumstances and I direct NS&I to carry 
out all of these actions, if it hasnt done so already.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and require National Savings and Investments to 
settle this complaint as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman