DRN-3277481
The complaint
Mr G complains about how Zurich Insurance PLC handled his claim on a property insurance 
policy that covers his flat.  
What happened
Mr G owns a flat that he rented out. This was covered by an insurance policy provided by 
Zurich in the name of a property management company. The policy provides cover for a 
number of flats in a block.
In 2017 Mr G decided to sell the flat and secured a buyer. However in September that year 
the buyer visited the property to find there had been a leak in the kitchen. Following this, the 
sale fell through.
Mr G contacted the property management company who identified the leak as being from 
the flat above and arranged for this to be fixed. Mr G then made a claim on his insurance. 
Zurich appointed a loss adjuster who attended in April 2018 to scope repairs, but found the 
leak wasnt fixed and there was still water dripping through the ceiling. 
A further fix was arranged but the leak was found to continue when the builders attended 
again.  This happened a further time after this and it wasnt until the beginning of 2021 that 
the leak was fixed and repairs could begin. 
During this time Zurich said the leaks were due to three separate incidents and Mr G paid 
three separate £500 excesses. 
Throughout the claim Mr G made three complaints about how the claim was handled. Zurich 
responded to the first two offering £500 compensation for each. It also agreed to pay loss of 
rent, the service charge he had paid and some utility bills.
In Mr Gs final complaint he said he wasnt happy that there had been no electric or gas 
checks following the leak and he thought there had been further damage to the flat that 
hadnt been paid for. He also didnt think it was fair that Zurich had registered three separate 
claims and charged an excess for all three. 
Zurich upheld Mr Gs complaint and offered a further £500 compensation. It also agreed to 
pay for an electricity safety check. But didnt agree there was further damage or that a gas 
check was due. It also said it was right to charge three excesses as the leaks were caused 
by three different issues.
Mr G was unhappy with this response and brought his complaint to this service. 
When our investigator got in touch with Zurich about the complaint, it said only two of Mr Gs 
three complaints could be considered due to the first being brought to us out of time, and it 
didnt consent to this being considered. 
Mr G confirmed to our investigator that the only outstanding concerns he had were that three 
claims were registered and the amount of compensation offered. 
Our investigator considered everything across the two complaints that were brought in time 
and recommended they be upheld. She thought Zurich hadnt done enough to show that the 
leak was due to three separate causes so thought only one claim should be registered. 
Further she thought Zurich should pay an additional £150 compensation to make up for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. However as it had paid a total of £1,000 compensation 
across the two complaints, she thought this made up for the two excesses it had wrongly 
charged, so didnt ask it to refund anything further. 
Mr G accepted our investigators opinion. However Zurich didnt. It didnt agree any further 
compensation was due. And, while it accepted three claims shouldnt have been charged for, 
it thought there were two different causes of the leaks so it was right to charge two 
excesses. It also confirmed that it had only registered one claim, so this would show on all 
external systems. It asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the outstanding issues in turn.
Number of claims
Throughout Mr Gs claim there has been a dispute about how many claims should be 
registered and therefore how many excesses should be charged. Since the complaint has 
come to us, Zurich has confirmed that it only registered one claim. However it maintains that 
the leaks were caused by two separate incidents, so two excesses should have been 
charged rather than three.
Ive looked at the evidence Zurich has provided this service, but I dont agree its done 
enough to show that the leak was caused by two separate incidents. It has provided a total 
of 17 reports. In these there is a lot of detail and commentary about the leak from the flat 
above Mr Gs. However there is very little detail about the other leak Zurich has said caused 
the final damage. There are two lines in one of the reports stating the staining in Mr Gs flat 
at the end of 2020 wasnt linked to the flat above it, but no further detail in the reports.
Mr G has said that the damage after each leak has appeared in the same place. And in the 
absence of further evidence, Im satisfied that its most likely the significant problems in the 
flat above caused all three leaks. 
While Zurich initially charged three £500 excesses, it has also offered a total of £1,500 
compensation across the three complaints Mr G has made. While I cant consider the 
compensation offered after the first complaint, Im satisfied that the compensation paid 
across the two complaints Im considering makes up for the two excesses Mr G has wrongly 
been charged.
Further, as Zurich has confirmed it only registered one claim for the three events, this will 
only show as one claim on external insurance records. So I think this is a fair reflection.
For these reasons, while I dont agree Zurich has acted fairly by collecting three excesses 
from Mr G, Im satisfied that its done enough to put things right. So I wont ask it to do 
anything further in this regard.  Compensation
I agree that Zurich havent handled Mr Gs claim well. On a number of occasions, it 
confirmed work had been completed to fix the cause of the leak, only for Mr G to find that it 
was still ongoing and work couldnt begin. This delayed the claim significantly. 
Further, had the leak in the flat above been effectively repaired then this delay could have 
been avoided, or at least significantly reduced. 
During this time Mr G had to speak to a number of different contractors, liaise with the 
management company and call on help from friends to check on the flat, as he doesnt 
reside in the country. This has caused him some distress and inconvenience. It has also 
caused a delay to Mr G being able to sell his property which would have caused further 
inconvenience. 
Due to this I agree with our investigators recommendation that a further £150 compensation 
should be paid to recognise this unnecessary distress and inconvenience, in addition to that 
already offered across the two complaints. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given I uphold Mr Gs complaint and require Zurich Insurance PLC to 
pay him a further £150 compensation, in addition to the £1,000 already offered. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman