DRN-2763859
The complaint
V a limited company complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Ltd (trading as Cashplus)  
blocked its accounts. V also complains that Cashplus didnt follow its instructions to transfer 
the balance of its accounts and add its new director to its bank accounts.
Vs complaint has been brought to our service by its director, Mr I
What happened
V had two accounts with Cashplus.
 
In November 2018, Cashplus reviewed Vs accounts and asked the director at the time, 
Ms N, to provide information regarding her identity, address and entitlement to a credit of 
£2,600 which had been paid into one of Vs accounts at the end of November 2018. 
Whilst it reviewed Vs accounts, Cashplus placed a block on them, which meant Ms N wasnt 
able to use its accounts or access the funds held within them.
On 3 December 2018 Cashplus emailed Ms N requesting her to provide information and to 
complete a know your customer questionnaire regarding V. The email asked Ms N to 
forward two documents showing proof of her address (no more than three months old), two 
identification documents and proof of entitlement to the credit of the £2,600 that had been 
paid into Vs account. Following this Ms N called Cashplus to clarify what she needed to 
provide and on 6 December 2018 she sent copies of two documents as proof of her address 
and identification to Cashplus via the post. 
On 11 December 2018, Ms N called Cashplus to confirm theyd received the paperwork 
shed posted. But Cashplus said it hadnt received anything and explained again what it 
needed. It asked her to resend the information via the post as it wasnt able to accept 
information via email.  On 13 December 2018, Ms N contacted Cashplus again to check if it 
had received her paperwork. But it said it still hadnt received anything in the post. So, Ms N 
says she sent the paperwork again. 
In February 2019, Ms N called Cashplus again to try and find out what was happening with 
Vs accounts. Cashplus explained that Ms N still needed to provide further documents and 
referred her to the list of acceptable documents on its website. 
 
In late February 2019, Cashplus received copies of documents from Ms N. However, only 
some of them were acceptable as proof of her address and identification namely a council 
tax bill, and her passport. A utility bill and overseas resident permit card were rejected. And 
nothing was provided regarding proof of Ms Ns entitlement to the credit. So Cashplus didnt 
remove the blocks on Vs accounts. 
In April 2019, Ms N returned the know your customer questionnaire. But she still needed to 
provide further documents as proof of her address and identification.
 
On 12 June 2019, Cashplus spoke to Ms N about what was still outstanding and referred 
Ms N to check its website for acceptable documents. Following this on 12 June 2019 
Cashplus spoke to Ms N to let her know that it needed to see one more document to prove 
her address and another to prove her identification.
 
On 21 June 2019 Ms N provided a copy of a HMRC letter shed received as proof of her 
address which was accepted by Cashplus.  Ms N told Cashplus that she didnt have 
anything else she could provide that was acceptable according to the list on its website. At 
the same time Ms N told Cashplus that she was resigning as director of V, and Mr I was 
taking over the role. And she asked Cashplus to add Mr I to Vs accounts. Cashplus said it 
needed Ms N to compete its information request before it could make any changes to the 
account, release any funds and add Mr I to the accounts.
Ms N complained to Cashplus about the block to Vs accounts. In response Cashplus said it 
had asked for information in order to comply with its legal and regulatory obligations. It said 
its website made it clear what type of documents were acceptable and apologised if it had 
caused Ms N any inconvenience. Cashplus also said that it still needed to see one proof of 
Ms Ns identity and proof of entitlement to the £2,600 credit. 
In December 2019, Ms N emailed a copy of her residents permit as proof of her 
identification. And an excerpt from Vs book keeping records showing the credit came from 
Ms Ns personal account she had with another bank. Again, Cashplus told Ms N this wasnt 
acceptable. And didnt remove the blocks from the accounts. Ms N wasnt happy and asked 
Cashplus to close Vs accounts and transfer the balance to Vs new company accounts 
elsewhere. Cashplus said it wasnt able to act on Ms Ns instructions as she hadnt satisfied 
its information request fully.
Unhappy with this response Mr I brought Vs complaint to us where one of our investigators 
looked into what had happened. The investigator said Cashplus hadnt done anything wrong 
when it blocked Vs accounts and asked Ms N to provide information. And it had done so to 
comply with its legal and regulatory obligations. She said Ms N hadnt provided all the 
information Cashplus had requested and set out what was still needed to move things 
forward.
 
Mr I disagreed. He said Ms N had sent information in the post to Cashplus on more than one 
occasion. And it hadnt made it clear what type of documents were acceptable. He said 
Cashplus hadnt told Ms N that her overseas resident permit wasnt an acceptable proof of 
identification. He explained that the block to the accounts had caused V a good deal of 
inconvenience because V had struggled to pay suppliers and couldnt receive payment from 
customers into its accounts.
The investigator responded to Mr I and set out what information was still outstanding. She 
explained that until the information was provided Cashplus couldnt complete its review so 
wouldnt be able to remove the blocks or add him to Vs accounts. 
Mr I disagreed. He said Cashplus didnt make it clear what documents were acceptable to 
satisfy its information request and it didnt provide its email address so that he could send 
information to Cashplus. He isnt able to provide any more information regarding the credit 
which was paid into Vs account. And says its not fair that Cashplus wont release the 
money held in Vs accounts or add him to the accounts.
 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted that Mr I has made detailed submissions and also sought answers to his 
questions about why Cashplus blocked Vs account and requested information. Like the 
investigator, Ive considered all of these, but I dont believe its necessary to address each 
and every point that Mr I has made in order to meet my statutory duty to determine his 
complaint. Im required to do that with minimum formality, and so Ill address the issues that I 
consider to be the most important. I do stress however that Ive considered everything that 
Mr I and Cashplus have said before reaching my decision.
Firstly, as the investigator has explained, Cashplus has important legal and regulatory 
obligations it must meet when providing accounts to customers. And it must take certain 
actions in order to meet these obligations. Financial businesses are required to ensure the 
information they hold on their customers is accurate and up to date. Each bank has their 
own procedures for reviewing accounts and updating their records. That sometimes means 
they need to restrict customers accounts  either in full or partially while they carry out their 
review. And ask a customer for information about payments made into an account and to 
provide identification documents. 
Ive considered Cashpluss actions and Im satisfied that they were complying with their legal 
and regulatory obligations when they blocked Vs accounts and asked Ms N and Mr I to 
provide information. The terms and conditions of Vs account also permit Cashplus to block 
an account and Im satisfied Cashplus acted in line with them. So, I cant say Cashplus did 
anything wrong when it decided to review Vs accounts. 
I know Mr I feels Cashplus should have let Ms N know (as director at the time) that it had 
decided to review and block Vs accounts. And has questioned Cashplus openness. But 
Cashplus isnt obliged to give notice or an explanation when they decide to review a 
customers account. So, whilst I can appreciate that it wouldve no doubt come as a shock to 
them both they couldnt access Vs accounts, I cant say Cashplus acted inappropriately. 
Mr I has said that Cashplus didnt make it clear what documents werent acceptable to 
submit during its review. And that it didnt provide an email address so that documents could 
be provided. In particular, Mr I said Cashplus didnt tell Ms N that her overseas resident 
permit wouldnt be accepted as proof of her identification.  
I can understand Mr Is frustration that the documents initially had to be posted. But as part 
of its business model Cashplus has processes in place to complete its reviews. We are not 
the regulator of firms so we cant tell them how to run their businesses, or how to design or 
implement their processes. I know Mr I is unhappy that Cashplus used the postal system to 
receive information back from Ms N and him. And I accept that this would require their time 
and appear burdensome. But thats how Cashplus ran its business at the time  and we 
cant interfere with its commercial decisions. 
Mr I has also questioned the timing of Cashpluss request for information. He says Cashplus 
didnt ask him or Ms N to provide proof of their identification and addresses when the 
accounts were opened, so he cant understand why it asked for them after the account had 
been up and running. But having looked at Cashpluss account opening process this isnt a 
requirement.  
Ms N supplied a number of documents in response to the request from Cashplus, some of 
which were accepted and others that werent. Ms Ns resident permit wasnt accepted as 
proof of her identity. I can see that Cashplus spoke to Ms N on more than one occasion to 
explain what was needed and referred her to its website to check the list of acceptable documents on at least four separate occasions between December 2018 and June 2019. 
So, I think Cashplus made it clear to Ms N what she could and couldnt provide. 
To date Ms N and Mr I havent provided all the information Cashplus requested to complete 
its review, unblock Vs accounts and add Mr I to the accounts. I dont think Cashpluss 
request for information is unreasonable. It is obliged to gather information so that it can 
comply with its legal obligations. Cashplus also told Ms N and Mr I what the consequences 
would be if they didnt provide the information. So, whilst I appreciate this caused V 
inconvenience, I cant say Cashplus has acted unfairly in keeping Vs accounts blocked and 
declining to add Mr I to Vs accounts. 
I accept that Vs accounts have been blocked for a long time  since late 2018, but Ive not 
found any periods of unreasonable inaction on the part of Cashplus. Throughout the time the 
accounts have been blocked Cashplus has clearly and repeatedly said what information is 
still outstanding. I note too that the investigator has set out what Mr I needs to provide in 
order to move things forward. So, whilst I dont doubt both the emotional and financial impact 
all of this had on V, Mr I and Ms N, I cant say Cashplus has acted unfairly in taking the 
actions it did.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask V to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman