DRN-4380104
The complaint
A limited company that I will refer to as P complains about the sale of a professional 
indemnity insurance policy by Konsileo (Trading) Limited. 
What happened
The following is intended only as a brief summary of events. Additionally, whilst a number of 
other parties have been involved, as far as is possible, I have largely just referred to P and 
Konsileo for the sake of simplicity.
P operates in the building industry and part of its work involves the exterior of buildings 
including cladding. In 2020, P held a policy underwritten by an insurer  C. This policy had 
been arranged by a third party broker  T. This policy was not due to renew until 
August 2020, but P contacted Konsileo in May 2020 to explain that it was not happy with the 
service provided by T and was seeking to move to a new broker. P explained that it wanted 
to use a broker with more experience of Ps industry.
Over the following months, Konsileo worked to identify a suitable policy for P. However, 
seemingly as a result of Ps involvement with cladding work, of the insurers Konsileo worked 
with, only C was willing to provide cover. 
In July 2020, referring to the price of the insurance, P mentioned that it was concerned the 
cover was becoming less commercially viable and that it may need to consider if there were 
other options its clients might accept. P mentioned that this was even more the case as the 
policy was severely restricted. 
Konsileo explained that other clients had opted to trade without insurance. However, 
Konsileo recommended P renew the policy from C as it met Ps requirements and was good 
value for money. In making its recommendation, Konsileo also said:
Its our proposal that you should insure with [C] because This insurer was the only 
insurer prepared to provide terms.
The policy with C was renewed in August 2020, and Konsileo provided P with the details of 
the policy including the endorsements. One of the endorsements was the Cladding 
Combustibility Exclusion, which said:
The Company shall not be liable to indemnify the Insured against any claim or loss 
arising directly or indirectly out of or in any way involving the combustibility or fire 
resistance/performance of any cladding, curtain walling or glazing or any claim or 
loss arising directly or indirectly or in any way involving any cladding, curtain walling 
or glazing which does not comply with the relevant UK, Irish or EU planning, building 
safety or fire regulations 
In June 2021, the process started for renewing cover. And P queried this endorsement, as 
well as the split between cladding and glazing. The renewal terms were then provided. 
These had a different endorsement, Combustible Cladding Exclusion II, which said:
It is hereby noted and agreed that this policy excludes any liability arising directly or 
indirectly out of or in any way involving:
 the combustibility or fire resistance/performance of any cladding, curtain walling or 
glazing, including all fixtures, fittings and balconies, or
 any cladding, curtain walling or glazing, including all fixtures, fittings and balconies, 
which actually or allegedly does not comply with the UK, Irish or EU planning, 
building safety or fire regulations relevant at any material time
Konsileo recommended P renew the policy with C, saying:
from the insurers approached and taking into account the continued restricted 
appetite in the market we would recommend renewal with your existing insurers
The recommendation report set out that there were four key exclusions, one of which was 
the Combustible Cladding Exclusion II. And said that P should take note of these. P queried 
the meaning of this exclusion and whether particular cladding was covered. And Konsileo 
said this exclusion related to products that did not comply with the relevant regulations, but 
that as P presumably did comply with these there would be no issues. After some further 
discussions on other points, the policy was renewed. 
In March/April 2022, P became aware of potential claims on the policy. This followed on from 
an inspection of work previously carried out and the allegation that inappropriate materials 
and techniques had been used by P. It contacted Konsileo and C. 
Ultimately, C said that the potential claims did not fall within the cover provided. And that the 
Combustible Cladding Exclusion II would exclude the claims. P was unhappy about this and 
felt the exclusion was not clear. P complained about Cs decision, bringing a complaint about 
this to the Financial Ombudsman Service. This has been considered separate to the current 
complaint. But an Investigator did not recommend this complaint be upheld, as he thought C 
had acted fairly and reasonably. It does not appear the claim was pursued against P.
P also complained about Konsileo. P felt the policy had been mis-sold, both in 2021 and 
previously in 2020. P said Konsileo did not explain the full limitations of the exclusions either 
because they were not able to query the exclusion, or they did not take the time to 
understand Ps business. And that P had since been able to obtain cover with a different 
insurer that was not so restrictive, so feels Konsileo ought to have done this previously.
Konsileo supported Ps view that the wording of the endorsement was ambiguous, but said 
that they were not legal advisers. They had sought and provided clarification of the 
endorsements at the time of the renewal. Konsileo also explained that the cover it had 
identified and recommended was the only cover it was able to obtain. And that Ps new 
insurer was unrated, and that the term it had offered was not one Konsileo was previously 
aware of  so could not ask C to provide. 
P remained unhappy and brought its complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
However, our Investigator did not recommend the complaint be upheld. P remained 
unsatisfied and as our Investigator was unable to resolve this complaint, it has been passed 
to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why. I would start by re-emphasising that the summary above is just that. It is not intended to 
capture all of the events or arguments. I have considered the submissions from both parties 
in full, but I am focussing on what I consider to be the key issues. 
In terms of the requirements on Konsileo as a broker, as this was an advised sale, it was 
required to recommend a policy that was suitable for Ps needs, and Konsileo also had to 
provide information that was clear and not misleading. 
As both parties are aware, the availability of insurance in this area for businesses involved in 
cladding is limited. And almost always comes with limitations. This is seemingly a 
consequence of the tragic events at Grenfell Tower and the related implications on building 
materials. This has implications on what Konsileo could reasonably be expected to do. It is 
clear that Konsileo contacted a number of insurers, but only one would provide the relevant 
cover. And as Konsileo explained when recommending the 2020-2021 policy, it did so 
because it was the only one that it could identify that was willing to provide cover.
Whilst there were limitations on the cover provided, particularly given Ps business activities, 
the policy did provide reasonable cover. In terms of the exclusion above, the only thing 
policy did not cover was claims relating to the combustibility or fire resistance of the relevant 
materials, or where these materials did not meet the relevant standards. So, other than in 
situations relating to a fire or where, effectively, sub-standard materials were used, cover 
would be provided. Many potential claims would fall outside of this exclusion. So, I dont 
think Konsileo recommended an unsuitable policy. And P was provided with details of this 
exclusion and the information provided by Konsileo was clear  to the extent of its remit, 
something I will comment on below. 
Given the limits of what cover was available, and the information Konsileo provided at the 
time of this sale, I am unable to agree the 2020-2021 policy was mis-sold. 
In terms of the 2021-2022 policy, again this was an advised sale and Konsileo 
recommended the renewal for similar reasons. And for similar reasons as to those above, I 
also do not think this policy was mis-sold. 
I do note that the change in wording in the exclusion did seemingly further restrict the cover 
provided. As well as including some further materials in the first part of the exclusion, the 
inclusion of the wording actually or allegedly does seemingly increase situations where 
cover would be provided. Essentially, as well as excluding cover where there is an actual 
breach (which the previous wording did), this removes the cover provided for defending an 
alleged breach. Given the situation that then developed, I can appreciate Ps frustrations 
with this. P has also expressed dissatisfaction that the exclusion is not limited to issues of 
combustibility and to cladding, which is what the title of the endorsement refers to.
However, P was clearly aware that the exclusion existed at the time and queried an aspect 
of this. This query was limited to whether a particular type of material would be covered or 
not. Arguably, Konsileos response to this query should have included that the exclusion 
would relate both to products that actually and allegedly do not comply with the relevant 
regulations. But having read the wording, P would already be aware that the exclusion 
included this phrase and had not queried this aspect.
Konsileo do have a responsibility to understand the needs of its client, and to recommend a 
policy that is suitable for those needs. This does mean Konsileo will have to have some 
understanding of the policy itself. But, largely speaking, Konsileo  as with all brokers  is 
dependent on the drafting and explanations of policy wordings by the relevant underwriters. 
It is not Konsileos role to interpret the meaning of the policy wording. The wordings themselves are drafted by the underwriter of the policy and do not involve Konsileo. As this 
is a complaint about the actions of the broker, I will not comment on the drafting of the term. 
Where questions are asked, Konsileo can check with the underwriter how a term will be 
interpreted. This is what it did in this case.
Ultimately, given the lack of available options, and the fact that this policy did provide an 
amount of cover for Ps activities, I dont consider Konsileo acted unreasonably when 
recommending it to P. 
I appreciate that P is unhappy that Konsileo did not challenge the inclusion of these 
exclusions as drafted. And that when a policy from a different insurer was identified for the 
2022 renewal, which included an exclusion as per the Cladding Combustibility Exclusion, it 
was possible for this to be challenged and a differently worded exclusion added. 
However, I am not persuaded that this means Konsileo failed to act appropriately when 
selling the earlier policies. Essentially, a broker is responsible for identifying the most 
suitable policy available for the client from the panel of insurers it works with. And that is 
what it did in 2020 and 2021. 
A broker is not expected to challenge the inclusion of any particular term, although it may do 
so if requested or if it chooses to. Additionally, the third party who provided the alternative 
wording said, There are more relaxed clauses starting to come out in the market So, it is 
possible this would not have been something Konsileo could have achieved earlier anyway.
I appreciate this is not the outcome P or its directors were hoping for. But, taking all of the 
circumstances into account, I consider Konsileo acted fairly and reasonably when 
recommending the 2020-2021 and 2021-2022 policies to P. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman