DRN-3029313
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out at 
the end of 1996 and which started in 1997. Mrs and Mr C say Yorkshire Building Society 
(YBS) mis-sold them PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes                
Mrs and Mr Cs circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, 
limitations and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So, I havent repeated all of this 
information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mrs and Mr Cs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs and Mr Cs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding             
Mrs and Mr Cs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
Mrs and Mrs C have said the PPI was included as part of the mortgage package, but I 
think YBS made it clear that Mrs and Mr C didnt have to take out the PPI and they chose 
to take it out. I say this because of the documents YBS has been able to give us from the 
time of the sale. These include the mortgage application itself where there is a section 
entitled MORTGAGE PAYMENT INSURANCE which is followed by some information 
about the policy. And while the copy I have is a little blurred I can see that the box has 
been ticked in that section. 
Mrs C and Mr C then went onto complete a separate PPI application. This has been 
completed by hand and signed and dated by Mrs and Mr C. I can see they chose the 
amount of monthly benefit and split they wanted as well as the type of cover  accident, 
sickness and unemployment  plus the benefit and excess period  12 months and 30 
days respectively. 
They also completed a separate direct debit bank mandate in order for the monthly 
premiums to be taken from their bank account.  So, taking all of this into account, I think 
Mrs and Mr C would have known they had a choice about taking the PPI and decided to 
add it when they applied for their mortgage making a decision at the time about how the 
cover would be of most benefit to them. 
YBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs and Mr C  so it didnt have to check that the PPI 
was right or suitable for them. But it did have to give Mrs and Mr C enough clear and 
timely information so they could decide for themselves if it was right for them.
Its possible the information YBS gave Mrs and Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out  so it looks like they wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mrs and Mr C. 
Although Mrs and Mr C say they both had a medical condition some time before the 
policy was taken out I dont think better information about the existing medical condition 
exclusion wouldve caused them to change their minds about taking out the policy. I say 
this because the condition Mrs C told us about looks like it was resolved with an 
operation over ten years before the policy was taken. And she didnt tell us of any 
ongoing problems or subsequent need for any time off from work. Mr Cs condition was a 
broken bone nearly 20 years before they took the PPI and again, he didnt tell us of any 
further problems as a result. So, for both Mrs and Mr C I think it unlikely they would have 
thought they would have needed to make a claim because of either condition over and 
above any other medical condition. There were also no additional restrictions on cover 
for mental health or back problems. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it 
would have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think 
Mrs and Mr C would have declined the cover had YBS done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mrs and Mr C would have still taken out PPI. The policy was 
sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting, and I think the policy could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. And in those 
circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mrs and Mr Cs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant YBS should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mrs and Mr Cs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mrs and Mr Cs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs and Mr Cs particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
This means YBS doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mrs and Mr Cs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman