DRN-3311809
The complaint
Mr W complains about the overall service received from Santander UK Plc. This includes a 
restriction placed on his account, a cheque which was returned unpaid and Santanders 
overall communication with him.
Mr W is assisted in this matter by his son, Mr W2, and he has raised a number of points. But 
for ease, Ill refer to Mr W throughout this decision.
What happened
In April 2019 Santander placed a restriction on Mr Ws account. When he queried this, 
Santander said that a transaction had flagged on its fraud prevention system. Mr W said the 
restriction meant some of his standing orders had been stopped, resulting in him going into 
his overdraft on other accounts and incurring charges. Mr W also said he asked Santander 
for details of the payments which hadnt been processed, in preparation for bringing his 
complaint to this service, but Santander refused. 
Mr W said he was kept on hold for over 30 minutes trying to remove the restriction. And, 
once it had been removed, he found that his wifes access was still restricted. Mr W then 
asked Santander to communicate with his son about matters moving forward and said he 
would sign a letter of authority to confirm this. But he said Santander refused to accept this 
and asked him to send in a letter outlining his request instead, which he thought was 
unnecessary hassle.
Additionally, Mr W said he tried to process a cheque during this period, but it was returned 
unpaid despite crediting the account with funds on the same day. Unhappy with matters, he 
complained to Santander. In addition to the above, he was unhappy with the overall service 
he had received, and he thought Santander had been unhelpful throughout. Mr W was also 
unhappy with Santanders communication, including that it kept starting new email threads 
despite his requests to have everything in one thread. Mr W also pointed out that Santander 
hadnt suggested any way he could avoid payments being blocked in the future. 
Santander reviewed matters. It issued a final response letter in April 2019 outlining that it 
had blocked an initial payment of £4,535 as it was stopped by its fraud prevention system, 
and that Mr W would need to call it to discuss matters further. Santander then sent another 
final response letter in July 2019. In summary, it explained that it had already addressed the 
account restriction in the previous final response letter. It also said it couldnt guarantee that 
payments wouldnt be blocked again in the future. Santander acknowledged that Mr W had 
asked for details of his transactions and explained this could be found on his online banking 
facility, or alternatively it could send him copies of his account statements.
Santander acknowledged that the account restriction resulted in a delay in some standing 
orders being processed. It also recognised the inconvenience caused by Mr Ws wifes 
access remaining restricted, despite being told matters were resolved. Santander explained 
it could discuss matters with Mr Ws son, but only if Mr W provided verbal consent or a letter 
of authority. In relation to the unpaid cheque, it said that whilst Mr W had credited his 
account with funds on the same day, it recommended that funds cleared in the account the 
working day before the cheque was due to debit, to ensure there were sufficient funds in the 
account.
Overall, it offered Mr W £50 compensation in recognition of the errors made. But Mr W 
remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. One of our investigators 
reviewed matters. She didnt think we could look at the concerns addressed in the final 
response letter dated April 2019 as Mr W had brought it to us more than six months after it 
had been issued. But she thought Mr Ws complaint points regarding the impact of the 
account restriction, the letter of authority and the unpaid cheque had been brought to us in 
time.
Our investigator didnt uphold these complaint points. In summary, she agreed Mr W had 
been caused some inconvenience following the account restriction. However, she thought 
the £50 compensation was enough to put matters right. She also thought the explanations 
from Santander relating to the letter of authority and the cheque were both reasonable.
Santander didnt dispute our investigators findings. Mr W asked if he could have some more 
time to respond to the investigators findings and, failing this, asked for the case to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. The case has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
The blocked transaction covered in the April 2019 final response letter
Before the merits of Mr Ws complaint can be investigated, I need to decide first whether his 
complaint is one I can consider at all. This is because the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
Dispute Resolution (DISP) Rules, under which Im obliged to operate, set timescales within 
which complaints need to be brought to this service. 
In relation to whether a complaint has been made out of time, DISP 2.8.2 R says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service:
(1) more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the complainant its 
final response, redress determination or summary resolution communication
unless:
in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in DISP 2.8.2 
R or DISP 2.8.7 R was as a result of exceptional circumstances.  
Santander sent a final response letter to Mr W in April 2019, addressing the blocked 
transaction and the steps he would need to take for the payment to be approved. Mr W had 
until October 2019 to refer his complaint about that to us. He didnt do this until 
January 2020, so this aspect of the complaint was referred out of time under the rules that I 
must apply. And I havent been presented with any information to suggest that exceptional 
circumstances apply here. It follows that I dont have the power to consider this aspect of 
Mr Ws complaint.
The impact of the account block, the letter of authority, the unpaid cheque and the overall 
service received
Im satisfied that these complaint points were referred to this service in time.Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In correspondence with this service, Mr W highlighted that the investigator commented on 
issues that were outside of the original complaint brought to this service. Therefore, my 
findings will only focus on matters relevant to the complaint brought to us. And, although a 
number of issues have been raised in relation to this complaint in particular, this decision 
only addresses those issues I consider to be materially relevant to the crux of the complaint. 
However, Ive given careful consideration to all of the submissions made to date.
As I understand it, Mr W wanted more time to make further submissions, however I dont 
think this is necessary. I say this because I think Mr W was given a reasonable amount of 
time to make any final submissions before the case was passed to me to decide. And, I have 
enough information to reach my decision. Ill now set out my reasoning below.
In its more recent final response, Santander acknowledged the impact that the account block 
had on Mr W  particularly that some standing orders were stopped, and his wifes access 
remained restricted, despite being told the block had been lifted. Im glad to see that 
Santander apologised for the inconvenience caused here and offered £50 compensation in 
recognition of these errors. Having thought carefully about this, I think its offer to put matters 
right is reasonable in the circumstances. Ive also considered that in response to 
Mr Ws request for a list of the accounts historic transactions, Santander explained that this 
information was available on the online banking facility. It also offered to send Mr W copies 
of the accounts statements instead if needed, which I think was reasonable too.
I know Mr W is unhappy that Santander cant guarantee that it wont restrict his transactions 
in the future. But all banks, including Santander, have a responsibility to ensure its 
customers accounts are protected. So, I dont think its unreasonable that Santander would 
want to continue taking measures to ensure its customers funds are safeguarded, in line 
with its legal and regulatory responsibilities. 
As I understand it, Mr W also thinks Santander wasnt helpful when he tried to appoint his 
son as his representative. Having reviewed Santanders response to this, it said it would 
engage with Mr Ws son if Mr W offered verbal consent, or if he provided a signed letter of 
authority. It also outlined that Mr W might want to consider appointing his son as power of 
attorney (POA) instead.
Santander then also sent Mr Ws son a letter in July 2019 outlining that he may wish to 
consider acting as a POA and directed him to its website to learn more about how to do this. 
I dont think the options offered here are unreasonable and I think Santander offered clear 
and helpful information about how Mr W might go about appointing a representative to deal 
with his financial matters. 
Ill turn next to the cheque which was returned unpaid. Mr W was disappointed this 
happened and said that hed deposited enough funds into the account to cover the payment 
on the same day. However, Santander has said the cheque was returned unpaid due to 
there being insufficient funds in the account at the time it was processed. It further explained 
that it encourages its customers to have available funds in the account the working day 
before the cheque is due to debit, to ensure there are sufficient funds in the account to cover 
the payment. This isnt unusual, and I consider Santanders explanation about the matter to 
be clear here and helpful in preventing the issue arising again.
Overall, I understand Mr W feels Santander has been unhelpful throughout the process. 
However, having reviewed matters, Ive considered that Santander apologised for the impact of the account restriction and has paid what I consider to be a reasonable sum of 
compensation to recognise this. It follows that I dont think Santander needs to do anything 
further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, this service cant consider the complaint about Santanders 
decision to restrict the account, covered in the earlier final response letter.
In respect of Mr Ws other complaint points, addressed in the later final response letter, my 
final decision is that I dont require Santander UK Plc to take any further steps to resolve it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman