DRN-4118585
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs A complain Amtrust Europe Limited wrongly declined their claim for legal 
expenses insurance cover to make a claim against the seller of a property Mr A was buying. 
And Mr A is unhappy about delays in handling the claim.
Where I refer to Amtrust Europe Limited, I include their claims handlers.
What happened
Mr A and Mrs A had legal expenses insurance (LEI) which they took out as an addition to 
their home insurance (the main policy) in around December 2020. In around October 2021 
Mr A bought a property (the Property) at auction. The purchase didnt complete. In January 
2022 Mr A made a claim on the LEI policy for cover to pursue a claim against the seller for 
breach of contract.
Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) considered Mr As claim under the Property Sale and 
Purchase section of the LEI policy. That covered the costs of pursuing a legal action arising 
from a breach of a contract for the purchase of the policyholders main home. Amtrust 
declined the claim on grounds Mr As dispute with the seller didnt concern the purchase of 
Mr As main home since hed planned to buy the Property on the basis it was tenanted. And 
his claim against the seller was for loss of earnings, profit and opportunity.
Mr A disagreed. He said although hed agreed to buy the Property tenanted, hed planned to 
move the tenants out while he lived at the Property and carried out renovation works. It 
would have been his main home during that time. In fact, the tenants had already moved out. 
So, if the purchase had gone ahead, Mr A would have been moving in and living there while 
he did it up. 
Amtrust referred Mr As claim to their underwriters to consider further. Following that, they 
confirmed they were still declining the claim. They said, broadly, that since Mr A didnt own 
the Property and the dispute with the seller concerned a property he claimed would be his 
main home in the future, it wasnt covered. They relied on the wording of an exclusion to the 
Property Sale and Purchase section of the policy to support their position. And they 
reserved the right to rely on a further exclusion for claims arising from the policyholders 
business, trade or profession if it came to light the purchase of the Property was business 
related.
Mr A complained. He was unhappy the claim had been declined and about the time the 
claim had taken.
Amtrust rejected Mr As complaint at the end of March 2022. They outlined what theyd said 
initially and following the underwriters review about why theyd declined the claim. And they 
said too that the definition of home in the main policy also applied to the LEI; the property 
identified as the home in the main policy schedule was where Mrs A, as main policyholder, 
lived and where, they assumed, she planned to stay and would require insurance for going 
forward; and the intention of the insurance was to cover that property, not the one Mr A said 
he planned to make his main home.
Amtrust explained their process for handling correspondence. And they said their policy of 
responding within five working days was to be fair to all customers and all Mr As incoming 
correspondence had been replied to within that time.
Since Mr A was unhappy with the outcome of his complaint, he brought it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Our investigator took the view Amtrust had reasonably declined the 
claim. She agreed Amtrust couldnt rely on the definition of home in the home insurance 
policy as the LEI policy was separate from that. But she agreed there was no cover  whilst 
Mr A planned to use the Property as his main home in the future, he never lived there. She 
thought for cover to apply, he needed to have moved in. Since Mr A didnt agree, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide. I recently issued a provisional decision, an extract of 
which follows:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Mr As strength of feeling about his complaint. Im grateful for the information he and 
Amtrust have provided. I may not mention in my decision everything theyve told us. No 
discourtesy is intended by that. It simply reflects the informal nature of the service we 
provide. Ive taken everything the parties have said into account in coming to my decision. 
Ive come to the same outcome as our investigator but for different reasons. So, Im issuing 
a provisional decision to give the parties the chance to comment before I issue a final 
decision.
In line with Financial Conduct Authority rules we expect insurers to deal with claims fairly 
and promptly, and not to decline claims unreasonably. Ill consider Mr As claim against that 
background. The starting point is the terms and conditions of the LEI policy.
Subject to the terms and conditions and exclusions set out in the policy, Mr A and Mrs A had 
LEI cover for their legal costs, up to the specified limit, to pursue, amongst other things, 
a Legal Action arising from a breach of a contract for the sale or purchase of Your 
main home.
Amtrust rightly considered Mr As claim under that section. In declining the claim, they relied 
on an exclusion which said claims werent covered where, amongst other things,   
You have purchased this insurance after the date You completed the sale or 
purchase of Your main home.
And they reserved the right to rely on a general exclusion to cover which said:
3 There is no cover for any claim directly or indirectly arising from:-

b) Your business trade or profession other than as an Employee.
Mr A understands from Amtrusts response to his complaint that theyve accepted the 
Property would have been his main home. I think Amtrust could have made things clearer.
However, while they raised new points based on the definition of home in the main policy, 
they also referred to their previous responses. And they said theyd correctly declined the 
claim on grounds it didnt satisfy the terms and conditions of the policy. So, I think its fair 
and reasonable for me to consider all the reasons Amtrust have given for declining the claim.Its relevant to consider what Mr As contract with the seller was for since he seeks LEI cover 
to pursue a claim for breach of that contract. From the information Mr A provided in the 
insurance claim form and subsequently, its clear he agreed to buy a tenanted property.
When he found out the tenants had moved out and raised questions with the seller about 
that, the seller withdrew from the contract.
Although Mr As plans may have changed when he found out the tenants had left, and he 
may have gone on to live in the Property for longer than he originally intended to carry out 
works if the purchase had gone through, Im not persuaded his contract with the seller 
related to the purchase of his home, main or otherwise.
Mr As proposed claim against the seller is for, broadly, return of his deposit, wasted costs, 
misrepresentation about the tenants and loss of earnings, profit and opportunity, which is 
consistent with the purchase of a tenanted property, rather than a home for Mr A.
Bearing everything in mind, I think it was reasonable for Amtrust to decline Mr As claim on 
grounds it wasnt covered under the Property Sale and Purchase section at all.
In relation to the other reasons Amtrust gave for declining Mr As claim: 
Its not clear Amtrust could exclude Mr As claim on grounds the purchase didnt 
complete even if hed been buying his main home - if thats their position. I think the 
exclusion means that, provided the policy was in place, as here, the cover would 
extend to breaches of contract which could happen before completion takes place; 
and
I dont think its fair to use the definition of home in the main policy to interpret the 
meaning of main home in the LEI policy or the way in which the LEI policy works. 
They are two different phrases; the policies are underwritten by two different insurers; 
the LEI policy sets out its own definitions; theres no indication the definitions in the 
main policy apply in the LEI policy; and, broadly, the LEI cover isnt affected by the 
terms of the home policy;
but even if Im wrong about those two issues, it doesnt affect the outcome of Mr As 
complaint since I dont think it was unreasonable for Amtrust to decline cover for the reasons 
Ive explained.
Since Amtrust didnt rely on the business claim exclusion, I dont need to consider 
that issue.
Ive looked at the time it took for Amtrust to consider Mr As claim. It isnt unusual for firms to 
set internal standards for response times. I can understand Mr A wanted his claim to go 
through quickly. But Im not aware of any urgency such as risk to property or deadlines that 
meant Amtrust should reasonably have prioritised his case. Amtrust explained the five 
working day period they worked to was to be fair to all their customers, which isnt 
unreasonable. They fairly apologised to Mr A for the delay in updating him with the 
underwriters decision. And they responded to his complaint broadly within the time limits the 
relevant rules allow after explaining the process the complaint would follow. Overall, the time 
taken to deal with Mr As claim wasnt unreasonable.
Bearing everything in mind, whilst I understand they will be disappointed, based on what Ive 
seen so far, I dont intend to uphold Mr A and Mrs As complaint.
My provisional decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr A and Mrs As complaint.
Developments
Amtrust had no comments to make on my provisional decision. Mr A didnt accept the 
reasons I set out in coming to my decision. He made several points. I wont set them all out, 
but Ill summarise those that are key:
Although hed agreed to buy a tenanted property, that didnt mean he hadnt intended 
to use it as his home. 
Hed made mortgage applications before and after (1) he bought the Property, (2) he 
knew about the tenancy, and (3) he knew the tenants had moved out. Hed always 
intended to buy his main home. The tenancy had no impact on his decision to make 
the Property his main home. And lenders were prepared to give him a residential 
mortgage, based on his plans, which is evidence of his intention to use the Property 
as his home.  
It was wrong for me to assume hed changed his plans once hed found out the 
tenants had left. Throughout the conveyancing process and the insurance claim hed 
made clear the status of the tenancy had no impact on his decision to buy the 
Property as hed always planned to use it as his main home.
The legal claims for loss of earning/profit/opportunity he planned to make could be 
made in relation to a residential property as well as a tenanted one. They were 
included since he was approaching his legal claim holistically. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr As comments on my provisional decision carefully. Ive reviewed what 
hes told us. Ive looked at the documents hes recently provided relating to his mortgage 
applications. And Ive thought again about the information he provided to Amtrust.
I note the mortgage documentation shows Mr A was applying for and had been offered 
residential mortgages before and after he bought the Property at auction in late October 
2021 and before and after he became aware, in late November 2021, the Property was 
untenanted. Mr A told Amtrust about the mortgage offers although Im not aware they saw 
the documentation. Even if they did, whilst lenders may have offered Mr A a residential 
mortgage, that doesnt mean Amtrusts decision to decline his claim was automatically 
unfair.
Mr A explained to us initially hed bought the Property at auction on the understanding it had 
sitting tenants. He knew the Property would need to be renovated. In line with the tenancy 
agreement issued at auction, he planned to move the tenants out and live at the Property 
while he did the work, which he thought could take several months. 
Mr A gave Amtrust similar information and documentation which were inconsistent with the 
purchase of a home. For example:
The sale agreement confirmed the Property was subject to a tenancy. 
Mr A told Amtrust that, at the time of the purchase, he bought the Property because it was tenanted. 
He planned to move the tenants out  had they not vacated - while he lived in the 
Property for a period and renovated it. He estimated it could take a year or two. 
The removal of tenants to carry out works suggested he would be living at the Property 
temporarily even if the work took some time. Even if Mr A had planned to permanently 
remove the tenants so he could move in, that could have taken time and, potentially, legal 
action. And Mr A would have had to live elsewhere in the meantime. 
It was Mr As responsibility under the LEI policy to provide evidence to show his claim was 
covered. Bearing everything in mind, and on balance, I think it was reasonable for Amtrust to 
conclude Mr A wasnt buying his main home. 
If Mr A has further information to show this was to be his main home that hasnt already 
been provided to Amtrust Id expect them to consider it if he sends it to them. Of course, if 
his claim was accepted, it would be subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy including that the claim against the seller has more than 50% prospects of success 
and isnt disproportionate to pursue.
But, on the basis of the information Amtrust have seen, I dont think they acted unfairly in 
declining his claim. And, whilst I understand Mr A will be disappointed, for all the reasons 
Ive set out, I dont uphold his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 June 2023.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman