DRN-2913472
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that TWP Wealth Limited (TWP) wont refund them the money they 
lost as the result of a fraud.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in detail 
here. But in summary, and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as 
follows.
 
In May 2020, TWP received an email, from who they thought was Mr W, requesting an 
urgent withdrawal of £40,000 from his investments. But unknown to TWP at the time, the 
emails were from fraudsters who had hacked Mr Ws email account.
Believing everything to be genuine TWP entered into email communication with the 
fraudsters and recommended that the withdrawal be made up of two payments of £20,000, 
one from each of Mr and Mrs Ws ISA accounts. The ISA funds were held on an investment 
platform, with a company Ill refer to as Firm A. 
 
The fraudster asked TWP for the funds to be sent to an account held with a bank Ill refer to 
as Bank A. As Firm A didnt hold bank account details for Mr and Mrs W, it was necessary 
for a Change of Portfolio document to be completed for Firm A, to enable it to update its 
records and complete the transfer. This document was partially completed by TWP, but 
during the exchange of emails, the fraudsters were able to apply forgeries of Mr and Mrs Ws 
signatures to the document and supply a forged copy bank statement, in order for the bank 
details to be updated. It followed that two payments of £20,000 were withdrawn, one from   
Mr Ws and one from Mrs Ws ISA accounts, and sent to bank account details controlled by 
the fraudster.
Mr W became aware of the issue, on 29 May 2020, when he received notification of the 
change of bank details from Firm A, but unfortunately this was after the transfers had already 
been made from Mr and Mrs Ws ISA accounts. 
Mr and Mrs W raised the matter with TWP as they considered there were a number of 
failures that allowed the fraud to take place. In summary they didnt consider TWP had 
applied a suitable level of due diligence in allowing the withdrawals to be made from the 
investments, and it had failed to follow correct procedures.
 
TWP looked into Mr and Mrs Ws complaint and issued its final response on 1 September 
2020 not upholding it. In summary it said the email it had received appeared to come from 
Mr Ws genuine email address. It accepted that Mrs W should have been included in the 
email correspondence, as it had suggested taking money from her portfolio. If it had of done, 
it accepted she could have been alerted to the fraud. But it added that where it had received 
a Change of Portfolio details form, seemingly signed by Mrs W, it accepted this was her 
permission to proceed.
 
TWP said that before the withdrawal was completed it did call and speak to Mr and Mrs W to 
update them on the withdrawal. But it acknowledged that, while its agent did bring up the 
withdrawal, he was not specific enough in the conversation to give raise to any concern. So 
it agreed that if its agent had been more specific, during this call, Mr and Mrs W could have 
been alerted to the fraudulent withdrawals in time.
 
Overall, while it acknowledged it could have taken slightly different action in some areas of 
diligence, it also believed that other parties involved had also failed in their obligations, 
namely Banks A and B and Firm A. Unfortunately TWP was unable to recover any of the 
money that Mr and Mrs W lost.
 
Unhappy with TWPs response, Mr and Mrs W then brought their complaint to our service.  
One of our investigators looked into it and thought the complaint should be upheld. In 
summary, he said while he recognised there were a number of factors that contributed to the 
loss Mr and Mrs W had suffered  the complaint he had to investigate was around Mr and 
Mrs Ws assertion that TWP failed to prevent the fraud from happening. He didnt consider 
TWP had followed its own internal withdrawal procedures (in not obtaining written consent 
from Mrs W and in not having a clear discussion with Mr and Mrs W, before allowing the 
withdrawals to take place). It was our investigators view that had TWP followed its 
procedures it would have prevented the fraud from happening. Our investigator 
recommended that TWP refund Mr and Mrs the £40,000 (£20,000 each) that they had lost, 
along with interest.
 
Mr and Mrs W agreed with our investigators view. TWP didnt agree, in summary it said the 
signature on the withdrawal form had matched, it didnt know the email had been hacked 
and the withdrawal didnt raise any suspicion, as Mr and Mrs W had previously spoken to it 
about making a sale. It agreed it could have done better, but maintained that other parties 
had also failed in their due diligence and should also bear some responsibility. 
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has now been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having very carefully considered all the evidence and information that has been provided, I 
agree with the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
I havent given a detailed response to all the points raised. This is deliberate; ours is an 
informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their customers. 
While Ive considered all the submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on what I think is 
relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im aware that TWP has said that other parties were also involved in the loss that Mr and 
Mrs W suffered. But its important for me to say, this decision focuses solely on the actions 
of TWP, whom this complaint is against.
Ive taken into account what Id expect of TWP in the circumstances of receiving a request 
for a withdrawal from an investment. To this end, Ive noted that the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) sets out the following rules in its Senior Management Arrangements, 
Systems and Controls sourcebook (SYSC): 
SYSC 6.1.1 R A firm must establish, implement and maintain adequate policies and procedures sufficient 
to ensure compliance of the firm including its managers, employees and appointed 
representatives (or where applicable, tied agents) with its obligations under the regulatory 
system and for countering the risk that the firm might be used to further financial crime. 
SYSC 3.2.6 R 
A firm must take reasonable care to establish and maintain effective systems and controls 
for compliance with applicable requirements and standards under the regulatory system and 
for countering the risk that the firm might be used to further financial crime. 
For the avoidance of doubt, financial crime is defined as:
any kind of criminal conduct relating to money or to financial services or markets, including
any offence involving:
(a) fraud or dishonesty; or
(b) misconduct in, or misuse of information relating to, a financial market; or
(c) handling the proceeds of crime; or
(d) the financing of terrorism;
in this definition, "offence" includes an act or omission which would be an offence if it had
taken place in the United Kingdom.
In view of the above I am satisfied that TWP was required to have adequate
policies and procedures in place to meet its regulatory requirements to counter the risk that it
might be used to further financial crime.
I am also mindful that FCA Principle 6 sets out that:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
 
Ive thought about this in relation to the actions TWP took in Mr and Mrs Ws case. From 
what Ive seen TWP do have policies and procedures in place, and its shared with us an 
extract from its administration process manual, detailing its process for withdrawals, which 
says:
Withdrawals
It is important that you refer to our policy on Financial Crime Risk Assessment. ALL 
withdrawals received by email must be followed up by a telephone call to the client to 
confirm that request has come from them. 
If we receive the request by telephone, please ensure we have identified the client through 
security questions (refer to policy) and ask them to follow up the request in writing (email is 
sufficient).
We must not facilitate ANY withdrawals without the 2-way check (verbal and in writing).
In order to determine whether this complaint should be upheld I have considered whether
the systems and controls that TWP was required to have in place, to counter the
risk that the business might be used to further financial crime, were sufficient and whether it 
implemented them accordingly. And whether any failure to implement its procedures, or if 
any of the actions TWP took, contributed to Mr and Mrs Ws loss.Here it doesnt seem in dispute that TWP hasnt followed its own procedures. It has 
recognised in its response to Mr and Mrs W and in its submissions to this service that it 
could have taken different action in respect of its diligence.
TWPs procedures indicate that it must not facilitate any withdrawals without carrying out a 
two-way check (both verbally and in writing). Considering the circumstances of this case, I 
can understand why TWP wouldnt have contacted Mr W in writing outside of the emails it 
had received. After all it thought it was already communicating with him in writing and it didnt 
know that it was actually exchanging emails with a fraudster. But, and TWP acknowledge 
this, as funds were also being withdrawn from Mrs Ws investment, it also had a 
responsibility to check with Mrs W in writing, but it failed to do this.
 
When thinking about the second part of TWPs two step check that forms part of TWPs 
procedures (checking verbally) I am mindful that TWP has said that a telephone 
conversation took place, between Mr and Mrs W and TWPs agent, before the withdrawals 
were made. Unfortunately the call wasnt recorded, but TWPs agents recollections were 
that he was calling Mr and Mrs W for a catch up, to check both were ok, but that he did 
mention the transactions and that the money would be with them as soon as possible. Mr 
and Mrs W (who were both on the call) dont recall a planned withdrawal from their account 
being mentioned. Of course, I cant know for sure what was discussed in the call, but in any 
event TWP has acknowledged that the call its agent made was not specific enough, in terms 
of discussing the request to withdraw funds.
 
Ive gone on to think about whether TWPs failure to follow its own internal policies and 
procedures made a difference. And having thought about this carefully, I think it did. Im 
persuaded that TWPs failure to carry out a two-way check, in line with its own procedures, 
resulted in the loss for Mr and Mrs W. I think this is supported by TWPs own submissions, 
where its said that if it had emailed Mrs W, she could have been alerted earlier to the fraud 
and that had its agent been more specific (when calling Mr and Mrs W), they could have 
been alerted to the fraudulent withdrawals in time. Im persuaded that its more likely than 
not, had TWP taken steps to validate the withdrawals in line with its own procedures, the 
fraud would have been prevented and Mr and Mrs W wouldnt have lost the money they did.
Im mindful that TWP has said that it carried out other checks, outside of its documented 
process, such as getting signed forms and checking bank statements. But the procedures it 
has in place, to protect its client, set out clear and specific steps and say that verbal and 
written consent is required. That other, alternative checks, may have been carried out 
doesnt detract from TWPs responsibility to only proceed with a withdrawal once its satisfied 
its own internal processes that are in place to protect both itself and its clients, have been 
followed. 
Im aware that TWP considers that other parties are also to blame. But I can only consider 
the complaint in front of me, which is against TWP. And I think its fair in the circumstances 
that it compensates Mr and Mrs W for their losses in full. I say this because Im satisfied that 
TWPs failure to follow its own internal procedures was pivotal in causing Mr and Mrs W to 
lose this money. The losses they sustained were directly as a result of TWP not confirming 
the withdrawals with them both clearly verbally and in writing.
 
Im aware that the main culprits here are the fraudsters who committed this crime. But as Ive 
explained above, without TWPs failings, Mr and Mrs W wouldnt have lost this money from 
their ISAs and these losses could have been fully avoided if TWP had carried out the 
appropriate checks, in line with its own policies and procedures. So I consider it fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances that it should compensate Mr and Mrs W for any losses 
they suffered. If TWP believes that the other parties actions have contributed to these losses, they are of course free to pursue this directly with them  but only after having paid 
Mr and Mrs W in full.
 
Im aware that some of those involved in this fraud have been caught and convicted and 
that, in passing sentence, the judge awarded Mr and Mrs W £250 compensation. So as to 
avoid any betterment, it is fair and reasonable that I reflect that award in the redress I ask 
TWP to pay.
Putting things right
For the reasons explained above TWP Wealth Limited should now;
- Refund Mr and Mrs W £40,000, being the 2 x £20,000 they lost from their ISA 
accounts (less £250 awarded to Mr and Mrs W through the Courts).
- Pay interest on this amount, at Mr and Mrs Ws respective ISA rates, from the date of 
loss to the date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against TWP Wealth Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman