DRN-3413347
The complaint
Mr C has complained about the payment made by KGM Underwriting Services Limited 
(KGM) under his motor insurance policy after his car was stolen.
What happened
Mr C purchased a car in April 2021 for £18,500. He used a price comparison website and 
then spoke to a broker to arrange cover for it after his existing policy expired in August 2021. 
The broker asked Mr C questions about the car, one of which was about how much Mr C 
had bought the car for. Mr C told the broker how much hed paid for the car and it used that 
figure as its value. 
In October 2021 Mr Cs car was stolen. KGM said it would pay him £18,500 less his excess 
of £100 as the car was a total loss. But Mr C found, when he tried to find a replacement car, 
that it would cost him in the region of £23,000.
Mr C wasnt happy about this and complained to KGM. He wants KGM to pay him an 
additional amount, which is the difference between the amount it said he insured his car for, 
and the amount it would have cost him to replace it in October 2021.
KGM wouldnt increase the amount it would pay under his policy. It said the cover provided 
is set out in the policy wording as:
Market value  the cost of replacing your vehicle with another of a similar make, 
model, age, mileage and condition as at the time of the loss or damage, up to the 
value stated in your policy schedule.
KGM said Mr Cs policy would only cover his car up the value on his policy schedule, which 
was the price hed told the broker hed paid for it about five months before.
Mr C remained unhappy so he brought his complaint to this service. An investigator looked 
into the complaint and upheld it. He said he thought Mr Cs policy was one that would give 
market value at the time the car was stolen. He also said that using up to the value stated 
in your policy schedule wasnt a fair term to use as it only benefitted the insurer. Our 
investigator also said he didnt think it was made clear to Mr C that the value he gave would 
be used to limit the payout under the policy. 
Our investigator also asked KGM whether it would have been able to cover the car for a 
higher premium if Mr C had declared a higher value, but KGM werent able to confirm this.
Our investigator said that he would value a replacement around £23,857.50, meaning KGM 
would need to pay Mr C £5,257.50. Mr C accepted the view, but KGM didnt. It said it felt the 
term up to the value stated in your policy schedule was clear and that as an insurer it had a 
right to expect to rely on it.
As KGM didnt agree with the view, Mr Cs complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding his complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the route Mr C took when buying his policy, which started on a price 
comparison website before he spoke to the broker. On the price comparison website, the 
information about vehicle value talks about vehicles being replaced with the same make, 
model, age, condition, mileage and specification and that an approximate value is fine.
The website does mention a possible guaranteed value policy, as does the brokers own 
website when it mentions an agreed valuation policy. But I wouldnt expect the type of 
vehicle being insured by Mr C as being the sort that would be insured under one of this type 
of policy. If Mr Cs policy was one of these, Id expect a much more detailed explanation of 
the benefits and limitations of it during the call, so I think its clear that the policy bought by 
Mr C is a market value policy.
Ive carefully listened to the call made by Mr C when he took out his policy. During the call 
with the broker Mr C isnt specifically asked about the current value of the vehicle, but there 
is a short conversation about how much he paid for the vehicle. This is recorded on Mr Cs 
policy schedule which says: Price Paid £18,500.
During the call, Mr C was also made aware that the call handler was only giving him a limited 
amount of information and that hed be sent full details of the policy by email, which Mr C 
agreed with. This is a fairly standard approach to disclosure in the marketplace and I can 
understand KGMs point that its Mr Cs responsibility to read the policy and make sure its 
appropriate for his needs.
The Product Information Document send to Mr C says:
What is not insured?
Costs which exceed the market value of your vehicle or the value declared on your 
policy schedule if the market value is more.
And the policy wording says:
Market value  the cost of replacing your vehicle with another of a similar make, 
model, age, mileage and condition as at the time of the loss or damage, up to the 
value stated in your policy schedule.
But I think its clear that KGM didnt tell Mr C how important that providing the correct figure 
was. The conversations Ive listened to dont mention how much the vehicle was worth at the 
time of the call, or when the policy was due to incept, all the call handler wants to know is 
how much Mr C paid for the vehicle, which was about 5 months beforehand. This part of the 
conversation is very brief and no significance seems to be attached by the call handler to it.
Mr C has said that he would have expected KGM to have explained the implications of the 
Price Paid figure and have given him the chance to check the market value of it, so he may 
have been able to insure it for its correct value. 
I agree with Mr C that I dont think KGM have reasonably done enough to explain to him the 
implications of the term it is relying on to limit his claim settlement. I have listened to the call with Mr C where the call handler tells him about various other limits that apply to the policy, 
but at no point is Mr C told about the very significant limit that would apply if his vehicle is a 
total loss.
Mr C also points out in his complaint:
Do they expect customers to phone up mid policy & update the value
Again, I agree with Mr Cs point. In my opinion the clause that KGM have used isnt fair and 
reasonable as it can only benefit KGM and may cause inconvenience to its customers like it 
has done with Mr C here.
KGM arent able to say how much more premium it may have asked Mr C to pay if itd known 
the correct market value of the vehicle, so Im unable to take this into account in my 
decision.
Vehicle value
Ive mentioned above that I dont think KGMs use of the term limiting its payment is fair and I 
dont think it was explained to Mr C adequately. So I think its fair and reasonable to expect 
KGM to settle Mr Cs claim without applying that part of the term, meaning it should pay a 
market value figure.
At the time the vehicle was stolen, various trade guides showed the following values:
A  £23,750
B  £20,690
C  £23,310
D  £24,030-£24,995 (a mean of £24,512.50)
Where one guide is significantly out of line with the rest, our service thinks its fair to discount 
that guides valuation. On this occasion, that means removing B.
Taking the remaining three valuations gives a mean of £23,857.50 which I think is a fair 
valuation for Mr Cs vehicle at the time of loss.
Its my understanding that KGM has already paid Mr C £18,500 less his excess of £100.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I direct KGM Underwriting Services Limited 
to pay Mr C:
£5,257.50, which is made up of the market value at the time of the loss, less the 
amount already paid to Mr C in partial settlement of his claim.
Interest at 8% simple on this amount from the date KGM agreed to settle the loss to 
the date KGM make this payment. If KGM considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C how 
much its taken off. It should also give him a certificate showing this if he asks for 
one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman