DRN-3125870
The complaint
Miss S complained about BUPA Insurance Limiteds settlement of her private medical 
insurance claim and about how it handled her claim.
What happened
On 14 October 2020 Miss S contacted BUPA to make a claim as she needed a MRI scan. 
BUPA confirmed she would be covered for an initial consultation with a doctor, a MRI scan 
and the follow up consultation. It sent Miss S the names of consultants she could see as part 
of her plan. Miss S went to one of the named consultants and invoices for £147 and £96 
were sent to BUPA to pay.
On 25 October 2020 BUPA wrote to Miss S declining her claim for £147 because she did 
not seek an appropriate referral. She called BUPA to discuss and it accepted it had made 
an error and paid that claim.
On 8 November 2020 BUPA wrote to Miss S saying her claim for £96 wasnt covered under 
her policy. Miss S complained to BUPA in November 2020 and in December 2020 by email 
and received automated acknowledgments from BUPAs customer relations teams.
Miss S heard nothing further from BUPA so complained to us. She wanted BUPA to pay the 
outstanding £96 claim, apologise for its poor service and pay her compensation for distress 
and inconvenience. Miss S said she was getting constant letters from the hospital asking for 
payment which she found embarrassing and stressful, shed already had a very worrying 
time with her health and the distress caused by BUPA declining her claim twice when it had 
told it would pay, then not responding to her complaints, really added to her worry.
After Miss S complained to us BUPA sent its final response letter. It said it hadnt received 
Miss S initial complaint in November 2020 so she may have used an email address which 
was no longer in use. It had sent a complaint holding letter to her December complaint but 
due to its system error the letter was sent to her old address. BUPA confirmed it would pay 
the outstanding bill for £96, apologised for the delay and said an administrative issue meant 
it was unable to settle the bill sooner. 
The outstanding claim was settled three months after BUPA received the invoice. Miss S still 
wanted us to consider whether BUPA should pay her compensation.
Our investigator recommended BUPA pay Miss S £100 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience caused by its poor service.
Miss S accepted our investigators recommendation. BUPA didnt agree and wanted an 
ombudsmans decision. It said its administration errors were minor, it had paid the claims 
and apologised to Miss S. It also said the hospital shouldnt have chased Miss S for payment 
if shed paid the excess.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BUPA has now paid the invoices Miss S claimed so the issue I have to decide is whether 
BUPA gave reasonable service. BUPA accepts it made various errors when dealing with   
Miss S claim. I think it gave Miss S unreasonable service and it should pay her £100 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. Ill explain why.
Miss S contacted BUPA specifically to check if she would be covered by the policy for her 
treatment needs and BUPA told her she was covered. She followed the instructions BUPA 
gave about choosing a consultant from the list it sent her. Understandably Miss S was 
shocked and upset, at an already worrying time for her, when BUPA then told her all the 
costs shed claimed werent covered.
Miss S had contacted BUPA about the decline of the first invoice and that was paid when 
BUPA corrected its error. Miss S had no reason to believe there would be any further 
problems until she received a letter stating her second invoice had also been declined. 
BUPA says the problem with the second invoice arose as Miss S employers were late to 
renew the policy. But BUPA accepts it didnt have anything in place to get the claim paid 
once the policy renewed, and I dont think thats reasonable service. 
Miss S says she had paid the excess to the hospital and it was chasing her for the claim 
amount. Whether or not the hospital should have chased Miss S for the payment, I dont 
think the hospital would have done so if BUPA hadnt made the errors and it had paid the 
pre-authorised claim as it should have done.
Miss S complained twice to BUPA but received no substantive response to either. BUPA  
said it didnt receive her first emailed complaint so that may have gone to an unused email 
address. But Ive seen evidence that Miss S received an automated acknowledgement of 
that complaint from BUPAs customer relations department and BUPA did respond to her 
second complaint which was sent to the same email address. That response letter was 
before Miss S complained to us but sent to her old address. BUPAs contact notes of its call 
with Miss S in October 2020 show she told it her new address and BUPA accepts the letter 
was sent to the old address by mistake. As Miss S hadnt received any response she 
complained to us. I think these further BUPA systems failures also caused Miss S 
unnecessary stress and inconvenience. 
Overall I find that BUPAs series of unnecessary errors had a cumulative effect on Miss S 
causing her additional stress and inconvenience at an already difficult time for her.
Putting things right
In these circumstances I think £100 compensation is a reasonable amount for BUPA to pay 
to Miss S to reflect her distress and inconvenience due to its poor service.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require BUPA Insurance Limited to pay Miss S £100 
compensation for her distress and inconvenience due to its poor service. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Nicola SiskOmbudsman