DRN-3745316
The complaint
Mr H complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Marbles lent to him on his marbles and Aqua 
cards irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr H had two cards from NewDay, a marbles card (agreed in October 2016) and an Aqua 
card (agreed in September 2013). For simplicity, I will refer to the lender as NewDay in this 
provisional decision.
The card limits were increased as follows:
Marbles card
Date Limit
October 2016 (new card) £300
January 2017 £900
June 2017 £1650
Aqua card
Date Limit
September 2013 
(new card)£250
March 2014 £750
August 2014 £1800
March 2017 £2400
November 2017 £3400
The marbles account was defaulted and sold to a debt collection agency (DCA) in October 
2020; the Aqua account was defaulted and sold to a DCA in August 2018.
Mr H complained. He said that NewDay lent irresponsibly  they shouldnt have increased 
his limits on both cards. As a result, defaults were now showing on his credit file. Also, 
NewDay forced him to pay a higher amount on the marbles card, which he couldnt afford. 
And when he called NewDay in April 2018 to say he was in financial difficulty; they didnt 
help him. Mr H wants the adverse information removed from his credit file and all charges 
and interest refunded. He would like compensation for the way he has been treated.
NewDay said that Mr H passed all their credit checks when he applied for the cards and at 
each limit increase. On the Aqua card  the issue of it was more than six years before Mr H 
complained, and so they couldnt look at it under the complaint handling rules. But they 
noted that when Mr H applied for the card, he said he had household income of £27,000 per 
annum. There were five defaults on his credit record for £8,200, but the oldest was 19 
months before. Other than that, there werent any arrears or payday loans showing.
On the marbles card, Mr H said he then had household income of £38,000 per annum, and 
unsecured debt of £25,600. There were four defaults for £1,400, and no payday loans or 
arrears showing. So, a modest limit of £300 was given.
On the limit increase on the cards, NewDay said that Mr H was given the chance to opt out 
of the offered increases but didnt. After considering how Mr H had used the cards, and their 
normal credit checks, they applied the increases. On Mr Hs financial difficulty, theyd agreed 
a payment plan on his account in April 2018. But after Mr Hs payments stopped, the 
accounts fell into arrears and the debts were passed to a DCA to manage. So overall, 
NewDay said theyd acted fairly and reasonably.
Mr H didnt agree and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said that we couldnt look 
at events more than six years before Mr H complained in June 2020  so we couldnt 
investigate the issue of the Aqua card in 2013, or the increase in limit in March 2014. She 
considered that the marbles card shouldnt have been issued in the first place, nor its 
increases in limit. And on the Aqua card  the limit shouldnt have been increased in August 
2014 and thereafter. She said that interest and charges should be refunded on the marbles 
card from when it was issued. And interest and charges should be refunded on the Aqua 
card from August 2014. She didnt think the defaults should be removed, nor should there be 
any compensation paid.
Mr H didnt agree  he said the defaults should be removed, and compensation should be 
paid. And NewDay didnt agree either  they said theyd carried out proportionate checks 
when agreeing the credit facilities.
I sent a provisional decision which said:
All lenders have an obligation to lend money responsibly. We must check whether NewDay 
acted in line within the Financial Conducts (FCA) rules on creditworthiness assessment as 
set out in its handbook, (CONC) section 5.2. These say that a firm must undertake a 
reasonable assessment of creditworthiness, considering both the risk to it of the customer 
not making the repayments, as well as the risk to the customer of not being able to make 
repayments. We look at:
Whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the borrower would be able to repay any credit in a sustainable way?
If reasonable and proportionate checks were completed, did the lender make a fair 
lending decision made bearing in mind the information gathered and what the lender 
knew about the borrowers circumstances?
And a reasonable and proportionate check would usually need to be more thorough:
o the lower a customers income, and the higher amount to be repaid.o the greater the number of loans and frequency of loans.
o the longer the term of the loans.
Its important to note that the checks must be proportionate to the amount being lent  so the 
higher the amount, the greater the checks must be, and the lower the amount, then fewer 
checks can be made.
In this context, I think its fair to say that the initial issue of the marbles card with a limit of 
£300, and also the Aqua card (£750) can be considered modest amounts of credit  and so I 
think that the checks couldve been less than for the higher limits. And  as our investigator 
said the first issue of the Aqua card in 2013, and the first increase in limit in March 2014 is 
out of scope anyway due to our six-year rule. Mr H has accepted this.
Marbles card:
As Ive said, a limit of £300 is a modest one. NewDays information shows that Mr H earnt 
£28,000 a year and had other income of £10,000. There were four defaults on his records 
with a value of £1,400. And I noted that they knew Mr H had unsecured debts of £25,600.
But  there wasnt any other adverse information. So, I think that  given the low level of Mr 
Hs limit, I can see why NewDay agreed to it. So, I think the first issue of the card was 
reasonable.
But after that  I dont think NewDay shouldve agreed to the increases in limit  without 
more checks being made. I can see and accept that Mr H had made all the monthly 
payments on time, nor had he gone over his limit. But - given what they knew about Mr Hs 
circumstances from his card application  they could see he had some debt problems in the 
past. And more importantly, he had significant other debts at the time of the increases: 
£24,880 in January 2017 and £22,298 in June 2017. And  Mr Hs limits were increased 
from £300 to £1,650 in just nine months  a short period of time. This shouldve caused 
NewDay to ask more questions about Mr Hs circumstances before agreeing the increases  
but didnt.
And so  I think the increase in limits on the marbles card in January 2017 and June 2017 
werent subjected to sufficient proportionate checks.
Aqua card:
As Ive said the first issue of the card in 2014 is out of scope, as is the first increase in limit to 
£750 in March 2014. I looked at the subsequent increases.
On the increase to £1,800 in August 2014  I considered this to be reasonable. I say that 
because Mr H had made all the monthly payments to the card from when it had been given 
to him. And there werent any overlimit situations evident  so Mr H seemed to be managing 
the card properly. And at that time  NewDays checks didnt include finding out about his 
other unsecured debts  so their analysis showed he didnt have any. In all fairness we cant 
expect NewDay to have known about them at this stage. And so  in that respect, I think 
NewDay did sufficient checks for the limit increase in August 2014.
But after that  I consider NewDay shouldve done more checks. I accept that Mr H was 
making the monthly payments on time and regularly. But by the time of the limit increase in 
March 2017, they could see Mr H had unsecured debts of £22,049. By November 2017, 
these had increased to £33,996. By comparison with what NewDay knew about Mr Hs 
means and income, this at least warranted some further inquiries of Mr H  but I cant see that was done. And so  I dont think the limit increases in March 2017 and November 2017 
were reasonable.
Financial Difficulty:
Mr H had said that when he contacted NewDay in April 2018 about his Aqua card  they 
didnt help him. Ive looked at NewDays notes of the call. Mr H advised that his work had 
slowed down and he was struggling. NewDay worked out Mr Hs income and expenditure 
and as a result agreed to a payment plan of £1 per month  until October 2018. So  I think 
that was a reasonable response from NewDay  they were trying to help him. But I can also 
see that Mr H didnt make those payments as the last payment made by Mr H was in 
January 2018. And I cant see that he contacted NewDay after April 2018 to discuss his 
situation. And I think it wouldve been reasonable for him to do that it he needed more help.
So, I think that NewDay acted reasonably here.
Persistent debt letters:
Mr H had said he was forced by NewDay to agree to higher repayments which he couldnt 
afford. I can see that NewDay wrote to Mr H with persistent debt letters in connection with 
his marbles card.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)s persistent debt rules are set out in the FCAs 
handbook, CONC 6.7.27. They say (in summary) that firms such as NewDay must look at 
too much interest. And so  where a borrower is paying more in interest and fees than they 
are paying towards reducing the amount of the debt, then a repayment plan should be put in 
place to deal with this. And, where this cant be agreed, the card may be suspended  to 
stop customers from increasing their debts further. The intention of the rules is to ensure that 
customers are protected from paying too much interest  and in some cases, never actually 
repaying their debts. This typically happens if customers only pay the minimum amount each 
month, while still spending on their cards.
I looked at what NewDay did in this context. They wrote to Mr H in September 2018 and the 
letter recommended that he started to make higher repayments because he was in 
persistent debt. They wrote again in January 2020, again with a similar recommendation  
and so at that stage NewDay were trying to help Mr H  by trying to save him money in 
interest. In February 2020, NewDay wrote again and recommended Mr H take action  and 
said that theyd move him to higher payments if he didnt reply or take action. And in March 
2020, they moved his account to payments of £59.11 per month. Mr H complains that wasnt 
affordable  but I can see that in the months before that, his minimum payments were 
around £68 per month  so the paydown plan had lower payments than before  but they 
reduced his limit also to £1,500. So  here NewDay were trying to help Mr H get out of debt 
and save him some money in interest  and acted within the FCAs rules. So  I dont think 
they did anything wrong here.
Aqua card: My view is that NewDay shouldnt have increased Mr Hs limit to £2,400 in March 
2017, but the limit increase to £1,800 in August 2014 was reasonable. Ive set out below 
what NewDay should do to put things right.
Marbles card: My view is that NewDay shouldnt have increased Mr Hs limit to £900 in 
January 2017, and to £1,650 in June 2017. But the prior limit of £300 was reasonable. Ive 
set out below what NewDay should do to put things right.
On the entries on Mr Hs credit file  the adverse information, including defaults should be 
removed once Mr H has repaid the debts on his accounts  which may arise after the refunds of interest and charges, or at some time in the future  see below. I say this because 
Mr H has had the use of the credit facilities and had spent the money  and so it seems only 
right that he repays the debts before the defaults are removed. Ive seen what Mr H has said 
about a similar complaint made by his wife two years ago. But Im not familiar with the details 
of Mr Hs wifes case and I dont think its appropriate for me to look at a case decided some 
time ago. In any event, given the matter before me, my role here is limited to deciding how 
NewDay should put things right for Mr H in a fair and reasonable way.
I havent awarded any payment for distress and inconvenience as Mr H hasnt argued 
strongly for that or set out what that should be paid. If he can do so in responding to this 
provisional decision, I may review that.
Responses to the provisional decision:
NewDay said they believed they lent responsibly but accepted the provisional decision. Mr H 
accepted the findings but asked for compensation - as he said he had paid more for credit 
because of the markers on his credit file.
We asked Mr H for evidence of his claim. He sent us a mortgage illustration dated March 
2021 which showed a rate of 5.04% fixed for two years. Mr H says that was more than 
typical mortgage rates at the time.
I now need to consider this and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that the interest rate on the mortgage illustration was probably higher than a typical 
market rate at that time. But  it was in the name of Mr Hs wife, not Mr H. And to agree to 
compensation we need to ensure that the increased interest rate was direct result of the 
markers on Mr Hs credit file. And here, we cant be sure that was the case, as the illustration 
doesnt say that.  And typically, a mortgage illustration is only an early indication from a 
lender, which doesnt take account of a full assessment of a customers means, salary, 
property valuation as well as a credit search. So - I cant in all fairness conclude that the 
interest rate quoted was due to the marks on Mr Hs credit file. And therefore, I dont think 
any compensation can be paid to Mr H. Therefore, my final decision is in line with the 
provisional decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. NewDay Ltd must:
Aqua card:
Rework the account removing all interest and charges that have been applied to 
balances above £1800 from March 2017.
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr H along with 
8% simple interest per year calculated from the date of each overpayment to the date 
of settlement. NewDay should also remove all adverse information recorded after 
March 2017 regarding this account from Mr Hs credit file.
Or, if after the rework the outstanding balance still exceeds £1800 NewDay should arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mr H for the remaining amount. Once Mr 
H has cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded after 
March 2017 in relation to the account should be removed from their credit file.
As NewDay has sold the debt to a third party, it should arrange to either buy back the 
debt from the third party or liaise with them to ensure the redress set out above is 
carried out promptly.
Marbles card:
Rework the account removing all interest and charges that have been applied to 
balances above £300 from January 2017.
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr H along with 
8% simple interest per year calculated from the date of each overpayment to the date 
of settlement. NewDay should also remove all adverse information recorded after 
January 2017 regarding this account from Mr Hs credit file.
Or, if after the rework the outstanding balance still exceeds £300, NewDay should 
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mr H for the remaining amount. Once Mr 
H has cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded after 
January 2017 in relation to the account should be removed from their credit file.
As NewDay has sold the debt to a third party, it should arrange to either buy back the 
debt from the third party or liaise with them to ensure the redress set out above is 
carried out promptly.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman