DRN-1489127
 
The complaint
Ms T complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) didnt offer her a repair appointment 
within a reasonable time and she is dissatisfied with the customer service it provided. 
What happened
Ms T had a HomeCare Two insurance policy with BG which covered her boiler and central 
heating for repairs, replacement parts and labour. 
BG visited Ms Ts home following her report of a leak from her boiler and found that her 
cylinder needed to be replaced. This was covered under her policy. After the engineer left, 
she complained to BG that he was rude, left dirt in her home, and that he had turned off the 
heating and both hot and cold water even though he said it would only be the hot water. Ms 
T didnt want the same engineer to fix the mistake and BG assured her it would send 
someone else. The same engineer attended to turn the cold water back on.
BG ordered the replacement cylinder and arranged an appointment with Ms T, explaining it 
would be the next week before it could install because the delivery time for the cylinder was 
seven days. She was unhappy that she would be without hot water and heating for seven 
days. Ms T called BG the following day to say the timescale wasnt reasonable and she had 
found another engineer who could source and fit the cylinder within two days. She cancelled 
the appointment.
On the day of the cancelled BG appointment, and after the work had already been done, the 
cylinder BG had ordered arrived at her home. BG sent the engineer that she had complained 
about previously to Ms Ts home to collect it.
Ms T complained to BG. She thought that BG should cover the cost of the replacement 
cylinder and labour because its timescales to complete the work were unreasonable. She 
also felt that it hadnt provided a satisfactory standard of service. BG acknowledged its 
shortfalls in service and offered a payment of £250 as a gesture of goodwill. The payment 
was to cover the cost of the replacement cylinder and to address the poor service she 
received from its engineer.
Ms T was unhappy with the offer because it didnt cover the full amount she paid for the 
cylinder and labour. She also thought the gesture of goodwill didnt go far enough to address 
the service shortfalls.
Our investigator upheld Ms Ts complaint. She thought that the service shortfalls warranted a 
payment greater than that offered by BG. She suggested an increase from £90 to £150 was 
appropriate for the following reasons:
the engineer turned off her cold water by mistake;
BG sent the same engineer after Ms T asked it not to;
its agent didnt tell Ms T that BG could fit the cylinder if she sourced it;it wasnt reasonable for BG to say it wasnt obliged to inform Ms T of her options after 
she cancelled her appointment, and
BG didnt cancel the delivery to Ms Ts home, causing her further inconvenience.
 
However, our investigator didnt think the seven day wait for an appointment was 
unreasonable and referred to the terms and conditions which allow for reasonable delay. But 
our investigator thought BG didnt offer enough for the replacement cylinder. BG offered 
£160 for the cylinder but nothing for labour. Ms T paid £480 for parts and labour. Our 
investigator explained that if BG had told Ms T that it could provide the labour if she sourced 
the cylinder, she wouldnt have incurred the full costs. Because BG didnt offer Ms T the 
option of installation only, our investigator felt it was appropriate that the cost to BG should 
be the same as it wouldve been if it had sourced and replaced the cylinder. She proposed 
that BG should pay Ms T a total of £633.25 less any already given, which is broken down as:
pay Ms T an additional £60 for the distress and inconvenience caused (making the 
total £150), and
pay Ms T £318.25, which is the difference in amount it wouldve cost BG (£478.25 
less £160 already given).
 
Ms T was satisfied with this outcome but BG didnt respond.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold the complaint and Ill explain why.
BG said it would take seven days for it to source and install a new cylinder. Ms T thought 
that was an unreasonable timescale. Ive looked at the policy booklet which says:
Reasonable timescales
Well carry out any repairs or visits youre entitled to within a reasonable time, unless 
something beyond our control makes that impossible  in which case well let you know as 
soon as possible
Ive also looked at the policy document which explains that parts are difficult to source for Ms 
Ts particular boiler. While that doesnt necessarily include the cylinder, Im satisfied that it 
lends weight to BGs explanation that the timeliness of the service it offers can be affected 
by matters beyond its control. In light of this, Im satisfied that BGs offer of an appointment 
for the following week was reasonable.
Ive considered Ms Ts complaint about BGs standard of customer service and I think it falls 
short of what a reasonable person could expect. For the reasons given by our investigator, I 
am satisfied that BG should pay Ms T £150 by way of apology. I will focus here on one 
particular aspect of the customer service because it has a direct relevance to my final point 
about how much BG should reimburse. 
BG says that because Ms T cancelled the appointment in favour of using an engineer who 
could source and fit the cylinder within two days, its obligation to her about this matter ended. I dont agree. When Ms T called to cancel the appointment, I wouldve expected BG 
to take that opportunity to explain the options available to her under her insurance policy, 
including:
Spare parts
Well provide replacementsOr you can give the engineer a replacement part that youve 
bought yourself, that we approve.
I think that BG shouldve been looking to treat Ms T fairly and that wouldve included 
minimising her financial outlay for labour given that her insurance policy covered it. Although 
this option is stated in her policy booklet, BG shouldve brought it to her attention during that 
call. BG offered Ms T £90 in acknowledgement of the other service shortfalls. Im satisfied 
that the uplift to £150 is warranted in recognition of this additional shortfall in customer 
service.
This brings me to the final point which is the amount BG should reimburse. Although I think 
BG offered an appointment in a reasonable timescale, I can understand why Ms T didnt 
want to wait seven days to have access to hot water. I dont think it was unreasonable that 
she sourced an alternative service but her insurance covered the parts and labour and I 
dont think its fair for BG to benefit from Ms Ts decision. BG offered to pay for the cylinder 
and I think thats fair. But I think it should also pay for the labour costs it wouldve incurred 
had it explained Ms Ts options, and had she accepted, when she cancelled her 
appointment.
I think BG should pay Ms T a total of £633.25, which is £483.25 it wouldve cost BG to 
source and fit the cylinder plus £150 by way of apology for the service shortfalls. BG should 
deduct from this any policy excess or amount already paid to Ms T. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and British Gas 
Insurance Limited should:
pay Ms T £483.25 which is what it wouldve cost to source and fit the cylinder for her, 
and
pay £150 by way of apology for the service shortfalls described. 
 
British Gas Insurance Limited should deduct from this any policy excess or amount already 
paid to Ms T.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 May 2020.
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman