DRN-3750102
The complaint
Miss W complained about Domestic and General Insurance PLCs (D&G) poor service and 
the cancellation of her gadget policy. 
What happened
Miss W made a claim with D&G for a faulty TV. D&G made an appointment and advised 
Miss W that if the TV couldnt be repaired at her home address, then it would have to be 
taken away to be repaired. It seems that this appointment was cancelled as the engineer 
couldnt get consent from Miss W for this. 
A further appointment was made for another date. But the day before, Miss W in error, had 
waited in for the engineers to attend and when they didnt attend, she called to complain. 
The engineers said that due to Miss Ws verbal abuse towards them, the second 
appointment was also cancelled. And the engineers refused to attend any further 
appointments. 
D&G offered the only other option for repair, which was a pay and claim. This meant that 
Miss W would have to find an independent engineer, pay for the repair, and then claim this 
payment back from D&G. 
Miss W refused this option, but asked D&G to refund all her premiums that she had paid on 
the policy. She raised a complaint and said that she didnt want D&G to cancel the policy, 
until she had confirmation from D&G that she would be refunded. 
In its final response, D&G confirmed that it had refunded all Miss Ws premiums payments 
(including for two other policies that she held with them). It also said that because of the 
alleged abuse towards its repair agent, there were no other engineers available to carry out 
the work. And the only option would be a pay and claim, which Miss W declined. So, there 
was nothing further it could offer.  It did cancel the policy as Miss W had requested that the 
policy be cancelled.
Miss W was given her referral rights and referred a complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She said that 
D&G had treated Miss W fairly. It had applied the policy terms reasonably and had handled 
the claim promptly. So, there was nothing further she could recommend D&G to do. 
D&G accepted the view, Miss W did not. Miss W said that she'd like her complaint to 
proceed to an ombudsman because the repair agents had booked an engineer without 
taking her schedule into consideration, which inconvenienced her. And she was spoken to 
rudely and told to shut up and that is why she reciprocated in the same energy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, but for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Miss W, but I hope my 
findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
I have listened to several copies of call recordings that took place between Miss W and 
D&G.  Miss Ws TV developed a fault and she contacted D&G to make a claim. During the 
claims call, a first appointment was made. Miss W was advised that if her TV couldnt be 
repaired at her home, it would be repaired offsite. Miss W didnt want her TV removed 
without an alternative TV being left for her to use. But as this option is not available under 
the policy and because Miss W didnt want her TV removed, the appointment was cancelled 
and re-scheduled for 10 June 2022. 
Miss W said that she waited all day for the engineers to attend on 9 June 2022, as she said 
that this was when the appointment was booked. She contacted the engineers and an 
argument ensued. Miss W describes the call handler as being unprofessional and rude 
towards her. And at one point telling her to shut up. 
Miss W explains that she became frustrated with the call handler and admits that she swore 
at the call handler. It was because of Miss Ws behaviour, that D&G explained that it would 
no longer be able to offer Miss W an engineer to repair the TV. The only option it was able to 
do was to offer a pay and claim service. 
I have been provided with D&G abusive customer policy and it provides that any customer 
who is abusive (amongst other things) will be dealt with robustly: Domestic & General does 
not tolerate any form of discrimination against employees and will take robust action against 
any customer that does not treat our employees with dignity and respect.
D&G explained that because Miss W swore at its agents (something that Miss W admitted 
that shed done), this breached its abusive customer policy. As a result, it could not offer her 
any other option than to pay and claim. 
I asked Miss W for copies of the call as she said that she had copies of all the calls made to 
every D&G employee or agents. She said that she would not be sending me any copies of 
the calls. 
D&G said that as the call was made to its agents, it didnt have a copy of the call. As Miss W 
admitted that she was abusive towards the agent, Im satisfied that she was in breach of the 
abusive customer policy.  And Im satisfied that D&G were then put in the position of only 
being able to offer a pay and claim option, for the repair. So, I think D&G were fair to offer 
this as a repair solution to Miss Ws damaged TV. 
I have next considered whether D&G ought to have cancelled Miss Ws policy. Miss W said 
that she did not give D&G permission to cancel her policy, this was cancelled by D&G 
without her consent. 
I have listened to the call recordings that D&G sent in and in particular the call in which Miss 
W begins by saying that she wanted to cancel her policy and get a full refund on all the 
policies that she held with D&G. Towards the end of the recording, Miss W said that she 
didnt want the policy cancelled until and unless she got confirmation that she would get a  
full refund of all the policies. I have also been provided with another call recording, in which the agent is explaining to 
Miss W that her policies have been cancelled, and that all of the policy premiums have been 
refunded to her. So, Im satisfied that Miss W was given confirmation that the policies were 
to be refunded and given her instructions to D&G, Im satisfied that it followed those 
instructions and cancelled the policies. 
Finally, Ive listen to the call recording in which Miss W made the initial booking. The date 
was given to her and she accepted the date as suitable. That date being 10 June 2022. So, I 
cant agree that an engineer was booked without taking Miss Ws schedule into 
consideration.
Taking everything into account, whilst I understand how disappointed Miss W will be, Im 
satisfied that D&G dealt with Miss Ws complaint fairly. Advised Miss W correctly and 
cancelled all her policies (as per her instructions), which were all refunded. So, I cant ask 
D&G to reasonably do anything more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman