DRN-3044572
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt provide information and 
documents related to the mortgage they took out in 1993. Mr L says he believes Barclays 
actions affected them financially but first wants the documents and information hes 
requested.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L took out a mortgage with Barclays in 1993 (they said this was 1992, but 
records of the account suggest it was 1993). The mortgage was repaid in 2007. Mr and 
Mrs L re-mortgaged with Barclays a few years later.
Mr and Mrs L asked for information and documents for their 1993 mortgage. They say 
Barclays didnt provide all of the documents they asked for or answer their questions.
Our investigator said she wouldnt expect Barclays to have kept all of the documents, given 
the time passed, or to provide its underwriting notes to Mr and Mrs L. Barclays offered £150 
for the delay in providing what it had, which the investigator said was fair.
Mr and Mrs L didnt agree. Mr L made comments about the reasons they took out the 1993 
mortgage, law around unsolicited calls, asked whether the 1993 mortgage was securitised, if 
theyd provided a power of attorney, for a copy of their mortgage deed and to inspect 
documents of title, proof that the loan came from bank funds, and for Barclays to answer 
questions about how it assessed the 1993 mortgage as affordable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs L took out a mortgage with Barclays in 1993 and repaid it in 2007. While they re-
mortgaged with Barclays a few years later this was a new loan and new mortgage, it was not 
a continuation of the 1993 mortgage. The 1993 mortgage isnt an active account. 
Mr and Mrs L asked for documents relating to the 1993 mortgage. There were delays with 
Barclays responding, for which it apologised and offered compensation. It provided forms for 
Mr and Mrs L to submit a subject access request.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs L dont agree. But Barclays didnt have to keep all of the 
documents relating to their mortgage indefinitely. The 1992 mortgage was repaid in 2007  
about 12 years before Mr and Mrs L asked for the mortgage documents. I dont find it 
surprising if Barclays cant provide all the documents from that time, and I dont draw any 
adverse inferences from this. Barclays can only provide copies of documents that it has.
Barclays final response letter says the 1993 mortgage wasnt securitised. It says it doesnt 
sell on secured debt. Barclays answered Mr Ls question and I dont think its reasonable to 
require it to provide evidence the 1993 mortgage wasnt securitised. 
We provide an informal dispute resolution service. We arent regulators and we dont have 
the powers of a regulator. Nor can we determine matters of law  only a court can do that. 
Mr L says Barclays is in breach of its statutory duties. He says circumstances here could 
mean the 1993 mortgage is void. If Mr L remains concerned about these matters he can 
consider contacting the regulator or applying to court. If hes concerned that Barclays hasnt 
dealt properly with his data he can consider contacting ICO.
Mr and Mrs L asked questions about how Barclays assessed the 1993 mortgage as 
affordable. They said they dont want to make a complaint about this  theyre asking for 
information before doing so. Barclays doesnt have to provide information that is 
commercially sensitive, and that includes its underwriting processes. 
If Mr and Mrs Ls real concern here is that Barclays shouldnt have offered the 1993 
mortgage to them because it wasnt affordable, they should raise this with Barclays. If Mr 
and Mrs Ls concern is that they cant repay their existing interest only mortgage Id urge 
them to discuss this with Barclays. As these matters arent part of this complaint, I cant look 
into them or make any findings about them here.
Barclays paid £50 to Mr and Mrs L, and offered another £100 for delays in providing the 
information they requested. In the circumstances I think this is fair and reasonable 
compensation for the inconvenience this caused.
My final decision
My decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay £150 to Mr and Mrs L in total (it can 
deduct any amounts its already paid). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman