DRN-3797657
The complaint
Mr M complains that Oplo HL Ltd (Oplo) lent to him irresponsibly as he experienced 
financial difficulties during the repayment of the four loans he took out.
What happened
Mr M says that he purchased a property to renovate in 2016 and many unforeseen problems 
arose. He took out various credit cards and loans which he says snowballed and he ended 
up with two secured loans against his property (with Oplo and another company) in addition 
to his first charge mortgage. Mr M says that his debt was increasing but there was no 
support from Oplo and that when he had conversations with the lender it explained that it 
was trying to save him money by consolidating the debt. He took out four loans with Oplo 
between March 2016 and September 2018, the last two of which were to consolidate the 
previous loan with Oplo. 
Once Mr M was able to sell the property in 2020, he realised that the loans werent 
affordable and says that he shouldnt have been given them. He had not planned to sell the 
property at this stage but he felt that he had no choice as he got deeper into debt. Mr M says 
that he does not believe the loans were well managed and that, although he was able to 
keep on top of payments until towards the end of this period, he struggled for the last year 
and a half and defaulted on his credit card and was late with a lot of payments. He felt 
overwhelmed and was diagnosed with depression. 
Oplo says that at the time of these four loans, it spoke to Mr M, taking him through questions 
to ensure it was lending responsibly. It says it conducted full income and expenditure 
assessments and verified Mr Ms income using payslips provided. It also conducted full 
affordability assessments and considered his other borrowing as part of this to ensure the 
loans were affordable and carried out stress tests to ensure the loan remained affordable if 
interest rates rose. 
Oplo says it used government guidelines to estimate basic household expenses and living 
costs unless advised that they were higher or it found evidence of them being higher. Bank 
statements covering 30 days were obtained and no further outgoings were determined. It 
also carried out creditworthiness assessments to highlight how Mr M had managed his 
existing and previous debts to see whether this was acceptable for it to lend. Overall, Oplo 
says that it took Mr M through a robust underwriting process with all the loans, which 
demonstrated it lent responsibly.
Our investigator looked at this case and found that the first and second loans appeared to be 
affordable and sustainable and therefore she didnt think these were mis-sold. However, the 
investigator found that Oplo failed to carry out appropriate checks and lent irresponsibly in 
relation to the third and fourth loans, which were unaffordable for Mr M. In order to put things 
right, she asked Oplo to refund all interest and charges for the third and fourth loan in 
addition to paying Mr M £800 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Oplo disagreed with this so the case came to me to make a decision. 
In relation to the third loan, Oplo said that Mr M advised that the four short-term loans taken 
shortly before this loan were for building costs for home improvements pending completion 
of his re-mortgage. It believes it was fair to rely on what Mr M told it and this did not give it 
cause to probe further into his finances and, based on what it saw, there was no reason for it 
to have concerns regarding his ability to sustainably afford the loan. 
Oplo said unexpected costs due to the property being listed resulted in the increase in Mr 
Ms external debt and adverse data on his credit file. It was apparent he was funding the 
home improvements on an ad-hoc basis rather than taking a more structured approach. It 
believes it acted responsibly by clarifying the reason behind the additional borrowing and 
does not agree more checks were required. Oplo believes it was reasonable for it to 
consider that the loan was affordable and sustainable.
In relation to the fourth loan, Oplo said that it told Mr M this was the final time it would 
consolidate his debt in this way. It said the reason for the loan was to fund the continued 
home improvements, there was no indication of financial difficulty and affordability was 
evident. It said that Mr M appeared to be guilty of funding his home improvements in the 
wrong manner and the short-term loans were not for living expenses. Oplo believes that it 
was reasonable for it to consider this loan was affordable and it does not agree that it lent 
irresponsibly.
I set out in my provisional decision dated 12 October 2022 (reproduced below) why I was 
minded to uphold Mr Ms complaint in respect of all four loans. I invited both parties to let me 
have any further comments and evidence by 9 November 2022.
Mr M confirmed that he was happy with the provisional decision. Oplo responded with further 
submissions as to why the complaint should not be upheld in respect of any of the four 
loans. It says that it is evident from Mr Ms bank statements that he was completing home 
improvements, therefore it says that it was not unreasonable to expect further borrowing  
especially as he was taking the property from a one-bed to a three-bed. It says that it has no 
reason to doubt the information provided by Mr M as all explanations were plausible and 
consistent with the property renovation work being carried out. Oplo also says that although 
it may look at this type of borrowing request differently today, this doesnt mean that it lent 
irresponsibly at the time. It has made specific submissions in respect of the four loans 
individually and I have addressed these points further below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered Oplos response to my provisional decision dated 12 October 
2022, I remain of the view that all four loans were irresponsibly lent and Ive explained my 
reasons further below in relation to each loan in turn. 
Loan 1
In my provisional decision I set out the following in respect of loan 1:
This loan was taken out on 31 March 2016 for £9,000 over a term of 96 months. It 
was to clear credit cards and for home improvements. The monthly repayment was 
£250.05, with the total repayable being £24,004.80. It was on a variable rate of 27% 
plus a £795 fee, meaning the APRC was 34.9%. This was the third ranking loan 
secured against his property.
The loan was settled on 22 August 2016 with a credit card.
Oplo says that the income and expenditure check it carried out demonstrates that 
this loan was affordable and says that Mr M had £145.86 disposable income a month 
after all outgoings (including cost of living, existing credit and the new loan 
repayment). Oplo also says that Mr Ms credit file indicated he was up to date with all 
active creditors, his mortgage was well-maintained, unsecured credit was well paid, a 
secured loan was well paid, there were no County Court judgments (CCJs) and all debt repayments were declared and included in the affordability assessment and 
there were no signs of financial difficulty. It said that although there were payday 
loans, there were none since 2014. Oplo says that all payments were made on time 
and in full since the start of the loan so there was no evidence of financial difficulty 
during the period of the loan.
Whilst Oplo says that this loan meant Mr M was consolidating five monthly payments 
into one, I note that Oplo did not make payment direct to the creditors, and the 
documentation shows that Mr M wanted to pay off the loan and credit cards himself 
(the credit reports for subsequent loans indicate that some of these were not in fact 
paid off). As this lending was, in part, for debt consolidation I would have expected 
Oplo to have paid the creditors itself  or, if that was not possible, made repayment a 
condition of the lending. In saying that Ive taken account of what the regulator says 
in MCOB 11.6.16 R and 11.6.17 G.
Mr M had taken out a first-charge mortgage with a building society and a second 
charge loan with a separate firm, both in August 2015. When he took this third 
charge loan out seven months later the credit report held by Oplo showed that there 
was £66,782 remaining on the mortgage and £60,733 remaining on the second 
charge loan. The property was given a value of £83,500 in the loan agreement so 
this originally gave a loan to value (LTV) of 164.4% including the new loan (and fee). 
Oplos product matrix for Mr Ms loan indicates that the maximum LTV it would 
accept would be 120%. 
However, I understand that the second charge lender had reported the total amount 
repayable over the life of the loan, rather than the current balance, to Mr Ms credit 
file. The amount borrowed was £12,000 (plus fees). I can see that Oplo has 
amended the balance of the second charge loan to £12,000 in its calculations, which 
brought the LTV down to 106.1%. 
Firstly, I dont think this accurately reflects the charges already registered over the 
property as the lower amount used for the second charge loan doesnt include any 
fees or interest  or repayments  up to that point, therefore it is not an accurate 
reflection of what was owed at the time. In my view Oplo should have used the 
balance as at the date of underwriting, not the initial amount borrowed net of fees. 
In any event, even using the lower figure of £12,000 rather than £60,733, it is clear 
that the loans secured over the property were significant and that the loan from Oplo 
would have meant that these would have outweighed the value of the property. 
Whilst this alone would not have been a bar to lending under Oplos lending criteria 
at the time, it was towards the upper limit of the LTV acceptable to Oplo. And Oplo 
was aware that there was already a relatively recent second charge against the 
property, in combination with other unsecured indebtedness  not all of which was 
being consolidated into this loan. 
I think that this should have indicated to Oplo that Mr M was already heavily indebted 
and that a further loan which meant the amount secured against his property 
exceeded its value presented a significant risk. And that Mr M was contemplating 
securing debt in excess of his propertys value potentially showed that he was 
borrowing beyond his capacity to sustain the lending. But Oplo does not seem to 
have considered these factors in its lending assessment. It noted that Mr M came 
within its maximum LTV of 120%, but it doesnt seem to have considered whether, in 
his particular circumstances, it was responsible to lend at that level. 
In my view, had it done so it ought fairly to have considered that there were grounds 
for concern  bearing in mind that this was a third charge loan taken out in quick 
succession to a second charge loan, that Mr M had significant other debts, and that 
he appeared to be borrowing to fund a renovation project that was running into difficulties (and which might therefore need further unbudgeted expenditure as well 
as affecting the value or saleability of the property over which the lending was 
secured).  
I note from Oplos affordability checklist that its lending threshold is a debt to income 
ratio (DTI) of 75% with the requirement for director approval for a DTI of above 60%. 
Oplos file indicates that the DTI for this loan is 59%. This appears to have been 
calculated using Mr Ms gross monthly income of £3,123.61 and his monthly 
outgoings of £1,105.85 expenditure plus £748.93 credit commitments. However, this 
doesnt take into account the monthly repayment for this loan of £250.05; if this is 
included then it equates to a DTI of 67.4%. 
Again, whilst this alone would not have been a bar to lending, this was near to the 
upper threshold of Oplos lending criteria in terms of DTI. So, in combination with the 
other information available to Oplo, it should have been another indicator that this 
loan may not have been affordable for Mr M or that it was not responsible to lend. 
Ive looked at the income and expenditure (I&E) check carried out by Oplo for this 
loan. This shows that Mr Ms verified net income was £2,250.67, his expenditure was 
£1,105.83, credit commitments were £748.93 and repayment for this loan was 
£250.05. This left free cash of £145.86, which represented only 6.5% of his net 
monthly income. 
However, when the repayment was increased following an interest rate stress test, 
based on what the I&E states are the verified figures, there was a deficit of £104.30. 
As this loan was taken out on 31 March 2016, it was a regulated mortgage contract, 
to which the MCOB section of the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook applies. 
MCOB 11.6.18 R (2) requires a firm to have regard to a stress test as part of the 
affordability assessment. So I cant say that this loan was affordable for Mr M based 
on these verified figures when taking into account the stress test. 
I note that there is a further I&E check in Oplos file which appears to have been for 
the purposes of a stress test. On this document, the verified figures have been 
amended on the basis that Mr M could either cancel or reduce various outgoings. 
However, theres no evidence that Mr M had agreed to reduce his outgoings in this 
way, or that it was practical for him to do so. It is my view that the stress test should 
have been based on whether any change to the loan repayments was affordable 
based on Mr Ms actual outgoings, as opposed to reducing the amount of outgoings 
on a hypothetical basis.  
I also note that on the stress test I&E the figure for Mr Ms credit commitments had 
also been decreased by removing the cost of four of the credit cards which were due 
to be consolidated. In this context, I bear in mind MCOB 11.6.16 R  which says that 
where a debt consolidation loan is being lent to a credit-impaired customer, and the 
loan would not be affordable if the debts were not to be consolidated, the firm must 
either take reasonable steps to ensure the debts are consolidated (for example, by 
paying them off itself), or assume they will not be repaid and include them in the 
affordability calculation. Ive said above that Oplo didnt repay these debts directly, or 
require Mr M to give an undertaking to do so himself as a condition of lending. So I 
dont think it was appropriate for Oplo not to include these debts in the affordability 
assessment.
It is also unclear how the verified figures on the I&E have been produced as some do 
not appear to match up with the direct debits on the bank statements Oplo has on file 
for this loan. For example, the I&E says that the verified payment for one credit card 
is £15.27 compared to £60.00 shown as the direct debit on Mr Ms bank statement, 
the I&E for another credit card says £17.67 but the bank statement shows £69.02, and for a third credit card the I&E shows £58.41 when the most recent statement 
shows £68.89. 
The bank statements also show other payments which would appear to be for credit, 
but which were not taken into account on the I&E. These include a direct debit for a 
credit card for £35 (returned unpaid), a payment to a credit card provider for £65.00 
and a payment to a high cost personal loan lender for £110, none of which appear on 
the I&E. Despite Oplo saying that there had been no payday loans since 2014, the 
bank statement and credit report on file for this loan clearly show that a payday loan 
was taken out in February 2016, the month before this loan. This is also not on the 
I&E. 
The I&E also disclosed a personal loan for £4,000 and a credit card balance of £509 
which didnt appear on the credit report, so would appear to have been new. This is 
in addition to the other payments which appear to be for credit on the bank 
statements which are not in the I&E. The bank statements also show a returned 
direct debit and (on a different account) an unpaid transaction fee. 
In light of the above, I dont think the I&E accurately reflects Mr Ms outgoings for 
credit commitments. It significantly underestimates his credit commitments as shown 
on his bank statements. But even on the outgoings which were included in the I&E, 
the loan appears to be unaffordable when stress tested as set out above.
Im therefore satisfied, on the evidence before me, that Oplo didnt take full account 
of Mr Ms existing credit commitments. As a result, it significantly underestimated his 
committed expenditure. It also underestimated his other expenditure when applying 
the stress test. And I think this is sufficient to show that the loan was unaffordable for 
him.
Oplo has said that there were no signs of financial difficulty but, having looked at Mr 
Ms credit report which Oplo had at the time, I disagree. Mr Ms credit score was 530 
and Oplos lending threshold appears to have been a minimum score of 500 for Mr 
Ms loan. Again, this alone would not be a bar to lending but, in conjunction with all of 
the other factors outlined above, it should have led Oplo to consider whether this loan 
was sustainable for Mr M. 
Additionally, the credit report showed numerous credit cards up to or over their limit, 
a payday loan the previous month, one delinquent account in the last 12 months, 
three accounts opened in the last six months, 27 searches in the last 12 months, and 
a second charge loan with another lender taken out only seven months earlier. 
Oplo says that there was no evidence of financial difficulty as all payments were 
made on time and in full. Whilst its correct that the payments were maintained, in my 
view it is evident from the credit reports in Oplos possession that Mr M was only able 
to do this by taking out further loans and credit elsewhere. 
Ive set out that Oplo lent on a secured basis at over 100% loan to value, with a third 
charge loan taken out just a few months after a second charge loan. Its assessment 
of affordability was inaccurate because it didnt take into account all the credit 
commitments shown on the bank statements which were in its possession. Even on 
the expenditure it did take into account, the lending failed the stress test. And his 
credit history showed a pattern of increasing debt. 
In all the circumstances, it is my view that the information available to Oplo should 
clearly have indicated that the loan was not affordable or sustainable for Mr M and in 
all the circumstances I think it lent irresponsibly.
As an aside, it is also noted that the loan agreement shows that the maximum early 
repayment charge (ERC) payable by Mr M for this loan would be £457.98. However, 
the statement for the loan account shows that Mr M paid an ERC of £1,097.05 when this loan was redeemed. As I have found that this loan was mis-sold in its entirety it is 
not necessary for me to address this issue separately as this will already be 
accounted for in the redress ordered.
In response to my provisional decision, Oplo has made a number of further submissions in 
relation to loan 1 which I will address here.
Firstly, Oplo has pointed out that this loan was settled with a debit card rather than a credit 
card when Mr M had re-mortgaged. Whilst I accept this correction, it has no bearing on the 
outcome of my provisional decision.
Oplo refers to the fact that MCOB 11.6.16 R sets out that the requirement to take reasonable 
steps to ensure the debts are repaid does not apply if it has assumed they will not be repaid 
and included them as expenditure in the affordability assessment. It states that its I&E 
assessment made allowance for the continued payment of Mr Ms existing credit 
commitments so direct consolidation was not required. 
As set out in the provisional decision, I have taken account of MCOB 11.6.16 R and am 
aware that the existing credit commitments were included on the original I&E and therefore 
have made no observations about this in terms of the affordability, in the way that I have with 
loan 4. However, they were not included for the purposes of the stress test I&E as set out in 
my provisional decision  as they ought to have been, since the purpose of the stress test is 
to ascertain whether the loan would still be affordable were interest rates to rise. Clearly the 
same information regarding income and expenditure should be used for both assessments.  
In relation to the LTV figure, Oplo says that using the original amount borrowed for the 
second charge loan was fairer and more accurate than using the total amount payable over 
the full term. 
As set out in my provisional decision, (and whilst I accept that the total amount repayable 
over the full term was also not accurate), the figure of £12,000 was not an accurate reflection 
of what was owed at the time loan 1 was taken out as it did not include any fees or interest. 
So Oplo should have used the figure of the loan balance as at the date of underwriting. 
Oplo says that the LTV met its lending criteria and it does not agree that it failed to consider 
Mr Ms indebtedness, including a relatively recent second charge loan and the fact that the 
secured lending against the property exceeded its value, and whether Mr M was borrowing 
beyond his capacity to sustain the lending. In relation to whether it was responsible to lend at 
this level, it says Mr M signed its Consolidation Information & Risk Warning form to 
acknowledge the benefits and risks and chose to proceed with the loan. 
In relation to this, I note that the form doesnt specify the LTV and in any event the fact that 
Mr M has signed a form about the benefits and risks of consolidating debts doesnt absolve 
Oplo of the requirement for it to lend responsibly. 
Oplo has explained that its DTI figure was calculated using Mr Ms credit commitment 
including mortgage and Oplo repayment of £1,322 against his net monthly income of £2,250, 
which equated to 59%. 
It appears from this that only Mr Ms loans, credit cards and mortgage were taken into 
account against his net salary and none of his other monthly outgoings (including utility bills, 
council tax, insurance and food) in order for Oplo to arrive at its figure for DTI. Whilst I cant 
comment on how Oplo decides to calculate figures for its internal processes and thresholds, 
I still note that 59% is at the upper threshold of Oplos own lending criteria. Moreover, I have 
included in my provisional decision the figures including all of Mr Ms monthly expenditure 
which indicate that  if all of Mr Ms outgoings and credit commitments contained in the I&E 
are considered  he would be left with £145.86 a month which was only 6.5% of his net 
monthly income.In relation to its stress test, Oplo says that this is performed as if the mortgage rates were to 
increase by 3%. It says MCOB has a minimum requirement of 1% and that basic and 
essential household expenditure should be considered in the affordability assessment. Oplo 
says that for the purposes of the stress test, it is reasonable to consider that lottery (£16), 
Sky TV (£50) and mobile (£80) are a discretionary spend that could be cancelled or reduced 
significantly in the event of rates rising. However, rates decreased so it is unfair to say the 
loan would have been deemed unaffordable. 
As set out in my provisional decision, there is no evidence on Oplos file that Mr M had 
agreed to reduce his outgoings or that it was practical for him to do so  for example, if he 
was tied into a contract to pay a certain amount a month for the Sky TV and mobile phone. 
So I maintain that the stress test should have been based on Mr Ms actual outgoings as 
opposed to hypothetical reduced outgoings  unless there was evidence to support this 
reduction. Given that Mr M was continuing to increase his indebtedness rather than reducing 
any other outgoings I dont consider that there was any evidence to support this. 
In addition, for the stress test Oplo has removed the figures for four of the credit 
commitments which were due to be consolidated despite the fact that it has not consolidated 
these directly. Whilst Oplo has made further submissions about the fact that it included the 
existing credit commitments so direct consolidation was not required, it has not commented 
any further about the fact that these credit commitments were removed from the stress test 
I&E despite not being directly consolidated. I remain of the view that it was inappropriate for 
Oplo not to include these debts in the stress test affordability assessment. In my view, its 
appropriate to include all income and expenditure in a stress test affordability assessment, 
as the purpose of such an assessment is to decide whether the loan would be affordable 
were rates to rise to the stressed level.
Oplo says that it is unable to explain the unidentified payments for credit (direct debit for 
credit card of £35, credit card payment of £65 and high-cost loan payment of £110) which 
are not included on the I&E due to the passage of time but presumes this was an oversight. 
It has been unable to reconcile these against the credit file but accepts that if they were 
included in the I&E calculation, it reduces the free disposable income. However, it says that 
this is offset by the fact that Mr M repaid an unsecured loan (for £135 a month) at the time 
he took out loan 1 (which is apparent from the credit file for loan 2) which means that there is 
still a positive figure overall. 
The affordability test should have been carried out accurately at the time of the application 
for loan 1. Whilst Oplo says that the unsecured loan for £135 a month was repaid after loan 
1 was taken out (and therefore the credit commitments missing from the I&E are offset), the 
documentation from loan 2 also shows that Mr M had taken out a new unsecured loan for 
almost double the amount with a monthly repayment of £320 along with another mortgage 
with the monthly payment being £150 higher than the mortgage at the time of loan 1. So in 
my view it is entirely inappropriate to suggest that failure to consider credit commitments 
which should have been considered at the time is mitigated by something which happened 
after the decision to lend was made. As Oplo has noted in its further submissions, under 
MCOB 11.16.6 R it did not have to take reasonable steps to ensure the loan it refers to was 
repaid because it had included this in the I&E. Therefore, if it wasnt taking steps to ensure 
the unsecured loan was repaid, both the loan and all other credit commitments should have 
been included at the time the I&E was completed.
In relation to the discrepancies in the verified figures for the credit card payments and the 
bank statements, Oplo says that it used 3% of the credit card balance for the purposes of its 
I&E affordability calculation. It says that Mr M was paying more than 3% of his outstanding 
balance as evidenced on his bank statements. 
I can see that Oplo has used 3% of the figures under current balance for each of the three 
credit cards on the credit file. However, for one of the cards these figures were two months 
out of date having been provided in January 2016 and on the two others the figures were a month out of date having been provided in February 2016. One of the credit cards on the 
I&E did not appear on the credit file at all so it is unclear how the figure of £15.27 was 
arrived at, particularly given that Oplo had a bank statement showing a direct debit payment 
of £60 for this card. 
Although Oplo asserts that Mr M was paying off more than 3% of the outstanding balance, I 
dont think there is sufficient evidence to be able to say this is based on the bank statements 
alone. It seems just as likely that the reported figures were out of date in terms of the 
outstanding balance and there is nothing to suggest that Oplo asked about the discrepancies 
between the figures on the bank statements and what it entered as the verified payment on 
the I&E. I also note that using 3% for the assessment assumes that Mr M will reduce his 
monthly payments on the credit cards to the minimum payment in each case. Its well known 
than paying only the minimum makes credit card borrowing much more expensive in the 
long term. In my view its not fair and reasonable to lend where the only basis on which the 
loan can be shown to be affordable is by reducing the repayment of other debts to the 
minimum possible level  prolonging the duration of those debts and making them much 
more expensive in terms of overall interest charged  especially where that does not reflect 
what Mr M was actually paying. 
Having considered Oplos response to the provisional decision, none of the further 
submissions change my view in relation to the overall picture of loan 1 taking all of the 
factors into account. I remain of the view that it didnt take full account of Mr Ms credit 
commitments and underestimated his expenditure, both in the initial I&E and in the stress 
test. And I think the loan was unaffordable for him. For the reasons set out in my provisional 
decision, I am satisfied that the information available to Oplo should have indicated that the 
loan was not affordable or sustainable for Mr M and I think it lent irresponsibly in the 
circumstances.
Oplo has accepted that the ERC charged to Mr M was incorrect and has offered to refund 
any resulting overpayment along with interest. Given that I remain of the view that this loan 
was mis-sold in its entirety, it will be unnecessary for Oplo to make a separate payment in 
relation to the ERC as it will already be accounted for in the redress.
Loan 2
In my provisional decision I set out the following in respect of loan 2:
This loan was taken out on 22 December 2016, a few months after Mr M repaid loan 
1, for £15,000 over a term of 120 months. It was to clear credit cards and a loan. The 
monthly repayment was £386.48, with the total repayable being £46,337.60. It was 
on a variable rate of 27% plus a £995 fee, meaning the APRC was 33.48%. The loan 
was settled on 16 October 2017 having been paid off with loan 3.
Oplo says that the income and expenditure check it carried out demonstrates that 
this loan was affordable and says that Mr M had £122.01 disposable income a month 
after all outgoings (including cost of living, existing credit and the new loan 
repayment). Oplo also says that Mr Ms credit file indicated he was up to date with all 
active creditors, his credit agreements were well-maintained, all debt repayments 
were declared and included in the affordability assessment, there were no negative 
markers or CCJs and no signs of financial difficulty. 
It asked about a default from a phone company but says that the account showed as 
settled and Mr M advised that the default should have been removed as it was an 
error. It says that the monthly payments on five credit cards and a loan were 
consolidated which saved Mr M £107.64 a month. Oplo says that all payments were 
made on time and in full since the start of the loan so there was no evidence of 
financial difficulty during the period of the loan. Again, Oplos product matrix for Mr Ms loan indicates that the maximum LTV it would 
accept would be 120% and also that £15,000 was the maximum amount Mr M could 
borrow with this LTV. 
At the time of this loan, the property was given a value of £122,000 in the loan 
agreement, which gave an LTV of 108.4% including the new loan (and fee). Whilst I 
accept that Mr M had converted the property from one to three bedrooms since the 
last loan, this was an apparent increase in value of 46% over the period of nine 
months during 2016 and its not clear if Oplo gave any consideration to whether this 
was realistic. 
In any event, even using the £122,000 valuation figure it is clear that the charges 
over the property were significant and that the loan from Oplo would have meant that 
these would again have resulted in a loan to value of over 100%. Whilst this alone 
would not have been a bar to lending, it was towards the upper limit of the LTV 
acceptable to Oplo. 
And I think the fact that there was also already a second charge against the property, 
in combination with the other information available to Oplo, should have indicated 
that Mr M was already heavily indebted and that a further loan  particularly another 
loan secured against his property exceeding its value  may have been 
unsustainable for him. 
As was the case for the first loan, Oplos lending threshold is a debt to income ratio 
(DTI) of 75% with the requirement for director approval for a DTI of above 60%. 
Oplos file indicates that the DTI for this loan is again 59%. It is not clear how this has 
been calculated as Mr Ms gross monthly income was £3,329.68 and his monthly 
outgoings were £2,266.48 (£1,344.06 expenditure plus £535.94 credit commitments 
plus £386.48 for this loan), which equates to 68.1% DTI. 
Again, whilst this alone would not have been a bar to lending, this was near to the 
upper threshold of Oplos lending criteria in terms of DTI. So, in combination with the 
other information available to Oplo, it should have been another indicator that this 
loan was not affordable for Mr M. 
Ive looked at the I&E check carried out by Oplo for this loan. This shows that Mr Ms 
verified net income was £2,388.49, his expenditure was £1,344.06, credit 
commitments were £535.94 and repayment for this loan was £386.48. This left free 
cash of £122.01, which represented only 5.1% of his net monthly income. 
However, the stress test based on what the I&E states are the verified figures meant 
there was a deficit of £13.32. So I cant say that this loan was affordable for Mr M 
based on these verified figures when taking into account the stress test Oplo was 
required to apply.
Oplo has provided a copy of its loan summary and under the section titled Reasons 
for completing the loan it states Affordability looks OK, stress test done for if MTG 
rates were to rise. Loan payments should be comfortably affordable for term of the 
loan. 
Im not persuaded by this assessment. Again, there is a further I&E check in Oplos 
file which appears to have been for the purposes of a stress test. On this document, 
the verified figure for Mr Ms phone bill was amended on the basis that Mr M said that 
he had to make extra payments due to overspending whilst away. 
It is not clear whether Oplo sought any information to verify what Mr Ms standard 
phone bill was. As set out above, it is my view that the stress test should be based on 
whether any change to the loan repayments was affordable based on Mr Ms actual 
outgoings, as opposed to reducing the amount of outgoings on a hypothetical basis. In any event, the fact that Mr M overspending on a phone bill for one month would 
make the difference between the loan passing the stress test or not is, in my view, an 
indication that his free cash was insufficient to sustain the loan repayments and that 
affordability of the loan could have been an issue. 
It is also unclear how the verified figures on the I&E have been produced as some do 
not appear to match up with the payments on the bank statements Oplo has on file 
for this loan. For example, the I&E says that the verified payment for one credit card 
is £26.58 compared to £35.00 shown as the direct debit on Mr Ms bank statement, 
the I&E for another credit card says £30.00 but the bank statement shows £60.01, 
the I&E for a third credit card says £4.83 but the bank statement shows £10.00, and 
for another credit card the I&E shows £20.91 when the most recent statement shows 
£31.66. 
Ive not seen any evidence that would show the figures on the bank statement were 
incorrect or from where Oplo obtained the figures used in the I&E. If they were 
figures it was given by Mr M, in my view it should have questioned those figures 
having seen the bank statement.
Oplo has said that there were no signs of financial difficulty but, having looked at Mr 
Ms credit report which Oplo had at the time, I disagree. Mr Ms credit score had 
decreased to 502 since the last loan was taken out and repaid, and Oplos lending 
threshold appears to have been a minimum score of 450 for Mr Ms loan. Again, this 
alone would not be a bar to lending but, in conjunction with all of the other factors 
outlined above, it should have led Oplo to consider whether this loan was sustainable 
for Mr M. 
Additionally, the credit report showed numerous credit cards up to or over their limit 
(some of which were new and some of which hadnt been repaid as they were 
supposed to be with the last consolidation loan), one delinquent account in the last 
12 months, three accounts opened in the last six months, 23 searches in the last 12 
months, and a second charge loan with another lender taken out 16 months earlier. 
Whilst Oplo says that Mr M advised that the default with the phone company was an 
error, it is unclear whether Oplo sought any further information to verify this. Nor did it 
question why Mr M had not paid off the debts that he was supposed to have cleared 
with the previous loan.
On the I&E statements the amount of credit cards held by Mr M had increased to six 
as opposed to four and the overall total owed to creditors had increased by around 
£4,000 in the last nine months despite the fact that Mr M had taken out a loan to 
consolidate debts at that point. 
The I&E also disclosed a loan for £7,181 and a credit card balance of £1,000 which 
didnt appear on the credit report (so would appear to have been new), along with a 
loan of £5,492 (balance increased from £4,000 on the last loan I&E) which was also 
not on the credit report. There was also a new mortgage from August 2016 in two 
parts with a total balance of £98,590 (an increase of almost £32,000 on the first 
charge mortgage since the last loan) in addition to the second charge loan with 
another lender.
Oplo says that there was no evidence of financial difficulty as all payments were 
made on time and in full. Whilst its correct that the payments were maintained, in my 
view it is evident from the credit reports in Oplos possession that Mr M was only able 
to do this by taking out further loans and credit elsewhere. 
He had taken out a previous loan with Oplo to consolidate debt, and not only had he 
not used those funds to pay off the debts he said he would, he had significantly 
increased his other indebtedness in the meantime. In my view, this ought to have led 
Oplo to question whether Mr M really was sustainably managing his debts. In light of all of the information above, it is my view that the information available to 
Oplo indicated that the loan was not affordable or sustainable for Mr M and I think it 
lent irresponsibly. Oplo has pointed out that Mr M did not in fact miss any payments. 
But given his pattern of using debt to re-finance debt, and that this loan itself was 
replaced with another within nine months, I dont think that affects my conclusion.
As an aside, it is also noted that the loan agreement shows that the maximum early 
repayment charge (ERC) payable by Mr M for this loan would be £714.17. However, 
the statement for the loan account shows that Mr M paid an ERC of £793.58 when 
this loan was redeemed by the third loan. As I have found that this loan was mis-sold 
in its entirety it is not necessary for me to address this issue separately as this will 
already be accounted for in the redress ordered.
In response to my provisional decision, Oplo has made a number of further submissions in 
relation to loan 2 which I will address here.
Oplo refers to its submissions for loan 1 in respect of the discrepancy between the bank 
statements and the amounts on the I&E being 3% of the credit card balance. 
In relation to the valuation figure of £122,000, Oplo says that this was accurate and reflected 
the work that Mr M had carried out on the property in changing it from a one-bedroom to 
three-bedroom property. It says that the increased borrowing from the first charge lender 
was provided against the last known valuation of £125,000 with the additional borrowing 
used to fund or repay earlier sources of funding for the work undertaken. 
As set out in my provisional decision, even using the £122,000 valuation figure the charges 
over the property exceeded its value.
Oplo refers to its submissions for loan 1 in respect of the minimum requirements under 
MCOB for the stress test. It says that that Mr Ms bank statements showed that he was on 
holiday in the USA which is why his mobile phone bill was higher than normal at £193.95 
and that it nevertheless used this one-off higher payment as if it were the normal monthly 
payment in the I&E. Oplo says that the figure of £60 was entered into the amended I&E and 
it does not think this is unreasonable or that it reduced the amount of outgoings on a 
hypothetical basis. It also says that included £92.01 discretionary spend under the heading 
of other expenditure in the I&E, so if this was discounted, the stress test free cash would 
increase to £212.64. 
As set out in my provisional decision, it is my view that the stress test should be based on 
whether a change to the loan repayments would be affordable based on Mr Ms actual 
outgoings as opposed to reducing them on a hypothetical basis. Looking at the bank 
statements, they show a direct debit of £193.95 with an extra payment of £50 on 31 October 
2016 for Mr Ms mobile phone with a handwritten note saying manual payment  paid extra 
as overused mobile  so the payment for that period was actually £243.95. On the bank 
statement for Mr Ms other account in the following month it shows a manual payment of 
£309.04 on 28 November 2016 for Mr Ms mobile phone with the handwritten note manual 
payment went to USA and overspent on the mobile. It seems likely that this would have been 
in addition to the direct debit on the other bank account for Mr Ms phone bill. So it appears 
that Oplo had evidence that Mr Ms phone bills were £243.95 one month and at least 
£309.04 the next (therefore this was not a one-off) but entered £193.95 as the verified figure 
and a figure of £60 for the stress-test. So, whilst Oplo says the figures were not hypothetical, 
there is no evidence that it sought information to verify Mr Ms usual phone bill and the 
information it did have showed the phone bills to be higher than it entered in its I&E 
calculations. So I remain of the view that the stress test should have been, but was not, 
based on Mr Ms actual outgoings.
In relation to the credit report, Oplo says that the default was settled so it had no reason to 
doubt the explanation given. It says that although it may not have questioned Mr M as to why 
he didnt repay the debts as intended from the previous loan, it directly consolidated these in loan 2 in accordance with the MCOB rules. Oplo says that although the credit report says 
three accounts opened in the last six months, there are in fact just two: one being the 
additional mortgage borrowing of £160 per month and the other a small credit card facility of 
£200. It also says that the number of searches was reflective of Mr M using multiple sources 
of funding to make renovations to the property then, once the increased valuation permitted, 
raising additional funds through secured borrowing to repay these debts. Oplo says that it is 
not necessarily the case that credit not appearing on the credit file must be new borrowing 
as not all lenders report to the same credit reference agencies but that this additional 
borrowing was included in its I&E affordability assessment. 
As set out in my provisional decision, it was evident from the credit reports that Mr M was 
only able to maintain payments by taking out further loans and credit elsewhere. Whether 
there were two or three accounts opened in the previous six months doesnt change this and 
 as accepted by Oplo  other accounts may well not have appeared on the credit file it saw 
depending on which credit reference agencies were used by lenders. In any event, it 
remains my view that what Oplo was able to see should have led it to question whether Mr M 
was sustainably managing his debts. 
Overall, Oplo says that it believes its checks were thorough and satisfactorily suggested that 
Mr M would have likely been able to sustainably afford the loan. Having considered Oplos 
response to the provisional decision, none of the further submissions change my view in 
relation to the overall picture of loan 2 taking all of the factors into account. I remain of the 
view that the information available to Oplo should have indicated that the loan was not 
affordable or sustainable for Mr M and I think it lent irresponsibly in the circumstances.
In relation to the ERC for loan 2, Oplo says that this was correct as its system applied the 
ERC and accrued monthly debit interest as one amount upon settlement  although it 
appreciates how the narrative Early Repayment Charge for both led to the conclusion that 
the ERC was incorrect. I have not seen any breakdown of the ERC and interest and I would 
note that it is confusing if items which are not the ERC are included on the statements as an 
ERC. However, given that I remain of the view that this loan was mis-sold in its entirety, it 
will be unnecessary for me to carry out any further investigation in relation to this aspect.
Loan 3
In my provisional decision I set out the following in respect of loan 3:
This loan was taken out on 16 October 2017 for £21,000 over a term of 108 months. 
It was for a new boiler and to clear the previous loan (loan 2 above). The monthly 
repayment was £363.84, with the total repayable being £39,294.72. It was on a 
variable rate of 15% plus a £495 fee, meaning the APRC was 16.9%. The loan was 
settled on 28 September 2018 having been paid off with loan 4.
Oplo says that the income and expenditure check it carried out demonstrates that 
this loan was affordable and says that Mr M had £478.05 disposable income a month 
after all outgoings (including cost of living, existing credit and the new loan 
repayment). Oplo also says that Mr Ms credit file indicated he was up to date with all 
active creditors, all debt repayments were declared and included in the affordability 
assessment, there were no negative markers and no signs of financial difficulty. It 
says it took into account missed credit card payments and that Mr M had taken out 
payday loans and this was because a re-mortgage was taking time to complete. Oplo 
says that all payments were made on time and in full since the start of the loan. 
Since the last loan, Mr M had re-mortgaged his property in September 2017 to the 
value of £131,965 to consolidate both the first and second charge mortgages (with 
around an additional £11,500 on top of this to be paid to Mr M). So he had increased his secured borrowing one month before applying for this loan  which increased his 
secured borrowing further.
Due to the increased amount borrowed, Oplos product matrix indicates that the 
maximum LTV it would accept for Mr Ms loan at this stage would be 90%. On the 
loan illustration the property was given a value of £122,000. However, this was 
amended in the loan agreement to be £170,000, which had the effect of giving an 
LTV of 90.3% including the new loan (and fee). 
I note that this was an apparent increase in the value of the property of 36% over the 
period of ten months during 2017 (and the property had more than doubled in value 
in the year and seven months since the first loan was taken) and its not clear if Oplo 
gave any consideration to whether this was realistic. It is also noted that an actual 
valuation of the property had provided a value of £165,000 three months earlier. But I 
also note that the property was valued at £125,000 a year later  see loan 4 below  
which casts further doubt on the validity of a valuation of £170,000
It is clear that the charges over the property were still significant and that Mr Ms debt 
secured against the property had already increased less than a month before he 
applied to increase it even further with this application to Oplo. The LTV was also 
slightly higher than the maximum threshold which should have applied to this loan. 
Whilst this alone would not have been a bar to lending, the fact that this loan was 
above the upper limit of the LTV acceptable to Oplo in combination with the other 
information available to Oplo, should have indicated that Mr M was already heavily 
indebted and that a further loan  particularly another loan secured against his 
property  may have been unsustainable for him. 
Again, there are some concerns about how the verified figures on the I&E have been 
produced as some do not appear to match up with the payments on the bank 
statements Oplo has on file for this loan. For example, the I&E says that the verified 
payment for one credit card is £79.68 compared to £156.90 shown as the direct debit 
on Mr Ms bank statement, the I&E for another credit card says £26.91 but the bank 
statement shows £59.92, the I&E for a third credit card says £30.54 but the bank 
statement shows £93.13, and for a fourth credit card the I&E shows £58.02 when the 
most recent statement shows £220.90. 
Oplo has said that there were no signs of financial difficulty but, having looked at Mr 
Ms credit report which Oplo had at the time, I disagree. There were numerous 
payday loans taken out by Mr M between June and September 2017, which were 
acknowledged by Oplo. 
Oplo has also noted that the credit file discloses missed credit card payments. In 
relation to these, Oplo says that the reason for this was that Mr Ms re-mortgage was 
taking some time to go through and that there were unexpected costs due to the 
property being listed. 
Oplo believes it acted responsibly by clarifying the reason behind the additional 
borrowing and does not agree more checks were required. The fact that the reason 
was clarified does not mean the borrowing was sustainable for Mr M. When the re-
mortgage went through it was due to provide Mr M with an excess of just over 
£11,500 to be paid to him once the first and second charge mortgages had been paid 
off. 
It is not clear why he would need to take out numerous payday loans whilst awaiting 
this payment which would put him in further debt. And it seems to me that the fact he 
needed to borrow an extra £6,000 from Oplo less than a month later demonstrates 
that Mr M was getting increasingly further into debt and that the payments were not 
sustainable for him.In addition to the numerous payday loans within the preceding four months, Mr M 
had only just (within the last month) taken out another first charge mortgage which, 
although it paid off the second charge mortgage with another lender, increased his 
overall debt against the property by over £12,000 (including the fees). 
His credit file shows numerous credit cards close to or over their limit and missed 
payments in the preceding months and ten accounts opened in the last six months. 
His bank statement for the previous month shows that he was overdrawn and had 
incurred unarranged overdraft fees in addition to a returned standing order and 
returned direct debit. On the I&E statement the amount of credit cards had increased 
to seven from six.
Oplo says that there was no evidence of financial difficulty as all payments were 
made on time and in full. Whilst its correct that the payments were maintained, in my 
view it is evident from the credit reports in Oplos possession that Mr M was only able 
to do this by taking out further loans and credit elsewhere  including not repaying 
debt that was supposed to be consolidated. 
In all the circumstances, it is my view that the information available to Oplo indicated 
that the loan was not affordable or sustainable for Mr M and I think it lent 
irresponsibly.
Whilst I note Mr M was still required to pay an ERC on his old loan and a product fee 
on this loan in order to consolidate the old loan, I accept that this loan would have put 
Mr M in a better position than loan 2 due to the lower interest rate applied. This 
meant that, despite the fact that Mr M was borrowing more money, his monthly 
repayment, the term of the loan and the total amount repayable all decreased. 
Although on the face of it I dont think Oplo has shown that this loan was affordable 
or sustainable for Mr M, I think it did assist Mr M in the financial situation he was in at 
the time, by replacing loan 2 with a loan at a substantially lower interest rate (though 
it also increased his overall indebtedness because the balance was higher). And so if 
I was considering this loan in isolation I might find that it did not (the further borrowing 
apart) result in any detriment to Mr M notwithstanding those failings. 
However, I am not considering this loan in isolation. It is part of a pattern of spiralling 
debt and  while it might have mitigated the impact of the failures I have identified in 
loan 2  I still need to take it into account as part of the overall context. And in any 
case, it was soon consolidated into loan 4.
Oplo has also pointed out that Mr M did not in fact miss any payments. But, given his 
pattern of using debt to re-finance debt, and that this loan itself was replaced with 
another within a year, I dont think that affects my conclusion. For the reasons set out 
above, I think Oplo lent the second loan irresponsibly so the fact it has subsequently 
mitigated this to some extent by lending loan 3 does not affect my outcome.   
In response to my provisional decision, Oplo has made a number of further submissions in 
relation to loan 3 which I will address here.
Oplo has reiterated the comments it made in response to the investigators view in relation to 
loan 3. I have referred to these at the bottom of the What happened section of this decision 
(and the provisional decision) and have already taken these into account when coming to my 
provisional decision so I will not address these aspects any further. 
Oplo refers to its submissions for loan 1 in respect of the discrepancy between the bank 
statements and the amounts on the I&E being 3% of the credit card balance. 
In relation to the valuation figure of £170,000, Oplo says that this was accurate and reflected 
the work that Mr M had carried out on the property. It says that the last known valuation of 
£165,000 was carried out in July 2017. I note that the last valuation figure of £165,000 would have given a LTV of 92.7% - above 
Oplos maximum LTV of 90% for this loan. As it was, the figure of £170,000 (taken from an 
estimated realtime valuation) gave a LTV of 90.3%, still marginally above Oplos lending 
threshold. Whilst I accept that Mr M had been carrying out work on the property which would 
increase its value, this doesnt account for the fact that a later valuation was £125,000. And, 
as set out in my provisional decision, even using the £170,000 valuation figure the charges 
over the property were still significant and continuing to increase. 
I also note that for loan 4  where the realtime valuation was significantly lower than the last 
actual valuation at £125,000  Oplo based its lending on the last actual valuation of 
£165,000 in July 2017 so it is unclear why it didnt use this figure for loan 3 which was taken 
four months later but was content to use it for loan 4 which was taken 14 months later. It is 
not clear why there appears to be a lack of consistency in the approach taken. 
Oplo disagrees that the loan was not affordable or sustainable as its I&E affordability 
assessment showed good free disposable income of £478.05. This was already considered 
as part of the provisional decision alongside all of the other factors.
Oplo says that the provisional decision acknowledges the considerable unexpected costs 
incurred on this listed property. It says that the loan was to repay loan 2 and fund a new 
boiler which is not an unreasonable requirement given the substantial property work 
undertaken. 
It is accepted that Mr M applied for further borrowing on the basis of unforeseen costs of 
renovating a property. However, the fact that Mr M needed more money to fund this due to 
costs spiralling out of control doesnt alone have any bearing on whether the lending was 
affordable or sustainable for him. Mr M had already increased his first charge loan over the 
property by £11,500 only a month before taking this loan. 
In relation to the credit report, Oplo says that although the credit report indicates ten 
accounts opened in the last six months, there are in fact just six: one being the re-mortgage 
borrowing of £516 per month and the others low value short term loans. It makes the same 
observation as for loan 2 in terms of Mr M using multiple sources of funding to make 
renovations to the property then, once the increased valuation permitted, raising additional 
funds through secured borrowing to repay these debts. 
As set out in my provisional decision, it was evident from the credit reports that Mr M was 
only able to maintain payments by taking out further loans and credit elsewhere. Whether 
there were ten or six accounts opened in the previous six months doesnt change this and 
the overall picture was that Mr M was not sustainably managing his debts. 
Oplo says that it has explained that the reason why Mr M needed to take out numerous 
payday loans whilst awaiting his re-mortgage funds was because he was funding the 
renovations through numerous channels pending completion of the re-mortgage, which then 
enabled him to clear that source of borrowing. It says that the payday loans were not taken 
for the purpose of funding living expenses pending receipt of his next salary. Oplo says that 
it is clear that the property renovation costs spiralled which resulted in Mr M returning to it for 
more secured borrowing. 
As set out in my provisional decision, the fact that Oplo was aware of the reason for the 
continuous extra borrowing  both through itself and other channels  does not mean it was 
sustainable for Mr M.
Overall, Oplo says that it believes its checks were thorough and satisfactorily suggested that 
Mr M would have likely been able to sustainably afford the loan. Having considered Oplos 
response to the provisional decision, none of the further submissions change my view in 
relation to the overall picture of loan 3 taking all of the factors into account. I remain of the 
view that the information available to Oplo should have indicated that the loan was not 
affordable or sustainable for Mr M and I think it lent irresponsibly in the circumstances.Oplo refers to the finding in the provisional decision that loan 3 had put Mr M in a better 
position than loan 2 due to the lower interest rate applied and the conclusion that  if 
considering the loan in isolation  I might find that it didnt result in any detriment to Mr M. It 
argues that each loan does need to be considered in isolation based on the information 
available to it at the time of each application. 
This loan has been considered in isolation in terms of whether it was affordable and 
sustainable as previously set out. In isolation it did assist Mr Ms financial position as the 
interest rate was lower but it increased his overall indebtedness as he was borrowing more 
money. Hence my provisional decision found that  in isolation and without the further 
borrowing  the lending would not have resulted in any detriment notwithstanding the failure 
to ensure it was affordable and sustainable. However, there was further borrowing and this 
loan was one in a chain of spiralling debt. The loan it consolidated (loan 2) as well as the 
loan it was consolidated into (loan 4) were both unaffordable and unsustainable so the fact 
loan 3 mitigated loan 2 to some extent does not affect the fact it was unaffordable and 
unsustainable. 
In relation to the ERC for loan 3, Oplo says that this was correct. There is no reference to the 
ERC charged on loan 3 in my provisional decision as this was not above the maximum 
amount specified in the loan agreement for this loan so I will not address this point any 
further. 
Loan 4
In my provisional decision I set out the following in respect of loan 4:
This loan was taken out on 26 September 2018 for £35,000 over a term of 240 
months. It was to consolidate loan 3 and credit cards to reduce monthly outgoings 
and for home improvements. The monthly repayment was £580.68, with the total 
repayable being £139,363.20. It was on a variable rate of 18.9% plus a £995 fee, 
meaning the APRC was 21.3%. The loan was settled on 17 August 2020 having 
been paid off with the proceeds of the sale of the property.
Oplo says that it assessed the affordability and completed an income and 
expenditure check which showed that Mr M had £243.43 disposable income a month 
after the new loan repayment. It says that taking this loan saved him around £427.16 
a month. Oplo also says that Mr Ms credit file showed no adverse markers or CCJs, 
all debt repayments were declared and included in the affordability assessment and 
any payday or short-term loans were seen to be settled. It says that all payments 
were made on time and in full since the start of the loan so there was no evidence of 
financial difficulty during this period.
Whilst Oplo says that this loan meant Mr M was consolidating debts and getting the 
majority of his credit into one payment, this loan more than doubled the term of the 
loan and more than trebled the total amount he would have to repay. Mr M also had 
to pay an ERC on his old loan and a product fee on this loan in order to consolidate 
the old loan. 
In addition to paying off the debts, a further amount of more than £4,600 was going to 
Mr M once the other debts were paid. I note that again one of the loans was not 
being consolidated directly. Despite the fact that Mr M signed a declaration to say he 
would pay it off upon receipt of funds, previous consolidation loans had not been 
used to pay off the creditors they were intended for. 
MCOB 11.6.16 R says that where a debt consolidation loan is being lent to a credit-
impaired customer, and the loan would not be affordable if the debts were not to be 
consolidated, the firm must either take reasonable steps to ensure the debts are consolidated (for example, by paying them off itself), or assume they will not be 
repaid and include them in the affordability calculation. 
I think  in view of the fact that Mr M had not repaid the debts that other loans were 
supposed to consolidate  Oplo ought to have taken steps to ensure that all the 
debts would be consolidated this time. But it did not do so. And I can also see that 
the loan which wasnt being paid off directly by Oplo was not included in the 
affordability calculation as one of Mr Ms credit commitments.
For reasons Ill explain, Im not persuaded that Oplo properly assessed Mr Ms 
affordability, and I dont think this was responsible lending.
For the amount borrowed, Oplos product matrix indicates that the maximum LTV it 
would accept for Mr Ms loan was 90%. At this stage the borrowing against the 
property including this loan was £165,048. On the loan illustration the property was 
given a value of £165,000 and on the I&E the value was £167,000. However, this 
was amended in the loan agreement to be £125,000 (as per the online valuation 
obtained), which had the effect of giving an LTV of 132% including the new loan (and 
fee). In my view, this also casts doubt on the reliability of the higher valuation used 
for loan 3 above. 
Despite this, it appears that the I&E and sign off were based on an LTV of 98.8%. It 
is not clear why, given the internal lending threshold of 90% (even though the 
maximum LTV stated in the loan agreement was 120%), Oplo agreed to lend 
significantly beyond the 90% threshold to Mr M. Whilst this alone would not have 
been a bar to lending, the fact that it was above the upper limit of the LTV acceptable 
to Oplo, in combination with the other information available to Oplo, should have 
indicated that Mr M was already heavily indebted and that a further loan  particularly 
another loan secured against his property  may have been unsustainable for him. 
I also bear in mind that Oplo had by now lent Mr M three secured loans in less than 
three years, and each time Mr M had returned to Oplo to increase his secured 
borrowing within months. I think this pattern should have given Oplo cause for 
concern, but it does not appear to have been considered. 
As was the case for the previous loans, Oplos lending threshold is a debt to income 
ratio (DTI) of 75% with the requirement for director approval for a DTI of above 60%. 
Oplos file indicates that the DTI for this loan is 66%. It is not clear how this has been 
calculated as Mr Ms gross monthly income was £3,520.29 and his monthly 
outgoings were £2,219.73 (£1,078.89 expenditure plus £580.68 credit commitments 
plus £560.16 for this loan), which appears to equate to 63% DTI. 
Again, whilst this alone would not have been a bar to lending, this was near to the 
upper threshold of Oplos lending criteria in terms of DTI. So, in combination with the 
other information available to Oplo, it should have been another indicator that this 
loan was not affordable for Mr M. 
Ive looked at the I&E check carried out by Oplo for this loan. This shows that Mr Ms 
verified net income was £2,463.16, his expenditure was £1,078.89, credit 
commitments were £560.16 and repayment for this loan was £580.68. This left free 
cash of £243.43, which represented only 9.9% of his net monthly income. However, 
the stress test based on what the I&E states are the verified figures meant there 
was a deficit of £41.96. So I cant say that this loan was affordable for Mr M based on 
these verified figures, since it failed the stress test required by the regulator. 
As set out above, I also note that the monthly repayment for the loan which was not 
being paid off directly by Oplo as part of the debt consolidation was not included in 
the figure for Mr Ms credit commitments. Had this been included  as I think it should 
have been in line with MCOB 11.6.16 R  it would have reduced Mr Ms free cash by £163 to £83.43, representing only 3.4% of his net monthly income. Consequently, 
the stress test based on the verified figures would also have been even further in 
deficit.
Again, there is a further I&E check in Oplos file which appears to have been for the 
purposes of a stress test. On this document, the verified figure for TV licence/ Sky/ 
Cable was changed on the basis that Mr M could reduce this. As set out in the 
context of the other loans, it is my view that the stress test should be based on 
whether any change to the loan repayments was affordable based on Mr Ms actual 
outgoings, as opposed to reducing the amount of outgoings on a hypothetical basis. 
It is not clear that this reduction in outgoings had been discussed with Mr M. And in 
any case Oplo should have had regard to the fact that this was the same approach 
taken as in previous stress tests but on those previous occasions Mr M had not 
reduced the amount for these bills and had instead continually borrowed more money 
from various sources. This should have led Oplo to question whether it was 
appropriate to notionally reduce Mr Ms outgoings to bring the loan within the stress 
test. 
Oplo has said that there were no signs of financial difficulty but, having looked at Mr 
Ms credit report which Oplo had at the time, I disagree. The credit report showed 
that Mr M had recently taken out a number of payday loans, in addition to a loan of 
over £36,000 nine months earlier and a loan of £3,441 the previous month. The 
report also showed that he had opened six accounts in the last six months, was over 
an overdraft limit, over or close to credit card limits and had missed payments. On 
the I&E statement the balance of loans and credit cards (not including the first charge 
mortgage or this loan) had increased by almost £55,000 (from £15,270 to £69,682) 
over the preceding 11 months. 
In its loan summary, Oplo appears to acknowledge the fact that there are missed 
credit card payments and says that Mr M cannot recall why. No further investigation 
into this seems to have taken place. In relation to the payday loans, Oplo has 
recorded that they were for emergency home repairs and one was for a new boiler. 
Again, this seems to have simply been taken on face value without considering 
whether it impacted on the sustainability of the loan, particularly given that the reason 
for taking the third loan 11 months earlier was also for a new boiler. 
Likewise, it is noted that Mr M started doing work on his property and found it was a 
listed building so the home improvements increased from £15,000 to £50,000. 
However, whilst Mr M may have given a reason for wanting the funds, this in itself did 
not mean the loan was affordable or sustainable, particularly bearing in mind the fact 
that he had already borrowed increasing amounts over the last two years and 
repeatedly used one form of credit to pay off another. 
Oplo says that there was no evidence of financial difficulty as all payments were 
made on time and in full. Whilst its correct that the payments were maintained, in my 
view it is evident from the credit reports in Oplos possession that Mr M was only able 
to do this by taking out further loans and credit elsewhere. 
In all the circumstances, it is my view that the information available to Oplo indicated 
that the loan was not affordable or sustainable for Mr M and I think it lent 
irresponsibly.
As an aside, it is also noted that the loan agreement shows that the maximum ERC 
payable by Mr M for this loan would be £1,161.36. However, the statement for the 
loan account shows that Mr M paid an ERC of £2,426.52 when this loan was 
redeemed. As I have found that this loan was mis-sold in its entirety it is not 
necessary for me to address this issue separately as this will already be accounted 
for in the redress ordered.In response to my provisional decision, Oplo has made a number of further submissions in 
relation to loan 4 which I will address here.
Oplo has reiterated the comments it made in response to the investigators view in relation to 
loan 4. I have referred to these at the bottom of the What happened section of this decision 
(and the provisional decision) and have already taken these into account when coming to my 
provisional decision so I will not address these aspects any further. 
In relation to the doubling of the term of the loan and trebling of the amount Mr M would have 
to repay, Oplo says that this was to keep the repayments as low as possible and that Mr M 
was looking to extend the term over the longest term as he was going to re-mortgage in 
2021. It said that it made him aware that this was not guaranteed and he could get stuck 
paying for the full term. 
Whilst Mr M may well have wanted to decrease the monthly repayment due to his increased 
credit commitments elsewhere, this doesnt mean that the lending was responsible in the 
circumstances  not least because doing so secured that debt over his property in an 
unsustainable way. 
Oplo says that the provisional decision infers that it did not comply with MCOB as one of the 
loans was not being consolidated directly and it disagrees with this. It says that all but one of 
the loans were consolidated directly and the lender for this loan did not accept third-party 
payments. Oplo says that it obtained Mr Ms declaration that he would repay the loan from 
the funds so says that it took reasonable steps in line with MCOB to ensure that the debts 
were repaid. Therefore it cannot see how it has not complied with MCOB. Oplo says that 
previous loans not being used to pay off creditors was only relevant for loan 1 with mitigating 
circumstances. 
I accept that the loan 1 was the only previous one from Oplo which did not consolidate Mr 
Ms creditors directly. However, in addition to this Mr M had not paid off credit cards which 
had been consolidated but had instead continued to use those cards after using the loans to 
pay the debt off. Whilst I appreciate that Oplo has no control over whether Mr M continued to 
accrue debt on these credit cards, this should have provided an overall picture that Mr M 
was not actually consolidating debt in reality, but merely acquiring more debt by using loans 
to pay off credit cards and then reusing the credit cards. I disagree that obtaining a 
declaration from Mr M was a reasonable step to ensure the debt was repaid in light of this 
history, in the particular circumstances of this case, and maintain the view taken in my 
provisional decision that if Oplo was unable to consolidate this loan directly then it should 
have been included in the affordability calculation. 
In relation to the valuation, Oplo says that it used the previous last known valuation of 
£165,000 from July 2017. It says the first charge lender had advanced £133,000 against the 
property which confirms this was reliable. 
The first charge loan had been taken out shortly after the valuation in September 2017. Loan 
4 was taken out a year later and Oplo obtained an estimated realtime valuation of 
£125,000. It does not seem to me to be appropriate for Oplo to simply disregard this on the 
basis that there was a higher valuation a year earlier which formed the basis for the lending 
from the first charge lender. As set out above, for loan 3 Oplo was prepared to lend against 
the estimated realtime valuation which was higher than the actual valuation carried out four 
months earlier. Therefore, if the estimated realtime valuation it obtained at the time of loan 
4 showed that the value of Mr Ms property had reduced, Oplo should have lent against this 
valuation or at the very least questioned why the valuation was so much lower than a year 
earlier and assessed whether it was appropriate to lend more money against this, 
particularly given the debts already secured against the property. In any event, and as set 
out in my provisional decision, the valuation and high LTV in itself may not have been a bar 
to lending but in combination with all of the other information available this should have 
indicated that the loan may have been unsustainable for Mr M.Oplo had again reiterated how its DTI was calculated. It says that its I&E affordability 
calculation showed good free disposable income of £243.43 and £9.92 after the stress-test, 
which considered basic essential and household expenditure in line with MCOB guidance. 
As set out previously for loan 1, it appears that the DTI calculation didnt take into account 
Mr Ms monthly outgoings other than his loans, credit cards and mortgages. Whilst I cant 
comment on how Oplo decides to calculate figures for its internal processes and thresholds, 
I still note that 66% is at the upper threshold of Oplos own lending criteria for this loan and 
required director approval above 60%. Moreover, I have included in my provisional decision 
the figures including all of Mr Ms monthly expenditure which indicate that  if all of Mr Ms 
outgoings and credit commitments contained in the I&E are considered  he would be left 
with £243.43 a month which was only 9.9% of his net monthly income. 
The stress test based on the verified figures left a deficit of £41.96. Had the repayment figure 
for the loan which was not being directly consolidated been included in the I&E (as I think it 
should have been under MCOB 11.6.16 R), this would have reduced Mr Ms free cash to 
£83.43 which was only 3.4% of his net monthly income and the stress-test based on actual 
figures would have been even further in deficit. It was only when the actual figures were 
hypothetically reduced that the stress test was in credit, albeit only by £9.92. For the reasons 
set out in both my provisional decision and above for the previous loans, I remain of the view 
that the stress test should have been based on Mr Ms actual outgoings.
Oplo makes the observation that the amount of home improvements needed by Mr M 
increased from around £15k to £50k which ties in with the increased loan requests seen, 
culminating with loan 4 at £35,000. 
This analysis doesnt appear to take into account that between loan 1 and loan 4 the I&E 
affordability checklists show that Mr Ms secured borrowing had increased from £137,310 to 
£165,048 and his unsecured lending in terms of loans and credit cards had increased from 
£12,372 to £69.682. This represents an increase in Mr Ms indebtedness of over £85,000 
over that period. In any event, as set out above and in my provisional decision, the fact that 
Oplo was aware of the reason for the continuous extra borrowing  both through itself and 
other channels  does not mean it was sustainable or affordable for Mr M. 
Overall, Oplo says that it believes its checks were thorough and satisfactorily suggested that 
Mr M would have likely been able to sustainably afford the loan. Having considered Oplos 
response to the provisional decision, none of the further submissions change my view in 
relation to the overall picture of loan 4 taking all of the factors into account. I remain of the 
view that the information available to Oplo should have indicated that the loan was not 
affordable or sustainable for Mr M and I think it lent irresponsibly in the circumstances.
In relation to the ERC for loan 2, Oplo says that this was correct as Mr M had had a COVID-
related payment holiday and no interest had been charged since May 2020, so deferred 
interest from May to August 2020 was payable upon settlement along with the ERC. I have 
seen no breakdown of the ERC and deferred interest and I would note that it is confusing if 
items which are not the ERC are included on the statements as an ERC. However, given 
that I remain of the view that this loan was mis-sold in its entirety, it will be unnecessary for 
me to carry out any further investigation in relation to this aspect.
Conclusion 
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I am of the view that all four of 
the loans were unaffordable and unsustainable for Mr M and that Oplo lent irresponsibly. Mr 
M has now sold the property the loans were secured against as he felt he had no choice as 
he got deeper into debt. Therefore, it is difficult to put him back in precisely the same 
position he would have been in had the loans not been given.Whilst I dont think the loans should have been given, Mr M has had the benefit of the money 
borrowed, so I think it right that he should have to repay the sums borrowed. However, had 
the loans not been given then he would not have had to pay the fees or interest incurred on 
these. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, Oplo should calculate the total amount of capital Mr M borrowed 
across the four loans. It should not include any borrowing for fees and charges, including the 
ERCs. And where a later loan consolidated an earlier one, it should not double-count the 
capital (for example, if Mr M borrowed £10,000 on one loan, and then borrowed £20,000 to 
pay off the first and take further money, the total capital borrowed is not £30,000 but 
£20,000).
Oplo should also calculate the total amount Mr M has paid to it  taking into account all the 
monthly repayments and final settlements  and including money he paid towards any fees, 
charges and ERCs added. Again, it should avoid double-counting of capital moved from 
one loan to the next.
Oplo should then calculate the difference between the amount of capital it lent and the total 
amount Mr M has repaid. It should refund the difference to him, adding simple annual 
interest of 8%. As loan 1 was a stand-alone loan, the figures should be calculated separately 
and the interest should run from the date of redemption of loan 1. For the remaining loans, 
as they were consolidated into one another, the interest should run from the date of 
consolidation of loan 4, when his losses crystallised. 
I recognise that this is not an ideal way of putting things right  it doesnt take into account 
the fact that Mr M did consolidate some (though by no means all) of his existing secured 
debt, and has therefore, through my award, saved interest on that debt he would otherwise 
have paid. However, given the high interest rates Oplo charged, and the difficulty of 
estimating what Mr M would have paid to credit card debts, I think its reasonable to take a 
relatively simple approach to resolving this matter by simply saying that Oplo should not 
retain fees and interest on money it ought not fairly to have lent. Im satisfied that this is as 
close to fair compensation as it is reasonably possible to get in this case. 
I recognise that there is likely to have been some saving through consolidating high-cost 
credit card debt into high cost secured lending that was paid off within four years, albeit I 
dont think I can accurately estimate that saving, and I dont think its likely to be very 
substantial. However, my award for financial loss will result in Mr M having paid no interest 
on any of the consolidated debt. In recognition of the fact that this may, to some extent, 
leave Mr M over-compensated, I do not intend to award further compensation for his distress 
and inconvenience in addition to that award. 
In light of the above, I require Oplo to do the following:
For loan 1, Oplo should calculate the amount borrowed without any fees or charges 
or the ERC (£9,000). It should then calculate any payments made to it by Mr M in 
respect of loan 1, including monthly repayments and the final settlement figure paid. 
Oplo should then pay Mr M the difference. In relation to this loan it should pay simple 
annual interest of 8% on the amount refunded, running from the date of redemption 
of loan 1.
For the remaining loans (2, 3 and 4), Oplo should calculate the amount borrowed 
without any fees and charges or ERCs (£15,000 + (£21,000 less the settlement 
figure for loan 2) + (£35,000 less the settlement figure for loan 3). It should then 
calculate any payments made to it by Mr M in respect of loans 2, 3 and 4, including 
any monthly repayments and the final settlement figure paid for each loan. Oplo 
should then pay Mr M the difference. In relation to these loans, it should pay simple 
annual interest of 8% on the amount refunded, running from the date of redemption of loan 4.
If Oplo considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from the interest payments, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also 
give Mr M a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained in my provisional decision and above I uphold this complaint 
against Oplo HL Ltd and require it to put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Rachel Ellis
Ombudsman