DRN-1541548
 
The complaint
Mr E, as the representative of the estate of Mrs E, complains about the requirements 
imposed by Legal & General (Unit Trust Managers) Limited ("L&G") in respect of obtaining a 
grant of probate (GoP).
What happened
Mr E's mother, Mrs E, sadly passed away in June 2019. As executor of her estate 
he contacted L&G, one of the businesses with which Mrs E had held investments. It 
explained that it would require sight of a GoP to release the funds. Mr E proceeded to obtain 
the GoP, which was provided to L&G in late August 2019 and the investment sold. 
Mr E was nevertheless very unhappy that he'd been required to obtain the GoP. He felt it 
had been unnecessary and that by imposing the requirement L&G had unreasonably 
withheld access to the money. He made a complaint to L&G, which it upheld, in part, saying 
that it felt the explanation offered to Mr E of why the GoP was required had been poor and 
that unnecessary references to terrorism and money laundering had made that weren't 
appropriate. L&G apologised for these associated issues, but it maintained that it had been 
its correct process to ask for the GoP.
Mr E wasn't satisfied with L&G's response and referred the matter to this service. But our 
investigator reached a broadly similar conclusion to L&G. She acknowledged that there was 
no legal requirement for a GoP to be obtained but felt that it was ultimately up to L&G to 
decide what requirements it felt were appropriate. She noted that L&G sold the investment 
promptly upon receipt of the GoP, without requesting additional identity documents from
Mr E, in order to speed the process up. And the investigator felt that it was reasonable for 
L&G to have waited for receipt of the GoP before instigating the sale, even though the value 
of the invested decreased while it was being obtained. 
Mr E didn't accept the investigator's view. In brief, he said; 
Obtaining a GoP was not a legal requirement and the complaint had been 
prompted by L&G incorrectly saying that it was. He wondered how many 
other people had been misled in this way? 
Many other businesses set the threshold for requiring a GoP at a much higher level 
and had L&G done so, it would have removed the need for him to obtain it.
As executor, he had legal responsibility to challenge L&G's incorrect information. 
The GoP was not needed as a means to prevent fraud. This was a straightforward 
matter and Mr E had provided information concerning his identity early in the 
process. 
It was clear that the value of the investment was likely to decrease. There was no 
reason why the sale couldn't have been instigated without a GoP and then the funds 
released once it was provided. 
 
The investigator wasn't persuaded to change her opinion in light of Mr E's comments, so the 
matter's been referred to me to review. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr E has strong feelings about L&G's actions. Hes provided detailed 
submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered in their entirety. 
However, I trust that he wont take the fact that my findings focus on what I consider to be 
the central issues, and that theyre expressed in less detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of 
my decision is not to address every point raised in detail, but to set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. 
That said, I do understand Mr E's frustration and appreciate that this will have been a very 
difficult time for him. Administration of an estate, especially that of a loved one, is a stressful 
and complex process, even when, on the face of it, the estate appears to be a relatively 
straightforward one. 
One of the many issues that creates this complexity is the fact that different financial 
institutions have different processes and requirements. As Mr E has found through his 
research, the threshold requirement for obtaining a GoP varies a lot from one business to 
another. But it's nevertheless the case that none of them are wrong, as there are no 
prescribed requirements or regulations. Each business is entitled to design its process and 
requirements as it sees fit, in line with the nature of its business and its experience of 
handling this type of situation. 
Clearly it was wrong of L&G to indicate that obtaining a GoP was a legal requirement. It 
should've explained better what its requirements were and why. And it should certainly have 
ensured that the explanation was delivered sensitively, avoiding the sort of references to 
terrorism and money laundering that Mr E experienced. But L&G has acknowledged this and 
apologised to Mr E, which I think is the right response in the circumstances.    
In respect of the investment devaluing while Mr E obtained the GoP this is, or course, 
unfortunate. But I don't think it was unreasonable of L&G to wait until receipt of the 
GoP before selling. It's normal industry practice to do so and is based upon the general 
rationale for requiring the GoP in the first place - to ensure that the person issuing the 
instruction is legally entitled to instruct the sale. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E, as the 
representative of the estate of Mrs E, to accept or reject my decision before 2 April 2020.
James Harris
Ombudsman