DRN-4386544
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain Covea Insurance Plc has handled their home insurance claim poorly. 
What happened
In May 2022 Mr and Mrs S house suffered significant fire damage. They claimed against 
their Covea home insurance policy. Covea accepted the claim including liability for repairs. It 
provided alternative accommodation (AA) as Mr and Mrs S home was uninhabitable. 
In October 2022 Mr and Mrs S, unhappy with Coveas handling of the claim, made a 
complaint. They felt it to be responsible for significant administrative delay. They also said it 
had caused additional damage to their home by failing to arrange scaffolding and a 
temporary roof. Covea didnt accept there would have been a cost benefit to providing a 
temporary roof. It didnt accept it was responsible for delay with their buildings claim. It did 
accept it could have been more proactive when considering a possible underinsurance issue 
with their contents claim. It offered £150 compensation in recognition. 
Mr and Mrs S werent satisfied, so came to this service. They are concerned Coveas delay 
and additional damage may result in their policys AA and buildings sum insured limits being 
exceeded before repairs are complete. They also complain the insurers mistakes caused 
them significant distress such that £150 isnt enough to compensate for.  
To resolve their complaint Mr and Mrs S would like Covea to provide additional AA required 
as a result of its delay, pay for all reinstatement works (including any additional required due 
to a lack of temporary roof) and pay adequate compensation for the unnecessary distress 
and inconvenience caused to them. 
Our Investigator considered the complaint. She looked at events that happened up until 
mid-December 2022  the date the final response was issued. She felt Covea had held up 
the buildings claim, by around three months, through its poor handling of removal of debris, 
forensic investigations and the contents claim. So she recommended it extend the AA 
provision by three months and pay an additional £150 compensation. But the Investigator 
wasnt persuaded the lack of a temporary roof had extended repair time beyond the three 
months delay she had already addressed.  
Covea responded to say it had already extended the AA beyond the policy limit. It accepted 
there had been a lack of communication between its loss adjuster and Mr and Mrs Ss loss 
assessor. So it said it had paid, as a gesture of goodwill, more AA than the policy offers 
cover for. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt accept the Investigators assessment. They said they want Covea to 
cover all AA costs until they return to their home. They didnt accept the omission of a tin 
roof hadnt delayed the claim by resulting in additional damage. Finally they felt £300 
compensation was not enough to reflect their experience during the claim.
The complaint was passed to me for consideration. In line with the Investigator Ive 
considered events up to the final response letter of December 2022. Although I have 
considered evidence produced after that date where it relates to the consequences of events 
occurring prior to December 2022. 
I issued a provisional decision. As its reasoning forms part of this final decision Ive copied it 
in below. In it I explain why I intended to require Covea to proceed with the claim as though 
the policy has a buildings sum insured limit of £1,103,000. I also said why I intended to 
require it to fund, if necessary, three and up to an additional nine months in total of AA 
beyond the policy limit of £53,000 (calculated in line with the cost of the current AA), 
including additional costs such as for council tax. Finally I set out why Covea should pay Mr 
and Mrs S a total of £1,000 compensation (including any already paid).
I invited Mr and Mrs S and Covea to provide any comments or evidence they would like me 
to consider before I issued this final decision. Mr and Mrs S said they had nothing further to 
provide. Covea accepted my proposed outcome. 
what Ive provisionally decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this is an informal service Im not going to respond here to every point or piece of
evidence Mr and Mrs S and Covea have provided. Instead Ive focused on those I 
consider to be key or central to the issue. But I would like to reassure both that I have 
considered everything provided.
Theres two main complaint points for Mr and Mrs S. For both their concern is 
suffering detriment as a result Coveas failing. They fear the consequences of AA 
and building sum insureds being exceeded. 
The first concern is linked to Covea unnecessarily delaying the reinstalment of their 
home by around three months  primarily by a failure to deal with their contents claim 
in good time. Mr and Mrs S are concerned this will cause them, before reinstatement 
of their home, to exceed their AA policy limit of £53,000. 
I dont need to consider this aspect of the complaint in any detail. Thats because 
Coveas already said, as a gesture of good will, it will provide additional AA above the 
policy limit. As far as Ive seen that seems to be for a period of three months.  
Mr and Mrs S second concern is that Covea made a mistake by not arranging a 
temporary roof for their home. They say both their and Coveas surveyors were of the 
opinion one should have been fitted  but Covea declined. It felt, due to the extent of 
the fire related damage, it wouldnt be worthwhile or cost effective to add protection 
to the property. 
Covea hasnt provided anything directly from its own loss adjuster or surveyor  such 
as an initail loss report. All Ive seen are quotes of comments in its notes. I dont 
know for certain, but from these and Mr and Mrs S testimoney it seems its own 
surveyor may have been of the opinion a temporary roof should be installed. 
Mr and Mrs S feel the absence of a temporary roof has resulted in additional damage 
to their property. They have provided a letter from their surveyor dated September 
2023. I wont explain this in detail as Covea has a copy. But in summary he feels 
significant additional drying and additional repair is required as a result of the lack of 
temporary roof protection. He adds the extent of this has lead to consideration of a possible full demolition and 
rebuild  something he says wouldnt have been necessary to consider if the poperty 
had been protected from the outset. The surveyor estimates the impact to be a 
mimimum of £150,000 additional repairs and six months of work. 
If there wasnt a risk of policy limits being breached the issue wouldnt be so 
significant. Covea would just have to cover any additional AA or rebuild costs. But, if 
Mr and Mrs S surveyors opinion is correct, then the failure to provide a temporary 
roof could result in both the sum insured for buildings (£1,000,000) and the AA limit 
(£53,000)  being breached. Either could be seriously detrimental to Mr and Mrs S.  
However, Mr and Mrs S have provided photos of the downstairs of their property from 
August 2022  so a few summer months after the fire. The overall condition looks 
reasonable. An uninformed viewer would probably be surprised when told the 
property had recently suffered a devastating fire. 
Importantly Mr and Mrs S have provided videos of the property from March and 
September 2023. These show its condition six and eleven months later  after an 
autumn, winter and spring. Theres a stark contrast. The downstairs of the property 
has deterioated significantly. Issues that arent seen in the August 2022 photos 
include  widespread mould, damp, collapsed ceilings and puddles.    
As far as Im aware Covea hasnt seen Mr and Mrs S photos and videos. Ill share 
them with this provisional decision. But its had time and opportunity to inspect the 
property. It hasnt povided much, if anything, in the way of evidence to support its 
assertion that the lack of temporary roof hasnt resulted in additional rebuild cost or 
time. Ill consider anything it provides in response. But currently Im persuaded, by 
the available evidence, that its decision not to provide a temporary roof has most 
likely lead to increased rebuild cost and time. 
The result is potential detriment to Mr and Mrs S, so Covea will need to take steps to 
put things right. Again Ill consider anything it povides in response. But currently Mr 
and Mrs S surveyors opinion is the best available evidence. So I intend to base the 
redress on its findings. 
Mr and Mrs S surveyor estimates a minimum of £150,000 additional cost to 
reinstate. A temporary roof would have had a cost £47,000 (including VAT) according 
to Covea. So that can be deducted from the calculation. If the roof was provided that 
cost would have counted against the buildings sum insured. That gives a net 
potential additional cost of £103,000. 
As Ive said I havent seen much from Covea, but Ive seen it did set a reserve at 
£700,000. So theres a risk of the works exceeding the £1,000,000 limit. So I intend 
to require Covea to deal with the claim as though the policy had a building sum 
insured limit of £1,103,000. If the the claim doesnt breach the £1,000,000, limit 
stated on the policy, then Covea wont need to pay anything anove it.  
On the same basis I intend to require Covea to pay for a further six months AA above 
the policy limit of £53,000  and in addition to the extra three months set out above. 
This will ony apply if the rebuild isnt completed and habitable by the time the policy 
limit plus the extra three months allowance is exhausated. In the additional six month 
period Covea will need to cover all additional costs, including additional council tax 
and utlitities, that Mr and Mrs S wouldnt otherwise have incurred had they been able 
to move back to their home.        If Covea can provide evidence to persuade me £103,000 of additional cost and six 
months AA isnt a reasonable proposal I will consider it.
For clarity the additional AA Covea will be required to provide, above the £53,000 
policy limit, will be the equivilant of nine months extra costs (based on the current 
cost of alternative accommodation). Thats six months for the temporary roof issue 
and three months for the earlier issues Coveas already made a good will offer for. 
Im setting this out to avoid any potential dispute of one period being offset against 
the other.  
Finally Mr and Mrs S have reported significant distress resulting from witnessing the 
unncessary deterioration of their home  and at the thought of their time away from it 
being extended. They have reported relationship difficulties and medical conditions. 
A significant event like they have expereinced will, by its nature, likely involve 
distress and inconvienance. So its difficult to separate that out from any additional 
and unncessary difficulty caused by Covea. I can only fairly hold Covea responsible 
for the later, not for any inherant in their unfortunate situation. However, Im satisfied 
that its caused them a fair amount through the events discussed above  simply by 
causing them worry about their stay in AA likely needing extending for many months 
and whether policy limits would be breached. So for that reason I intend to award a 
higher level of compensation  £1,000 in total (including the £150 already offered). 
For clarity, in the event this service is required to consider a further related complaint, 
the compensation is awarded to cover the period up until December 2022 (when the 
final response was issued) and the overall impact of Coveas decision (made within 
that timeframe) not to provide a temporary roof. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Covea nor Mr and Mrs S disputed the findings or proposed outcome of my 
provisional decision. Nor did either party provide any further comments or evidence. So I 
havent been provided with anything to change my thoughts on the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I require Covea Insurance Plc to:
proceed with the claim as though the policy has a buildings sum insured limit of 
£1,103,000,
fund, if necessary, three and up to an additional nine months in total of AA beyond 
the policy limit of £53,000 (calculated in line with the cost of the current AA), including 
additional costs such as for council tax.
pay Mr and Mrs S a total of £1,000 compensation (including any already paid).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman