DRN-3988193
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc paid service charges on their property and 
added the cost to the mortgage. They said the charges werent valid, HSBC hadnt checked 
that, or tried hard enough to contact them before it paid. They wanted the money back.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S told us that after a change in management company, the service charge bills 
for their property started to be sent to the wrong address. They said the management 
company had Mr Ss email and phone number, but failed to use these to contact him. This 
company then asked Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage lender, HSBC, to pay the charges, and it did, 
adding the cost to their mortgage.
Mr S didnt think HSBC should have paid. He felt that the invoices the management 
company sent werent legal, because they were sent to the wrong address. He wanted 
HSBC to refund everything it had charged him and Mrs S for this service charge.
HSBC said it had written to Mr and Mrs S twice at the address it held on its records, and 
asked them to pay the service charge urgently. Those letters also told Mr and Mrs S what 
would happen if they didnt pay. HSBC said the freeholders solicitors had also contacted Mr 
S during this time. The freeholder had already told HSBC it would act to enforce the debt, 
and Mr and Mrs Ss lease would be forfeit. So HSBC paid the outstanding amount, to protect 
its security. 
HSBC drew Mr Ss attention to the parts of the mortgage which set out the obligations to 
immediately pay any rent and service charges due on the property, and the parts which 
allow HSBC to take steps to make good if Mr and Mrs S havent paid. 
HSBC said it wrote to Mr and Mrs S on 28 October and 12 November 2019. No response to 
these letters was received. HSBC then made the payment on 26 Nov 2019. 
Mr S said hed been overseas when HSBC wrote to him. But HSBC said it had understood 
Mrs S wasnt away from home when the first letter was sent, and as both parties were 
named on the mortgage, this letter was sent to them both. HSBC said even if they both had 
been away, that wasnt its fault, Mr S had to make appropriate arrangements for his mail to 
be monitored if he was going to be away for some time from the correspondence address 
hed given HSBC. And HSBC said it wasnt responsible at all for the address the freeholder 
used. It couldnt comment on any of the concerns Mr S had raised about the freeholder. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said HSBC had written to 
Mr and Mrs S, at their address, informing them of the arrears and the actions that would be 
taken if they werent paid. And HSBC had explained why it had sent letters  this was 
sensitive correspondence. Mr and Mrs S didnt dispute that they hadnt replied. In then 
paying the outstanding service charge, our investigator said HSBC had followed the terms 
and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage. It acted to protect the security it holds for the 
lending  the charge over the property. Our investigator wouldnt ask HSBC to pay back the 
amounts it had added to Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage. 
Mr S didnt agree. He said HSBC didnt check that the invoices sent were legal. He felt it had 
blindly accepted the invoices, and paid. Mr S said the communication HSBC sent via post 
was not seen. And Mrs S did not get any communication at all. He said HSBC uses its own 
internal online system to get in touch, but didnt use this when taking money from him.
Because no agreement was reached, this case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
Mr and Mrs S have an HSBC mortgage over their leasehold property. HSBC has shown our 
service the mortgage terms of Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage. They say that Mr and Mrs S must 
pay service charges when they become due. So not paying service charges is a breach of 
the mortgage terms. 
The mortgage terms go on to say that if Mr and Mrs S dont comply with the terms of the 
mortgage (here, by not paying service charges) then HSBC can do whatever it reasonably 
considers to be necessary to put things right. 
HSBC received correspondence saying Mr and Mrs S owed service charges. It was told if 
this money wasnt paid, then the freeholder would act, and the lease would be forfeit. Thats 
a serious issue. Ultimately, that means Mr and Mrs S could lose their home. It also means 
that HSBC could lose the security it holds for the money its lent them. Because of this, 
HSBC acted right away, and wrote to Mr and Mrs S about the outstanding charge. 
Mr S said he was away, and Mrs S hadnt received any correspondence. But Ive seen the 
letters HSBC sent, and they are addressed to both Mr and Mrs S. I dont think HSBC had to 
write to them separately, or that it had to also notify Mr and Mrs S of this issue via its internal 
messaging system or by email. I think it was reasonable for HSBC to choose to deal with a 
serious issue like this by letter.
Mr S said HSBC didnt check that the invoices were legal. But I dont think HSBC had to do 
that, or that it could fairly have been expected to. It doesnt know what Mr and Mrs S have 
paid for their service charge. What it did was write to ask Mr and Mrs S either to pay, or to let 
HSBC know if there was a dispute over the invoices. I think that was a reasonable step for 
HSBC to take. 
When HSBC didnt receive any reply, it paid the outstanding service charges. I do think that 
was also a fair and reasonable thing for HSBC to do, and in line with the terms of Mr and 
Mrs Ss mortgage. And that, in turn, means I dont think HSBC has to remove this payment 
from Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage, or otherwise reimburse them for what it has done. 
I know Mr and Mrs S will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 May 2023. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman