DRN-2160712
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F have complained that Vitality Health Limited wont allow them to split their joint 
private medical insurance policy into two separate policies.
What happened
In 2014, Mr F took out a private medical insurance policy with Vitality. His wife, Mrs F, was 
also covered under the policy as a named dependant. The policy, which was sold by a third 
party, was underwritten on a moratorium basis.
Over the next few years, Mrs F had cause to make a number of claims under the policy. This 
caused the joint premium to rise significantly.
In 2020, Mr F, who had not needed to claim under the policy, asked Vitality to split the joint 
policy into two single policies on continuous underwriting terms as he believed this would 
result in an overall saving for him and his wife.
Vitality refused to do this. It said that while it was willing to continue to insure Mrs F under 
the current policy, it would not be prepared to offer her continuous cover under a new policy 
due to her claiming history. It said it would only allow Mrs F to move to a new policy if she 
underwent fresh underwriting, which would mean that her existing conditions would likely not 
be covered. It explained that the only circumstances in which it allowed a couple to split a 
joint policy into two separate policies on continuous terms was if the couple were separating 
or divorcing.
Mr and Mrs F were unhappy at Vitalitys stance. They referred their complaint to us. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. She considered that 
Vitality had acted fairly.
Mr and Mrs F didnt accept the investigators findings. They considered that Vitality was not 
treating all customers fairly because it would allow a splitting of the policy in some 
circumstances but not in others.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We generally take the view it is up to an insurer to decide how to price its policies. Provided 
it does this in a fair and consistent way, in accordance with its internal guidelines, it is not a 
matter in which we would normally intervene.
In the case of this policy, Vitality charges a joint premium rather than separate premiums for 
each person who is covered. The joint premium is affected by the value of overall claims 
made, regardless of who makes them. The policy document explains how this works. I cant 
reasonably say that this is unfair. If Mr and Mrs F consider this wasnt made clear to them 
before they took out the policy, they should raise this with the party which sold them the 
policy.
Mrs F has made a number of claims under the policy which has caused the premium to rise 
significantly. However, I have no reason to believe that Vitality has charged the incorrect 
premium to Mr and Mrs F.
Mr F would like to split the policy in two because he believes he is being penalised for the 
claims being made by his wife. Mr F is correct in this belief because that is how the policy 
operates. However, while it is presumably open for Mr F to ask Vitality to take Mrs F off the 
policy, I dont see that Vitality is obliged to offer her a new policy on continuous terms. 
I consider that this would be a commercial decision for Vitality to make. Vitality has explained 
that in view of Mrs Fs claiming history, it would only offer her insurance under a new policy if 
it were allowed to re-underwrite her cover. This would likely mean her existing conditions 
would be excluded. I appreciate that this is frustrating for Mr and Mrs F but I cant reasonably 
conclude that this is an unfair position for Vitality to take.
If Mr and Mrs F were to become separated or divorced, Mrs F would no longer be eligible to 
remain under cover as an insured dependant of Mr F. The policy contains a provision under 
which, in these circumstances, the insured dependant may continue cover with a new policy 
under the same underwriting terms. I consider this is a fair provision to allow continued cover 
where it was no longer possible for someone to remain covered under the policy. However, 
just because Vitality offers this provision in these particular circumstances, I dont consider it 
means it is obliged to offer the same option to anyone in any circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 June 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman