DRN-2730803
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2008. Miss W says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold her the PPI.
What happened
I sent Miss W and HSBC a provisional decision on 16 March 2021, to explain why I didnt 
think the PPI had been mis-sold, and thought that HSBCs existing offer was fair. In that 
decision, I said:
It looks like Miss W initially took out her account over the phone  though understandably, 
there isnt still a recording of the call because of all the time thats passed. She was then 
given a credit agreement, which had a section for optional features. There was a box Miss W 
could tick if she wanted PPI, or which could be left blank if she didnt want it. The box was 
ticked, and Miss W signed below to confirm she wanted to buy the optional extras  
separately to signing for the credit as a whole. So I think its most likely that HSBC made it 
clear Miss W didnt have to take out PPI and that she chose to take it at the time  though 
I can understand if she no longer remembers doing so after so many years.
This was a non-advised sale: HSBC didnt recommend the PPI to Miss W, which means it 
didnt have to check if it was right for her. It did have to make sure Miss W got the 
information she needed to decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information HSBC gave Miss W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed 
her mind. Here, it looks like Miss W chose to take out the policy, which indicates she wanted 
this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look 
like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI. And it would have paid 
out on top of her work benefits and covered her for longer. I understand Miss Ws family may 
have been happy to help, but there was always the chance theyd be unable to help when 
needed. So the policy could have been useful for Miss W in case something went wrong. 
And it was paid for on a rolling monthly basis, so Miss W could cancel it at any time without a 
penalty. Overall, I dont think better information about PPI was likely to have put her off 
taking it out. 
This means HSBC doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss W.
But HSBC has offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss W because: 
HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss W about that. Because HSBC didnt tell her, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, HSBC has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it before 
31 March 2021. But neither Miss W nor HSBC sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that the PPI was not mis-sold, and that 
HSBCs offer to refund the excess commission and profit share is fair.
What the business needs to do.
HSBC has to pay back to Miss W any commission and profit share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. HSBC should also pay back to Miss W any extra interest she paid 
because of that.
That means HSBC should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Miss W the 
difference between what she owes and what she wouldve owed if the commission and profit 
share it got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. HSBC should also pay Miss W 8%* 
simple interest if she paid off the credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss W can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy was not mis-sold  which means that HSBC UK Bank Plc does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss W.
HSBC UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Miss W any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. If it has already done this, then I dont award 
any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 April 2021. 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman