DRN-3192450
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs C complain about how Nationwide Building Society handled their mortgage 
application.
What happened
The background to this complaint was set out by the investigator and is not in dispute. 
The investigator thought that Nationwides offer to pay Mr A and Mrs C £400 for any distress 
and inconvenience in addition to refunding the cost of indemnity insurance and additional 
solicitors costs (with evidence) was fair.
Mr A and Mrs C did not accept what the investigator said. They made a number of points, 
including:
Some of the things the investigator said werent backed up by the recordings of phone 
calls.
Nationwide did not deal with their application in line with the timescales it initially set out.
They put in a great deal of time and energy into making the mortgage application. It was 
only because they contacted Nationwide that they knew what was happening.
Mrs C had to get a different job because of the incorrect information from Nationwide.
The searches could have started sooner if Nationwide had not made so many mistakes.
Nationwide had not thought about the impact of this on Mr A and Mrs Cs mental health.
They way some staff at Nationwide spoke to them was unacceptable and added to their 
distress. 
Mrs Cs children lost out on school places because of what happened.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree that Nationwide did not handle the application well. There were a number of 
avoidable errors along the way, which Nationwide has accepted. That includes that 
Nationwide did not check its policy relating to Mrs Cs income when the decision in principle 
was made, when the full application was made it did not refer the case to its underwriters, 
there was poor service during the complaint and it wasnt prioritised as it should have been. 
Nationwide has accepted that it didnt handle some of the phone calls with Mrs C as well as 
it should have. 
Nationwide said that the offer was produced within its usual timescales. Mrs C disputes that 
is what she was told. But it seems clear to me that the application would have been 
approved sooner but for the mistakes set out above.
I agree that because Nationwide incorrectly declined the application, that meant that the 
searches were delayed. It seems Mr A and Mrs C were left with the choice to obtain a 
search indemnity insurance policy or wait until the searches completed and potentially miss 
out on the stamp duty holiday. Nationwide does not normally accept such policies. So I think 
it was reasonable for it to review the indemnity policy and look for further information before 
it agreed to accept the policy. Nationwide has agreed to meet the additional costs of the 
indemnity policy and solicitors costs relating to that. I think that is fair.
That leaves compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr A and Mrs C 
because of what happened. I know how stressful a mortgage application can be. I dont 
doubt the emotional investment that Mr A and Mrs C made  and the distress and upset 
caused to them by the way that Nationwide handled this matter. It is clear that Nationwide 
did not handle the application as well as it should have. 
In saying that, I cant see how I could reasonably say anything Nationwide said or did meant 
Mrs C had to get another job. And I dont have enough evidence to say that Nationwide 
caused Mrs Cs children to lose out on school places.
After very careful consideration, looking at the time it took to put things right and what Mr A 
and Mrs C have told them about the impact on them, I consider Nationwides offer of £400 is 
fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society should:
Pay Mr A and Mrs C £400 for any distress and inconvenience.
Pay the cost of obtaining a search indemnity policy  subject to proof of the amount paid.
Refund the solicitors costs directly incurred in relation to obtaining and arranging the 
search indemnity policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman