DRN-4414147
The complaint
Ms K has complained about how Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) dealt with a 
claim under a boiler insurance policy.
What happened
Ms K contacted D&G when she found a fault with her boiler. D&G sent an engineer on a few 
occasions to try and repair the boiler. Ms K complained to D&G because she said an 
engineer damaged her boiler on his first visit and an electrical cable was also damaged on a 
later visit. She said the engineer also misdiagnosed issues with the boiler. When D&G 
replied, it didnt uphold the complaint as it didnt identify any issues with its engineers 
actions. It said some of the problems with the boiler werent covered by the policy, so the 
engineer had acted correctly by not dealing with them. However, it offered £80 as a gesture 
of goodwill due to the multiple visits.
When Ms K complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold it. She said there 
wasnt evidence to show the engineer had caused damage to the boiler or the wiring. Some 
of the issues also werent covered by the policy, so the engineer was unable to deal with 
them.
As Ms K didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 25 September 2023. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint in part. I said:
Ive reviewed what happened, including reviewing the claim notes and listening to some 
phone calls. Based on what Ive seen, I dont think D&G investigated Ms Ks complaint. I 
asked D&G about this and it also seemed to accept that it didnt address everything Ms K 
raised in her complaint.
I think its clear from the calls and Ms Ks complaint that she thought an engineer damaged 
her boiler on his first visit and, as a result, this left her without heating and hot water. When 
Ms K spoke to D&G to arrange for another engineer visit, D&G said nothing could be done to 
bring forward the engineer visit that had already been scheduled in about a weeks time. 
Im aware an engineer visited the next day, which was earlier than the scheduled 
appointment, although problems with the boiler continued. Ive looked more widely at what 
happened. When Ms K first reported an issue with the boiler, it seemed to be logged as low 
priority due to the weather. At that time, Ms K had heating and hot water. So, I can 
understand D&G might have dealt with other claims more urgently, particularly given this 
was the winter. 
I asked D&G about the claim being listed as low priority and whether this had been 
reassessed when Ms K reported that she now had no heating or hot water. D&G said it didnt 
know why the claim had been listed like this, but said an engineer visited within a couple of 
days. Although I can see that was what happened, what D&G told Ms K at the time was that 
nothing could be done to move the scheduled appointment, which was several days away. 
Its my understanding that it was down to Ms K speaking directly to D&Gs contractor that an 
engineer then visited earlier. During a later call, she was also specifically told by a call 
handler there was nothing they could do about the ongoing issues and that Ms K would have 
to speak to the contractor herself. So, I currently think it was more down to the persistence of 
Ms K that appointments were moved earlier rather than the actions of D&G.
Ms K told D&G that due to the loss of heating and hot water, she was very cold and unable 
to wash. She also described the impact on her mental health. I asked D&G whether its call 
handlers were able to offer things like paying for a heater if a policyholder had no heating. It 
said its call handlers werent able to do this, but that if a policyholder was speaking to the 
escalation or complaints team, they had the ability to offer this once the facts had been 
established. Ms K raised her complaint as part of trying to get her boiler fixed. However, I 
havent seen evidence Ms Ks concern about her loss of heating was escalated so that 
consideration could be given to whether D&G could pay for a heater. I also didnt see any 
consideration of this as part of dealing with the complaint. So, I think D&G could have done 
more at the time to see if it could address Ms Ks immediate concern of having no heating.
Ms K was also concerned that, despite telling D&G the boiler needed a new button and, in 
another call, what the new fault code was on the boiler, the engineer didnt arrive with the 
required parts or seem to be aware of the fault code. Im mindful that the information Ms K 
provided might have meant the parts could have arrived, and been fitted, sooner. But, 
generally, I think its reasonable for an engineer to diagnose the issue before parts are 
ordered. I dont think I can fairly say that D&G should have ordered parts without first 
confirming they were required. D&G has also said the fault code should have been passed 
on to the engineer as he should have been provided with the details of the visit. However, I 
dont think I can say the issue would have been fixed quicker if he had been aware of the 
code, as I still think it was reasonable for the engineer to assess the boiler before deciding 
how to repair it.
Ms K also said the engineer damaged her boiler. This was for two reasons. First, that the 
boiler had been working but then stopped after the engineers visit and, second, that her own 
electrician said the engineer had damaged the electrics. Although I can understand that the 
timing might be considered more than a coincidence, I dont think a boiler stopping working 
after an engineers visit necessarily showed the engineer damaged it. I havent seen 
evidence of what the specific damage was that could more likely only be down to the actions 
of the engineer, rather than a fault with the boiler that would have happened anyway.
In terms of the electrical problem, Ive seen Ms Ks electrician report. This said Our 
electrician found a damaged cable which was a result of the recent boiler installation which 
he repaired. I think this report lacked detail. There is no description of the specific damage 
and why it was due to D&Gs engineer. It also said the damage was the result of the recent 
boiler installation. D&G wasnt there to install the boiler, it was repairing it. I dont think the 
report is persuasive evidence that the D&G engineer damaged the electrics.
Ms K also complained that she had to take several days off work to deal with D&G, which 
her employer wasnt happy about, and that she also had to delay a trip away. Given, I dont 
think I can fairly say D&G was responsible for Ms K losing her heating and hot water, I dont 
think I can say this was all down to D&G. However, I can understand this was an important 
issue to Ms K and that she wanted to prioritise it. I would normally consider issues like this 
as part of the overall impact on a policyholder. So, I will consider this as part of the 
compensation.
Ive also looked at the complaint response. As Ive already said, I dont think D&G responded 
to key aspects of Ms Ks complaint. Looking at D&Gs response, it focussed on the engineer 
reporting he had found sludge in the system and that the electrics tripped the fridge freezer. Ms K has said the engineer made up that there was sludge in the system to cover up his 
own mistakes. I asked D&G for more information about the engineers findings as, although I 
could see this in the claim notes, I couldnt see this information in the engineer reports. D&G 
didnt provide anything further to explain what had been found. This doesnt mean Im 
persuaded D&G or the engineer made up their findings or that the boiler issues were 
misdiagnosed. But, if D&G relies on information to explain why it thinks it dealt with a claim 
reasonably, I think it should be able to provide the information to support its conclusions.
Overall, I think there were a number of issues with this claim and the way the complaint was 
handled. Im not currently persuaded D&G properly considered Ms Ks change in 
circumstances when the heating and hot water stopped working or whether more could be 
done to prioritise the repair or to provide her with a heater. Instead, it seemed to leave it to 
Ms K to try and get the contractor to return sooner. D&G also didnt seem to consider 
whether its engineer damaged the boiler and the electrical wiring. 
As a result, I currently intend to say that D&G should pay Ms K an additional £200 
compensation for the impact on her of how D&G dealt with the claim and responded to the 
complaint. This is in addition to the £80 D&G previously offered for the engineer visits.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 23 October 2023.
D&G accepted my decision.
Ms K said the outcome wasnt as fair as common justice dictates. She had lost a lot dealing 
with D&G and others, including the holiday cost, her freezer contents and the electricity 
repair. It also affected her wellbeing. Her losses were much greater than £280. However, in 
order to move on, she would accept my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint in part and for the reasons given in my provisional 
decision. I have reviewed the circumstances of this complaint again and havent found any 
reason to change my view about what I think is a fair and reasonable way to resolve this 
complaint.
Putting things right
D&G should pay Ms K an additional £200 compensation, so a total of £280.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is upheld in part. I require Domestic & General Insurance Plc to pay Ms K an 
additional £200 compensation, so a total of £280.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman