DRN-2911774
The complaint
Mr H complains about the settlement quotation Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited, 
trading as Audi Financial Services (AFS) provided when he asked to voluntarily terminate 
his agreement with them.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr H, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr H acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
Mr H says AFS promised him a £2,000 discount on the settlement figure, but Im not 
persuaded there is sufficient evidence that was the case.
Ive listened to the call he had with AFS. The adviser explained the settlement figure was 
£4,252.25 and when Mr H asked if he could get a discount she explained he was already 
getting a rebate of £2,289.67. I think that may be were the confusion lies. The adviser was 
explaining the rebate that would apply because the account was being terminated early. She 
wasnt suggesting she was discounting the settlement figure. 
It wouldnt therefore be fair for me to suggest Mr H wouldnt have proceeded without the 
offer of a £2,000 discount as Im not persuaded that offer was ever made. The quotation 
provided to him during that first phone call was the one that was paid by him and the 
£2,289.67 the agent had referred to had been deducted from that settlement figure.
When Mr H called again to query the collection of the car he also discussed how the 
settlement had been calculated. He was clearly given inaccurate information on that call. He 
was told that the figure was calculated on the basis of 55% of the outstanding debt. AFS 
have admitted that was a mistake and should have been 65%. Im persuaded that was the 
case as Mr H was settling in his second year and in those circumstances the calculation 
would be based on 65% of the outstanding debt and the figure quoted in the first call would 
therefore be correct. I therefore dont think Mr H has paid too much to settle his agreement.
But I do think AFS should provide some compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused when Mr H was given inaccurate information.
But that doesnt mean AFS should honour the inaccurate quote. I think Mr H was already 
proceeding on the basis of the correct quote given to him in the first call and I dont think hes 
therefore been financially disadvantaged.
AFS sent arrears letters to Mr H after hed settled the agreement. They explained that these 
were sent in error before the agreement was closed out. They have provided £100 
compensation in respect of the inconvenience caused by that and I think thats reasonable in 
the circumstances.
  
Putting things right
I think AFS should pay some compensation for the fact that they provided inaccurate 
information about the settlement figure and, in the circumstances, Im persuaded that £100 is 
sufficient.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited to pay Mr H £100 to compensate him for the distress and 
inconvenience he experienced when being provided with inaccurate information about his 
voluntary settlement.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman