DRN-3456874
The complaint
Mr S complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited mishandled his claim on his motor 
insurance policy.
Where I refer to Admiral, I include claims-handlers and others insofar as I hold Admiral 
responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a sports utility vehicle, made by a major 
car manufacturer and first registered in March 2016.
For the year from February 2021, Mr S had the car insured on a comprehensive policy with 
Admiral. The policy covered Mr S as policyholder. The policy also covered his wife as a 
named driver. Any claim was limited to the market value of the car immediately before the 
loss, less a policy excess of £450.00.
Unfortunately, in mid-November 2021, the car was damaged, and Admiral said it was a total 
loss. Admiral said its pre-accident value had been £15,400.00.
Mr S complained to Admiral that its value wasnt high enough. By a final response dated 
December 2021, Admiral turned down the complaint. Mr S brought his complaint to us 
without delay.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that 
Admiral hadnt acted in line with the terms of the policy nor acted unfairly when valuing the 
vehicle.
Mr S disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
He works in the motor trade.
Used cars have gone up in value due to a worldwide shortage of computer chips 
needed to build new cars.
There is small room for negotiation and the replacement cost should be based on the 
asking price.
The insurer should enable a customer to replace their car and put them back in the 
same position there were in before their insured accident.
He has sent us a check he ran on 17 November 2021 showing a retail market value 
of £15,950.
Admirals valuation was not enough to replace his vehicle with one of a similar make, 
model, year and mileage and condition.
He is looking for an additional £2,500.
Motor trade guides are not a true or accurate way to determine a real valuation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admirals policy terms included the following definition:
"Market value
The cost of replacing your vehicle; with one of a similar make, 
model, year, mileage and condition based on market prices 
immediately before the loss happened. Use of the term market 
refers to where your vehicle was purchased. This value is 
based on research from industry recognised motor trade 
guides.
I accept Mr Ss statement that he bought the car from a local garage approved by the 
manufacturer. From the check he sent us, I see that he bought it in June 2020.
In any event, we expect insurers to assess market value of a vehicle by reference to the 
retail prices in the trade guides. The guides are based on extensive research of likely selling 
prices, reflecting supply and demand.
Shortly after the loss, Mr S gathered a file of advertisements for similar cars. But advertised 
prices are asking prices and subject to negotiation. So advertisements arent direct evidence 
of selling prices.
Mr Ss check dated 17 November 2021 included a valuation of £15,950.00. But our 
investigator answered that point as follows:
I can see that this valuation was based on your vehicle doing 50,000, whereas, it 
had done 55,780 miles at the time of the incident. If your vehicle had done 60,000, 
the check valued your vehicle at £15,095
Mr S didnt respond to that. So I find that the mileage at the time of the accident was about 
55,780. 
From its file, Im satisfied that Admiral used that mileage and other correct details in 
obtaining trade guide valuations at the time of the loss. Those valuations were as follows:
CAP  £15,400.00
Glasss  £14,490.00
I place more weight on those trade guide figures than on the figures put forward by Mr S. 
Admirals final figure was £15,400.00. So I dont consider that Admiral treated Mr S unfairly. 
And I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to increase its valuation or to do any 
more in response to this complaint. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Admiral Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman