DRN-2177607
The complaint
Mr C complains Evergreen Finance London Limited, trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk
(Moneyboat), lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld but Moneyboat disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. A copy of 
the background to the complaint and my provisional findings follow and form part of this final 
decision:
What I said in my provisional decision
Mr C took 3 payday loans between April 2018 and November 2018. Ive included some of
the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
Loan Number Loan Amount Date of loan Actual Repayment Date
1 £200 10/04/18 31/05/18
2 £200 24/09/18 30/11/18
3 £400 30/11/18 22/10/19
Our adjudicator reviewed Mr Cs complaint and said Moneyboat was wrong to have granted 
all three loans. This is because Mr C was in a Debt Arrangement Scheme (DAS) at the time 
and so he thought it was unsuitable to lend. And he considered that Moneyboat shouldve 
been aware of the DAS through its own credit report.
Mr C appears to agree with the adjudicators view.
Moneyboat has disagreed. It feels the DAS isnt clearly highlighted in its credit report and
that it wasnt viable for an underwriter to scrutinise every part of the report. In addition,
Moneyboat says that it lent nearly seven years after the DAS started and that there isnt any
restriction on a lender issuing a loan because a consumer is in a DAS.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Im intending
to uphold the complaint because I think Moneyboat needed to do more once it was aware of
the DAS.
Moneyboat had to assess the loan applications to check if Mr C could afford to pay back the
amounts hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. Moneyboats checks could have taken into account a
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments,
and Mr Cs income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Moneyboat should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr C. These factors include:
Mr C having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr C having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr C coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr C.
Moneyboat was required to establish whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  not
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr C was able to repay
his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. The Financial
Conduct Authority (the industry regulatory) says in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook
(CONC) that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue difficulties and in
particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without having
to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, that a
borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it follows
that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Cs complaint.
As our adjudicator explained, Moneyboat should reasonably have known that Mr C was in a
DAS when it lent. DAS administrator and their address are mentioned at the beginning of
Moneyboats credit report under Overall Summary (Address Confirmation) as well as the
Address Links section. I appreciate full details of the DAS are not provided but I think as a
responsible lender, Moneyboat shouldve, as a minimum, made further enquiries about this
entry before lending, as it highlighted a possible link to a debt arrangement which mightve
affected its lending decision. And through reasonable enquiries, such as contacting Mr C as
the adjudicator has done, I think it wouldve known that Mr C was in a DAS, when it started
and that it was still active when he applied for lending.
I agree with Moneyboat that the existence of the DAS didnt necessarily mean it shouldnt
have lent. After all it started in 2011, so Mr Cs finances couldve improved since the time he
entered into the DAS. But as it ought to have reasonably known that Mr C was still in his
DAS, I think further checks shouldve been completed before Moneyboat lent. I think
Moneyboat shouldve been completing a full review of all Mr Cs financial circumstances.
This couldve been done in several ways, such as asking for evidence of outgoings, orlooking at bank statements. This mightve helped verify information provided and revealed
whether there was any other information that Moneyboat mightve needed to consider about
Mr Cs general financial position.
From what I can see when loan 1 was lent, Mr Cs finances at that point were showing signs
of financial difficulties as he appeared to have experienced in 2011. And I think Moneyboat
wouldve been aware of this through proportionate checks. So, I think its most likely that
Mr C wouldve struggled to repay his loans in a sustainable way, because:
he had outstanding home credit loans and unsecured loans with quite significant
repayments;
he had several short-term loans with other lenders that were outstanding;
by loan 3 he was still borrowing from other short-term lenders suggesting his
finances were not improving.
In these circumstances, there was a significant risk that Mr C wouldnt be able to repay his
loans without undue difficulty. Considering all this together, I think Moneyboat was wrong to
give any of Mr Cs loans.
So, Im intending to uphold Mr Cs complaint about all of his loans.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has confirmed he accepts the conclusions I reached in the provisional decision. 
Moneyboat hasnt raised any new points after receiving my provisional decision. So, I see no 
reason to depart from the findings I previously made. I still think Moneyboat was wrong to 
have provided all of the loans. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, Moneyboat should:
refund all interest, fees and charges Mr C paid on all three of his loans;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
remove any adverse information about all Mr Cs loans from his credit file;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneyboat to take off tax from this interest. Moneyboat
must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Cs 
complaint in full.
Evergreen Finance London Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman